 Study closely what your relationship is, where it is going, and what you would like it to be in the future. On a scale from 1-10 (1 being bad, 10 being great) rate your relationship at the current moment.


Make sure you and your boyfriend are serious, committed partners. Signs that you are a close, intimate couple include, but are not limited to: Shared finances, shared household responsibilities, close sexual intimacy, consistent communication, etc.
If you or your boyfriend show signs that you are interested in other people, the relationship might not be stable enough. If there was an agreement in the beginning that this would be a "fling" it might also not be safe to reveal information about your past. In general, you should be monogamous partners who are intimate with one another.
If your relationship is only a few days or weeks old it is generally not the right time yet to reveal something important about your past. You will want your strengths to shine as a couple before you begin to delve into potential weaknesses. Revealing something this early in the relationship might also potentially turn your boyfriend off from being in a relationship with you. While all couples are different, just make sure that the timing is right (at, or around, a few months in).;
, The time you spend with your boyfriend, whether it be in the car or on serious dates, is critical to gauging what type of man he truly is. Use your current knowledge and memory base to discern whether or not he is the best person to tell something to about your past.


Look for signs such as gift giving, kisses, holding hands, consistent text messages/phone calls, etc. These demonstrate that your boyfriend loves and cares about you.
Spend time thinking about what you see for your future. Does your future involve your boyfriend, and do you see yourself getting even more serious with him? A potential long-term partner is someone you will want to share vital information with.
Know who you are talking to. Men vary widely, so it is critical to understand exactly what and who your boyfriend is. Calm, sensitive men are the best to openly engage in a dialogue with. Partners who constantly joke around might not take the conversation seriously. If your partners is abusive, or generally nasty to you, that person might not be the right person for you. Remember, revealing a past experience about yourself should not be a way to help a struggling relationship, but should be a way to build an even stronger one.
 Trust is critical in order for a relationship to be healthy and thriving. Before you begin to dive into your past experiences and emotions, make sure that the relationship is open and honest.


Note whether or not you and your boyfriend consistently engage in deep, interesting conversation. Simply using "small talk" (i.e. weather, what did you do today, how is the family), while appreciated, is not necessarily a sign of good communication. If an open, honest dialogue has not yet been performed, try engaging in a discussion concerning likes, dislikes, passions, hobbies, etc. These topics can be a great inroads into making the relationship healthy and open to even deeper levels of conversation.
Gage whether your conversations with your boyfriend usually end in understanding, or argument. Men come in wide varieties, and therefore exhibit many different emotional reactions. Physical contact, eye contact, and verbal cues are generally signs that your boyfriend is listening to what you are saying, and is receptive to deeper engagement.Try to understand your boyfriend's temperaments. An argumentative boyfriend is generally a person not open to further dialogue. Listen to what he says, and try to understand where it is coming from. If you notice that his problems may be similar to your own, that may be a wedge to attempt talking about your own past with him.
 Often times, people want to open up about their past without first internalizing it themselves. Your past represents the person you are today.


Use a quiet space like a bedroom to sit and contemplate your past experiences. Think about the good, the bad, and the ugly. Try to figure out which moments are connected to which other experiences.
Attempt to understand why the events in your past are important to you, and how they have made you into the person you are today. In everyday situations, at work or at home, write down on a sheet of paper when you remember a past experience or memory. Write down why you think this memory came about when it did. Make sure to note whether certain memories or experiences are consistently recurring or are repressed.
Before you talk with your boyfriend it might be a good idea to talk with a relative or friend (at least loosely) about the experiences or memories you wish to share. This is a great way to practice and begin to open up. Some people also find psychiatrists very helpful in beginning to open up since the relationship between the patient and doctor is strictly professional.
 It is important, before you begin the conversation, that you are open and honest with yourself. You want the points you wish to address to be succinct, and yet detailed enough so that your boyfriend understands what you are saying.


Spend time by yourself contemplating your past. Sometimes a great way to do this is to silently sit in a quiet space like your bedroom, or outside in a relatively calm park.
Write down on a sheet of paper some of your past experiences you would like to discuss with your boyfriend. Create a large list, and then go back and cross off things that are off limits at the moment, or will have to wait till further along in the relationship to reveal. Try and expand whatever is left on the list. Write the details down exactly how you want to tell them to your boyfriend.
It is best not to rattle off all your past experiences at once. Intimate communication is best when you are talking concisely, about small matters at a time. A healthy relationship will allow for further conversations in the future where you can reveal even more.
 While the words might be easy to get out when you are by yourself, when the moment comes, they might be hard to get out. You will want to recite, revise, and recite again until what you want to say is mostly on point.


Take your list before and begin to draft it into a longer form. This does not have to be in paragraph form, but make sure to write down as much detail as possible.
A great place to practice is in front of a mirror. First read what you have written down. Then, as you go along, try and look away from the paper and begin to memorize. You do not have to remember word for word, but try and get as close as possible. The mirror will help you get used to talking to someone without anyone else actually being there.
You might also want to try and read what you have written in front of a friend or relative. However, the information you will reveal may be personal and highly sensitive. Your boyfriend will probably also not like it if you have told everyone else but him. Be highly selective to whom you talk to, and make sure that you do not reveal too much.
 When do you wish to have the conversation, where, and why is it important to you? You will not want to do this impromptu; but rather, face to face.


A great place to do this is when you are sitting in a restaurant, sitting at a park, or simply pull him to the side somewhere. Make sure that you come off as urgent, but not pestering. Speak clearly and precisely.
Do not do this over the phone, or in a highly public area. You want to make sure your boyfriend knows you are serious about talking and opening up.
If your boyfriend begins to ask questions, simply let him know that now is not the time to have the conversation. You want to have the whole talk when you are in a much more intimate space.
 After your trust level has been built, and you have practiced what you want to say, you will want to begin talking to your boyfriend about your past. A quiet, solemn setting is a great place to begin talking.


Some places that are great to talk in are: your bedroom, the living room, or in a car when you are not driving. These different settings should be quiet, and should make it easy to see each other face to face.
When people talk about their past, it can sometimes be very scary or sad. Having a pillow around to hold, and tissues available can make the talk easier and flow without interruption.
When the radio or television is on, that can take away from a good, thoughtful conversation. Movie theaters and restaurants can also be noisy, distracting, and generally not suitable for engaging one another. Privacy is also a concern. Sometimes asking a friend to join you can help, but you want to make sure that you and your boyfriend share a moment together as a couple. After all, the goal of the talk is to make your relationship stronger., Sometimes partners are not receptive to what their other partner is telling them. Having a strong voice can do the trick well.


Use your prepared statement as written beforehand, keep your notes close by, or try and remember what your notes said. Going too off script might lead to a long drawn-out conversation that does not accomplish the goal.
Make sure the words you choose are clear, and precise. When your boyfriend gets done listening, he should understand exactly what you have told him.
There is no need to get all the information out at once, especially if it something difficult you wish to talk about. Pace yourself, and remember that your boyfriend is there to first and foremost listen to what you have to say.
 Remember to introduce the topic subtlety and gradually work in the heavier moments. Describe the event, related side effects of your past, and how it effects you and the relationship.


Begin the conversation with a slow introduction. Do not reveal all the details at the beginning. This can turn your boyfriend off to conversation. Take it slow, and work through everything you want to say.
Make sure that there is open communication between yourself and your boyfriend. This is not only about you, but also the relationship as a whole. Stop frequently for your boyfriend to ask questions and comment about what he has heard so far Try your best to look your boyfriend in the eyes, and make sure he is looking to you as well. This is the best way to gage emotional or physical reactions.
 Because you are setting special time aside to tell your boyfriend about your past, it is clear that this information is critical to understanding you as a person. Explain to your boyfriend why this was crucial to reveal, and how it will possibly shape your future.


Consistently remind your boyfriend that talking about the past is important to you. By revealing this secret about your past, you are allowing him insight into who you are as a person. People who are able to do this successfully can work together as a team to not repeat the mistakes of the past.
Give examples of how this event has changed the way you go about your daily life. Forecast into the future any potential problems that may arise if this past experience is not dealt with.
 This should not be a one sided conversation. Allow your partner, especially after you are done telling your story, to open up about his feelings, reactions, etc.


Gage your boyfriend's reaction to what you have told him. If your boyfriend has been well receptive, you may want to open up more and tell him other things about your past. A dialogue is a great way to build a good relationship.
Ask your boyfriend if he wants to tell you something about his past. This is not about blackmailing him, but rather a way to share open and honestly. A related past can help you and him better understand one another.
Be prepared for either a positive or negative reaction. Sometimes a boyfriend may not like what he is hearing you tell him. This is perfectly normal, but something that should be worked on. Continue to follow up, and ask him to listen. Take a break, for both of you to process what you have just revealed.
 You do not want to simply end the dialogue on a depressing tone, or wait to construct reactions later on. Use this time you have to become more open and honest.


Find resolutions to problems. If it was a difficult moment in your past that you shared, work with your boyfriend to find a way forward. This moment does not define you, but it will always be a part of you. Make sure that any future conversations about the topic are solemn and serious.
Perhaps, with your boyfriend, work on a system of visual or physical cues. Every time your boyfriend or yourself relays one of these cues, they will know he or she is referring to this moment/story. That way, in the future, you will know when it is appropriate to reengage the topic of conversation.
If you do not want to reveal all the information at once, find a good stopping point in the story. If the relationship is healthy, there will always be time to come back and tell the rest.
A kiss or a hug is a nice way to tell your partner that you love them and care about what they have said/listened to.
 Days and weeks after, see whether or not you are becoming closer as a couple. Make sure that what you told him is not effecting the relationship in a negative way.


After sharing an intimate moment with one another, often times there is a desire to not reengage the topic right away. This is perfectly natural. However, your boyfriend should always be open to talking again in the future.
Look for any signs such as physical contact, your boyfriend giving you gifts, or the use of sweet, soft language. These can often be signs of a boyfriend who understands what he heard, has taken it to heart, and wants to show you that he cares about you.
Occasionally bring up the topic again in passing. See whether or not your boyfriend is squeamish, or wants to hear what you have to say.
 Sometimes boyfriends are not very emotionally open. This is normal, but something that needs to be worked on.


If you were not able to convince your boyfriend to have a shared moment with you, persist in asking him. It can never hurt to simply keep asking. A healthy relationship is built on openness, so eventually it is critical for you to reveal your past to him.
Some men simply will not listen, or wish to talk. While that might be easy for them, it is not healthy for your relationship. Leaving notes in the home, or in his vehicle can demonstrate how serious this is for you. Talking to someone else, and getting them to ask him to talk with you can also help.
 After a period of time has gone by, talk about your memories a second or third time. With time passing by, it can become easier to release more intimate details or circumstances you would not have before Often times the first time sharing can be very emotional. Shyness, or crying can ensue which might interfere with what you have to say. Reengaging at another point in time should tamper down some of those more obvious emotions/reactions.
Feel free to release more information. The details might not have all been released at the start, or you might have shied away from giving too much away.
As you and your boyfriend create new experiences together as a couple, tell him how your past is shaping your current events/circumstances. If that memory is negatively effecting a present moment, your boyfriend now knows how to help you get out of a bad situation.
 Your first talk may lead to others down the road about completely different subjects. This is a sign of growth in the relationship, and can only help the couple become stronger.


Ask your boyfriend if he wishes to have a talk about his past. Let him know that you are open, just as he was, to intimate discussion. However, do not press to hard, as he may be more afraid or shy about opening up.
Try and create intimate moments without any specific goals in mind. Tell your boyfriend you wish to talk, but are not sure about what. Create a scene, just like before, but let loose about all types of things in your past or your boyfriends past. A constantly fluctuating dialogue can be great, especially for partners that may be nervous.
 Sharing moments from your past should open the relationship up to new possibilities, and create stronger bonds of friendship. If your partner is not receptive, it may be time to reevaluate your relationship.


Revealing something about your past can boost your relationship from the "friend zone" to a more rich and understanding partnership. If your partner is not open to any deep, thoughtful communication, your relationship could be stuck in that "zone" for a while, if not permanently.Think about whether or not a boyfriend who does not want to hear you out is the best person to have in your life. You not only need a friend, but an emotional partner that can help you overcome any trauma from past experiences.
Judge for yourself about where the relationship is headed. Let your boyfriend know that opening up is important, and if he does not the relationship might be over. Ultimatums are never good for a strong couple, so let your boyfriend come around on his own. However, make sure not to wait to long.

