 The items should be placed inside a sturdy, strong box or an insulated cooler.Corrugated cardboard works well.Other containers you may consider are Styrofoam boxes inside of cardboard boxes, insulated liners with bubble wrap, or insulated pads.The box should have a Mullen Test of 200 pounds or more to use it for shipping perishable items. A Mullen Test measures how much weight boxes can handle without bursting.For items that need to remain cold, use insulated foam containers with walls a minimum of one and a half inches thick. Then place the foam container inside a sturdy container., Consider including instructions for the recipient inside the package. Provide information about storage and preparation. This is optional but helpful, especially if you’re sending perishable food to customers who may be unsure how to prepare or handle it. Label any food inside the box as well as externally.


For food items, make it clear what ingredients are included for the sake of those with allergies or dietary restrictions.
If the item should arrive cold, include instructions about ensuring refrigerator coldness (not over 40°F/4.4°C) when they open the package. Notify the recipient that they should refrigerate or freeze the food immediately, and specify that they should not eat or even taste it if it doesn’t arrive cold., Maintain the freshness of baked goods during transit by wrapping them. Use foil or plastic to wrap. Cookies and bars need individual wrapping. Pack in layers using wax paper to separate the layers. Place items stacked or in a tin.Hard cookies ship better than soft cookies, which can break and crumble during mailing., Provide at least two inches of cushion around glass and other fragile items. Make sure that bottles and jars are sealed well. Don’t choose newspaper as your packing material, as it doesn’t have cushioning. Add any buffering packing materials needed. Use items such as plastic containers and Styrofoam peanuts. Wrap items well in plastic wrap or foil and pack them snugly.For chilled or frozen foods, opt for plastic foam peanuts, bubble wrap, bagged foam or Instapak®.
 Use plenty of tape to keep the box from opening up during transportation. Avoid duct tape and masking tape; they can detach in cold weather and melt under hot conditions. Choose a tape meant for shipping., Address the box with a complete mailing address and phone number. Clearly mark the package “Perishable” on the outside.The marking would be on the address side of the mailpiece. Also include your name and return address.If required, contents should be identified on the address side of the mail.
You can use a mailer endorsement if you want to request return, forwarding, or address correction for items that are undeliverable to the address specified.
Add the instructions “Fragile, handle with care” on the address side of the mailing piece. If the contents are food, add “Food contents.”

