 Friendship-making is a game for the courageous and persistent. Every now and then, you may strike gold and connect with someone who has many of the same interests as you. Other times, your attempts may fall short because the other mom is too busy or isn’t in the market for new friends. Recognize that you won’t hit it off with everyone you meet. Nurse your wounds of rejection and keep trying.Go into every situation looking for something to learn rather than thinking you'll come away with a new pal. For instance, attending a larger play-date might help you learn that you prefer more intimate, one-on-one gatherings. Next time, you can arrange meetings that suit your style to help you feel more comfortable and increase your odds of meetings someone with mutual interests.
 Setting realistic expectations is central to making mom friends. Unlike other times in life such as high school or college, mom friendships may not include liberties like answering late-night phone calls to vent. Moms have tons of obligations, and, sometimes, friendships can’t be at the forefront. Be understanding of the friendships you have with other moms and try not to set the bar so high that your pals are destined to fail.


For instance, it would be unrealistic to expect that each time you were free to get together your other mom friends are, too. Minimize disappointment by either setting a regular date to get together or planning well in advance. Even then, a sick child or a last-minute school project can throw off plans. Be forgiving and don’t expect too much from your mom pals. Even if other people are frequently busy or unavailable, continue reaching out, especially if you need help. The other moms may even start reaching out to you.
 If before, you had very few connections with other moms in your area, give yourself a pat on the back when you start taking initiative. Perhaps you won’t make a new friend on your first try, but applaud yourself for taking the risk.


Making friends as an adult is a tricky process. So, celebrate any attempts you make to plan play-dates, stimulate conversations, or get involved with other moms.

