 The cup will hold the balloon sturdy while you work.
 You can also mix your own glue by using 2 parts white school glue and 1 part water.
 This will make the base for your egg. One sheet will be enough to coat three eggs.
 This will make the outside of your egg. You can make it all one color or many different colors. Some crafters have noted that lighter colored tissue paper, such as yellow, shows the layering and overlapping more.To make polka dot eggs, punch a ¾-inch (1.91 centimeters) circle in the center of your square using a scrapbooking hole punch. Discard the circles, and use the squares so that you get white polkadots on your egg., Brush on some of your glue onto the balloon, and press a piece of white tissue paper onto it. Smooth it down with a brush dipped in more glue. Overlap the pieces as you cover the entire egg.


Start applying the tissue paper at the top of the balloon and work your way towards the tail. Don't cover the tail up., If the tissue paper on the balloon is already damp, you do not need to apply more glue. Simply press a piece of colored tissue paper onto it, and smooth it down with a little more glue.Remember to overlap the pieces by a little.


If you are making polka dotted eggs, be careful not to cover up the white polka dots!

, You can do this by clipping the tail of the balloon to a hanger or to a clothesline. This can take 2 to 3 days.
 Make sure that the balloon is completely dry, then gently tug on the balloon tail until you expose a bit of the balloon. Pierce the balloon with a pin or a pair of scissors. Wait for the balloon to deflate, then pull it out and discard it.
 Small candies, such as chocolate eggs, work great! Be careful not to overfill the egg; it is still very fragile. If you do not wish to fill your egg, you can move onto the next step.
 Let the patch covering the hole dry before moving on.


Because these eggs are made from colorful tissue paper, they don't need to be painted. You can still decorate them, however, with glitter glue if you'd like.
 To open the eggs, simply tear them apart. They make great gifts for Easter baskets!

