 Once you have determined your pet’s body condition score, you can help your dog or cat to lose, gain, or maintain her weight. As you work with your pet, you need to do weekly weigh ins to track your progress. Keeping track of your pets progress through weekly weigh-ins is a great way to keep you on track and moving toward your pet’s weight goal.


It might be hard to weigh your cat. Do the best you can with the scale you have.
 One of the best ways to help your pet lose weight is to help her get more exercise. Walk your pets daily. Most dogs exercise at least 30 to 60 minutes of exercise daily. Smaller dogs need 10 to 30 minutes daily. It is complicated to walk a cat, but you want attempt to get her to walk around the yard or house with you or play running games with your cat for 10 to 30 minutes each day.


You can also train your dog on a treadmill if you don’t have a great place to walk her or if it is too cold or rainy outside to walk every day., Just walking it great, but as your pet gets stronger, you should vary the intensity and variety of exercise daily. What kind of exercise you choose will depend on the type and size of pet you have. Cats love toys like feathers on a string or laser pointers. Plus these give you good interaction with your cat. Obese dogs may need a more gradual start up in exercise, especially older dogs. Leash walks on cool mornings are an excellent starting points. Even if your dog can only walk a few blocks at first, that is a start.


Always ask your veterinarian how much exercise your dog or cat can tolerate., One of the main reasons that pets become obese is that they eat too much. Feed your pet the recommend amount of food daily as recommended by your veterinarian. If you feed your pet twice a day or more, split the recommended amount of food between the feedings. Use a measuring cup to actually measure out the exact amount of food.


Don’t feed your pet table scraps. Your dog or cat needs fewer calories than you expect. Feeding pets from the table or feeding leftovers can unbalance a pets' diet quickly. Most human food is typically too high in fats, salts, and sugars for pets.
Talk to your vet about cutting down on how much you feed your pet. Some vets suggest cutting the amount of food your pet gets every day by a third from where she starts. This will reduce her food intake and should help you lose weight., Your pet may be obese due to overeating. Some cats and dogs are simply gobblers and always want to eat. Try feeding your pet a few bites several times a day to get her into healthy eating habits. Once she stops begging between the frequent meals, slowly increase the amount of food at each meal and decrease the amount of meals. Eventually, your problem should be solved and you'll have a nibbler that doesn't overeat.
 If you feed your dog treats, be sure to include this as part of the diet daily calories. Feeding treats can be overdone. Feed low calorie healthy treats to your pet, either commercially prepared dog treats, carrots, apple slices, or green beans. Also try saving some of your dog's dry food and give it as treats. If your dog likes carrots, frozen peas, apples, or other vegetables, give these as low fat, high fiber treats.


Instead of handling a treat to your healthy dog, toss it a distance from you so the dog is encouraged to trot across the room or down the hall to get the treat. Add a phrase like "go far" as you toss the treat. Most dogs will soon learn to start the walk as you say the command and getting treats will become additional exercise.
You can also start rewarding your pet with play or a training session instead of a treat.
If you have a cat, limit the amount of treats you feed her as well. Alternate treats that are healthier can be lean chicken or tuna.