 It’s an app showing gray cogs that can be found on one of your home screens.


The app might be nestled in a folder called Utilities or Extras if it’s not listed on the home screen.;
, It’ll be the 8th option listed under the search bar.
, It’s the 2nd option listed under the Vision section.
 This will allow you to enhance the screen by double-tapping three fingers on it.


Once you’re zoomed in, double-tap three fingers again to zoom out to normal view.
 Doing so will create a small window that magnifies sections while scrolling. You can enhance focus even more by:


Sliding the Smart Typing button to On, which allows you to zoom in on text with a scrollable window without enlarging the keyboard.
 Doing so will give you quick access to Zoom controls where you can:


Tap on the Controller to access the Zoom Menu.
Tap anywhere on the screen to exit the menu.
Double-tap the Controller to zoom in.
Scroll across the screen with the Controller to magnify certain sections.
Double-tap the Controller a second time to zoom out to normal view.
 This will allow you to change the transparency of the Controller where you can:


Drag the slider to the right to make the Controller more visible.
Tap on Zoom at the top-left corner of the screen to set the Idle Visibility and return to the Zoom settings page.
 Doing so will allow you to set a region by tapping on:



Full Screen Zoom = Makes your entire screen magnified.

Window Zoom = Makes certain sections of your screen magnified inside a window.
Tap Zoom once you’ve selected your region to return to the previous page.
 This allows you to adjust the appearance of your screen while using Zoom by tapping on:


None

Inverted = Makes the background of your screen black and the text white.

Grayscale = Makes the shades of black and white gray.

Grayscale Inverted = Makes the background of your screen dark gray and the text less white.

Low Light = Dims the overall screen color.
 Doing so will adjust the appearance of your screen while using Zoom, allowing you to use the function to the best of your needs.

