 Some people don't understand or they have misunderstandings about the worth of doing our bit for the environment. They may try to make fun of you. If this happens, just stand your ground and tell them firmly but politely that you care about the planet and that you want to make sure that we have a safe and healthy environment to live in. Also remember that some people will never be convinced, so just smile and accept that they cannot move from their notions but this does not mean that you have to give up. Set examples through doing and you may just convince them another way.;
, Junk mail causes extra trash to be produced and you can reduce this. Each day, ask them for one piece of junk mail from the daily mail. Call or email the company which sent the mail, and ask them to remove your house from their mailing list. Explain to your parents that they can use online catalogs or perhaps even consider buying less stuff.
 The easiest way to do this is to create a signature for your emails which reads:


Save the Earth through Junk Mail Reduction. Each day, when you collect your mail, call or email one junk mailer and ask to be deleted from their mailing list. Affix this note to the bottom of each email you send and become a part of the movement!

, Donate some money to environmental causes and to charities that help poverty. Poverty is a major cause of environmental problems also and if you help to stop people living in poverty, you will also be helping to protect the environment. Consider helping a charity that encourages those in poverty to grow their own organic garden. This provides food that is nutritious, budget-wise and also is an enjoyable activity.
 When not in use, turn off or unplug electrical appliances.
 Make sure to recycle things that can be recycled. Learn the recycling numbers on the base of many things such as bottles, boxes, and cans. This will help you to know if your item can be recycled or not. If it cannot be, contact your municipality and ask why they are not recycling some items. Set up a neighborhood petition to get the municipality to change its mind if it will not recycle some things.
 Water can be saved by using water efficient shower heads and sink heads. Ask your parents to replace old faucets, shower heads and sink heads. Again, you can help by doing the research online for them.
 Pick up litter and trash on the ground and recycle what can be recycled. Always wear gloves and use a stick to pick up items rather than putting your hands into holes etc.
 Instead of littering, it is important to recycle items that are recyclable and to properly dispose of other items. Littering is not only unpleasant to look at but it attracts vermin, it makes a mess of animal homes and it is a waste of products that can be reused.
 Plant some native species trees, bushes, and other plants which will provide food and cover for the animals living in your area. Ask your parents to reconsider their lawn and to have native grasses or some other decorative feature that doesn't need a lot of watering or mowing.
 Ask your school to have either a water wise, living wise, or Energy Wise presentation. In the USA, these presentations come with a kit which supplies free items, the water wise kit comes with a water efficient shower head, sink and kitchen aerators, and other items. Ask your school about buying a road. If they do this they have to clean up all the litter.
 You may think that no one cares about the planet but a small group of people, but you are wrong!! A great site for videos that help with eco living is youtube.com, but remember to keep searching and searching. You might end up making a bag made out of t-shirts, for all I know!!

