 Tiny leaves and little bits of dirt can get caught in canvas furniture. Wipe off the canvas furniture with a bristled brush to remove any surface dirt.


You could even hit canvas pillows with your hands to loosen dust from the fabric.
 If the labels on your canvas furniture covers say they are machine washable, go ahead and wash them in a washing machine.Use a mild detergent on a mild washing setting to wash the canvas coverings; Canvas fabric can be delicate.


If your canvas coverings are not machine washable, you will have to clean them by hand like the rest of your furniture pieces.
 Fill a bucket with 2 gallons of clean water. Add approximately ½ a capful of a mild detergent like dishwashing soap, or detergent specifically made for washing items by hand.You can swirl your bristled brush around in the bucket to make the water sudsy.
 Use a rag or sponge dipped in the cleaning solution to initially wipe down the canvas surfaces. Then use a bristled brush dipped in the cleaning solution to go over the canvas again, and scrub the soiled areas.


You don’t have to apply too much pressure while scrubbing the canvas surfaces. Rough scrubbing can end up damaging the fabric.
 Lightly spray the canvas furniture with clean water to rinse off any soap residue. Water from a hose will work just fine. Once all furniture pieces are rinsed, allow the furniture to dry naturally in the sun.


If the canvas is colored, be aware that allowing the furniture to dry in the sun may weaken its coloring.
 To protect the canvas from further damage, apply a protective spray that will help the canvas repel dirt and water. Apply this spray only when the canvas is completely dried. Spray the canvas surfaces from approximately 3 feet away, being sure to spray in a thorough, even, widespread fashion.Be sure to follow the instructions on the protective spray bottle.
If you don’t know which kind of protective spray to use on your canvas, consult an employee at your local home department store.

