 You will need more than one tank in order to breed tetras, so get another one if you do not have one already. You can use a 12 x 8 x 8 inch (30 x 20 x 20cm) tank to breed your tetras.You will use this tank to bring a male and female tetra together for breeding and also as a place incubate the eggs and baby tetras.


You can set this tank up similar to how you have your normal tank set up. Just keep in mind that the water will need to be soft and kept at a specific temperature and acidity in order for breeding to happen.;
, When you are breeding neon tetras, the water in your breeding tank needs to be kept at about 77 degrees Fahrenheit.The water also needs to be soft (low-mineral content) and slightly acidic (with a pH of 5-6) in order for neon tetras to thrive. This type of environment is what best mimics the natural environment of a neon tetra. If the water in your tank does not meet these requirements, you will need to:


get a tank thermometer to monitor the water temperature.
test the pH of the water daily using pH test strips (available at pet stores)
mix one part tap water with three parts reverse osmosis water to make soft water for your tank OR use fresh rainwater, A filtration system can help to remove waste products and bacteria from the aquarium, which will protect the health of your tetras. A filtration system can also remove bacteria from the aquarium and keep it looking its best. Corner box filters are ideal for breeding tanks because they are gentle., Tetras need a dark environment to thrive, so do not place your tetras near a sunny window or in another place that gets a lot of light. Tetras do not need total darkness, but they do need to be placed somewhere that gets only a small amount of light each day.You may even want to cover the back and sides of your tank in dark paper to block out excess light.
 It is not absolutely necessary to sex your tetras before you begin breeding because you can put several into the tank together and breeding should occur.However, if you want to sex your tetras, male and female tetras have some distinct differences that can help you tell them apart.


Female tetras tend to be wider and fatter than male tetras.
Some breeders also claim that male tetras have a straight stripe and females have a crooked stripe., Evening is the best time to introduce your adult tetras into the tank, so plan to put your adult tetras into the tank after the sun has set. Keep in mind that the tetras that you use for breeding will have to be at least 12 weeks old or breeding may not be possible.Allow the fish to stay in the tank for a day or two. Tetras should spawn after being kept in the tank for about one to two days.
 If breeding is not happening, then check the pH and temperature of the water, soften the water a bit more, and adjust the lighting as needed. It may take some time and experimenting to get the conditions just right for your neon tetras to breed.


Changing the water softness seems to trigger spawning because it mimics rainfall. Try adding a large amount of soft water to the tank if your neon tetras are not spawning after a few days., Fish eggs are small and hard to see because of their translucent color, but you may be able to see them in the gravel or on plants in your breeding tank.As soon as you notice eggs in the tank, make sure that you remove the adult tetras from the tank or they may eat the eggs.
 There may be between 60 to 130 eggs, but not all of them will hatch.After the eggs are lain, they will take about 24 hours to hatch. You can expect about 40 to 50 baby tetras to hatch from the eggs.The baby tetras will look like small splinters of glass swimming around the tank., The baby tetras, also known as “fry,” will need to be kept in the dark for about five days after they hatch. Baby tetras are light sensitive and they need a dark environment in order to thrive.


To keep the tank dark, you can cover the entire tank in dark construction paper or use a piece of cardboard to block out the light.You can use a dim flashlight to look in from the top of the tank during feedings, but be brief when you do so.
 You cannot feed your baby tetras the same food that the adult tetras eat, so you will need to give them some special food intended for baby fish.These foods should be labeled as appropriate for fry. Ask at your local pet store if you are not sure which foods are appropriate for your baby tetras.


After a few days, you can start to feed the baby tetras baby brine shrimp as well. You can buy baby brine shrimp in pet stores., After about three months, you can place your new neon tetras into the tank with your adult neon tetras. Do not try to place them into the tank before because they may be eaten, injured, or bullied by the adult fish.Keep in mind that some of the tetras may die no matter what you do. Baby fish are more prone to disease and more sensitive to injuries.
 This is a general rule for fish tanks that can help you determine how many tetras you can keep in your tank at one time. Adult neon tetras are about two inches long, so you can divide the gallon size of your tank to find the number of neon tetras you may keep in the tank.For example, if you have a 50 gallon (190 L) tank, then you can have 25 tetras in your tank.
 Since many neon tetras may be produced from one breeding attempt, you may find yourself with more neon tetras than you can accommodate. Ask friends if they would be interested in having some neon tetras. Make sure that your friends have the appropriate equipment and resources to care for the fish.


You can also try calling your local pet store to see if they are interested in purchasing some. Just keep in mind that pet stores only pay between $0.11 and $0.30 per neon tetra, so you will not make much money unless you sell in large quantities.