 Think of your cat's needs when you decide where to put the litter box. Cats prefer privacy and quiet when they use the litter box, so find a space that's not heavily trafficked in your house. For example, you could place the litter box in the:Spare bathroom
Quiet corner of a storage room
Closet or unused cabinet
Basement
Garage;
, Make sure your cat can easily access the litter box. Your cat should be able to get to the litter box whenever it needs to and without your assistance. If your cat feels like it can't get to its box or doesn't like where the box is at, it may begin having accidents throughout the house.Ensure that your cat doesn't feel like it's trapped when it uses the box. For example, don't put the box in a cabinet inside a closed-off closet or it may feel like it's going to be ambushed.
 If you plan on storing the litter box in a room that you normally keep closed off or in a cabinet or closet, you'll need to keep the doors open or install kitty doors. You can simply cut a space in the bottom of the cabinet or door to give your cat access. Or you can cut a hole and install a little flap that will also give your cat a little extra privacy.Ensure that the kitty door is large enough to accommodate your cat. If you have a kitten, anticipate how big it will be as an adult and purchase a kitty door that will be large enough for your cat when it reaches maturity.
 While it might be tempting to create a little cat space that contains your cat's litter box, toys, food, and water, most cats dislike having their food and water near their litter box. Try to place these away from each other so your cat will use the litter box.Your cat will appreciate having a space that it can go to when it feels overwhelmed.
 You should also take noise into account. Even if you find a space that's out of the way, if there are loud noises, your cat may not like to use the box. For example, while your laundry room might be a pretty quiet space, it may become too loud for your cat if you're running the washer and dryer.

Consider how your daily activities in the space contribute to the noise. If you have an office that's out of the way and you quietly work there, it may be a good place for your cat.

