 The impact of exercise is tricky. Engage in moderate-high intensity exercise and your body will suppress appetite because it will use your stored fat as an energy source while low intensity exercise, like walking, swimming, and jogging, will increase hunger.


Studies have found that the neuronal response to food significantly decreased with moderate to high intensity workouts.
Exercise also reduces the incentive motivation in the brain responsible for the anticipation of food. This effect reduces hunger and keeps you healthy and reduces stress.
 There are numerous studies on sleep and sleep deprivation and its impact on the body. In general, a lack of sleep has a negative impact on the body and increases hunger hormones that makes us crave for snacking throughout the day.Studies show that bodies lacking sleep are bodies that crave more carbohydrates throughout the day. Scientists believe this is due to the body's natural craving for carbohydrates to increase energy levels.
Sleeping is intimately related to feeding. A lack of sleep for prolonged periods of time increases the intake of food dramatically.
Leptin, a hormone released by fat cells that suppresses appetite, highly depends on the length of sleep. A lack of sleep, therefore, dramatically impacts the influence of hunger.
 Yoga can reduce your appetite. The intimacy of performing yoga makes you more aware of your body and, therefore, more sensitivity to feeling satisfied and less likely to snack on junk food.Yoga performed at least one hour per week has shown to reduce appetite. Because yoga reduces stress, it suppresses a hormone called cortisol, which is associated with binge eating.
Mindful eating, the-step-by-step thought process to eating, is also a part of yoga. This process helps you to stop eating when you are full.
 Eating because you’re bored is a learned habit, but distinguishing between true hunger and emotional hunger is difficult for many people.Real physical hunger comes about gradually and can be easily satisfied with most foods. You will naturally stop eating when you are full and you will not feel guilty. Conversely, eating because of boredom causes cravings for particular foods, comes about quickly, and causes you to overeat. You will probably feel guilty after you are finished eating.
Write down the foods that you eat throughout the day in a journal. Keep track of your feelings before and after you eat. If you find you are eating unhealthy food frequently between meals or late at night and feel guilty consider doing a different activity during these time periods like taking a walk, reading a book, or playing with your pet.
If you find the urge too strong then concentrate on eating healthy snacks like fruit, vegetables, or nuts.

