 Invite them to chat over a coffee or lunch. Keep the situation casual, so your friend feels comfortable talking to you openly. You can email, call, or text, but people are more likely to fully understand this conversation, if you conduct it face-to-face where they can see your body language and facial expressions.Make sure you're able to meet one-on-one. You don't want to embarrass your friend.
Send an email, text, or call and say something like, "Do you have some time to meet and talk this weekend?"
If you want to give them a heads up on what the conversation is about, you can say something like, "Can we meet up Friday to talk about that loan I gave you a few months ago?"
If you want to make sure your friend is comfortable, let them pick the location. Say something like, "I wanted to talk about that loan I gave you awhile back. Can we meet at your place or somewhere close by to talk about that this week?";
, In some cases, your friend really may have forgotten about the money owed to you. Start by reminding them about the loan. You can say something like, “I was happy to give you that money last month to help out, but I was hoping you could pay me back before my rent is due.” This reminds them that the money was given and acknowledges that the money was a loan, in case they had misinterpreted the loan as a gift., If the gentle reminder doesn’t produce an apology and offer of repayment, address the issue head on. Sometimes, phrasing your request for repayment as a question can soften the blow. Try saying something like, “Do you know when you’ll be able to pay me back?”


Insist on a precise answer to your direct question. Responses like, “I hope to get it back to you in the next few months,” are not adequate.
If your friend avoids responding or responds vaguely, push them to set a deadline. You can say something like, “I’m understanding the next few months as meaning no later than three months from today. Can we agree to that?”, The longer you allow your friend to avoid payment, the less likely you are to have the loan repaid. Additionally, if you end up needing to take legal action, letting the loan go unpaid for significant periods of time beyond the original repayment date indicates to the court that you may not have expected repayment.