 Some colors convey symbolic meaning. If you want to subtly convey a message to your date, host, or somebody you know you’ll see at the event, color might be the way to do it. Some colors can even evoke physical responses in their viewers!


Red conveys emotional intensity and passion. It can suggest sexuality and lust, and is also very effective at grabbing attention.
Orange conveys enthusiasm and creativity. It is also visually stimulating and suggests heat.
Yellow conveys joy and energy and is the color of sunshine. It also draws attention. If you want people to see that you’re happy, yellow might be your ticket. But be careful not to overdo it; too much yellow can be overwhelming and might not be flattering on you.
Green conveys nature, growth, and fertility. It can make people feel safe and stable. It is also the color of money.
Blue is associated with calmness and loyalty.
Purple is historically associated with royalty, so wearing purple conveys power, wealth, and luxury. It is also associated with magic.
White is most often associated with purity. It conveys innocence and perfection—as long as you can keep it clean! Tip: Unless you’re the bride, don’t wear a white dress to a wedding.
Black conveys power and confidence. It’s hard to get more elegant than a black dress with a perfect fit., Make sure that you pay attention to any dress code information associated with the event you’re going to. Wearing a neon green mini-dress to a black tie event will get you some dirty looks—and may get you kicked out.Dark colors tend to be standard for formal evening events, although if you want to stand out and draw attention wearing something bright will help you do that.Prints and patterns are better for casual or daytime events. Generally, an evening gown should be made out of solid-colored fabric. Brighter, more vibrant colors are also more common at these events.Neutral colors like black, white, gray, brown, and navy are appropriate for any event, though they won’t help you stand out if you want to., Themed events offer a great opportunity to have some fun with color. For example, if you’re going to a luau, bright, tropical colors will fit perfectly into the theme. If you’re going to a celestial-themed formal dance, consider wearing a metallic-colored gown—maybe even one with sequins!—which will remind people of the stars, moon, or sun.
 While you’re not necessarily expected to match your date perfectly, some color-combinations can be cringe-worthy and should be avoided. If you’ll be spending the bulk of the night with one person, and especially if there will be photos, you might want to ask your date what he or she is wearing to make sure that you won’t clash with each other.


If one of you is wearing a neutral color like black, white, gray, brown, or navy, you’ll probably be fine. But keep in mind that some darker shades of blue and brown can look funky with black.
If both of you are wearing bright colors, you could get into trouble. Bright shades of red and purple, for example, can look hideous together. And red and green are generally a no-no combination, unless you’re going to a Christmas party.
Have your date send you a photo of his or her outfit (or at least the color) so that you can check that you won’t clash.
If both of you are in love with your outfits and they happen to clash, wear them anyway! There’s no reason why one of you should have to wear something you’re not crazy about just so that you look better together. You can even make a joke out of it and introduce yourselves as “The Clash.”

, Different colors can change the way your body looks because of the way the eye takes them in. There are lots of tricks you can use to draw attention to or from certain body parts or attributes.


Wear darker colors in places you want to look smaller. If you’re self-conscious about your hips, for example, wearing a dark skirt will make them look slimmer. However, if you’re especially slender already, dark colors may make you look bony.Wear bright or light colors in places you want to look bigger or places you want to make stand out.If you want to draw attention to your chest, for instance, choose a dress which has bright colors around the bust line. You can also use bright colors can also draw attention away from areas you don’t love by choosing a dress that is bright far from your trouble area but dark in the trouble area.
Wear a solid-colored dress under an open jacket of a different color to create a “column” effect which can help camouflage a bigger midsection. You can achieve this effect with a well-placed shawl or scarf, as well.Huge prints can overwhelm very small women, but they can also draw attention to larger bodies as well. If you want to attract the eye to a specific part of your body, a big, loud print can do that. But if you don’t want to attract attention, a smaller, more subtle print is better. If you’re biggest on the top or in the middle, keep prints either on the bottom of your dress or all over; don’t wear a dress that has a print only on the top.To draw attention to your face, wear flattering, brighter colors as accents near your face. Colors that match or complement your eyes and lighten your face are especially effective., Women come in all shapes and sizes, and every shape looks best in something different. The key to choosing a dress that will look fabulous on you is knowing your body type and finding dresses that work with it. You’re not doing yourself any favors if you insist on wearing your “dream” dress even though it’s not flattering on you.


Busty women have large breasts, but narrow hips and straight waists. They look best in dresses that draw attention to their faces and balance out their lower halves with a full or A-line skirt. Watch out that your skirt doesn’t get too short; it’ll make you look top-heavy.Pear-shaped women have wider hips and smaller breasts, with a well-defined waist. To create a balanced look, wear a dress which is strapless or has an open neck and has embellishments and detail around the neck or bust.A fitted waist is best, and a full or A-line skirt which is knee-length or lower will hide your wide hips—if you want to hide them.Apple-shaped women have long, slim legs and a short, undefined waist. Wear an empire-waisted dress to elongate your torso and draw attention to your top half with an embellished neckline. A full or A-line skirt will draw attention away from your torso, and a short skirt will allow you to show off your gams.
Slender women are thin throughout their bodies. Wear a fitted dress to emphasize your lean frame. To add curves to your silhouette, try an empire waist. A slit or an asymmetric neckline will also work for this.
The hourglass figure has proportionate bust and hips with a well-defined waist. If this is you, pick a dress which will accentuate that waist, with a fitted bodice and V- or open neckline. Hourglass figures look great in both full and form-fitting skirts.Petite women are 5’3” or shorter. If this is you, an asymmetric hemline will make you look taller, and shorter skirts are generally more flattering. V- necks and vertical prints will make you look longer. Very long skirts—and especially long, full skirts—will usually overwhelm your frame and make you (and your legs) look shorter.Showcase the parts of your body that you’re most proud of. If you love your back, a dress with a low back or a beautiful keyhole will attract attention there. If you’ve got great legs, a shorter skirt or half skirt will let them take center stage.
 Depending on the event, some lengths may night be considered appropriate. If you’re going to a formal event, you will generally be expected to wear a longer dress (slits are generally okay, as long as they’re tasteful). At a more casual event, or a semi-formal event which calls for a cocktail or party dress, shorter skirts are acceptable, again, as long as they’re tasteful.