 Unlike 1930s Germany, America is not undergoing a severe economic crisis, nor is the country shrouded in despair. America has not undergone any staggering defeats. Germans had little to lose and, at the time, thought Adolf Hitler was their only hope. Americans as a group do not need to cling to a sole political figure in order to feel positive about the future, because America is doing much better than this. It would be much harder for a would-be dictator to justify their actions.


Some commentators argue that Germany has had a culture focusing on obedience, which made it easier for Hitler to assume power.America has the opposite today: one focused on questioning authority.
 For example, when President Obama tried to pass the Affordable Care Act, the media often discussed how his hands were tied.Many presidents who have tried to pass certain bills have ended up making lots of compromises, or failing completely. Trump will face resistance when he tries to create change, just like all the other presidents.


America has a lot of bureaucracy. This makes it hard to change.
Try researching past presidents and their goals. How effective were they? What actually got done?

, The 2016 race was a very close one, with Clinton winning the popular vote while Trump won the electoral one.Trump's support is limited, and he knows it.
 Trump is a very popular subject to talk about—so people will continue watching him and talking about him. The media will help continue to ensure transparency, so that people know what their president is doing.
 Many members of his own party have withdrawn their support for him. Trump has insulted many people,and done things that some people consider unconscionable, and these people are unlikely to be eager to work together with him.


Trump's campaign is said to have a list of enemies.Recall that politics involves a lot of compromise and working together.
 If he wants to have any chance of winning, he'll need to be a good president. Being a good president is in his best interest.


Trump lost the popular vote in 2016. This means that if he wants a good chance of winning in the future, he'll need to win over more voters.
Trump will most likely want to have a positive legacy and impact on the country.
 Many people believe that all Americans deserve respect and compassion. It is incredibly hard to take away people's rights from them.


Black/African American people are not quiet about racial profiling, nor would they be quiet about any policies that would increase it.
Hispanic/Latino families will not sit quietly if their families are at risk for being torn apart.
People with uteruses are not likely to silently return to the days when desperate pregnant people would throw themselves down stairs or mutilate their bodies with coat hangers and other dangerous tools.LGBT+ people would fight back against a return to the days before marriage equality.
 You can speak out against policies that you feel would harm Americans. You still have a voice, and will always be able to use it.

