 Being a leader doesn’t necessarily mean you outrank anyone else. You can be a leader even among those who have greater official authority than you by convincing others to follow a certain course or act in a certain way.


Leadership requires more than speaking and acting in an inspirational and influential way. You must also be willing to take responsibility when something needs doing. For instance, if you’re the director of a play and the actors are not excited to rehearse, it is your job to inspire them to give their all so the play is a success.
Leaders should inspire, not intimidate. Don’t lead through fear.
Leaders must both admit when they were wrong and take credit for victories.;
, It means that you don’t compromise on your core values and you stand by the things you believe. Admirable individuals strive to maintain their personal integrity by staying true to who they are even when it is unpopular or controversial.


Don’t be stubborn. Standing by your principles and acting with integrity doesn’t mean that you are unwilling to accept or consider alternative ideas.
 That is unrealistic. Instead, recognize when things are bad but look for the good in every situation. For example, if you and your classmates present a draft of your project to your teacher and she reviews it poorly, remind your classmates that many aspects of the presentation were still reviewed favorably. Think of the review as an opportunity to revise the project until it is sure to earn an “A.”


A positive attitude gives you confidence, hope, and the belief that tomorrow will be better.
 Admirable individuals tend to be empathetic and sensitive to the needs and wants of others.For instance, you might admire a boss who always remembers your birthday or notices when you are sad. Fostering positive communication with others and treating others with respect are the hallmarks of an individual who keeps the people they care about in mind.


Be inclusive of all people willing to contribute to a project or team. Don’t play favorites or try to divide people. Just because someone has a different background or level of experience doesn’t meant they are not valuable
Always try to see the best in people.
Don’t give too much attention to naysayers and people who only want to drag you down.
 We admire people who are well-rounded and can successfully manage both a happy personal life and build flourishing career. Develop interests outside of work. Whether it’s reading, art, music, or bodybuilding, go after it. Don’t get trapped in the daily grind.


If you enjoy music, form a band.
If you enjoy art, visit museums with friends and set aside time each day to work on your art.
Live your life with passion. Give your best to friends, coworkers, and family each day.

