 Changing from an S corporation to a C corporation can have significant tax consequences. Even if you've done your own review and think it is the best option for your company, you still should have an expert weigh in.If you have a financial advisor or accountant for the company, get their input on whether the company should revoke the S-corporation election.
Make sure you've provided any expert with all the information they'll need to make an informed analysis of the company's situation. This includes financial information and profit or loss projections.
Be prepared to explain why you've thought of revoking the election and the reasons you think it makes sense. Listen closely to any expert you consult and take their advice to heart.
Typically it is a good idea to also involve other board officers at this point, so they have the opportunity to talk to your advisors and understand how the change will affect the business's operations.;
, You will need to reference basic founding documents as you build your case to change your company's tax status. Since the change must be approved by shareholders who hold at least 50 percent of the stock in your company, you must identify all of the shareholders and how much stock they currently own.Gather documents that show the outstanding stock in the company, who owns what shares, and when they acquired those shares.
Your attorney or tax advisor may have specific documents they want to review, or that you should look at yourself before advocating the change.
You'll need to look at your tax documents over the past few years so you can assess how much you've been paying in taxes, and how much that likely would change if you revoked the S-corporation election.
 Before your shareholders' meeting, you will need to carefully analyze the benefits of changing your corporation's tax status. Apply these benefits to your corporation's situation and highlight the ones that fit your situation best.Changes in the company's financial situation often drive the desire to revoke an S-corporation election.
For example, you may want to seek funds from investors who would demand a larger number of shares than you are allowed to issue as an S-corporation.
If there are significant negative consequences to the change, make sure you include them in your outline. To convince the other shareholders, you must be able to demonstrate how the benefits of the change will outweigh the costs.
 Visual aids can help people understand the points you're making about your desire to change your corporation's tax status and how that change would benefit your corporation.Keep your audience in mind. Each shareholder will want to know exactly how this will impact their personal investment before they decide whether to support the revocation.
If financial projections or a need for additional investment are involved, you need to be able to show the shareholders how those changes will affect their ownership.
When you plan to seek additional investment or bring on additional shareholders, your existing shareholders will understandably be concerned about their shares being diluted.
Charts and graphs can illustrate effectively how each individual's investment will change as a result of the revocation of the S-corporation election.
 A change of a corporation’s tax structure is a major change, and requires the consent of the shareholders of the corporation. All shareholders should have adequate notice and opportunity to attend your meeting.If your corporation is a small family business, you may not need to give too much notice. However, if your shareholders are located all over the country, additional notice may be required so they can make travel arrangements.
Keep in mind this meeting doesn't have to involve everyone meeting in person in one room.
You can make arrangements for people to attend over the phone in a conference call, or by using online video conferencing.
 Begin your presentation by making a clear, straightforward statement that you would like to revoke the corporation's S-corporation election.Provide a brief summary of what that would mean, and how that would affect the board members and shareholders come tax time.
You then want to explain the reasons you want to make this change. At this time, you can show any presentation materials, including visuals aids such as charts and graphs.
You may want to bring along a tax advisor or accountant to present details about the financial situation of the company and how the change in tax status would affect that situation.
Make sure to include time for shareholders to ask any questions they may have. If you're asked a question to which you don't know the answer, you may want to reconvene the meeting after you've had time to explore that issue.
Keep in mind that the IRS can revoke your S-corporation status if you fail to meet the requirements.
If the company is in danger of violating the IRS's rules for making the S-corporation election, this may be your strongest argument for voluntarily revoking the election.
 Particularly if you have a number of shareholders, there's a significant possibility that someone will not agree that revoking the S-corporation election is in the best interests of the business.Allow anyone who disagrees with the idea a fair opportunity to present their views. Allow them to be heard, and don't interrupt them while they are speaking.
Once they've finished speaking, present any information you have that might counter their proposal or at least give them a different angle to consider.
If you believe that at least 50 percent of your shareholders agree with you, it can be tempting simply to call a vote without giving anyone else the opportunity to speak. However, doing this means you don't have the opportunity to get everyone on board.
 You will not be allowed to voluntarily revoke your S-corporation election unless shareholders who control at least 50 percent of the total shares of stock in your company agree to the change.As each shareholder registers their vote, keep a tally of how many shares they own so you know when you've hit the target.
While it may make you feel better to have a unanimous decision, this isn't required by the tax code. Votes are based on the number of shares each shareholder owns – not the number of people voting.
So for example, if you and your brother own 50 percent of the shares in your company, you can revoke S-corporation status if you and your brother agree to do so.
This is so even if the other 50 percent of the shares in your company are owned by five different people. Two people are not half of seven people, but if those two people own 50 percent of the company that's all you need.
 The IRS does not have a fill-in-the-blank form for you to complete to revoke the election to be treated as an S corporation. However, the tax code does specify the information that must be included in your letter.Your letter should be in traditional business letter format, addressed simply "To whom it may concern." Date the letter with the same date you plan to mail your letter. Your revocation will be effective on this date.
Include a subject line that labels your letter as "Revocation of S Corporation Election of" your corporation, including the full legal name of the corporation and its EIN.
Your first paragraph is a clear statement that you revoke your S-corporation election. You may start this paragraph "This letter is to provide notice pursuant to Section 1362(a) of the Internal Revenue Code that revokes its S-corporation election."
Use your business's full corporate name, and include the state in which the business was incorporated.
When you mention the election, list the date on which you filed IRS Form 2553 to elect S-corporation status.
Include the number of shares of stock issued and outstanding, as well as the taxable year for which you intend the revocation to take effect.
This letter must be signed by someone with authority to make the revocation, such as the president or CEO of your company.
 Your revocation letter must be accompanied by a statement of consent signed by the shareholders who have consented to the revocation of the company's S-corporation election.This statement can be a single paragraph that provides the full legal name of the corporation and states that the undersigned shareholders consent to the revocation outlined in the statement of revocation.
For each shareholder, you must include their name, tax identification number, the number of shares they hold, and the date they acquired those shares.
 The consent form must be signed by every shareholder who agrees that the business should revoke its S-corporation status. In addition, the revocation statement must be signed by someone with authority to sign for the corporation, typically the president or CEO.Have each shareholder sign and provide their corporate title, if applicable, followed by the date they signed the statement.
It is not necessary for everyone to sign these forms on the same date.
However, you should make sure all signatures are dated before the date you intend your revocation to be effective.
 Once your statements are finalized and signed, you must mail them to the same service center where you initially filed your S-corporation election form.Make a copy of the documents before you mail them, so you have them for the company's records. Keep your copies along with your other tax documents.
Mail your letter and statement of consent using certified mail with return receipt requested so you know when your letter is received by the IRS. Keep the receipt along with your copies of the documents.
Keep in mind that your revocation is final on the date of the letter's postmark – not the date the IRS receives it. However, you want the receipt in case you need to prove your letter was received.
Once agreed upon by the shareholders, the process for making this change is relatively quick. It should take less than a month for the change to become final.
 Provided your revocation is filed by March 15, it will be effective that tax year. This means that when you file corporate taxes, they must be filed as a C corporation and not as an S corporation.If your letter is dated after March 15, you must file taxes that year as an S corporation. The following year, you must file taxes as a C corporation.
For example, if you revoke your S-corporation status on March 1, 2016, you will file taxes for 2016 as a C corporation.
However, if your election isn't revoked until March 20, 2016, you must file taxes in 2016 as an S corporation. You will file taxes in 2017 as a C corporation.
These same deadlines apply to state taxes as well. You typically don't have to file additional documents for your state taxes, however. You simply file using the same tax status as you did for your federal taxes.

