 If you have hard pimples, you should be seeing a dermatologist. They can help treat your acne and help prevent scarring. If you have tried any at home methods for two to three weeks and seen no improvement, you should visit your doctor.


When you schedule your appointment, let your dermatologist know which of the methods listed above you are interested in trying to get a professional opinion about whether the methods will help in your particular case.
Your dermatologist may recommend other approaches to acne, like using over-the-counter treatments, like topical benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid.
Nothing can replace having a trained physician physically examine and look at your unique skin. Without guidance of a dermatologist, you may cause more problems for your skin.
 You can buy many different washes, creams, and spot treatments to help get rid of acne. Get a product with benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid.Be aware that these products may irritate your skin and make your acne worse. Discuss using these medicated acne products with your dermatologist.
Many different acne creams or ointments are sold stores. However, your doctor can also prescribe you stronger ointments, including antibiotic ointments.
 Your doctor may recommend medicine for your acne. This may be used in conjunction with at-home treatments. See your dermatologist to discuss your specific case of acne, medication options available, and any side effects.Common treatments include retinoids, topical or oral antibiotics, oral contraceptives (for women), an anti-adrogen agent, and isotretinoin., If you have tried at-home treatments and medication with no success, your doctor may suggest a different treatment Your dermatologist may recommend therapies for hard pimples. These include:Lasers and other light therapies. Lasers and light therapies can kill off and reduce the numbers of the the P. acnes bacteria. .
Chemical peels. These are professional strength chemical peels. Though these are most often used to treat blackheads and papules, your dermatologist may feel that these can benefit you.
Acne removal. This is a procedure for larger nodules and cysts. The procedure is called drainage and extraction. It is more commonly used when the nodule or cyst does not respond to other treatment and reduces the risk of scarring.

