 Being clean and smelling nice are the base of looking good.



Take a shower at least once a day, before you go to bed. You should take a shower in the morning too, if you have enough time. Use a body lotion/shower gel.

Brush your teeth three times a day, after each meal. Also use dental floss to remove food stuck between your teeth.

Always use deodorant.

Make sure all the clothes you wear are clean and ironed. Even an awesome piece of clothing can look horrible if it's not clean and ironed; not to mention it won't last too long if you don't take care of it properly, no matter how well-made it is.

Comb or brush your hair to avoid the messy look. Avoid brushing your hair if it's curly.

Follow a proper morning routine. Do these things on a regular basis; they are the basics of looking good. Of course, to look glamorous, you'll need to do a little more than this, but it will be ruined, no matter how expensive your clothes are or how good your makeup is.;
, The way your hair looks is crucial for your image as a whole. In order to achieve great hair, follow the advice below.



Keep your hair clean all the time. For oily hair, you should wash it every 1 to 2 days. If you have dry hair, you don't need to wash it that often; only every 2 or 3 days. Use the right type of shampoo for your hair. This is absolutely necessary to prevent dandruff and damaging of your scalp.

Make sure your hair always looks perfect. The only hairstyles that look glamorous are the perfectly styled ones. Rebellious hair not allowed. It can be straight, wavy, or curly, as long as it's shiny and perfectly tamed. Get rid of the frizz by using a straightening iron and/or a smoothing serum or, even better, try straightening it permanently (of course, only if you want straight hair for a longer time). Choose either sleek, stylish, straight hairstyles or romantic, wavy, '40s style wavy hair. For shine, apply a shining spray.

Choose the best color for your hair. If you decide to dye your hair, make sure you do it once a month or every 2 months, otherwise your roots will grow, contrasting with the color of the rest of your hair; and that's not glamorous. The most glamorous colors are rich, intense, bright ones: platinum blonde, golden blonde, light brown, golden brown, dark brown, black. Basically, any more saturated versions of natural hair colors are good. Try picking a color that enhances your skin color. If your skin is rather light or white, platinum blonde and dark brown or black will look good on you ("cold" colors suit light skin). If your skin tone is light to medium, you will look the best in shades of brown, golden blonde or dark blonde; actually any natural, warm color. If your skin is medium to dark, the lightest shade you may choose is medium brown; any lighter color will create an unpleasant contrast with your skin.
 Your face and body need special care to look great. These are the essential steps for having healthy, clear, soft skin.



Keep it free of acne and wrinkles as much as you can. Also, avoid getting red spots on your skin (from allergies, stress or harsh attempts to remove zits). Remove blackheads too. You can do it at home or, more easily, by going to a salon and having it done professionally (it takes much more time and effort to do this at home, and the results are different) Also don't worry if your skin not perfectly clear, most people have some form of acne.

Invest in good quality skincare products. Some good brands are Vichy, The Body Shop and L'Oreal. But if you afford it, go for top brands like Estee Lauder, Chanel and Dior. The products are more expensive, and the amounts smaller, but they do their job better so a little goes a long way. Do some research and figure out what works for you.

Buy a cleanser, a toner and a moisturizer, for they are the basics of skincare. Be sure to exfoliate often, but not to often for smooth, glowing skin. You can go further and use additional products like face masks, for instance.

Try to get rid of cellulite. Some say that it's almost impossible, but that depends on your age and lifestyle. A person who is young and practices sports on a regular basis is much more likely to eliminate cellulite than an older person who doesn't work out. Try some good anti-cellulite creams. You should ask your doctor which are the best, because most of them have absolutely no effects; picking a good anti-cellulite cream is very difficult and you can waste a ton of money if you don't know which to buy from the very beginning. Massage helps as well. If you eventually end up cellulite-free, prevent it from reappearing by eating less saturated fats, quitting smoking, wearing comfortable clothing and being more active.

Combat stretch marks. Maybe you can't remove them completely, but you can diminish them to the extent that they become barely noticeable, even from close up. They usually fade in time. Again don't worry too much about this step, just remember to keep confident in you.

Don't forget to shave your legs and armpits .

Remember to use a body moisturizer too; not only your face needs moisturizing, but your body too.

Avoid excessive tanning. Not only is it bad for your health and increases the chance of getting skin cancer, but it's also somewhat tacky. Avoid excessive exposure to sun, especially in summer, and use lotions with high SPF at the beach, however, if you still decide to go for a tan, at least use a self-tanner, instead of sunbathing (it's healthier).
 Brush your teeth after each meal to avoid having bad breath. If your teeth are not naturally white, go to a dentist to have done a professional whitening; if your teeth are white, keep them that way by avoiding smoking, sodas, and excessive coffee. It's very possible that your teeth are not exactly straight; the dentist will choose the best option for you. (Keep in mind that a gap can be stylish and sexy.)

, Don't bite them, or let them grow too long. Don't let them get dirty- there's nothing worse than black filth under nails. Remember that your toes have to look good, too - especially if sandals are your favorite type of shoe.
 Many women who wear makeup on a regular basis actually know nothing about it; so read further to find out what are the do's and don'ts of makeup. Find a style that works for you wether that is a natural look, full glam or none at all!



A important makeup rule: never go to bed without removing your makeup first. It will clog your pores and possibly make you break out over time.

Start with a slightly shimmery makeup base. Don't use extremely matte foundation, unless your skin is very oily.

Do not cake on glitter. It's not glamorous, it's just flashy and tacky. Glamour is all about being mature, and putting on tons of glitter will make you look like a 15-year-old Barbie girl. However, if you really love sparkly makeup, at least try not to make it very noticeable.

Keep it natural: use colors like pink, beige, brown and (for mascara and eyeliner only) black.

Don't focus on both your lips and your eyes at the same time. If your lips are bright red, keep your eyes natural and apply just a little mascara. If your eyes are 'smokey', use a nude lipstick. Even better yet, don't put too much accent on a certain feature, if it's not an elegant, evening makeup.

Use a creamy lipstick for a natural effect. Glosses are for teenagers, especially light pink, glittery glosses. Lipstick works better for adult women. However, if you go for glosses, at least buy an expensive one, and make sure it's not too sticky. One tip: apply lipstick with a special makeup brush. It looks more natural that way and you tend to apply less.

For lips, go for a shade close to your natural lip color. It's more natural that way. However, if you choose a bright or dark color, keep your eyes free of eyeliner and colorful eyeshadow. Take care with that bright red lipstick. Don't wear red lipstick if your hair is golden blonde and your eyes are blue or green; too many bright colors will clash.

Keep the blush barely noticeable. Blush is a type of makeup whose purpose is to complement your facial features, not to catch your eye. To choose the right color, think of the color your cheeks have when it's very cold outside or after you've run a mile; that's the color that will look the best on you.

Wear natural makeup during daytime: enhance the shape of your lips with a light pink lipliner, use nude, creamy, a bit shiny lipstick, put on some pink blush, a bit of mascara and some shiny light pink eyeshadow on the center of your eyelids. Or the same makeup, with your eyes carefully contoured with black eyeliner, instead of the light pink eyeshadow. On this model, you can think of other ways to apply makeup, keeping it natural at the same time.

Choose the right texture. Your makeup has to be light, shiny, smooth and a bit sparkly- not too much though; see the warning above.

Despite what this article says just remember to be you and whatever makes you confident will look best on you.: You can rock any style you want and you can be glamorous.
 Perfume is, perhaps, the most personal type of cosmetic, because it says a lot about your personality. As a general rule, wear fresh fragrances during summer and "sweet" ones during winter. You can go for something classic, like Chanel No.5, or you can choose any other fragrance from top brands. The coolest option is to make your own perfume- that way it's 100% you. Look in a perfumery for vials containing different essences and buy the ones you like the most.

