 Visit http://www.mayoclinic.org and click on "Request an Appointment" at the right of the page. You will then be transferred to a page where you can make an online request to see a physician.


If you are an international patient trying to request an appointment online, you will first need to select your language from the list under the "Request an Appointment" button, and follow the instructions on the subsequent page(s).
Don't make an official appointment request until you have spoken with your insurance provider and primary care physician.;
, The three main patient treatment centers are located in: Rochester, Minnesota; Jacksonville, Florida; and Scottsdale, Arizona. Be aware that the best location for you might not necessarily be the one that is geographically closest to you, as some locations may lack certain specialties.The Rochester, Minnesota campus is the flagship Mayo Clinic institution, offering the widest variety of services from the largest number of physicians.
Due to the typically cold, harsh winter weather conditions, the Rochester, Minnesota campus is less likely to be busy than the other two during the winter season; this may mean a shorter waiting period.
 After selecting your Mayo Clinic location online, you will be asked to provide information about the prospective patient (whether this be you or a friend or family member).Be sure to provide as much information as possible when filling out this form; this will expedite the appointment scheduling process.


You will need to have relevant information readily available when completing the patient information form. This includes birth date, address, insurance information, and details regarding the patient's medical condition.
Supporting information about tests, x-rays or other diagnostics is also requested.
Once you have finished the form, click "Send Request" at the bottom of the page.
A Mayo Clinic representative will contact you (usually within a few business days) to review additional financial and medical information before you're offered an appointment.
 This is an alternative to scheduling an appointment online. If you choose to do this, you will need to call the specific facility you wish to visit, as there is no central scheduling location.The appropriate phone numbers for the location of your choice can be found online.When you call, be sure to have all relevant patient information ready, which includes the information listed for the online scheduling procedure.
You are no more or less likely to get an appointment by calling versus scheduling online, and the waiting period is the same.
 Mayo Clinic waiting times can be as long as a few months, but will depend upon the severity of your condition and how busy your location of choice happens to be.In the meantime, continue to see your primary care physician and contact Mayo Clinic to inform them of any significant changes in your condition.


You may be able to see a doctor more quickly if you are a "walk-in" patient; these waiting times can still take a week or more (depending on how many people cancel and the severity of your illness).
Don't wait to receive medical attention if you are seriously ill. If your condition worsens while you are waiting, see your doctor and request a referral to Mayo if you haven't already been given one. This could "fast-track" your appointment.
 Once your appointment date arrives, make sure you have your documented medical history and other pertinent information with you when you see the doctor. Mayo Clinic doctors will review your medical history as part the diagnosis and treatment planning processPrevious X-rays, test results, and all other relevant information should also be included with your records.
 Before you attempt to schedule an appointment with Mayo Clinic, you should speak to your doctor and ask whether specialized care is needed for your condition. Mayo Clinic physicians are highly regarded as some of the best in the world, but are typically specialists in various fields of medicine. Your condition may be better handled by a general practitioner.


Ask first whether you think you may need to see a specialist for your condition. If your doctor says 'yes,' then you can ask her whether Mayo Clinic might be a good choice for you. Alternatively, you can do your own research to figure this out.
 This is the best way to get all the information you need before making your appointment. You can also do the actual appointment scheduling online, though this is not your only option. The Mayo Clinic website can be found at http://www.mayoclinic.org.


If specialty services are more important to your needs than facility location, you find out which specialties are handled at which facilities by visiting the Mayo Clinic website., Mayo Clinic appointment scheduling is determined in part on the basis of need, with more severe medical conditions taking priority. If your condition is not serious, is general in nature, or can easily be handled by physicians at another facility, you may have to wait quite a while to be seen.Your primary care doctor is probably in a better position than you to make this assessment; it is always best to consult a doctor before making serious decisions about your healthcare.
Consider whether your condition warrants traveling to a Mayo Clinic facility for treatment. This can be time consuming and potentially expensive, so you should take this matter seriously.
 Due to Mayo Clinic's extreme popularity and the high quality of medical care they offer, their facilities and doctors are in high demand. In some cases, another physician's referral is required in order to get an appointment. The Mayo Clinic asks that you contact them to ask whether you will need a referral.Though most patients are able to schedule their appointments themselves, some insurance companies require that you receive a physician's referral before they will agree to cover your treatment at Mayo Clinic. Contact your insurance company to find out their policy.
Even if your insurance company does not require that you receive a referral, some specialty areas within May Clinic might. This is why it is important to contact Mayo Clinic before scheduling an appointment.

