 It is possible to start finding pathways to letting others help you.One of the best ways of doing this is to follow your first mind. The minute you have a conscious thought that you are facing something you cannot alone handle, seek out help. Don't take the time to talk yourself out of it. Remember to make a note of the solution you receive for your problem. This will help you when you face a similar situation again


When the thought crosses your mind that you could do with help sorting out a problem - carrying a heavy box, making dinner, working out a work dilemma, etc. - act on it. Decide who you will ask, phrase the request in your head, and go and ask for help.
 If another person is being kind in offering help, accepting it at face value is the first step. Yes, there are people with bad intentions, but there are also those who want to do good by others. Look for those people in the world and stop focusing on the negative.


Seek out the goodness in others and restore your faith in humanity. An easy way to do this is by volunteering. Watching others give of themselves selflessly to assist those who are less fortunate is a terrific way to recognize the good in people. Volunteering also helps you to notice how people depend on one another within a community, and how all parts must work together to function as a whole., Choose wisely and carefully. Avoid people who make you feel like a lesser person in any way. Find people you really trust to try out asking for help first. This will allow you to open up bit by bit, and not be exposed to someone who might not do the right thing by you, or who might purposely make you feel weak for asking.
 In order to get, you need to give. If you keep cutting yourself off from opening up to others, you risk not sharing your skills, talents, and abilities with others in need of help. In helping another person, you cease to focus on yourself. And when you cease to focus on yourself, it is far easier to accept support back from another.


In giving of yourself (your time, your listening ear, your love, your care, etc.), you are helping another learn more about you, be able to care for you, and believe that you will reciprocate the attention that they bestow upon you.
Beyond receiving anything in return, giving also promotes cooperation, strengthens bonds, boosts feelings of gratitude, and is just downright good for your health., In order to receive help, you need to trust the other person and to trust that you're worthy of help (self-respect). This might be the hardest part but it is absolutely vital. Wholesome, accepting, self-assured trust is capable of absorbing rejection, attracting genuine help, and will easily detect the occasional exploitative person. Choosing to trust requires that you:


modify your expectations - remember that people are only human and they have both good and bad traits (so do you!)recognize that disappointment, fear, abandonment, and rejection are possible in all relationships
find yourself worthy and capable of making wise decisions and being around decent people, A problem is a problem, whatever its ease or difficulty. The litmus test is how much it is impacting you negatively and preventing you from moving forward. Belittling your problem as not worthy of being solved only serves to make it even more challenging to cope with.
 If you need help to do that, really don't be afraid to ask for it.

