 In yoga practice, you may hear reclining shin hugs referred to as reclining knee-to-chest pose. This is an easy way to start releasing tension in your back and opening up your hips without having to worry about balance.Get into this pose by lying on the floor on your back with your arms and legs extended straight out. On an exhale, bend your right knee towards your chest and clasp your hands around your shin. Squeeze your knee into your chest as you complete your exhale.
On an inhale, lower your right leg. Raise your left knee toward your chest as you exhale and repeat the same exercise for one repetition. Complete 10 to 20 repetitions, following your breath with a breath between each movement.;
, A seated shin hug opens up your hips and stretch your glutes almost as much as a standing shin hug, but provides your body with more stability since you don't have to worry about balance.Come to a comfortable seat in a cross-legged position. Lift your left shin so that it's angled across your body, hugging your knee in your elbow.
Press your left shin into your chest. If you can, you can rest your left foot above your right elbow. Breathe deeply, maintaining a neutral back. You shouldn't be hunched over your leg, nor should your shoulders be crunched.
Hold the pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then release and repeat with your right leg.
 For standing shin hugs, you need to be able to balance on one leg without leaning or shifting your weight around too much. If you can't stand on one leg without wobbling, find a sturdy chair or table to lean against so you get the full benefit of this exercise.Stand on your mat with your weight distributed evenly across all four corners of your feet. Your back and shoulders should be neutral, not hunched over. Breathe deeply and connect to your breath as you shift your weight to the right side without leaning toward that side.
On an exhale, lift your left leg and bend your knee toward your chest. Bring your arms around to hug your shin, squeezing your knee closer to your chest as you exhale.
On an inhale, lower your left leg back to the ground and square your weight back at center. Shift your weight to your left side and complete the pose with your right leg. You can repeat 10 to 20 times with a breath for each movement.
 Moving shin hugs not only stretch your leg muscles and open your hips, they also build muscular endurance. Before you attempt moving shin hugs, make sure you're doing standing shin hugs with proper form.Lift your starting knee up into a shin hug, then squat back and down with your left leg. Take care to keep your knee from pushing out over your toes. As you do this, pull your knee as close to your chest as you can. Then drop the leg down in a controlled movement.
Step forward and repeat a shin hug on the other side. Then you'll step forward with that leg and repeat. Do 10 to 20 repetitions of this exercise with a movement for each breath. Moving shin hugs are a dynamic stretch, meant to be done with continual movement.

