 Why do you want to be God? What is your purpose? What is your resolve? If you can't do this then don't bother.;
, If you want to achieve power among the masses, you must at least have some sort of special intelligence or ability. Be a brilliant tactician/strategist, strive to be a resourceful and competent leader. If possible, get an IQ higher than 120.
 Either be a sociopath and wipe out all those who you believe to be unworthy to live in this world, or be a type of leader who lets everyone be themselves with equal footing all around.
 As much as being God of a new world, you're still human. There's a 100% chance that others will gang up on you to try to defeat you so allies are a must. But choose carefully, don't choose a complete idiot as they will become useless and don't ally yourself with a mind more powerful than you, as this will surely backfire in the future.
 Every conqueror will gain enemies, so strive your best to learn how to build, manage, rule and fight with an army of your own. Master the basic skill of psychological warfare: Learn your enemy's weakness and learn to exploit that weakness. Again, be, as much as you can, a brilliant tactician/strategist as this will help in eventual future skirmishes.
 What kind of conqueror are you if you don't have funds? You're only human so you can't possibly make money just by imagining it. Invest in stocks, save money, etc. Do whatever it takes to get money... as an old saying does go, "Money makes the world go round."

, At times, your last resort would be to lie. To achieve your goals you must do everything necessary to get them. That includes elimination of your own men, etc.
 The second hardest to pull off, as you must eradicate any type of threat in your way. Be it a political leader, enthusiast, or just someone whom you feel as a threat, especially those who're smarter and better than you. Think two steps ahead of your opponents consider it just like a game of chess.
 Finally, the hardest task to pull off, keep your head in the game. Don't lose it. Don't have pathetic delusions of being a god when you're not even close to being a government lapdog. There's a 100% guarantee that most times you will think of giving up. Don't. When you ever feel that you're losing it, overcome it. Note that some consider this optional.
 This is vital to developing true deity.
 If you feel it's time to dominate and attack, then trust your instincts. Go for the win, never look back and win the war. Be the new God of your new world.

