 Even an expired card can be used to open up a new account or re-open a closed account.
 If you see glue, scuff marks, or other signs of tampering on the key pad or around the place where you insert your card, use a different machine.


Thieves attach devices called skimmers to take debit and credit card information. Although this is less likely in a high-traffic location, always take a few moments to look at a machine before you use it., Open wi-fi connections make it easy for hackers to steal your data, as well as anyone who happens to be looking over your shoulder.


Wait to do your online banking until you are at home or have a secure wireless connection and some privacy.Change your passwords regularly and use complex combinations to better secure all your financial accounts., If you have a PIN for cash advances, memorize it rather than writing it down.
 When you open a new account, write down the account number, passwords, PIN, or any other important information on a single document along with the website or phone number for reporting theft.


Update your document as needed and put it in a safe or other secure location along with other important identity documents such as your birth certificate and Social Security card.Don't write down account numbers, or print anything with your account number on it, and leave it lying around in plain sight. Keep all your paper records locked away and your digital records protected by passwords.You also could make copies of the front and back of your cards and keep those in a safe place so you have all identifying information about the account handy., If you made the phone call, you know who you're dealing with – otherwise, the caller may be misrepresenting himself so he can get your account number and use it., After you've finished reviewing your account statement, shredding the document will prevent people from getting information off of it that they could use to open a new account.
 Verifying amounts for each transaction helps you ensure that no fraudulent activity is occurring, and enables you to act quickly if you find something amiss.


Open your bills or check your account online at least once a month and reconcile your accounts with your receipts.If you find a questionable charge, call your credit card company immediately. Federal law gives you 60 days after the date the first bill was mailed to you with the questionable transaction to notify the credit card company. The credit card company must resolve the issue within two billing cycles.While a potentially fraudulent transaction is being investigated, your credit card company cannot restrict or close your account, report you as delinquent, or harm your credit rating.