 Garter snakes are known for their unique stripe pattern. Make sure you know what a garter snake looks like so you don’t accidentally encounter a deadly snake.Garter snakes come in many different colors. They often blend into their environment, but can be red, green, black, yellow, or many other colors.
These snakes can be best identified by three long stripes down their body. One stripe goes down the center of the back, while two others are on the side of their body. However, some garter snakes have no stripes, so pay attention to the specific species in your area.
Garter snakes are usually between 25 and 30 inches, but some can grow as long as 5 feet. They can also be lean or stout in appearance.
If you’re not sure if a snake is a garter or not, avoid it, especially if you live somewhere with venomous snakes. You don’t want to be accidentally bitten by a dangerous snake.;
, They are cold-blooded creatures, so they are not likely to be visible during the evening. However, during the day they will bask in the sun to regulate their body temperature.March to April is the most likely time to catch your first sighting of a garter snake. They usually will not emerge earlier so they can avoid a late frost.
In early spring, garter snakes only emerge very briefly from hibernation. It may be harder to find them, since they don’t leave very often or for very long periods of time.
Garter snakes bask during the day, which means they find a location to soak up the sun. These locations are also likely to have a place where garter snakes can quickly hide like rocks, bushes, or animal burrows.
When it's cooler outside, such as the early morning or early evening, garter snakes will likely be searching for prey. During these times, you won't find them exposed in the open, so they may be harder to find., If you live near water, you may find garter snakes nearby if they eat fish. However, if you do not live near water, garter snakes are more likely found in areas where amphibians and earthworms are likely to be.


Garter snakes eat fish as one of their primary food sources. Look for them near water, especially during times when fish are highly visible in your area.
Amphibians are also a food source for garter snakes. They eat animals like small frogs or toads. These should be especially visible after it rains.
Garter snakes also eat earthworms. Look for them in areas with a lot of dirt and soil.
 Gartner snakes hibernate during the winter months. When not hibernating, look for snakes to live in dark, secluded areas during the evening and out in the sun during the day.During hibernation, garter snakes occupy large, communal sites called hibernacula. These areas will likely be secluded spots that stay relatively warm during the cold winter months.
Most garter snakes hide or live in dark places during the spring and summer when they are not basking.
Check for garter snakes in fields, tall grass, under leaves, and logs. They prefer to be close to the ground and camouflaged in the grass.
During the winter, you may also find garter snakes holed up in your basement or attic. If this is the case, you can either keep it until the spring or dispose of the garter snake outside, which will likely kill it.