 How you should care for your mice will depend on how long your trip is. If you are only leaving home for a day or two, leave an extra bowl of food and fill your mouse’s water dish or bottle with a fresh supply. Since mice can dehydrate quickly, it's a good idea to also put in a backup water bottle.The amount of food you need to leave depends on how many mice you have. If you have more than one, leave two extra food bowls, especially if one mouse tends to eat more than the other.;
, If you are leaving for an extended amount of time, you’ll need to find somebody to feed your mice. You can either ask a trusted friend to come feed your mice or hire a pet sitter.If you decide to ask a friend to watch your mice, make sure their schedule will allow them to come at least once every two days to check on your mice.Hiring a sitter is costly but ensures that your mice will be taken care of in your absence. Be sure to check references and have your sitter come over and handle the mice in front of you first to make sure it’s a good fit.You can also hire a house sitter to live in your house while you’re away. A house sitter will not only take care of your mouse, but also keep your house clean and safe while you’re gone.Like people, mice get lonely. The females especially love the company of their owners. Try to find someone who is available to check in on your pet daily to prevent your mouse from becoming too lonesome., Tell whoever is watching your mice exactly what they need to do. This includes information on how many times a day your mice need to be fed, what kind of food they eat, what kind of treats (especially fruits and veggies) can be given, how to catch them if they escape, and how often to clean the cage.Be certain that your caregiver knows what kinds of foods are toxic to mice, such as chocolate, peanuts, acidic fruits and vegetables, and raw meat.Type up the information and leave it in an obvious spot next to the cage just in case your caregiver forgets.
 Mice are intelligent animals that need stimulation and exercise. If you tend to handle and play with your mouse, it’s a good idea to buy them a new toy before you leave so that they don’t become bored.Mice need to chew. Their teeth are constantly growing and need to be worn down. Make sure that they have sufficient chew toys to last the course of your trip to maintain the mice’s dental hygiene.