 Call or write a letter to your state representative or congressperson. Learn about lobbying efforts from your local humane society or from the US Human Society.Both local and national human societies or SPCA can give you talking points and help you schedule a meeting with local politicians.Consider getting people to sign a petition to bring with you when you meet with your local representative, especially if your state or city doesn’t regulate commercial dog breeders.
If you meet with your city officials, such as your mayor or city council, ask them about passing local ordinances that regulate breeding or stores from sourcing from inhumane breeders.Make sure you’re registered to vote and research local candidates running for office to find out if they have gone on record about animal rights.
 Humane, no-kill shelters are a great alternative to puppy mills and pet stores that source from them. Encourage your community to adopt from these shelters rather than shop at a pet store. Find a local a no-kill animal shelter and stage a benefit for them. Organize a shelter drive, and collect both monetary donations and items that will be useful to the shelter.

Useful items include toys, toys, beds, blankets, leashes, collars, food, and treats.
Start your own spare change jar, putting your change in the jar at the end of each day. When it’s full, donate it your local no-kill shelter to donate.
Always encourage your community members to adopt from and donate resources to no-kill shelters., Rally your friends and family, neighbors, and other community members to gather near a pet store that you’re boycotting. Make signs and flyers to educate the public about why you’re organizing the boycott.The most important part of organizing a demonstration is to make sure you’re obeying the law. Call your local police department to see if you need a special permit or anything else in order to comply with local ordinances.
Be sure that everyone stands on public sidewalks, doesn’t block streets, or otherwise interfere with private property or public thoroughfares. Contact local authorities for more information about your city’s specific codes.
Make sure you demonstrate at stores for which you have documented proof that they source puppies from inhumane mills.
If you organize a demonstration, make sure that the people you gather are knowledgeable, peaceful, and can interact with the public in a polite and informative way. Make sure you meet beforehand so everyone stays on message.
 Visiting a local school can be an option if you’re in a leadership or credible position, such as a district leader of your humane society. If you’re in such a position, then contact your city’s school board or the administrative staff of nearby private schools about any available opportunities.

Hand out literature that addresses puppy mills using language and images appropriate for the age group you’re addressing.
Explain what a boycott is and tell them why they should have a talk with their parents about where their family buys pet supplies.
Encourage students to tell their family and friends about puppy mills and your boycott.

