 As soon as you recognize you are having a migraine, take your medication.Lie down in a dark room after you take your medicine to potentially improve your migraine symptoms more.
 If your migraine is mild try aspirin, or ibuprofen products like Advil or Motrin; for some people, acetaminophen (Tylenol) helps, as well. For moderate migraine pain, try an OTC medication marketed for migraine headaches, such as Excedrin Migraine which contains aspirin, acetaminophen, and a small amount of caffeine.Talk to your doctor before taking any medications. Long-term or overuse of some OTC pain medicines (non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, or NSAIDs) can cause stomach bleeding, ulcers, and other problems.
Always follow the dosing instructions on the packaging.
 Indomethacin (Indocin or Tivorbex) is an NSAID like aspirin and ibuprofen; however, it is available in suppository form (instead of swallowing a pill, you place it in your rectum). This may be helpful if you experience severe nausea or vomiting when you have a migraine. See your doctor and ask about getting a prescription., Triptans like sumatriptan (Imitrex) and zolmitriptan (Zomig) are by prescription to take when you have a migraine. Triptans help migraine pain by blocking pain pathways in the brain and constricting blood vessels, and can be taken as a pill, nose spray, or injection.Your doctor can prescribe these medications if you have severe or frequent migraines.


You shouldn’t take triptans if you’ve had a heart attack or stroke.Taking triptans and SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors) or SNRIs (serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors) together may cause a serious medical problem called serotonin syndrome.If you take an antidepressant like Zoloft or Cymbalta, talk to your doctor about taking triptans. It’s possible to take the two together if you know what symptoms to look out for, but your doctor may want to prescribe you something different.
The medication Treximet combines two different pain relievers called sumatriptan and Naproxen, and seems to be very effective., Also by prescription, ergot medications seem to be somewhat less effective than triptans, but are good if your migraines last over 2 days.Ergotamine is the usual choice, though it can worsen nausea for some people. It’s usually combined with some caffeine, like in the medicines Migergot and Cafergot. Migranal is a similar medicine with fewer side effects available as a nasal spray or injection.Take your ergot medication as soon as possible after your migraine symptoms start to improve its efficacy.
 Ask your doctor about anti-nausea medications if nausea and vomiting are frequent migraine symptoms for you. Chlorpromazine, metoclopramide (Reglan), and prochlorperazine are often prescribed., Opioid medications are sometimes used to treat severely painful migraines, but because they contain narcotics they can be dangerously habit-forming and are only used if nothing else works. Your doctor might give you glucocorticoids like prednisone or dexamethasone in combination with other medication to improve pain relief, but these aren’t good to use often because of the side effects.Opioids are prescribed as little as possible because they can be addictive or easily abused, and you have to slowly wean off of them. Steroid medicines also must be stopped gradually, not all at once.

