 It’s definitely possible to sell a car that you’re still making payments on, it’s just a little more complicated than selling one you have the title to. Before you even list the car, make sure that you know how much you owe on it, because it’s going to determine what price you charge.You can find this information on your monthly loan statement or by calling up your lender.
 Next, find the value of your car from a trusted, reputable source. The Kelley Blue Book is the gold standard, but Edmunds and NADA are also excellent. Collect the make, model and year of your vehicle (or just the VIN), and enter them into one of the appraisal programs.If you owe less than the car is worth, it gives you a little more flexibility in setting and accepting a price. It certainly makes for an easier sell. Anything from the car’s stated value (or more) to the amount of your loan is an acceptable sale price.
If you owe more than it’s worth, selling the car is going to be more difficult. You can’t take anything significantly less than the amount of your loan. What’s more, trading it in isn’t a viable option. If you’re already behind on payments, the terms you’ll get on an underwater trade-in are likely to be severe.
 You should do whatever you can do to make your car seem more attractive. Get the car detailed, put down new floor mats, touch up any scratches and pull out any dents.If you’re behind on payments, then you need to sell the car fast. Don’t let any variable you can control stand in the way of a quick sale at the price you need.
If you owe more than the car is worth, get creative. Throw in other assets like guns, tools, or even recreational vehicles in with the purchase price of the car. Better to part with another piece of property than have a repossession on your credit history.
 Meet for the transaction at the lender's office (like a bank branch). Instead of only making one check out to you, the purchaser should write a check to the lender for the remainder of your loan, and another check directly to you for any excess.Don’t take a personal check. Your bank will probably insist on it, but only accept cash or cashier’s check.
If your lender is out of state, it will be a little more complicated to sell your car. You will contact the lender and notify them of the sale just like you would with a local lender. The buyer pays the lender just as they would with a local lender.
 When the buyer submits payment to the lender, the lender will relinquish the title. Contact them to make sure that the payment has been received and is satisfactory.
 Technically, the title cannot be transferred without the lien holder's agreement. In practice, however, they usually occur simultaneously. For an in-person transaction where you pay an in-state lender, you will simply hand the title to the buyer.


For an out of state lender, you’ll go to a local DMV instead. The lender notifies the DMV of the imminent change in title, and the DMV issues the buyer a temporary tag or temporary permit until the new title arrives.