 Spread the shirt face-down on a flat, clean surface. Smooth out any wrinkles. Let the arms of the shirt lay naturally extended. If the shirt features buttons or a zipper: button all buttons, and zip the zipper shut completely before you begin folding. 








If the shirt has a hood: fold this bit down first. Lay the hood down flat against the back of the shirt before folding the sleeves inward.
Try placing a clean, crisp magazine on the back of the shirt as a guide for a neater fold. Squarely center the magazine right below the collar. Then, make your folds in line with the edges of the magazine.;
, First, pinch the top of the shirt on either side of the collar. Hold the fabric tight so that you don't create any unwanted creases. Then, take the sleeve on the same side that you're holding the collar. Fold the sleeve and any extra fabric across the center crease of the shirt. Make a straight line from top to bottom on the folded side.
 Repeat the fold for the sleeve that you haven't creased yet. For the sake of presentation, try to make the second fold symmetrical with the first. Don't be afraid to adjust the sleeves a bit so that they match one another.
 The edge of the shirt should extend almost exactly halfway across the back of the shirt. Firmly crease the edge so that it forms a perfect vertical line down the back of the garment.









If the shirt has long sleeves: fold them back in on themselves so that they run lengthwise down the back of the shirt.
If the shirt has short sleeves: fold them so that they fit neatly and symmetrically into the back of the shirt.
 Fold the other edge of the shirt over to meet the first edge in the middle of the back. Make sure that the two edges run parallel, and that they do not overlap.









If you are using a magazine to make the fold more precise: fold each side of the shirt until it hits the magazine. Simply fold the shirt to the width of a magazine.
 Fold up the bottom edge of the shirt so that it meets the top of the shoulders. Let the edge rest just below the collar. Smooth out any creases, and make sure that the fold is symmetrically all the way across the width of the shirt.
 Make sure that all the edges are straight and crisp. Smooth out any creases or wrinkles in the fabric, and check that the shirt is ready for sale. In department stores, the shirt is always displayed with the front facing up. 








If you are folding your shirt for convenient home storage, then it is doesn't matter so much which way you display the garment. It may still be convenient to keep your shirts front-side up so that you can easily tell which is which.

