 When casting for House Hunters, Pie Town looks for individuals who are energetic, passionate, fun, and have great stories to tell about house hunting. Production looks specifically for individuals and situations that most viewers would consider interesting and entertaining.
 Every person is different, so showcase what it is that makes you unique. Keep in mind that whatever you do disclose may be aired publicly, so don’t reveal things you’d be embarrassed about showing on TV. But do reveal the positive features about you or your family that set you apart from everyone else.If you want a special item in the new house that most people don’t have, tell producers about it in your application. For instance, you or your client may have a unique hobby that can be incorporated into the style of the new home. Or, you may want a giant slide instead of a staircase. Think outside the box, and keep in mind that the feature should be something you (or your client) would be happy to live with.
If you have an odd phobia or flaw that you don’t mind exposing, it may actually better your chances of being cast for the show., Although you do want to show fun and interesting characteristics of your family, you don’t want to come across as fake or trying too hard. Avoid gimmicks. You want to display your uniqueness without going overboard, and while remaining true to yourself.


For instance, imagine that the experience is a movie trailer featuring your life. What are the best highlights about you, that people would find fascinating?, If you land a phone interview and/or casting video, show high energy and make sure that you’re enjoying yourself. If you’re truly having fun, it will show! Make sure that you keep your energy up throughout rather than turning it on and off. You may be watched in the waiting room without knowing it!, Ensure that your phone will accept incoming calls from private or blocked numbers. People have missed out on casting opportunities for reality shows because they were hard to get in touch with., Watch House Hunters and other reality shows and pay close attention to certain features. For instance, the way characters develop on the show, and the stories that are told through those characters. This will give you a good idea of what types of behavior and communication styles are desirable to producers.