 Wear fitted tops that flare around the hips to slim your waist. Similarly, wear shirts that cinch in just below your bust or wear a belt your waist. If you’re wearing a jacket, button a few buttons in the middle. Avoid billowing clothing that will erase your hourglass shape.Choose darker shades over lighter shades. Darker shades are generally more slimming in photographs.
Wear similar shades of clothing on your top and bottom., Wear clothes that fit well. Your shirt sleeves should come to your wrists and your pants should stop at the top of your heel. Never wear oversized clothing. You should especially avoid clothes that are baggy and wrinkly. Avoid complicated patterns on your clothing and choose darker colors over lighter colors.


If you have trouble finding clothes that fit, talk to a tailor. Small adjustments on clothing are usually around $10-$20.If you need help picking out clothing talk to an associate at a upscale men’s department store. They will usually have good advice about what to wear.
 Take time to style your hair to perfection. If you’re a woman with longer hair, curl it to give it volume and slim your face. If you’re a woman have shorter hair, style it with volume on top for a similar effect. Next, apply your favorite makeup. Not only will you look good in photos, you’ll also get a huge confidence boost.Men should comb their hair neatly and trim their facial hair. Make sure your face is clean as well.


If you have a masculine haircut and you’re not sure how to style it, go to your local barbershop. They’ll give you a trim and teach you how to style your hair.
Watch makeup tutorials online to perfect your look.
 A genuine smile looks beautiful in pictures. However, some people have trouble finding a genuine smile while waiting to be photographed. If so, laugh quietly and squint your eyes slightly. This will help your smile look genuine even when it isn’t.Think of a happy memory while smiling. This will help your smile reach your eyes.
Practice your smile in the mirror to see what you’ll look like in pictures.

