 Your toddler might have paronychia if you notice redness, swelling, or the formation of an abscess around one of her nails. This is a bacterial infection. It’s usually not serious, but observe it closely so that it heals it good time.Infections in and around the nails will most often heal on their own. However, you can soak the infected finger in warm salt water a few times per day. This will promote healing.
Use warm water, not hot water. Test the water before using it on your toddler.
 Keep a close eye on nail infections and take your toddler to see a doctor if you notice the infection start to spread. Also be aware of small pus-filled blisters that form in the center of the infection. These are abscesses and may need to be drained.A doctor can treat an infection with antibiotics and, possibly, by draining pus from the finger. Don’t try to treat or lance abscesses by yourself, as this can cause complications and worsen the infection.
 An avulsion is when a finger or toe nail gets partially or totally separated from its normal position, usually from injury. A child might accidentally snag a toe nail on carpeting or slam a finger nail in a car door, for example. This sort of situation may need emergency medical care, especially if there’s damage to the nail bed.Take your toddler to a doctor or to a medical center for care. She may need to get stitches or the doctor may need to remove the nail, put it back in place, or repair the nail bed.Stay on top of follow-up care and make sure that you bring your child to all appointments. Be ready to call the doctor again if she is having problems.
 A finger with an avulsed nail may be sore for a few days after the injury. It may take several days for the wound to completely heal and longer for a nail to grow back – 6 months for a finger nail and maybe 12 to 18 months for a toe nail. Treating the wound well at home will help to speed up this healing process.At home, try to keep the injured area elevated on a pillow whenever the child lies down for the next three days. This will reduce swelling.
 Your doctor will likely have instructions for how you should handle any bandages and pain relievers after an avulsion. Follow these as closely as you can and always give medicines exactly as directed.Leave the child’s bandage on and, if she got stitches, don’t let the area get wet. Cover the affected hand or foot with a plastic bag when she bathes.
In general, you should remove the bandage and gently clean the wound two times per day after the first 24 to 48 hours. You can apply a thin layer of Vaseline or petroleum jelly to the wound and cover with a non-stick bandage. Replace as necessary.
Follow your doctor’s order for medication. Do not give your child two or more pain medications at once unless the doctor has explicitly directed it. Never give anyone under age 20 aspirin, either, as it has been linked to a serious inflammation of the liver and brain, or Rye’s syndrome, in children and adolescents.

