 This is very important; if you start drawing then try to change from boy to girl, your girl would look very masculine or vice versa. In some cases, though, that is intentional. While designing, also keep in mind that some characters may be physically female or physically male but prefer different pronouns or identify as a different gender.;
, What era are they from? The 1600s, 3059? The era your character is from will play a big part in the clothing and behavior. Also, what is their personality? Is she a goth chic? Is he a rich kid? A hero/heroine? This will be very helpful if you decide early on.
 "Clothes don't make the man" - yeah right! Whoever said that must have never designed a character. A more fitting quote would be, in the words of Mark Twain, "Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society." For this step you may want to use some clothing/ accessories magazines, or do some research online. For goth or emo characters, Hot Topic is good. For cutesy or bubbly, Modes4u.com or asiajam.com are fine. Really, though, you could use any magazine or website you want. You could also search by keyword. For example: if you wanted a maid character you could search "maid uniforms" in your search engine. Got a creative flair? Try designing your own outfits. Always sketch the outfits on a different piece of paper before actually putting it on you character.
 Here we are. All the prep work is done, and it's time to start drawing. This is where their personality comes into play. Here you will decide what pose to put him/her in. She could be licking a lollipop, or he could be holding a giant machine gun. She could be in her bikini laying on the beach. The possibilities are endless. But chances are if you have a goth or emo character, they won't be licking a lollipop or skipping in a field of daisies. So you may want to search up key words like "emo poses", "aegyo poses", you get the idea. You could always make up your own pose, but be sure to sketch it on another piece of paper to see what it would look like before deciding on it.
 Here's some advice. Layering clothes is always good. It gives that unique look. Basic clothes like a T-shirt and jeans would be good for a modest or introverted character who doesn't like to stand out, while vibrantly-colored or oddly-patterned clothes would be best for an excitable or flamboyant character. You could also consider certain unusual styles like steampunk, goth lolita, or Visual Kei instead of the typical goth or emo styles.
 You've finished designing your character! Don't forget to finish off their profile.

