 Perhaps this is the biggest secret but really, it's the clincher. The best way to impress a girl is to not set out to impress her. Now you might be wondering how this really works. The issue at heart is that when most guys try to impress girls, they tend to become less authentic and when this happens, they can try to show off with almost anything and everything. Girls are not impressed by such tactics and tend to end up putting you in the "show off" category, unimpressed by the antics and bravado. The best way to impress a girl is to be yourself, let things happen automatically and keep the show pony antics for your mates.;
, If you thought that girls are impressed by money and material things all the time, then you are mistaken. The best way to impress a girl and retain your status is by the way of natural talents which involve the way you talk and present yourself. You need girls to respect you for who you are.


If the girl is impressed by your money, then she is probably looking for money and not you, so that's a good telltale sign to back off.
 Don't talk to her with the quest to impress rather try to do what you normally do. One of the best aspects which almost every girl demands and gets impressed by is intellectuality. Try to develop your intellectual skills. This can be done by the way to reading books, quality online articles and being up-to-date with the latest happenings. Remember that being a good talker is the foundation of impressing almost any girl.


Have something which is different from the rest. Girls normally get hit on by several men every day and almost all those men try to impress them with all they’ve got. If you are doing and following the same tactics as all those men, then you won't succeed in your quest to impress girls.
 Avoid being erotic or crass, that just scares girls off. Make it clear that you like her.


If she is insecure, anything you do to to get her attention must be positive and slow. When you take your time, it shows her that you care enough to take it slowly.
 The way to melt a girl's heart is to show kindness and to be considerate of her needs. Notice the person she really is and compliment that, not her looks, clothes or "hotness". Actually show that you care about her by noticing her personality, intelligence, style and creativity.

Tell her she is pretty with no makeup and sweats with her hair in a messy bun or ponytail.
Compliment her on the care she has taken to present herself; she will feel appreciated when it's noticed.






Buy her a gift, like chocolate; it doesn't have to be special or expensive, it's the obviousness that you were thinking about her in your free time that makes her blush.
If she is cold, or just for fun, give her your sweatshirt or coat––it has your smell and she will like to wear it.
 There's nothing a girl likes more than being talked to by guys, even if there is an age difference.


Hold actual conversations with the girl and talk about the things that matter to both of you, but let her do more of the talking to begin with, to allow you to learn about her.
Don't tell tall stories to try to impress her. She'll see through it and you'll come across looking daft.
 Girls really want someone who will not let them down and who is a promise-keeper. If you can't do something you said you'd do, tell her the truth, don't make up stories.


Girls love a guy who cares about her, and who won't make fun of her if she's in a bad situation.
 Be playful in a fun and kind way. Also be wary of the following:


Don't make her feel awkward when she is with you.






Don't be a jerk. Girls hate it when you try to get their attention by putting other people off or making a bad comment about what someone looks like.
Don't be a horndog and make comments about "doin' it" with her; that's an immediate turnoff. Don't pressure her to do anything she doesn't don't want to do with you.
Don't brag about what you've done in intimacy with her to your mates. That's a code breaker and potentially a relationship breaker too.
 Call or contact her at least once a day when you see her, and twice when you don't. It helps her to feel special.

