 Remove things like bones, corncobs, seeds, and peelings, etc. Anything thick and caked on should be removed, but even smaller particles, like grains of rice, may or may not come off in your dishwasher. While you don't want to wash your dishes, wiping off with a dirty fork or napkin will lead to much better results later.


Pre-rinse, but only if it is necessary. Most dishwashers and dishwasher detergents actually do a better job if they have something to remove. If your dishes aren't coming out clean, though, it might be best to use a quick spritz of water before the food hardens onto the dishes.
 Proteins such as eggs and cheese; cooked- or baked-on foods; and starches that have dried onto the dish often require extra attention. A light pre-wash and scrub can make your dishwasher much more effective. You could also soak the plates in the sink before starting the dishwasher.
 This will help to reduce water spots, especially if you have hard water. The rinse aid may not need refilling every time you run the dishwasher, but do top it off every couple of weeks to a month, or according to the instruction manual.


You can replace commercial rinse aid with white vinegar in a pinch, with little difference in quality.
Some dishwasher detergent has rinse aid in it. Read the label.
If you have a water softener, or if your water is reasonably soft to begin with, you may find that rinse aid is unnecessary.
 Dishwashers often drain into the same pipe as the sink, so it's important that the pipe is clear. If you don't have a garbage disposal, use a strainer in the sink drain to stop crumbs and debris from accumulating in the pipe.
 Modern dishwashing detergent actually eliminated dangerous phosphates, replacing them with enzymes that react at any water temperature. This saves you energy and money.
 Dishwashers can heat up the water somewhat, but they usually work best when the water starts hot. If water is scarce, run the water into a container and use it to water plants or other purposes.
 You should never be stacking things, or forcing everything into weird angles. Load the dishwasher up so that it is snugly packed, but not terribly crowded. Note any issues if you end up with a "bad wash." Did you overcrowd the trays and prevent anything from getting the best clean?

