 Are you just a casual hobbyist or a fanatic? For example, you should reconsider buying a ukulele for $1000 if you're just playing the ukulele as a casual hobby, or if you have zero musical background. Remember, you could just upgrade to a higher quality ukulele (aka more expensive) once you've mastered the basics.;
, There are four main types of ukuleles: soprano, concert (or alto), tenor, and baritone.



Soprano is the original, most common and smallest type of ukuleles, perfect for traveling. They have the jangly, light sound commonly associated with ukuleles. People with larger hands or fingers might have difficulties playing the soprano ukulele, as the frets are closer together. The strings also have less tension, so you might find it easy to accidentally bend a string out of tune.

Despite that, this type of ukulele is the best for the beginner uke player, as it's the cheapest compared to other types, and you can carry it anywhere. There are certain sopranos that come with longer neck, which allows you to reach higher notes, but those are not so common.



Concert (or alto) ukuleles are a bit bigger than the soprano, so they have a deeper and a fuller sound than the soprano ones. As all the next uke sizes, it has a longer neck, and more frets as a result. This type of ukulele is easier to play for people with larger hands.
The Tenor ukulele is a little bigger than the concert, and the overall sound and tone is even fuller than its smaller siblings. It's great for performers.

Baritone ukuleles are the biggest of the ukes. They have the deepest sound, compared to the others, and while you can still strum a baritone ukulele like any other ukulele, you’re going to really lose that bright crisp sound that you’d get with soprano. It sounds more like a guitar. Great for blues players and anyone who prefers that deeper and fuller sound.
 Each wood has its special characteristics that affect the sound.


Mahogany - one of the most common woods in ukulele making, it has a reasonable grain finish providing good looks, but provides a good balance between the bright treble sounds the ukulele is famous for, whilst beefing up the bass. Also projects sound well and with good volume. Often used for necks only.
Koa - the best-known hardwood of the Hawaiian Islands. Acacia koa is a native forest tree, unique to Hawaii, and held in reverence. The wood is beautiful to look at with amazing grains (particularly the curly variety), very sweet sounding and warm. Loud, rich in sound, and used in the finest (and most expensive) ukuleles.
Cedar - a common, reddish soft wood often used in acoustic guitars, has a plain finish and provides a very warm sound, evenly distributed amongst the strings.
Spruce - very common, pale yellow wood used in guitar manufacture. Now seen on many cheaper ukuleles on the top only (usually with rosewood or mahogany backs and sides). It is a tough wood that makes for excellent strong soundboards and the Sitka variety is characterized by a very bright and rich tone, with less of the bass rounding that Mahogany provides.They are also very loud woods. Engelmann spruce is a slightly more mellow version which is often used in classical instruments.
Maple - good density and resistant, very treble, comes in many types. A hard, resilient wood that is often chosen for its dramatic looks, particularly flamed or spalted woods that are stunning to look at. It provides a very bright tone on the ukulele.
Mango - beautiful looking, orange wood with beautiful grain, that is used increasingly as a more sustainable wood choice (as Mango is a fruit tree, the wood is harvested after the tree is no longer efficiently producing fruit, and is then replanted). Mango provides a warm yet bright tone, similar to walnut.
 Ask for brand recommendations, and learn from them, whether they're experienced professionals or casual players. Find out which brands has the best sounding ukuleles, yet won't drill a hole in your wallet.


If you can't find a group near your area, you can find plenty of articles and forum discussions on the web.
 The store should have a variety choices of brands, types, and pricing of the ukulele. Ask your ukulele playing friends if they know of a good store near you.
 Hear the difference between the uke sizes. Once you figured the desirable size, pick a couple of instruments of different brands and examine them. Is it too shrill for your preference? Are the frets too close together? Look at the distance between the strings and the neck. It shouldn't be too big or too small. This distance affects the amount of pressure you'll have to apply when fretting chords.
 Try Am, C, G, D, F. Choosing may be difficult, but your heart will tell you which one is right for you. Once you feel that the sound of the uke resonates with your inner sense of beauty, you found your instrument!

,