 If you have severe allergies and the symptoms are becoming more than you can handle, you might consider seeing a medical professional about the issue. For example, while some symptoms like red, itchy eyes may not be alarming to some, other symptoms like headaches can cause some severe discomfort. Severe allergies have also been known to cause migraines. Proper assessment for any condition is crucial, so do your due diligence on finding the right resources.


One place to start is doing the WebMD allergy assessment, which can be found here: http://www.webmd.com/allergies/allergies-assessment/default.htm.
If your symptoms become unbearable, a visit to your doctor is in order. They can help diagnose the allergy as well as design a treatment plan.
 Taking medication may be the last resort for some. However, if you do need medication, there are several options available. Several over-the-counter drugs help. For example, you might try using an antihistamine, like Benadryl, to provide relief from itchy, watery eyes, or a decongestant, like Vicks Sinex, to unclog a stuffy nose. Also available are nasal steroids that can help reduce swelling in the nasal cavity.Double-check with your doctor prior to taking any medications.
 This treatment involves receiving allergy shots. Regular, controlled exposure to allergens can help reduce your sensitivity to them. Your doctor can advise you as to whether this is the right course of action for you., Have a skin prick test or a blood test in order to determine that your symptoms are indeed caused by an allergy to dust mites. A skin prick test is done by pricking the skin and exposing the tiny scratch to specific allergens, watching for a physical reaction.


For those who are too sensitive to the skin prick test you can have a blood test done. The blood test also relies on exposure to allergens, but this time each allergen is added to a sample of your blood. The blood is then observed to see how many antibodies it produces as it reacts to the allergen.