 It doesn’t matter who you make eye contact with but try to find a partner in crime. Once you make eye contact you may also throw in a funny face or simple smile. You may also wink at someone you like if you’re feeling frisky.Wasting time is always easier with someone else. It will be fun to see how long you can sustain the interaction and then talk afterwards about the funny faces that you were making.
Watch out that you don’t make eye contact with someone who may tell on you or find it uncomfortable or offensive.
 If you have a large class it may be easy to start a quiet conversation in the back without disturbing the rest of the class. Start your conversation when the teacher isn’t in earshot. Avoid trying to chat with people trying to listen to the teacher. It will be obvious who else wants to waste time with you because her eyes may be wandering.


Say something like “Is it just me or do you find this stuff boring too?”, Use your imagination to create a story about mundane things like the chipped paint on the wall or the cowlick on your classmate’s head. You can also see how many things start with the letter A and move up the alphabet. There is an endless amount of things that you can observe.Let your imagination take you to different trains of thought. Don’t limit yourself if you are begin to get bored with something.
 You may find hidden patterns within the chipped paint on the roof, patterns outside, or find that different shapes create patterns within the carpet. You may also doodle your own patterns in your notebook., Try to spot anyone using their phone and think about what they could be looking at. You may also try to figure out what type of phone each of your classmates may have.You may think about what games your classmates play on their phones and ask them later to see if you’re right. You can make a game of it and keep score whenever you get the answer right.
 You may read notes from another class, your textbook, a novel, or your friend’s notebook. Reading is a good way to waste time because you won’t be disruptive. Try not to snicker or laugh if you read something funny or you may give yourself away.Avoid reading magazines or newspapers because your teacher may be disrespected and discipline you.

