 Remind yourself about the positive traits your dog possesses. For example, it might be super cuddly with its favorite toys. You will likely face setbacks when trying to break through with your dog just stay the course and keep trying to make progress. If you get too frustrated, give yourself a bit of distance from your dog and regain control before interacting again., Spend some time observing your dog’s everyday behaviors. Does it get frightened and turn aggressive during a thunderstorm? Is it afraid to have men approach? It is angry and protective over food? Map out those areas that lead to poor behaviors and try to avoid them. Set your dog up for success.You will be at an even better advantage if you have an idea of your dog’s past. For example, if your dog faced starvation when it was younger, it will likely exhibit food protectiveness. Therefore, feeding times will not be the best times for an initial approach.
Don’t discount the possibility that you may be the cause of the aggression. It is possible that the dog is reacting poorly to your very presence. If this is the case, you should know that it will be tougher to bond with it., Dogs can sense stress and will respond negatively to it. Keep loud distractions in your home to a minimum, such as turning down the TV. Limit large gatherings of people. Keep your house neat and clean without lots of tempting non-dog toys.To make this work, you will want to enlist the aid of anyone living in the household. Work together to be consistent in your interactions with your dog.
 Dogs do best when they have a bit of private territory that they can claim as their own. Place your dog in a crate for a limited part of the day and then leave the crate open and accessible. Put all of your dog’s toys and food and water bowls in one area of the house. Keep this area off-limits for children and other pets.
 It is a common thing for owners to shy away from spending time with aggressive pets. But, that only leaves your dog with excess energy to burn. Instead, take your dog on controlled walks, or spend time lounging in your backyard with no one else around., You can either ask a dog specialist to come to your home or you can arrange to attend a dog obedience class. For dogs with severe aggression (especially towards other dogs), a private session is probably the best option, at least initially. Find a certified dog trainer in your area by searching online or by contacting the American Kennel Club (AKC) in your area.