 Windows Media Center was not included in Windows 8 when it was released, and is only available in the Pro version of Windows 8.1. It is not included in the standard version of 8.1, which means you'll need to upgrade to Pro in order to use Windows Media Center. This is the only legal way to get Windows Media Center on Windows 8.1

, You'll need Windows 8.1 in order to install the Pro Pack or Media Center Pack, which allows you to run Windows Media Center. The upgrade to 8.1 is free, and you can get it from the Windows Store. See How to Download the Free Windows 8.1 Update for detailed instructions on upgrading Windows 8 to 8.1.
 There are two different packs that give Windows 8.1 access to Media Center, and the pack you'll need depends on which version of Windows you have. Press ⊞ Win+Pause to see your version.


Pro Pack ($99) - This updates the standard Home version of Windows 8.1 to Windows 8.1 Pro, and also includes Windows Media Center.
Media Center Pack ($9.99) - This update is for Windows 8.1 Pro users, and adds Windows Media Center to Windows 8.1 Pro.
 You can buy the upgrade pack directly from Microsoft, or you can buy a key from a retailer like Amazon or Best Buy.
 Once you have the key, you can enter it in Windows so that your upgrade can be downloaded and installed.


Press ⊞ Win and type "add features".
Select "Add features to Windows 8.1".
Choose "I already have a product key".
Enter the key into the field.
 After entering the key and accepting the terms, the upgrade files will be downloaded and installed. Your computer will automatically restart once the installation is complete. Once your computer restarts and you receive confirmation that installation is complete, you can launch Windows Media Center from the Start screen., All Windows 8.1 users are being offered a free upgrade to Windows 10, but if you rely on Windows Media Center you may want to avoid the upgrade. Windows Media Center has been discontinued, and is not available on Windows 10. You can use the workaround at the top of this article, but you may not be able to get it to work properly. For now, consider sticking with Windows 8.1.

