 One of the best ways to take care of yourself is to ensure that you are getting plenty of sleep. The quality of your sleep can make a huge difference to how you feel every day. Sleeping gives your brain time to process - you can wake up after a good night's sleep feeling calmer and with a fresh perspective on life. This is why sleeping well is so important when you're trying to get over somebody.


If you're having trouble falling asleep, try to give yourself an hour to wind down before bed. Have a relaxing bubble bath or read a book. Drink a hot cocoa or chamomile tea. Stay away from television and electronics - these will stimulate brain function, rather than slow it down.
After a good night's sleep you will feel refreshed and energized - ready to take on the day. You will also look fresher and more attractive and be able to concentrate better throughout the day.
 It's tempting to just wallow on the couch in self-pity when you're trying to get over someone, but the best possible thing you could do is get some exercise. It doesn't matter what it is - running, dancing, rock-climbing, zumba - they all have the same positive effect. Exercise will release the happy-hormones and make you look and feel amazing!


Just 30 minutes of exercise a few times a week will release the endorphins necessary to create feelings of happiness and euphoria. In fact, studies have shown that exercise can even alleviate symptoms among the clinically depressed.Try exercising outdoors to soak up some fresh air and Vitamin D - you'll feel happier and less stressed instantly!
Exercise will help boost your self-confidence at a time when you probably need it the most. Regardless of weight, size, gender, or age, exercise can quickly elevate a person's perception of his or her attractiveness and self-worth., Meditation helps to relieve stress and allows us to forget about unpleasant feelings or thoughts. Even ten minutes of meditation a day will help alleviate stress. Here are some tips to help you meditate effectively:


Create a calm and peaceful atmosphere. Choose a location where you won't be interrupted. Turn off your phone. Choose music and lighting that you find calming and relaxing.
Set up your props. Yoga mats or cushions can help to make you more comfortable while you meditate. Having a small fountain with running water nearby can be very soothing. Light some candles to scent the air or simply "set the mood."
Wear comfortable clothing. You'll find it hard to relax your mind and forget about the world around you if you're feeling uncomfortable.
Sit in a cross-legged position. Keep your back as straight as possible, don't slump.
Close your eyes and concentrate on your breathing. Breath naturally, preferably through the nostrils.
Attempt to clear your mind of all thoughts, focus solely on your breathing. Gradually your distracting thoughts will subside and you will experience a sense of inner peace and relaxation. , Writing can be amazingly cathartic. Just putting your worries or emotions on paper can make you feel lighter and less burdened. Try keeping a journal, or write a letter to your ex (never to be sent) to help you process your emotions. Reread your words and try to identify what is really bothering you – and what you need from a relationship going forward.


Also try writing a letter to yourself about why the relationship wouldn’t have worked, regardless of who ended it. (Don’t just remember the good times; remember the bad ones, too.)
If you're more creatively inclined, try turning your thoughts and emotions into poetry or song lyrics. Some of the best art has sprung from a broken heart.
 Now is the time to treat yourself. Just do whatever makes you feel good. Organize a girly spa day with your friends. Invite the guys over to watch the game and drink some beer. Eat whatever you want. Get drunk. Bottom line: have fun.

