 The quickest, easiest way to make a pair of boxer or athletic shorts for men is to download a free pattern online.


You can find the pattern used in conjunction with these instructions here: http://www.craftpassion.com/wp-content/uploads/PDF%20Pattern/Boxer%20Short%20Pattern.pdf

As you print the pattern out, set the printer for A4 paper and do not check the "scale printing" box.
Follow the instructions on the pattern to piece everything together. Each corner is labeled with numbers, and you can create the full pattern by matching these numbers together.
Cut the patterns out and tape them together at the appropriate places.
 Place the pattern on the wrong side of the fabric and pin in place.


For added accuracy, use a piece of chalk or sewing pencil to sketch an outline of the pattern onto the wrong side of the fabric after pinning the two items together.
Note that the seam allowance is included in most patterns, included the one provided here.
Fold the lining fabric so that it becomes a double layer. When pinning the waist band lining, pin the pattern with the "fold" marking lined up with this folded edge.
 Cut along the sewing lines until each piece has been cut out.


Use sharp sewing shears for this.
Cut the pieces out in reverse order. In other words, the last piece you need should be the first piece you cut out, and the first piece you need should be the last you cut out. This way, as you stack the pieces together, you will end up with the first piece on top of the stack.
 Pin the pocket pieces onto the correct portions of the shorts pattern as marked on the patter itself. Use a double top stitch to sew the sides and bottom of the pocket in place.


Use an iron to press all four edges of the pocket pieces.
Before pinning the pockets to the shorts fabric, double top stitch the top hem of the pocket. This edge will be the pocket opening.
After doing these two steps, you can pin and sew the back pockets in place as described.
 The method used on the front pockets is the same as that used on the back pockets.


Use an iron to press all four edges of the pocket pieces.
Before pinning the pockets to the shorts fabric, double top stitch the top hem of the pocket. This edge will be the pocket opening.
Pin the pocket pieces onto the correct portions of the shorts pattern as marked on the patter itself.
Use a double top stitch to sew the sides and bottom of the pocket in place.
 Pin the back portions of the shorts fabric together and sew along the crotch portion of the pattern.


Pin the pieces together with the right sides facing each other.
Trim one side of the seam to 3/8-inch (9.5 mm) using sharp sewing shears. Clip curve the bottom of the crotch seam, as well.
Use a flat felled seam to sew the crotch seam up.
 Sew the inseam and the side seams with the right sides of the pieces facing each other.


After sewing the inseam, serge or overlock the raw edge to prevent excess fraying.
To sew the side seams, use a flat felled seam method.
 Fold the bottom hem up and use a double top stitch to hold it together.


Press the bottom hem with an iron to create a sturdy fold.
 Stitch the waistband lining to the waist with the right sides facing each other.


The joint of the lining should line up evenly with the center of the back waist portion.
 Zigzag stitch the raw ends of the elastic together, overlapping the edges by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).


Make sure that the elastic will fit snug on the wearer's waist. Measure around the wearer's waist. Take this measurement and subtract 3 inches (7.6 cm) from it so that the elastic band has room to stretch out.
 Pin the elastic into the lining and fold the material over the band. Sew it closed to complete the shorts.


Pin the elastic to the center of the back waist.
Fold the band in half, and pin it to the center of the front waist.
Divide the band into a few other equally spaced points along the lining, pinning it to the fabric in another eight to ten places.
Fold the lining edge in the band with the wrong side facing out. Sew along the edge while stretching the elastic band gently.
Turn the shorts so that the right side faces out. Gently stretch the elastic and double top stitch about 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) away from the top and bottom edges.

