 Refrigerators should be set at or below 40ʡF (4.4ʡC). The food temperature danger zone, the temperature range where bacteria thrive, is between 41 F and 140 F. Any food that is left out in these temperatures is susceptible bacteria growth which could lead to food-born illness. Always get cooked food put away as soon as possible.Check the temperature of your refrigerator regularly. The temperature can fluctuate depending on how much food is in your fridge, so it's a good idea to keep an eye on it if you're sometimes full up and sometimes running low.
 Some food items can be stored on the counter sometimes and should be kept in the refrigerator at other times. Where do you store bottled beer? Pickles? Peanut butter? Soy sauce? Rule of thumb: If you buy something cold, it needs to stay in the refrigerator.


Items like pickles, peanut butter, and soy sauce are fine to keep in the cabinet at room temperature until you open them, at which point they'll need to be refrigerated. Oil or vinegar-based items usually work this way.
Refrigerate canned foods after opening. Anything, whether it be cooked ravioli or green beans, will need to be refrigerated after you open the can. You can store it in the can itself, or transfer it to a tight-lidded storage container for a closer seal.
 Leftovers should be stored in covered containers, either with lids or loosely with plastic cling wrap or tin foil. The looser, the more likely the food is to stink up the fridge or take on other smells, but it's a perfectly fine way of keeping leftovers, once they've cooled to room temperature.


After food is cooked, transfer it to a larger shallow container instead of a smaller deeper container for storage. The larger container will ensure uniform cooling over a shorter period of time.
Meat and food items that contain meat need to be cooled to room temperature before putting it in the refrigerator. If you place hot meat in a covered container and then immediately into the fridge, the condensation will make the meat spoil much more quickly than normal.
 Consume or freeze all cooked meat within 5-7 days. If you can't get through your leftovers fast enough, consider freezing what's left and defrosting it at a leaner time, when there's less in the fridge.


Raw meat always needs to be refrigerated, kept separate from cooked meat and other products, by wrapping it loosely in plastic wrap in the refrigerator. Watch closely for signs of spoilage. Spoiled meat will turn slightly gray or brown and give off an unpleasant odor.
 Eggs that you buy at the store are sometimes quite old, and should be kept in the refrigerator until they've been used. Keep a close eye on them for signs of spoilage after cracking them, always making sure to crack them into a bowl instead of breaking them into the food you're making.Recently laid eggs that have not been washed are perfectly safe to keep on the counter. If you've purchased eggs at the farmer's market recently, ask if they've been washed and for guidance about proper storage of the eggs.
 Leafy greens, tomatoes, fruits, and other vegetables should be kept in the refrigerator once you've cut into them. To ensure they stay fresh for as long as possible, wash and dry them thoroughly, then pack them in the fridge in a sealed plastic container with a tea or paper towel to absorb excess moisture.


Keep tomatoes out of the fridge unless they have been sliced. In the fridge, their insides turn watery and it shortens their shelf life. Sliced tomatoes can be stored in the fridge in a plastic container.

