 Place the maize flour and a pinch of salt in a large mixing bowl. Use your fingers or a whisk to thoroughly combine them. Measure warm water and slowly pour it over the flour.


Buy maize flour that has been pre-cooked, such as Harina P.A.N., the classic flour used in Venezuela. This flour is gluten and preservative free and comes in both white and yellow.
If maize flour isn't available in your area, you can substitute it for fine-ground cornmeal or flour but make sure it is pre-cooked.;
, Use your hands to knead the flour and water together to create a soft, pliable dough. Continue kneading until the dough has no more grainy lumps and can be rolled into a ball without falling apart.


If the dough seems too wet, add a few tablespoons of flour and continue kneading.
If the dough falls apart easily, add a tablespoon or two of warm water. Continue adding water until the dough has reached the correct texture.
 Take a handful of dough in your hands and shape it into a ball, then press it with your palms to form a large patty shape. It should be about 1/2 inch thick and 3 or 4 inches across, depending on how large you want your arepas to be. Place the first arepa on a baking sheet and continue shaping arepas until you run out of dough.


If you want to save the arepas to be cooked later, you may cover the baking sheet with plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator for 3 or 4 days.
You can freeze uncooked arepas, too. Wrap each one in plastic wrap and place them in a seal-able freezer container. They will keep this way for several months.
, Do this when you're ready to cook the arepas, before you begin to fry them. The oven should be fully preheated before you place the arepas inside.
 Heat a spoonful of oil in a large cast iron skillet or frying pan over medium high heat. When the oil is hot, place a few arepas in the pan and let them fry until a crust forms on one side, about 3 or 4 minutes. Flip them over and fry on the other side until a golden brown crust has formed. Set them on a baking sheet and finish frying the remaining arepas.
 Once all the arepas have been fried and placed on a baking sheet, place them in the preheated oven. Bake them for 15 minutes. When you think they're ready, take them out of the oven and tap the top of the arepas. If they sound hollow - as if there is nothing inside - that means the arepas are ready.
 Use a sharp knife to slice the arepas in half lengthwise, then stuff with your favorite filling and enjoy.

