 The bacteria responsible for foot odor thrive in moisture, so you should make sure that you allow your shoes to dry out quickly, and remain dry, whenever you aren't wearing them. Setting your shoes in a warm, dry, well-ventilated space as soon as you take them off will help them dry out more quickly, naturally slowing the life cycle of any odor-causing bacteria.Laying your shoes in sunlight on a bright, warm day is a great way of drying them out.
Storing your shoes on a shoe rack will increase the ventilation they receive, and help them dry out faster.
Wearing the same shoes every day can prevent them from thoroughly drying out. Rotating which shoes you wear on a daily basis will help ensure that all your shoes have plenty of time to dry out between uses.
 Socks prevent moisture and bacteria from your feet from coming directly into contact with the lining of your shoes, so always wearing a pair is a simple way of preventing shoe odor without resorting to the use of any artificial products. Socks are also susceptible to infestation by odor-causing bacteria, so be sure to wash them often, and try not to wear the same pair more than once between cleanings.
 Because shoe odor is largely caused by the presence of live bacteria, it's important to eliminate bacteria in your shoes' lining. Thoroughly disinfecting your shoes before deodorizing them will help them stay fresh far longer. Steaming the inside of your shoes with a clothes steamer is a great, natural way to kill any bacteria which are present. Exposing bacteria to the high temperatures present in steam is an effective way of eliminating them without the use of chemicals.
Vinegar naturally contains acetic acid, a chemical which kills bacteria, and can be used to disinfect shoes. Simply mix one part water with one part vinegar to create a natural disinfecting solution. Apply it to the inside of your shoes (a spray bottle helps), then allow the shoes to dry thoroughly.
Contrary to popular opinion, placing your shoes in the freezer is not an effective way of disinfecting them, since a typical household freezer does not reach temperatures low enough to kill bacteria. , Once you have killed the odor-causing bacteria in your shoes, you can introduce a powdered deodorizing agent to absorb and eliminate any remaining odor and moisture. Baking soda is a popular option, but other common household products like corn starch, baby powder, and kitty litter are also good alternatives to store-bought chemical deodorizers. Simply sprinkle a generous amount of whichever deodorizer you choose inside your shoes, making sure to cover as much of the inside of your shoes as you can, then leave them in a dry place for at least 24 hours. Dispose of the powder inside your shoes, using a moist cloth to remove any excess. To avoid having to clean the powdered deodorizing agent from your shoe's lining, you can instead place the powder in a clean sock, and then insert the sock into your shoe.
 While it will not eliminate the root causes of shoe odor, a pleasant scent will mask minor odors, allowing you to go longer between cleanings. Essential oils, such as eucalyptus, clove, or tea tree oils, are good options, and provide a pleasant, long-lasting fragrance. Apply a few drops of essential oil to a wad of crumpled up newspaper, then stuff the newspaper into your shoes and leave overnight.
Citrus peels contain fragrant essential oils, and can be used to scent your shoes. Simply place the peels inside your shoes and leave overnight, then discard the peels. Teabags, especially black teas, are a great choice. Not only are they convenient and fragrant, but black tea is known to contain tannins: natural chemicals which can help kill odor-causing bacteria inside your shoe., If cleaning and deodorizing a particular pair of shoes has proven ineffective at eliminating their odor, it may be time to discard them. Keeping and wearing already stinky footwear provides a breeding ground for bacteria, which can then be transferred to your feet, or any other shoes or socks you might wear.