 Most hotel rooms have free WiFi these days, so ask for the password at the front desk. Is going on your computer fun? It can be if you’re stuck in a hotel room alone.


Read a book online, watch a video streaming service movie or TV show, or communicate with your friends on social media. The possibilities are endless.
Play games online, write emails, try to write a book. The great thing about hotel rooms is that the daily stresses of life aren’t there, so you’re able to focus.
 You could use the opportunity to learn about the location you’re visiting!


If you don’t have a computer along or simply don’t feel like going online, reading magazines or brochures can be a way to pass the time. Or buy magazines in the hotel gift shop, if there is one.
Educate yourself about the area. Maybe you’ll discover a tour or a new restaurant to try by doing so., It can actually be fun to order room service because it feels like a luxury to a lot of people. Once in a while, splurge on yourself!


Order something off the menu that you’ve never tried before to make it all more interesting. Order several items and have a tasting party!
You could also order into the room. Many hotels offer information about local pizza or Chinese food delivery services. Eating pizza in a hotel room can be fun.
 You could write someone a letter. The art of letter writing used to be very important in society, and today it can seem unusual and thus indicates to people you care about them because you’ve put a lot of thought into it.


You could also try to write a book or a poem. If that’s not your thing, you could start writing a journal, perhaps by chronicling your trip. If writing is not your thing, you could also try drawing. The hotel probably has stationary in the room that you can use.Some people get lost in writing. It’s a good way to pass the time and feel less lonely because your words can transport you to a different place or create an intimate bond with people you miss by writing words you know they will eventually read.
 Show up at the hotel room with some entertainment options in hand, whether it's equipment to play music or video games.


Take along a DVD you haven't viewed yet. Watch it if you have a DVD player in the room. If there is a DVD player, the hotel might provide new ones too, so ask at the front desk.
Load up songs and TV shows onto your MP3 player, iPod or computer. You could also listen to the radio. Most hotel rooms have one.
If you can, bring a game console. You can hook it up to the TV and play games. Some hotels provide a game system to use, but require a fee to rent the games

