 Basic pushups are simple to do at home, and can easily be done in the nude. This is a classic exercise that requires no equipment other than your own body.To start, lift your body off the ground with your hands flat on the floor and your fingertips facing forward. Keep your hands near your hips and your shoulders pulled back. Place your legs and feet in the plank position.
Lower your body downward slowly by bending your elbows. Keep lowering yourself until your chest or chin touch the floor.
Straighten your elbows until you're back in the start position. Then, repeat the exercise. Keep going until you've done as many pushups as you can.;
, Downward dog is a simple yoga position that can help build strength. It can easily be done in the nude. To start, stand on all fours. Have your hands under your elbows and your fingertips facing forward.Push your legs and feet backwards until you're in a plank position. Stand on your tiptoes to lift your body off the ground. Then, shift your weight backwards and raise your hips until your body forms a v-position. Keep your head aligned with your spine. Exhale as you move your body upward.
Then, inhale and return to the starting position. Do as many repetitions as are comfortable for you.
 To start, lie on your right side. Bend your knees and stack your legs on top of one another. Lift your body up by bending your right elbow and supporting your weight with your right arm. Keep your head aligned with your spine.Lift your hips off the ground as you exhale. Keep your head and spine aligned.
Return to the starting position as you inhale. Do as many repetitions that are comfortable to you, and then repeat on the other side.
 This activity requires a bit more movement, so it can help raise your heart rate slightly. To start, stand up straight with your feet hip length apart. Keep your arms at your side, with your shoulder blades pulled down slightly.Crouch downward by shifting your hips and back down and bending your knees. Keep lowering yourself until your heels nearly hit the floor.
Then, quickly launch yourself into the air. Strive to keep your feet level with each other as you jump.
Try to land softly, with your feet still level. Push your hips back slightly to absorb some of the impact. Then, repeat.
 To start, stand with your feet together and shoulders pulled back. Lift up one foot and briefly balance on one leg. Then, step forward and land on your raised foot.Lower your body until you feel discomfort. Try to get your thigh parallel to the floor.
Push off the ground with the leg you lifted. Return to the starting position. Repeat the movement with your other leg.
 As you likely do not want your neighbors peeking in on you exercising in the nude, keep any blinds or curtains in your home closed. This is especially important if you live in a home where it's difficult to avoid windows.Curtains generally shut out more than blinds. If possible, exercise in an area of your home near curtains.
If you have a spot in your home away from windows altogether, like a basement, opt to exercise there.
 If you have somewhat flimsy blinds, you may want some extra coverage from prying eyes. Plant life can help shut out the outside view. If there's a window near a tree, shrub, or other type of foliage, opt to exercise here.The bigger and bushier the plants, the more privacy you will get.
 If you have a courtyard or backyard in your home, you may want to exercise by a window looking over this space. You're less likely to get random people walking through a courtyard or backyard than the street.However, if you live in an apartment complex, your neighbors may frequently walk through the courtyard. In this case, it may be better to work out elsewhere.
 If your home is surrounded by fences or walls, opt to workout near windows overlooking such obstructions. This will limit people walking by from seeing into your home., As yoga is a fairly low intensity activity, many areas offer nude yoga classes. Many people enjoy such classes as they get used to being naked in the presence of others, helping with body acceptance, and they also have an instructor guide them through a routine.You can look online for nude classes in your area. If there are any gyms or spas that are clothing-optional, you may find nude yoga classes here.
If you can't find a nude class, you can always do a yoga routine from your home while naked.
 There may be spas in your area that are clothing optional. Many spas have exercise classes, such as yoga, and may also have gyms and gym equipment. If you want to go somewhere to work out naked, look into a day pass at a nude spa.Spas may have rules regarding how to use equipment when naked, so make sure you follow all rules. You may, for example, not be allowed to use certain workout equipment while naked.
 If you want to do something like water aerobics, there may be a nude beach near you. There are many nude beaches in the United States and other countries. This can be a great place to work out nude.In the United States, there are nude beaches in many states. Texas, Oregon, California, and Hawaii, for example, are all home to nude beaches.
 Working on naked requires the same basic workout safety as any other exercise routine. Prior to working out, warm up. After you're done, cool down.A warm up is generally some light activity prior to a workout routine. You can pace for about 10 minutes in your home, or do 10 minutes of light stretching.
To cool down, repeat the same process. Do about 10 minutes of lighter activity.
 Sports bras can help support your breasts during a workout routine. They help keep your weight supported, allowing for better posture during a workout. If your breasts are sensitive due to pregnancy or breastfeeding, a sport bra may be necessary.If working out nude is important to you, you don't have to wear a sports bra. For lower intensity activities, like yoga or Pilates, a sports bra is probably not necessary.
However, if you're doing more vigorous cardio, your body may benefit from the support of a sports bra. If your breasts start to feel sore during a workout, you may want to throw on at least a sports bra for your routine.
 Jockstraps and athletic underwear support sensitive areas of the body, serving a similar function to sports bras. You may need the support of athletic underwear or a jockstrap if you're engaging in vigorous activity in the nude. If you start to feel sore, buy underwear or a jockstrap., When working out in the nude, you should remain in tune with your body. Overexertion can lead to injury. With a new workout routine, pay attention to signs your body needs to rest and recuperate.If you feel faint after a workout, cut back the next day.
If a workout leaves you with aches and pains that persist for days, you need to cut back slightly on the intensity.

