 Regular communication builds your new relationship and allows you to get to know one another more. It also helps cut down on misunderstandings and confusion. Remember, though, that communication is a two-way street; make sure that you are doing as much listening in your relationship as you are talking.Even if it’s just a ‘good morning’ message or afternoon call, check-in with each other on a regular basis. Everyone likes to know that someone else is thinking of them.
Make time to actually sit-down and just talk with each other. Talk about your day, your goals, your fears, your friends, etc.
Listen to what they have to say and share with you. Use your talks as a way to learn more about each other and to support each other.
Talk about the serious and important things face-to-face.,

When something is really bothering you, then say something about it. It’s better to speak up when something first upsets you than to let it go and have it turn into a big issue later on. Remember, the relationship is still new and your mate doesn’t know all of your boundaries yet.Talk calmly about what is on your mind in private and don’t use an accusatory tone.
For example, you don’t want shout, “You are so inconsiderate! Spreading our business to everyone!” at them in the middle of the mall.
Instead, you might wait until you two are alone and say, “Hey, babe, it makes me uncomfortable to talk to strangers about personal issues. Can we keep our personal stuff between just us?”

, All relationships have times when the two people don’t agree with one another; this is normal. How you communicate during your disagreement (more so than what you disagree about) is what determines how long your new relationship will last. Relationships are measured on the quality of the make-up compared to the frequency or intensity of the disagreements.


Disagreements simply mean that you are individuals with two different ways of viewing or doing things.
Focus on what is right, not who is right. Trying to problem-solve, rather than blaming each other will strengthen your new relationship.
Speak respectfully to each other and avoid saying things just because you are angry or hurt.
Be able to “agree to disagree” about some things. Accept that there are some things you simply will never see eye-to-eye about. If they aren’t major, then just agree that each of you has your own perspective.
Focus on getting all of your feelings out during the argument. Express all of your feelings, emotions, and opinions about the situation. Then, however, you should focus on repairing the relationship.
Check in with your partner afterward. Ask, "Are you okay?" or "Is there anything you're still upset about?" Then plan to do something special to make up.


Although you should voice your concerns, you don’t have to point out every little thing. There will be things about your sweetie that annoy you, but not everything is worth discussing, or even mentioning.Accept that some things are just an endearing quirk of their character, the same as they do for you.

If the issue doesn’t go against your morals or values; doesn’t hurt anyone; and isn’t worth leaving them for, then try to let it go.
For example, the way he says ‘pacifically’ instead of ‘specifically’ might be annoying, but it isn’t a relationship-ending issue, so just let it go.

