 The best part-time job for a teenager is one that allows her to build skills or gain experience in the field she later hopes to work in.


Work that is enjoyable or fun fosters a good work ethic and dedication to the job. People, especially teenagers, have much higher success and retention rates at jobs where they enjoy the work they do.






If the goal of the part-time job is to make money, the type of work may be less important than the pay rate.;
, Most teenagers do not know a lot of adults and have not built networks that can help them find work.


Approach any connections that you have in the field where the teenager is looking for work. Many people are more likely to take a chance on a teenager if he is referred to them by someone they know.






Tell your friends and associates that you are looking for a part-time job for a teenager, and mention the type of work she would like to do. You never know who might have someone in their network that can help.
 Many businesses routinely hire temporary summer and year-round teenage employees but don't need to advertise because the jobs fill easily. The following types of businesses are often good places to inquire:


Retail stores that sell everything from groceries to hardware to clothing hire teenage employees.






Fast food and restaurants. Although the work may not be what the teenager is looking for in the long-term, this can be a great place to gain work experience.
Hotels, resorts and tourist attractions frequently hire teenagers for part-time work during their busy season.
Tennis and golf clubs. Any business that is only open during the nice weather relies on a lot of part time help for their labor force.
Summer camps, both day and overnight. At most summer camps, the counselors are teenagers. Overnight camps typically require counselors to live on location.



City, state, and national parks and recreation departments often run programs that create job opportunities.






Summer job programs, sponsored by various government agencies, offer youth job opportunities in various fields. Information on summer job programs is usually available at your local high school or town hall.
 Parents can talk to experts in a field who can take her as an intern. For example, if a child is interested in cars, why not send him to a garage?

,,


Skillpages, Facebook, Linkedin are great websites to find jobs; like freelance writing.
 Often there is plenty of opportunities right in her neighborhood such as:


Babysitting, for a teen who likes children. Encourage her to team up with friends when offering the sitting service; this increases the chances of being able to say yes to a job when a call comes in. It is a good idea for teenagers who want to provide child care to take a Red Cross first aid class so they are prepared to handle emergencies.






Pet Care for busy pet owners who are willing to pay someone to walk their dog, clean the yard of dog waste, or feed their animals when they are away.
Lawn or yard care. Teens can offer outdoor home services year round. In the spring and summer, she can mow lawns, trim hedges and tend gardens; in the fall she can rake leaves and do yard cleanup; and in the winter she can shovel snow.
Clean houses. As long as she is good at it and doesn't mind the work, housecleaning for others every week or every other week can be lucrative part-time work for a teenager.
Errand running for busy people, including grocery shopping and picking up their dry cleaning. Depending on where the teen lives and the availability of public transportation, a car may be required for this type of work.
Home cooking and baking. People still want home cooking and baking but don't often have the time to do it, providing an opportunity for others who are good in the kitchen to cook and bake for cash.
Teach others something that she knows how to do. If she is good on the computer and has patience, she could teach elderly people. If she knows how to play the guitar, she could give lessons.

