 Newly opened wine needs to be exposed to air so that it oxidizes and produces a more mellow and pleasant beverage. Drinking wine as soon as the bottle is opened may give the wine a thin body rather than a fuller taste.;
, The classic wine glass traps the aromas of the wine so that you can smell it more accurately. Some wine aficionados even put their noses into the glass to capture all of the smells. You may experience smells that resemble cut fruit, minced herbs, or even hot tea.
 Observe how the wine sticks to the side of the glass or if it sloshes around quickly. Additionally, look at the color of the wine. Experts can tell how a wine will taste just by looking at it. For now, you want to pay attention to how the wine behaves compared with how it tastes.When a wine has “legs,” that means it sticks to the side of the glass and contains lots of fruit juice.
The darker and deeper the color of a wine, the bolder the taste should be.
 Make sure it flows over the tip of your tongue, both sides, underneath, and into the back of your mouth. After noticing the tastes, either swallow or spit out the wine, then breathe in through your mouth drawing air over all those parts of your tongue again. This will cause the tastes from the wine to change, sometimes quite suddenly and sharply.Tasting notes are the individual flavors you can pick out of the overall experience of a certain wine.At first you might not be able to pick out flavors like chocolate or oak, but practice will train your tastebuds to recognize unusual tastes.
You can cheat by looking at the bottle's label or asking someone else what they taste until you can start picking out specific notes on your own.
 Keep track of what you taste in certain wines and what you like and don’t like. Write down your impressions of each wine. This way you can go back and reference past tastings and look for patterns in your preferences.


Wines have four basic components: taste, tannins, alcohol, and acidity. Each of these components ranges in intensity in different wines and will affect whether you like a certain wine or not.
As you continue to try different wines, you may find that dry red wines are not your favorite, but you enjoy a dry and tart white wine variety.

