 The treatment for peptic ulcers varies depending on what caused them. H. pylori infection is the most common cause, so usually treatment is with antibiotics to kill the bacteria. H. pylori is pretty resistant, or hard to kill, so you will take several antibiotics in combination. Your doctor will prescribe some combination of tetracycline (Tetracycline HCl), clarithromycin (Biaxin), amoxicillin (Amoxil), metronidazole (Flagyl), tinidazole (Tindamax), or levofloxacin (Levaquin).You will usually take these antibiotics for 2 weeks, plus other medications to decrease your stomach acid and promote healing.
 A class of drugs called Proton Pump Inhibitors (commonly PPIs) decreases acid production in your stomach and helps your ulcers to heal. You will almost always take a PPI like Prilosec, Protonix, Nexium or Prevacid while your ulcers are healing.Histamine blockers (H-2’s) like Pepcid and Zantac also reduce stomach acid, and may be prescribed.The combination of antibiotics, antacid, and PPI is called triple therapy, and this is very effective in the treatment of Peptic Ulcer Disease.
 PPIs can increase your chances of bone fractures, so if you are at risk of having low calcium your doctor may prescribed a calcium supplement.It’s possible that you will also be prescribed an antacid to reduce pain, or perhaps a medication to protect the inner surface of your stomach like Carafate or Cytotec.Discuss your health problems and medications with your doctor to get the best drug combination for you.


Share questions and concerns with your provider, such as, “You mentioned that the medication you’re giving me can decrease my calcium. I have osteoporosis, so is there something I should do about that?”
Further, PPI’s can decrease the bioavailability of other medications depending on how they are metabolized and absorbed by the intestine.
 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, when used long-term, can also cause or prevent healing of peptic ulcers.If you regularly take over-the-counter pain relievers, discuss alternatives with your doctor. Switching to something gentler on the stomach can help ulcers to heal.


Some common NSAIDs include aspirin, ibuprofen products like Motrin and Advil, and Naproxen products such as Aleve and Anaprox.
If you must continue using NSAIDs, your doctor can give you a PPI medication to take simultaneously to lower your risk of ulcers., Once you have finished the treatment prescribed by your doctor, go back to ensure your ulcers have healed. Another breath test may be performed. If you have ongoing symptoms, you might need an endoscopy. An endoscopy is usually done 6-8 weeks after you are first diagnosed with peptic ulcers, and can also be used to make sure you do not have gastric cancer.