 The paperwork you receive to notify you of the lawsuit against you provides you with important information regarding the person suing you and your deadline to respond to the lawsuit.


The name and contact information of the person suing you typically can be found on the summons, along with how long you have to respond to the lawsuit. Keep in mind that if you don't file your answer by this deadline, the plaintiff may win by default.Check the date when the incident occurred that gave rise to the lawsuit, and make sure the plaintiff has filed this lawsuit within your state's statute of limitations.
The statute of limitations limits the amount of time people have to file a lawsuit after something happens. You typically can find the statute of limitations that applies in your state with a quick online search.Invasion of privacy lawsuits typically are covered by the statute of limitations for personal injury.You also want to check the name and location of the court where the plaintiff has filed his or her lawsuit. If it's far away from you, it may not have jurisdiction.Check the court's website – there typically will be a map showing the areas over which the court presides.;
, Because invasion of privacy laws vary among states, can be complex, and could lead to criminal charges, an attorney may be necessary to best protect your rights and interests.You can check your local bar association's website to find an attorney with experience in defending invasion of privacy lawsuits. These groups typically have searchable directories of attorneys licensed to practice in the area.
You probably can find an attorney who will at least provide an initial consultation for free. After that you can ask for an estimate of the fees to represent you and proceed from there.
If you doubt your ability to afford an attorney, consider checking with your nearest legal aid office. Even if there isn't an attorney there to assist you, the office will have resources you can use to find affordable legal assistance.
You might also consider hiring an attorney as a consultant. He or she will conduct legal research and advise you on the steps you need to take in your case, but you would draft your own documents and represent yourself at trial.
You also can hire an attorney on a limited basis to draft the documents you need without paying him or her to represent you in the case as a whole.
 Many courts offer fill-in-the-blank forms or templates defendants can use to respond to a complaint.Although you may not be able to find an answer template that relates specifically to invasion of privacy, you should be able to find a blank answer form that will at least help you get the format right.
You typically can find a form by searching online, or by contacting the clerk's office of the court where the plaintiff filed his or her lawsuit. Different courts have their own preferences regarding formatting, so make sure the form you're using is acceptable by that particular court.
If you can't find any forms or templates, go to the clerk's office and ask for a copy of an answer filed in another case in the same court that you can use as a guide to format your answer correctly.
 You must address every allegation in the complaint and state whether you admit or deny it.Denying an allegation is not the same as saying it isn't true. The plaintiff in a civil case has the burden of proof, so denying an allegation as a defendant forces the plaintiff to carry his or her burden and prove that allegation.
If you admit the allegation, it is taken as true and the plaintiff won't have to prove it in court.
A third response available is to say "Defendant lacks sufficient information to either admit or deny the allegation." Use this response when you don't know enough about what the plaintiff has stated, such as allegations that relate directly to the plaintiff or the plaintiff's thoughts. The court will treat it the same as a denial, meaning the plaintiff will have to carry his or her burden of proof on that allegation.
Full sentences or legal jargon aren't necessary, aside from referring to yourself as "Defendant" and the person suing you as "Plaintiff" (capitalized with no article such as "the" in front). In most cases when responding to the allegations, a one-word answer ("admit" or "deny") will suffice.
 After you've responded to the plaintiff's allegations, you should include any affirmative defenses that apply to the situation.


Often, an affirmative defense is like an excuse – you are arguing that although you did the thing for which the plaintiff is suing you, you had a good reason for doing it. Self defense is one of the most well-recognized affirmative defenses.
Keep in mind that affirmative defenses are points you have to prove – however, at this stage of the game, it's not necessary for you to submit any proof or argue the defense, you just have to include a brief statement of it in your answer.
Consent is perhaps the strongest defense to an invasion of privacy claim. The plaintiff cannot later sue you for invading his or her privacy if he or she consented to your behavior.For example, suppose a friend was telling you about her troubling experience with a disreputable doctor, and you asked if you could write about the story on your blog. She consented with the understanding that her name would not be used, but that private details would have to be included in your post for it to be meaningful. Because she consented to your blog post, she can't come back later and sue you for invasion of privacy – even if the post upsets her or people she knows figure out it's about her.
Generally, if you do get consent, it should be memorialized in writing. Otherwise you risk playing an unhelpful game of "he said, she said" in the event of a lawsuit.
Another defense that may be available to you is based on the First Amendment. If your work is creative, or if the details you used were in the public interest, courts generally will rule that the public interest outweighs the plaintiff's right to privacy., Since some courts require you to sign your answer in front of a notary, you should contact the clerk before you sign it.When in doubt, take the unsigned answer to the courthouse and sign it in front of the clerk.
After you've signed your answer, you'll need to make two copies of it – one for your own records and the other to have served on the plaintiff (or the plaintiff's attorney) at the address listed on the summons. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's records.
 Take your original answer and copies to the clerk of the court where the plaintiff filed his or her lawsuit to officially respond to the complaint.The clerk will stamp all of your documents "filed" with the date, and give the copies back to you. You'll then be responsible for getting a copy to the plaintiff.
Service is a legal process with specific requirements designed to prove to the court that both parties have seen any document that's filed with the court in a lawsuit. You can choose to have your answer hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy or a private process server, or you can mail it using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
After your answer is served, you'll have to file a proof of service with the court. The clerk will have forms for this.
 The invasion of privacy law in your state outlines the elements the plaintiff must prove as well as possible arguments you can raise in your defense.The law also may include important defenses that you can use to justify your actions.
If you've decided not to retain an attorney, you can find your state's law on your own by doing an online search or by visiting your nearest public law library – usually located in your county's courthouse. The law librarians there are experienced at helping people who are representing themselves in a lawsuit find the information they need.
In general terms, the plaintiff must prove that you intruded into her personal life without her consent, causing her harm. In some states the private information must be disclosed to the public in some way; in others, it is enough to prove the intrusion itself, or for the plaintiff to show a fear that the information would be made public., The strength of the plaintiff's case depends on how much evidence he or she has for each of the elements of an invasion of privacy claim.Keep in mind the plaintiff has the burden of proof. She must show the court that you more likely than not invaded her privacy, causing her harm. Think of the elements of the claim as puzzle pieces, all of which must fit together for the plaintiff to succeed. If you can eliminate even one of those pieces, the puzzle won't be complete.
For example, suppose you wrote a blog post about the plaintiff's divorce, using documents filed in court. Because court documents typically are a matter of public record, you can argue that the plaintiff had no reasonable expectation of privacy in those records.
As another example, suppose you took photos at the plaintiff's family gathering at her house. You asked if you could post some of the photos on your Facebook page, and she agreed. However, she later got angry at some of the comments people made and sued you. Since she consented for you to post the photos, the "without consent" element is missing.
 If anyone witnessed the acts the plaintiff is claiming were an invasion of his or her privacy, their testimony may benefit your defense.


More than eyewitnesses, the types of witnesses you seek will depend on your defense. If you are arguing that the information you published was a matter of public interest, witnesses can help you establish that.
For example, if you published medical information about a friend in a blog post, and the blog post led to the arrest of the unscrupulous doctor who treated her, police officers or prosecutors potentially could testify on your behalf regarding the value of the information.
If you are alleging that the plaintiff consented to your use of the information, but don't have his or her consent in writing, the testimony of a witness to the conversation in which the plaintiff gave you permission could be critical to your defense.
 Through the discovery process, you and the plaintiff will exchange information and evidence relevant to the lawsuit.Discovery includes written questions, called interrogatories, as well as requests for admission and requests for production. All of them are answered under oath and must be completed within deadlines established by the court.
Through written discovery, you attempt to gain information about the plaintiff's case as well as facts or documents that might be useful to your defense.
You also may interview the plaintiff or witnesses using depositions, which are formal interviews conducted under oath and in the presence of a court reporter, who produces a transcript of the questions and answers so you can refer to it later.
Deposition transcripts may come in handy if, for example, a witness says something on the stand at trial that contradicts something he or she said earlier in the deposition. The transcript can be used either to refresh the witness's recollection or to place his or her honesty in doubt.
For example, suppose the plaintiff is suing you because of some allegedly private, personal information about her that you included in a blog post. You argue that she consented to your publication, leaning on the testimony of a mutual friend who was there when she gave you permission. During a deposition the friend agrees that she gave permission. However, later at trial the friend testifies that she was texting on her phone at the time and didn't hear the plaintiff clearly. The friend's deposition testimony could be used to cast doubt on the friend's testimony.
 A neutral, third-party mediator may be able to facilitate a settlement between you and the plaintiff.Mediation is less formal than a trial, so you may find it particularly appealing if you've decided not to hire an attorney.
Some courts require parties to attempt mediation before a trial will be scheduled, in an attempt to alleviate court clogging. The clerk will tell you if you this is required.
Most clerks have a list of court-approved mediators – even if mediation isn't strictly required – from which you can choose.
Particularly in invasion of privacy lawsuits, the fact that mediation proceedings (and the outcome) generally are confidential may be particularly enticing to the plaintiff.
 In preparation for trial, make an outline of your argument with notes about any documents you want to introduce or witnesses you want to call.If you have documents you want to submit as evidence, make at least two copies in preparation for trial. That way you, the plaintiff, and the judge can all look at it while you're making your point about it.
Meet with your witnesses at least once before the trial date to go over the questions you want to ask them and come up with possible questions the plaintiff may ask during cross-examination.
Especially if you're representing yourself, you may find it beneficial to sit in on some other cases being tried in the same court. This will give you a better idea of what to expect and how to conduct yourself at trial.
 To defend yourself in an invasion of privacy lawsuit, you must appear when your trial is scheduled. Otherwise, the plaintiff may win by default.Try to get to the courthouse at least 30 minutes early. You want to get through security and find the right courtroom without having to rush.
Keep in mind that judges typically have more than one case on their calendars, so when you get to the courtroom take a seat in the gallery. You can move to the tables at the front of the courtroom when the judge calls your case.
 Typically the judge will give the plaintiff the opportunity to state his or her claims first.Avoid interrupting the plaintiff or distracting from his or her presentation. If you disagree with something said, make a note to bring it up when it's your turn to speak.
If the plaintiff calls witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them. Be careful with your questions – if you ask something for which you don't know the answer, it could backfire and work against you rather than for you.
 After the plaintiff's presentation has concluded, you will have the chance to tell your side of the story.Speak in a loud, clear voice so everyone can hear and understand what you're saying. Make your points as quickly as you can without glossing over anything important, and stick to the facts rather than making accusations or emotional statements.
Lead with your strongest point, and continue through until you've said everything you need to say. Keep in mind that any witness you call may be subject to cross-examination from the plaintiff.
If the judge asks you a question, stop talking and answer the question, then proceed with your point. Feel free to ask for clarification if you don't understand what the judge is asking you.
 The judge may announce his or her decision at the conclusion of the trial, or take the matter under advisement and enter an order later.If the judge takes the matter under advisement, ask the clerk how long it will be before you can expect an order, and what the procedure will be. Some courts will call you, while others will mail the written order to you when it's entered.
If the judge rules against you, you should consult an attorney as quickly as possible to evaluate your options if you want to appeal or otherwise challenge the ruling. You have a very brief window of opportunity to file notice before the order becomes final and the plaintiff can begin taking action to enforce it.

