 Some activities may interfere with the diagnostic tests. To give yourself the best chance at a same-day diagnosis, prepare for your doctor's visit:Do not smoke any substance on the day of your visit.
Avoid all caffeine on the day of your visit.
Avoid exercise and cold air exposure.
Let your doctor know if you have recently had a cold, viral infection, or immunization (shots).
 Try to pinpoint the triggers that may cause your attacks. Tell the doctor if they happen more at certain places, certain times of year, or certain times of day or night.Mention any family history of allergens or skin conditions.
 Some health conditions may make your asthma worse. Let your doctor know if you are experiencing any of the following, or if you experience them regularly:Runny nose
Sinus pain or infection
Acid reflux (heartburn)
Stress
Sleep apnea (snoring and restless sleeping)

, A spirometer measures how well you can breathe. Breathe into the mouthpiece according to doctor's instructions. Typically, you'll take a full breath, then breathe out either slowly or quickly, as directed.For the most accurate results, the test should be conducted at least three times.Tell your doctor first if you have recently had a heart attack, stroke, chest pain, pneumothorax ("punctured lung"), eye surgery, abdominal surgery, or hemoptysis (coughing up blood). Exhaling hard can put pressure on affected areas.
Ask the doctor to explain the results. She will interpret them based on your height and weight, so make sure she has accurate information.
 The doctor may give you a bronchodilator, or medicine that expands your airways, and test you again. If your lung strength improves significantly, you likely have asthma.The doctor may decide to give you a trial of asthma medication, then bring you back in for more tests another day.
 Some doctors may have you exhale into another machine, one that measures nitric oxide. Inflammation in your airways can produce this gas., If your symptoms and test results don't match an obvious cause, the doctor may arrange for other tests. This usually includes one or more of the following:Bronchoprovocation: A test of lung function after cold air, exercise, or irritating your lungs with a spray or powder. This may be unpleasant, but the doctor will reverse the effects afterward.
X-ray of your chest
CT scan (CAT scan) of your sinuses (a computer-aided X-ray of your head)
Allergy skin tests, usually at an allergy specialist's office
EKG: a test to detect problems with heart function, which can cause similar symptoms to asthma
Blood sample to measure immunoglobulin E, an antibody produced in allergic reactions

