 Ask the right questions when hiring. Find out the reasons why applicants are interested in working for your company, where their priorities lie and how important it is to them to establish business relationships. In order to build your client base, you need staff that represents your company in a positive light. Asking the right questions will help you select the people with the best work ethic.;
, Never offer too much before your business is up and running. It is harder to take away a benefit than it is to add one. Only add a benefit when the business shows consistent profit to cover the expense. Options for benefits include discounted health and dental care, flexible plans, and 401K retirement plans with a matching option.
 If you demonstrate consideration for your staff, they are more likely to show thoughtfulness toward the clients. It is important to establish a business mentality that is attractive to your potential and current clientele, and ultimately that attitude must begin with you.
 Whether it's regarding work ethics or behavior, ensure that everyone is following the procedures. If you are finding cause for concern, be responsive and prompt in dealing with them and correcting the problem. Follow your own policies when implementing any disciplinary measures.
 You need reliable truck drivers to keep your business up and running, so be reliable when it comes to paying your employees.



Invest in up to date software for your freight brokerage, and ensure that all your staff members are trained accordingly.
Ensure that your trucks are to standard and equipped with the necessary tools. You should create an environment that is attractive to your employees, but within a realistic and cost-effective budget.
 Always be responsive to client problems and prepared to correct any issues. Deal with your clients directly, and let them know that they can come to you with questions or concerns.
 Provide a discount to recurring customers. If they are reliable in both business and payment, then this is the kind of customer you should be encouraging.
 You need to pay your drivers, purchase fuel and maintain your trucks, so a steady cash flow is a necessity. Select a source of financing that you can tap into when times are tight and the bills need to be paid. Consider this an emergency fund.

