 Buy a cheap mobile phone, and put all of the people that you need to contact in its memory (friends, family, women's aid numbers, doctors, as well as numbers for your children’s services -- school, pediatrician, etc. -- if you have children). Pack documents that show your ownership of any vehicle or property, as well as passports, and other identity information. Obtain a secondary cash card for your bank and add money to it.


Pack several changes of clothes. If you have children, pack clothes for them as well.
If you take prescription medication, pack it as well, along with the prescription information sheets.
Take the bag to a place where you can retrieve it quickly if you have to run. Do not store it at home; it is best to keep it at the house of a trusted friend. If you must keep it at home, make sure that it is well concealed.;
, The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence has a PDF form that will help you develop a plan for what to do if you have to call the authorities. Fill it out and keep a copy in a safe, secure place where your abuser cannot find it.


Give a copy to a friend as well. This will ensure that your loved ones will know how to support you when you need it.
 Domestic violence hotlines, such as the National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-SAFE), can help you prepare to report domestic violence. The trained advocates at these hotlines are experienced in listening to you and offering advice in how to best care for yourself.Calls to these hotlines are free and confidential and you will never be judged.
If your phone or internet use is monitored at home, you can use a computer at a public library to chat with a hotline or call from a friend’s phone. Whatever you do, stay safe.
These hotlines can also refer you to local women’s advocates and shelters.
 It’s crucial to establish a “paper trail” to help you stay safe from your abuser. Call the police or emergency services like 911. Tell them exactly what has happened, that you do not feel safe, and that it is an emergency.The police are required to arrest suspects under certain domestic situations, which vary by state.


When the police arrive, give them all the details of what happened. Include the exact actions and words that your abuser used, if you can remember them.
If you have children, let the police know where they are.
If you were injured, show the police your injuries or at least describe them.
 If you can do so safely, keeping copies of damage or injuries from the incident can help you prove your case in court or obtain a personal protective order.Take photos of any visible harm or injury, such as bruises, cuts, torn clothes, etc.
Write down what was said, as precisely as you can recall it.
Take photos of damage to property, such as destroyed furniture, holes in walls, etc.
Make copies of any threatening messages, such as emails, social media messages, or phone calls.
Get statements from any witnesses to the event, including your children.
 In most states, the police are required to fill out a “domestic incident report” or other case report. Get a copy of this report as well as your case number.


Also get the officers’ names and badge numbers. This can be helpful if you need to add information to the report later, or if you need to call witnesses for a court case., If you have pre-arranged with a friend or family member, go to their house. If you have children, take them with you. You can also search for safehouses and women’s shelters in your area. A domestic violence hotline may be able to refer you to a safe location.


A “safehouse” is usually a secret location that is accessible 24 hours a day so that you can go there at any time you need. These locations are often run by nonprofit organizations and can usually put you in touch with advocates, counseling services, and legal aid.
 If you were injured in any way, go to the hospital. This will not only get you treatment for your injuries, it will further establish official documentation of your abuse. This is vital for prosecutors in criminal cases and will help you obtain a protection order.


Tell the staff about any injuries you experienced. If you feel comfortable doing so, you can say how you got the injuries. Remember, people are there to help you, not to judge you. There’s no need to feel ashamed or embarrassed. You didn’t do anything wrong.
Be extra vigilant about any injuries to your head. If you experience memory loss, dizziness, eyesight trouble, vomiting, or headache after an abusive incident, go to the hospital right away., These documents go by several other names, including “personal protection order” and “restraining order.” They are court orders that can help protect you from your abuser, and provide steep penalties for the abuser if s/he attempts to harass you again.They can also help protect your children from the abuser. You must go before the local court (often, the circuit court or county court) to obtain one.Many domestic violence agencies offer assistance in applying for protection orders, filing criminal charges, and other legal aid.
Anyone who has been physically, sexually, emotionally, or psychologically abused by someone they have been in a relationship with (including marriage, dating, living or rooming with, or having a child with) can apply for a protection order.
Victims of stalking, which is considered another type of domestic violence, may also apply for protection orders.
Bring a letter explaining your situation in as much detail as possible to the court. Also bring copies of all the documentation that you can, including police reports, photographs, statements, etc. Provide information about your abuser or stalker.
Carry a copy of your protection order with you at all times. This helps police enforce the terms of the order if anyone attempts to violate it.

