 There are many places to learn various dances. Dance studios teach dance classes for a fee. Many dance venues offer a dance lesson before the dancing starts. The class is usually included in the admission cost for no additional charge.;
, The most popular dance steps in one area may not be the most popular in another area. Use the Internet or the entertainment section of your local newspaper to determine what is popular in your area. You can also talk to any dancers you know to obtain their help.
 Most venues that offer dance lessons are very happy to help out new dancers. The lessons are a way to attract newcomers to their venue. Talk to those who you meet there and ask questions about other places to dance.
 There are social rules that apply to dancing. Learn them and practice them. It will make you a popular dance partner if you do.
 It is important that you consider your partner’s needs and dance ability. As you become a better dancer you will be dancing with all skill levels of dance partners. Remember it is your job to lead your partner so that you both have a good time together. You are not there to show off your skills but to make each partner enjoy her dance with you. There may come a time when you want a permanent dance partner and you will have many to choose from if you treated everyone with respect.
 As the leader on the dance floor, you are responsible from your partner’s safety. Watch out for other dance couples in your area of the dance floor. Try to avoid running into others on the floor and be especially alert that you do swing out your partner into another person. A good follower, as your partner is known in dance jargon, will do the same for you. You or she may have to change or terminate a move to avoid a collision on the dance floor. If the floor is really crowded, you should think of it as the same as driving on a crowded city street or freeway and be very alert. If you do bump into someone you should say I’m sorry to them.
 Do not turn down a request to dance. You do not have to ever dance with a person again but you should be courteous and dance at least once with anyone who asks you to dance.
 Since you are the leader, you should practice a strong lead so your partner does not have to guess what you want her to do. However the lead should be firm but not so strong that you hurt your partner by it. You are not to throw her around but to guide her with your leads.
 If the dance moves allow it and the music is not too loud you should engage in light conversation. If this is the first time you danced with her you should ask her name and tell her your name. That helps to break the ice with her and she will feel more comfortable with you. However do not turn your conversation into a life history of yourself or an inquisition of her life.
 Thank your partner for the dance. If you want to dance with her again you could add we should dance again. Or say that was fun lets dance again. Her response will tell you if she is interested in dancing with you again.
 Be confident, be observant of your partner and her reactions to you and your dance style, be open to helping new dancers, adjust your dancing to your partners ability, be fun to be with, be happy you are dancing with your partner, be friendly to all at the dance, don’t latch on to a person you just met but allow her to get comfortable with you by dancing with others between dancing with her again. All of this will make you a popular dancer at your dance venues.

