 Any type of rope, from cotton to nylon will work. However your choice depends on the strength needed, durability required, and the cost. Smaller rope that is 1/4" to 3/8" (6.35mm to 9.52mm) diameter is suitable for sheep and goats.;
, Note that the method you select depends on your wishes and the type of rope being used. Failure to finish the rope ends will result in fraying and un-laying.


Temporarily finish the other end of the rope with tape or string.
You will need to form a crown knot into this end after the halter is completed.
 Refer to this length as the short end of the rope. The remaining length is the long end.
 Grasp the rope at the 12" to 15" (30.5cm x 38cm) mark between your thumb and first two fingers (fore and middle) of both hands.


Separate your right and left hands by around 2" (5cm) apart.
Rotate the rope clockwise with your right hand and counterclockwise with your left. This will open the strands of the rope between your hands.
 Use your right hand to insert the whipped end of the short end of the rope under the strand opening until the loop formed has an eye opening of around double the diameter of the rope.
 Grasp the eye loop and the single strand running across the short end of the rope between your left thumb and forefinger.


With your right thumb and forefinger, grasp the short end of the rope at a point near the eye loop.
Twist the eye-loop and short end of the rope with your hands until you have isolated two strands between your right thumb and forefinger.



Pull it completely through until there's no slack. If you have done it properly up to now, one side of the loop will show three strands lying smoothly side-by-side. This is important because they will be positioned against the animal's face.
 Two inches farther from the whipped end, grasp it in the same manner in your right hand (your hands should be 2 inches apart, the left closest to the short end than the right).


Open the strands by twisting clockwise with your right hand and counterclockwise with your left.
When the strands are opened wide, push your hands together. This will cause the strands to buckle and fold over, forming three loops.
 Use your right hand to feed the long end of the rope into the loops, starting at the one closest to the eye loop. Remove the stick from one loop at a time as you run the long end of the rope through them.
 This completes the halter!

, Consider making a crown knot at the end because a crown knot and back splice creates a convenient handle.


Do not use a hog ring to finish the end since it could catch and tear the skin of your hand.

