 When you have a better understanding of why they may be doubting you, you'll likely feel compassion rather than annoyance or a compulsion to comply with their low-end goals. Realize that many of the negative people have failed to get something that they had once hoped for in life. In turn, they can end up projecting their loss or failure onto you because that's how they see the world––a place that knocks you back rather than nourishes your hopes and spirit. Try to see their attempts to dissuade you as an act of care, however misplaced, for they may well be trying to spare you the pain that they once experienced. It's not a reason to stop pursuing your goals, but it can help you to better understand their negativity.


It can be even harder when what you're aiming for is exactly what they once aimed for but failed to reach; in this case, it's probable that they'll be full of all sorts of unhelpful advice guaranteed to put you off rather than spur you on. See their loss for what it is––sadness, resentment, and a touch of envy, then be compassionate. However, don't let it seep into undermining your ambition, goals and hopes. Indeed, use their example as what not to do.;
, Be willing to achieve that goal in spite of what the doubters say or the ever-present negativity around you. Doing this will give you the opportunity to stop feeling swayed by the negative influences around you.


Focus on your strengths and making the most of these.
Listen to constructive advice, not destructive attempts to veer you off your path. Learn to tell the difference between useful advice and resentful anecdotes of what won't work.
 Once you have set your goals, improved your strengths and recognized what needs to be done, achieving goals that you have set yourself will not seem as much of a milestone as they previously did. When people doubt you, you can remind yourself that their reasons are not yours and that you have clear goals and ambitions to follow and that their negativity isn't a reason for stopping what you're aiming at.
 There is nothing sweeter in life than going what others have said cannot be done and being recognized for your strength and courage.
 Now you are ready to go out and achieve!

