 (Some examples are Lynx Town, Cloud City, etc.);
, Call it 'City Hall,' 'Town Meeting Hall,' 'White House,' etc.


Inside that, create a 'Main Office.'







, They represent the items important to the town and various tasks that are fulfilled in the center building of the town, such as 'Record Book' or 'Secretary's Office.'

,, This is your house. If you wish, you could be the mayor, or just a regular citizen.
 He/she doesn't need to have your name, but if not, make sure you remember which person you are. Two ways to create people are:


Make a folder with their name so that you can show what they are "holding," much like an inventory. You can also change the icon of the folder with downloaded sprites or pictures of people so that they can have identities. If you need to turn pictures into icons, you can download a icon-making program.






Make a Word document or textbook file and keep track of what they own, their jobs, relationships, what they think, etc. on it.
 If your people are represented by folders, use a Word or textbook document and create a starting amount of money somewhere around $100,000 for each person.


If you have Word or textbook documents for your people, just type a bold heading 'Checkbook' or 'Money' and keep track under that.
 Everything you build will subtract from that person's amount so give everything a price and TAKE NOTES.


To do this, make a Word or textbook document outside the City Hall and call it 'Notes.' Take EVERYTHING down here, including prices, history, and any ideas you suddenly get for the future.
 Get a job and make money. If someone needs something like a textbook or a folder, or if someone moves in and decides to buy a house, who ever they bought that from gets the money, and also pays his employees. Don't forget, play everyone's emotions and personalities, for example, if you make someone not pay an employee, that person's probably going to quit their job.
, For example, I found Windows Movie Maker, and, after a while, I researched it, and being creative, made a Movie Studio, and eventually a TV Station, and TV's themselves. Soon everyone had a TV. 3 others and I were large directors, made a lot of movies, and a TV series. Easy way to become rich, ,