 Imagine a point of energy at your lower dan tian, or in your lower stomach area. This is your centre of gravity and is usually a few inches below your navel or a few inches above your pelvis near the belly button and is the start position.
 Allow it to expand and contract gently until it is a size that feels right to you. Visualize it glowing with a beautiful colour or a pleasant feeling, and while it is very personal to your character, there is no right or wrong colour at the beginning, as long as it is beautiful to you.
 This is done in a cyclical pattern, typically from the start position at your lower dan tian, then to base of your spine, lower back, upper back, neck, top of the head, forehead, face, neck, heart and back down to your lower dan tian. You may do this in a continuous flow-cycle, or you may stop at each stage as you breath in, then out, or spend a few minutes at each location and then move on.


At each stage, imagine the healing energy from the ball flood that part of your body, releasing any tension or blockages while healing and cleansing the area.
You may allow the colour to change if necessary (it often will do this on its own) or it will let you know by not feeling right or complete. Allowing this energy to adapt will give the best benefits and you may change the colour until it does feel right. Different colours have different energies (see below section on colour healing).
 Ideally, breathe out to expand your lower stomach gently, and breathe in to contract your stomach. This is a natural and not a controlled movement, and is done by filling the whole lungs with air.


Ideally keep the tongue in a gentle contact with the roof of the mouth as that acts as an energy conduit.
 Beginners should start with half a dozen or so cycles, which can be 10 minutes long, but longer practitioners may go for as long as they wish. The longer you practice the more you should let go and allow the energy to move naturally until it forms a complete circuit.
 Allow your heart to be filled. Taoist meditation is a unique form of meditation that although similar to Buddhism has a far stronger emphasis on energy flow, healing, breathing techniques and visualizations. Taoist practices have a deep stillness aspect to connect with the power of the universe and gain deeper insights into the Tao and enlightenment. This tutorial aims to help you start and develop your Taoist meditation.

