 You never know for sure what a bully might do, so confronting the bully in a place with many witnesses can make the confrontation safer. It also means there will be many witnesses if the bully tries anything physically violent.


You can confront the bully it in the hall at school, in the cafeteria, etc.
Choosing a place where there will be adults is also preferable because they can help keep the situation from escalating.;
, Bullies thrive on your insecurity and will often pick on people who they think are easy targets. By physically standing up to them, you are sending the message that you aren’t afraid.


Sometimes simply standing up to a bully will make them back off. Tell the bully in a confident and certain tone to stop. Don’t get emotional. Simply tell them, in a matter of fact way, to stop., Having a friend for moral support can make a big difference when confronting a bully. Having a friend with you can also isolate the bully and make it more difficult for he or she to continue their abuse. Therefore, having a friend with you makes you a more difficult target for bullying.


Also, be there for your friends when they need to confront a bully.Your friend does not need to say anything or even actively participate. Their presence alone can make the difference.
 A bully wants you to be upset. Do your best to show the bully that you do not care what they say. It can be very difficult to to stay cool when you are being bullied, but it can make a big difference.


Keep a neutral face. Don’t show your anger, even if you feel it. No matter how mean the bully is, respond with phrases like “that’s interesting” and “ok, thanks.” This will help to disarm the bully. , Do not be afraid to go to an adult when bullying becomes a problem. Sometimes you will be unable to deal with the problem by yourself. In these cases, get help. You may feel pressure not to get an adult involved, but when bullying becomes serious, it is the right thing to do.
 Staying and fighting will only make things worse and can get you in trouble too.


Always report physical violence to a teacher, principal or other trusted adult in the school.

