 Pumping iron isn't just a great way to improve your strength, mood,and overall health — it's also a killer way to improve your breasts! Specifically, building the pectoral (chest) muscles underneath your breasts with regular strength training exercise can help improve the size, firmness, and perkiness of the overlying breast. Below are two sample exercises you may want to try out:



Chest presses: Lie on your back with your knees bent and your feet flat on the floor. Hold one dumbbell in each hand with your elbows bent at a 90 degree angle. Use your chest muscles to lift the weights up toward the ceiling and touch them together. Lower the weights to their starting position slowly and smoothly. Do 3 sets of 12-15 reps 3-5 times per week.

Push-ups: Get on your hands and knees. Stretch your legs behind you and balance on the tips of your feet. Bend your arms to lower your body toward the ground. Use your arms and chest to return back to the original position. Keep your back straight and your hips elevated so that your body stays in a straight line. You can lower your knees to the ground if standard push-ups are too hard. Do 3 sets of 12-15 reps 3-5 times per week.
 Your chest muscles aren't the only ones you should work. In general, when strength training, you'll want to ensure that you exercise all of your major muscle groups each week to ensure maximum total-body strength and prevent injury. In addition, toning muscle groups besides those in your chest can also have positive effects on your bust size. For instance, strengthening your shoulder and back muscles can give your upper body a toned, firm appearance and make it easier to maintain pert, erect posture. Both of these can make your breasts appear bigger and more shapely. Get started working your back and shoulders with the sample exercises below:


Y Raise: Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold one dumbbell with each hand in front of each thigh. In a smooth, controlled movement, raise the dumbbells out in front of you and over your head into a "Y" shape. Keep your core firm and maintain an erect posture as you do this. Complete the exercise by lowering the weights back into their starting position slowly. Do 3 sets of 15-20 reps 3-5 times per week.
Renegade Row: Grab two dumbbells and get into push-up position with straight arms. Keeping your hips stationary, pull one dumbbell from the floor up to your chest, keeping your elbow tucked against your body. Lower the dumbbell back to the ground and repeat with the opposite arm. Do 3 sets of 12-15 reps 3-5 times per week.
 It's a common myth that women can become bulky, muscle-bound, and unattractive from strength-training exercise. In fact, it's almost impossible for women to get big, burly muscles without becoming professional body builders or using steroids. Women don't produce as much of the hormone testosterone as men, making it much more difficult for them to naturally put on big muscles. While women are perfectly capable of becoming stronger and more toned, they generally have to have the schedules of professional athletes (or use steroids) to even begin to appear muscly in a masculine way.
 Breasts are comprised primarily of fatty connective tissue.Like the rest of the fatty tissue on the body, this is eventually lost as a woman loses weight. If you are thin and have small breasts, putting on just a few extra pounds of fat can help fill out your breasts. However, you'll want to avoid an all-out weight-gaining binge, as the negative effects of rapid weight gain and obesity are numerous.Your best bet is to increase your calorie intake moderately for a week or two, then judge your results. If you don't like any changes you see, return to your previous diet.


However, it's important to note that all women carry their weight differently. Some women gain weight in their thighs, belly, or elsewhere before gaining weight in their chest.
It is important to follow a healthy diet even if you are trying to gain weight. Increase your intake of lean proteins, healthy fats, and complex carbohydrates, rather than foods rich in unhealthy fats and sugars. In addition, always remember to stay active — the Centers for Disease Control recommend about 2 hours and 30 minutes of aerobic exercise per week along with at least two sessions of strength-training., It's an unfortunately common belief that it is possible to burn fat in certain areas of the body by selectively exercising those areas. In fact, there is no such thing as spot-reduction — you can fat or lose fat from your body as a whole, but you can't gain or lose it just from certain areas.This concept has been repeatedly debunked by scientific research. So, if you're trying to get bigger breasts, don't waste time trying to spot-reduce in other areas of your body. It just won't work!


While you can't selectively gain or lose fat by targeting certain areas of the body, you can selectively build muscle by targeting certain areas with strength training exercises. However, keep in mind that most people look their best (and are less at risk for injury) when they have a balanced, varied workout routine.

