 A three-point saddle bend raises the conduit in a triangle to clear a narrow obstacle. This requires calculations and techniques described above in the offset bend method.
 The three-point saddle includes one bend to lift the conduit off the floor, a second bend to bend it down over the obstacle, and a third bend to make the conduit level with the floor again. Calculate the position of the center bend as though it were an offset. For example, conduct these calculations for a 30º–60º–30º saddle, the easiest setup to memorize:


A 30º creates ¼" shrinkage for each inch of rise. Multiply ¼" by the height of the obstacles in inches to find the total shrinkage.
Measure the distance from the desired position of the conduit end to the center of the obstacle.Add these two values together. Measure this length from the end of the conduit and mark it.

Note: Many benders only have a teardrop mark to show the position of a 45º saddle bend. In this case, a 22.5º–45º–22.5º saddle is the easiest type to bend.
 Calculate the distance between bends as you would an offset. Measure this distance twice, starting from the center mark and measuring in both directions.


For example, since a 30º angle has an offset multiplier of 2, a 3" high obstacle requires bends 2 x 3" = 6" apart. Draw a mark 6" to the left of the center mark, and another mark 6" to the right of the center.
Instead of calculating this by hand, you can look up a Three-Point Saddle chart online to give you these values., Most benders have a teardrop mark used for the center of a 22.5º–45º–22.5º saddle.Others may have three notches or marks along the rim, next to a "center bend" mark that looks like a semicircle with an arrow at the center. These three notches correspond to 30º, 45º, and 60º angles.Line up the appropriate mark with the center mark on your conduit, and bend until the conduit touches the correct angle mark on your bender.
 Turn the conduit over and brace the handle against your foot, as you would to finish an offset bend. Rotate the conduit exactly 180º in the bender so your bend is in the correct direction. Line up the arrow mark on your bender with one of the marks on your conduit, and bend to exactly ½ the angle of the center saddle bend. Repeat for the third bend of the saddle.

