 Think about the space in your home. Do you have a basement or work room? The amount of space you have will determine where you can put the bag.


You can choose between a ceiling mount or a wall mount. For an optimal workout, most people suggest being able to move 360 degrees around the bag. This helps you work on footwork, movements, among other things.If the bag isn't in the middle of the room, it could potentially break something or rebound off the wall and come back at you, causing injury.
Most people suggest mounting a heavy bag to the ceiling in a basement or garage.;
, Support beams are narrow beams that run along the ceiling with spaces between. Generally, the space between support beams is 16", but they can be as wide as 24". Most people want to hang their bag from the ceiling for better mobility. When doing this, make sure you plan on attaching the heavy bag to a strong support beam. The beam must be able not only to take the weight of the heavy bag, but also the impact as it swings.One of the easiest ways to find a support beam is to use a stud finder.


Another way to find the support beam is to use the knock test. Knock along your ceiling; if you hear a hollow sound, there's no support beam behind it. When you hit a support beam, the sound will change and no longer be hollow since you are knocking on a piece of wood.
You can also measure from the wall to find the support beam. Place a tape measure against the edge of the wall and measure 16". Continue measuring in 16" increments until your desired placement. Knock against the wall to double check the placement of the support beam.
Installing a heavy bag on the ceiling can cause serious damage to your house if done incorrectly. That is why it is so important to find a beam strong enough. Hanging the heavy bag on the rafters or ceiling joints can destroy the drywall.Overhead ceiling beams that are used to hold heavy bags should be able to support more weight than the bag.
 Place an eyebolt into this hole. Twist the eyebolt into the hole with your hand at first, and then tighten it with a wrench.Avoid using hooks instead of eyebolts, since heavy bags can easily fall off hooks., Attach the chains to the corners of the bag. They should be included with your heavy bag. An s-hook should also be included, which you should connect to the chains. Finally, attach the bag to the eyebolt.
 Hit the bag a few times to make sure it is securely held in place. Rehang the bag if the attachments appear weak or fragile.

