 Teaching doesn’t need to be limited to being a high school or elementary school teacher. There are many part time instructors that teach skills at the convenience of their schedule. Being a teacher can be a rewarding process for yourself while helping others. Being a “teacher” isn’t enough in school; you have to be a “great teacher” and it’s not for everyone. You can offer your services without becoming an accredited teacher in some of these fields:


Music lessons
Math tutoring
ESL instruction
Science tutoring

, Being a first response means being the first on the site of an emergency call. To become an EMT-B requires an extensive eight hour credit class and plenty of opportunities to work your way up to a paramedic. Firefighters are also part of a first response and possess much of the paramedic training. These jobs are potentially life threatening, but the reward of helping others in dire need makes it worthwhile for those interested.


Look into your local branches of firefighters and paramedics to see what type of requirements are needed. Most of the training can be done locally at a community college or certification program., Non-profit organizations are organizations that use their profit solely to profit their charitable or educational mission. Starting a non-profit organization can be laborious and expensive. Try your luck by volunteering or interning at one of your choice. Take a look at the following categories of non-profits to see if a particular area may appeal to you:


Arts and culture
Charity and foundation
Community development and advocacy
Educational research
Health services
Social or human services, If you are in a client based field and hold authority, consider not charging clients in need. Bring up opportunities to your supervisor if you don’t hold authority. Pro bono work is a noble decision that benefits the client in-need greatly.


You can save on your taxes for meeting qualifying expenses by working pro bono.
Consider a strict screening process to decide what clientele would qualify.
Consider reaching out to struggling communities as opposed to choosing an existing client. Many people in need will not come to you first. Typically the organization will need to start the discussion., Occupational therapists help people of all ages who might have physical limitations in everyday activities. Common tasks for occupational therapists are assisting children with learning disabilities and assisting those recovering from an injury. They assist with any action that could be considered to be an everyday activity regardless of why the client can’t perform the activity.You’ll need to complete a masters program and pass a licensing exam to pursue occupational therapy., There is always a need for registered nurses everywhere in the world. This career is also involved with helping others on a daily basis. The job requires you to be with people during their time of physical suffering and recovery. Registered nurses administer medications, inform patients of their treatment plans, and provide emotional support for both the patient and their family.


This is not a job for someone who is squeamish when it comes to bodily fluids and disease.
You can get a degree from an accredited associate's school or even receive a degree from a bachelor’s program.