 Make sure you're familiar with:


The area where the game takes place in. Whether it is a school yard or your neighbour hood, you should be aware of all your surroundings.
The number of players playing
A meet up place once the time is up
A way to communicate with other players (a signal to show who is hunter and who is prey);
, Depending on the setting, wear clothing to blend in. Try to avoid any bright colors, or clothing that reflects light.


Forest: Wear greens, browns and greys. Avoid and blacks because this will stand out in the forest.
Neighbourhood: Wear browns and dark greys.
Nighttime: Wear dark greys and blacks.
Fields: Wear sandy colored clothing, greens and browns.



Make as little noise as possible. Any noise or movement may catch the hunters attention, making them run into your direction
Try to avoid stepping on branches and dry leaves. This will minimize the amount of noise you make.
Never stay in one spot. Try to move around and away from any hiders.
Be aware of your surroundings. Always check behind you and around you to make sure no hunters are near by.



Know the most obvious places the players would hide in. Try to look out for bushes or large trees and rocks.
Keep track of the directions players are running to. This way you can go there later and expect to find people
Sneak up behind them, and surprise them.
 If you are a hard core player, then you can confuse and manipulate the hunters into moving away from you:


Get a group of weak runners with you at the beginning. If you are being chased, you will know that the weaker runners will most likely get caught, allowing you to get away.
Get items like rocks and sticks to throw and make noise. This may send the hunter away from you, allowing you to escape.

Wear comfortable, light weight clothing. This will let you run faster and longer.
 Try bringing a water bottle with a poked hole at the top. When the hunter finds you, get your bottle and launch! This give you time to escape! Or use an old glue bottle and fill it up with water for more accuracy, minus the chance of spilling.
 If you bring one of those tiny devices that can help you hear farther, those are perfect because when a hunter comes up, there is your chance to escape from getting tagged!

