 You can only view the video when you’re logged on.;
, Just click on this link: https://www.facebook.com/lookback. You may also copy-paste it into your browser.
 Watch your Look Back Video to see which posts you would really rather not show to everyone on your friends list, let alone the whole world.


If you decide to share the auto-generated video as is, just click on the green “Share Your Movie” button at the upper-right corner of the window to publish the movie.
 You can’t miss it — it’s the gray button right above your movie.
 Marking which posts to leave in and which to leave out is pretty straightforward. All photos and stories in the video will each have a check mark that you can use to adjust what will stay and what will be taken out of your movie.
 Clicking on the “Edit” button will open editing options as well as sections. Go through each of them, and edit as you please. Click on the buttons at the bottom-right side of the post to select or deselect it.


Your First Moments. This section will originally show the 3 photos (no more, no less) with the highest number of likes from your earliest Facebook period.
Your Most Liked Posts. This section includes four statuses and photos that garnered the most likes. Replace them with statuses you wish to highlight.
Uploaded Photos. This section includes 9 photos that you yourself uploaded to Facebook.
Photo Grids. This last section includes the photos that both you and your friends uploaded. Understandably, for this section you’re allowed 38 photos.
 You can see the changes you made in each section through the Look Back Video Preview.
 Once you’re fully satisfied with your choices, click on the “Save Changes” button, which will, in turn, open a new window.
 When you’re ready to publish your Look Back Video, just click on “Update” or “Share Your Movie” button above the video player. This will complete the saving process, and the edited movie will now appear on your Facebook wall for you and your friends to enjoy.


Click on the “Cancel” button if you want to go back to editing your video.

