

Is it for general work?
Is it for a hot work area (kitchen, barbecue pit)?
Is it for travel?

;
,
Do you require burns equipment?
Do you require Exposure equipment?
What sort of injuries are more likely than others to occur?
Do you require food safe materials?
Do you require anti allergen equipment (Latex free gloves etc.)?
Are you likely to have eye injuries?
Are you likely to have to clean up biological accidents (large blood loss, vomit, urine and excrement)?

,


Wallace Cameron advise a basic kit for 1-10 people to contain

Guidance Leaflet
20 Sterile Plasters
2 Eye pads
4 Triangular Bandages
6 Safety Pins
6 Medium Dressings
2 Large Dressings
2 Sets of gloves



,

Alcohol Free Wipes 4
Burn dressings 1
Burn gels 4
Small Conforming Bandage 5 centimeter (2.0 in) X 4.5M 1
Large Conforming Bandage 75 centimeter (2.0 in) X 4.5m 1
Cotton WOW Bandage 1
Finger Bandage 1
Gloves (pair) 2
Guidance leaflet 1
Non Adherent dressings 3
Saline mini pod 6


If you require exposure equipment then add a few foil blankets
Expand the basic kit by adding to it as required e.g.

Crush injuries more likely add additional large bandages
Finger injuries more likely add finger bobs and stalls
Small cuts and grazes add more cleaning wipes and plasters.


If you require food safe equipment please ensure you purchase the correct types

In Britain for example foodsafe plasters are blue and have metal in them to make them easier to spot/detect via x-ray and prevent entering the food chain


With anti-allergen equipment again please ensure that you purchase the correct type
If eye injuries are likely invest in an eyewash kit.

It is recommended that different sizes of eyewash solution be provided,


To clean up biological equipment invest in body fluid kits e.g.

Absorbent powder 1
Apron 1
Bonded wipes 2
Disinfectant Spray 1
Disinfectant wipes 1
Disposable bag 1
Gloves (pair) 1
Oversleeves 1
Scraper 1
Consider the distance that will be between each kit you don't want one central kit that can take 10 minutes to retrieve, several smaller kits are better and will allow faster response



,