 If you’re trying self-hypnosis, you will need to know what affirmation your hypnosis script will include. In hypnosis, affirmations are the suggestions made to you while you are under. The point of an affirmation is that you making suggestions to yourself to change certain behaviours or ways of thinking. Some examples of affirmations suitable for self-hypnosis include:


I will not overreact when I get angry or frustrated.
I will eat more healthily.
I will be kinder to people.;
, Once you have decided on the key affirmations you want to build your recording around, you need to think about the larger structure of the script. Generally, you should try to build a self-hypnosis recording around the four key sections of hypnosis. These are the Induction Script, the Deepening Script, the Subject Script, and the Awakening Script.


A complete hypnosis recording will move through these elements in the above order.
The Subject Script is the part in which you will have your affirmations., This is the part of the hypnosis which helps relax you, and prepares for the deeper parts of hypnosis that follow. This script should be quite straightforward and uncomplicated. You can start by just saying something like “slowly close your eyes, and relax your scalp muscles.”


If you start the muscle relaxation at the scalp, you can progress on to the muscles at the back of your head, and then relax the muscles in your face.
Continue to work your way right down your body, all the way to your toes.Progressively relaxing muscles and breathing deeply will help you relax your body., The next step is the part of the hypnosis that will ease you into a deeper relaxation. In this section you should concentrate on progressively relaxing over time. You can use instructions that refer to time passing, such as “as each minute passes you feel more relaxed,” or “each breath brings you into a deeper state of relaxation.” You can also use visualisations to help your relaxation deepen.


One popular visualisation used in a deepening script is walking down a staircase.
You could say “imagine you are walking downstairs, with each step you take you are more relaxed.”You can use any visualisation that works for you, such as a descending elevator.
 Now you are at the central element of your hypnosis. The Subject Script is where you will introduce the affirmations and positive suggestions aimed at helping your change your behaviour and thinking. Always try to use positive suggestions, rather than ones that prohibit you from doing something.


If, for example, you wanted to cut down on your alcohol consumption, you could create a positive picture of yourself drinking less.
You might say something like “drinking makes you ill,” and then progress to something like “you are healthy and happy when you are sober.”, The next part of the script is designed to bring you back to full awareness. This normally includes a numerical count from one to five. The idea is that you progressively increase the energy in your body as you got through the count. To help achieve this, you can increase the energy in your voice as you say the numbers one, two, three, four and five.


If you are using hypnosis to help you go to sleep you will want to replace the awakening script with one that helps you go to sleep., These are the basic building-blocks for a self-hypnosis recording, which you can experiment with and customise to find what works best for you. If you are uncertain about how to start writing your own script, there are many examples that you can download online and use yourself.You can use these examples for inspiration, or you can record them word-for-word.
If you do use an example from the internet, be sure it comes from a reputable source and read through it carefully before you record it.
 You need to find a nice quiet and calm place to make your recording. If you are recording it on your computer, your bedroom could be ideal. Make sure you do it at a time of day when you will not be distracted and there is not noise coming from outside your room. To make a good recording you will need to be relaxed and in the right frame of mind.


Put aside plenty of time so you can relax before you turn the recording device on.
You have to be relaxed when you make the recording, if you want it to be relaxing when you listen back to it., One way to guarantee you will not be relaxed when you are trying to make the recording, is having faulty or unreliable equipment. Spend some time getting to grips with whatever recording device you are using before you get started. Do some practice runs where you record yourself talking normally until you are completely confident.
 Before you begin recording, read through the script from start to finish and think about your voice and delivery. It’s not just what you say that’s important, but how you say it. You will find it hard to relax if you are listening to a voice shouting at you to do so. Equally, your voice must be engaging enough that the images you create have an impact on you, and help you visualise the scenes.


Try using different dynamics in your voice, including slow quiet parts, and faster louder parts.
Experiment and try different things. There is no single way to make a good recording, it’s all about what works for you.
Try to engage with the content of the script as you say it. If you are describing a calm sea, try to picture that in your mind as you read it., When you are fully relaxed and prepared, start your recording. Try and get all the way through in one take on your first go. Concentrate on the words and the images you are creating. Try to be in the moment and really engage with the script you have prepared. Monitor the tone and speed of your voice, but let yourself be carried on the words as much as possible.
 Once you have made a complete recording listen back through it. You might want to listen through it a couple of times before you try to use it for hypnosis. It will probably take you a few attempts to get it sounding how you like, so expect to make multiple recordings. Try to learn something from each recording you make and you will get better and better.


Pay attention to how your voice sounds, and the tempo of you delivery.
Maybe you will need to speak a bit more animatedly, or perhaps more slowly.
 Once you have got the hang of the recording you might want to try and add some extra elements to complement your words. If you have some editing software on your computer, you could add some relaxing music to go along with the text. Feel free to experiment with different ideas and keep an open mind about what might work for you., Once you have made your recording and you are happy with it, it’s time to put it into use. Before you get started, make sure you are in a calm environment where you will not be disturbed. Your bedroom will typically be the best place, but you may choose another room if it is quieter.


Make sure you switch of all electronic devices that might interrupt your hypnosis, such as your phone or tablet.
You don’t need to sit in darkness, but you may find dimmer lights will help you to relax.
If you don’t want to fall asleep while you are listening to the recording, sit in a chair or sofa, rather than your bed.
 You should consider when to listen to your recording, as well as where to listen to it. The evening is generally a good time. Lots of people like to listen to a recording shortly before going to bed. This can help you relax before going to sleep.


It is perfectly fine to listen to your recording in the morning or afternoon, but it is generally harder to find a quiet and peaceful time during the day.
Feel free to experiment and try a few different times to see what works best for you., Once you have a safe, secure and relaxing environment you can listen to the tape and practice your self-hypnosis. Get into a comfortable position, perhaps leaning backwards in a reclining chair with your head well-supported. Put on your headphones, close your eyes, and just concentrate on listening to your recording.


Don’t try to force yourself into hypnosis.
Remember, there is no right or wrong way to enter hypnosis. Just try to relax and let yourself go.