 Ticks live outdoors and are very small. Unlike other bugs, they don’t just bite and leave. They embed themselves into the skin and continue to feed off their human host. They like small, hairy areas like: the scalp, behind the ear, in the armpit or groin, between fingers and toes. When checking for ticks, start in these areas, but check your whole body just to be sure., The tick must be removed from its human host. The person who has been bitten will likely need assistance from another person, especially if the tick is someplace hard to reach. Do not touch the tick with bare hands.If you are alone, nervous, unsure, or do not have the proper tools, go to a health care practitioner to have the tick removed. Unless a serious allergic reaction is involved, you do not need to go to the ER.
Grab the tick, by its mouth or head, with a pair of tweezers.
Grab the tick as close to the skin as you possibly can.
Do not squeeze the tick with the tweezers.
Pull up on the tick slowly and gently in a straight direction — do not twist.
Do not use things like: petroleum jelly, solvents, knives, or matches.
If the tick breaks apart, make sure to remove any remaining parts from the skin.
Do not discard the tick, even if it breaks apart.
 Yes, you should keep the tick temporarily. Because ticks can carry diseases like Lyme disease, you may wish to have the tick tested if you show signs of Lyme disease, or even if you don't. If it tests positive for anything, you may need additional medical treatment.Place the tick in a plastic baggie or small container (e.g. empty pill bottle, etc.).
If the tick is still alive, store it in the fridge for up to 10 days.If the tick is dead, store it in the freezer for up to 10 days.
If you aren’t able to submit the tick within 10 days, throw it out. Even frozen or refrigerated the tick won’t be viable for testing after 10 days.
 If the tick is embedded deep in the skin, or someone was only able to remove a portion of the tick, you’ll need to go to the doctor and have it removed. You should also go to your doctor if you have any of the symptoms of Lyme disease.The most common initial sign of Lyme disease is a bulls-eye pattern rash.
Other common symptoms of Lyme disease are: fatigue, fever or chills, headaches, spasms or weakness, numbness or tingling, swollen lymph nodes, and/or a skin rash.In more severe cases, the person may also experience: impaired cognitive function, nervous system disorders, arthritic symptoms, and/or an abnormal heartbeat.
 Use soap and water to wash the area of the tick bite. Apply some type of antiseptic to the area to disinfect the bite. You can use rubbing alcohol, hand sanitizer, etc. Make sure to wash your hands after you’ve completed this step., Testing is usually done by your local public health authority. Check with your heath department to see if testing is available in your area. The public health lab will start by checking what type of tick it is, as only some carry diseases. If the tick is of concern, they may then perform tests, or send it to a national lab for further tests.If you live in Canada in a province that does not have a provincial lab that tests ticks, you can submit the tick directly to the National Microbiology Laboratory (NML) for testing. Follow the instructions on the Government of Canada website to submit a tick to the NML.
If you live in the United States, each state’s public health department will have a procedure on how to submit a tick for testing. Check your state’s public health website for detailed instructions.If you show signs of infection but are still waiting on the results of the tick test, do not relay treatment, and remember that false negatives are possible, or you may even have been bitten by another tick and not be aware.

