 Select a drawer that you will no longer need--perhaps one from a dresser you plan to throw away (not give away to charity) or one that hold special meaning but is no longer functional.


Make sure the drawer is fully in tact and has no damage. Patch up any hanging nails or loose ends before using as a bulletin board.






Wipe the drawer using mild dish soap and warm water. If you are using a wooden drawer, consider using furniture or wood cleaner.






Depending on the drawer, you may want to paint or refurbish the drawer before using it as a bulletin board. For example you may want to update the knob at the top, remove the knob or painting the top and outside to match your room or office space.





;
, This includes corkboard/styrofoam board, contact or drawer lining paper.


Select durable paper for the liner. You will puncturing the paper with thumbtacks so you will want something that will withstand repeated punctures.
Consider painting your corkboard instead of covering it with paper. That way you won’t have to worry about puncturing paper and damaging it with thumb tacks.






Pick up heavy-duty glue such as liquid nails or Super Glue so that your corkboard is permanently stuck to the inside of the drawer.
 Before doing so, take measurements so you have a precise fit.

Use your ruler or measuring tape to map out the surface on the corkboard. Use a pen to draw lines where you should cut.






Use sharp sewing scissors to cut the corkboard shape. Don’t worry about pen marks, as you will be either covering the cork with paper or painting it. However, if you plan to use it in its “naked” state you can turn the cork over so the pen marks will be glued face down inside the drawer.
 Make sure you hit all the corners and the middle of the cork/styrofoam for full coverage.


Lay the drawer on a flat surface to join the cork to the inside of the drawer. Press down to make sure the cork adheres to the drawer and allow the drawer to sit on the flat surface for several hours while the glue dries.
 If you plan to paint, get our your acrylics and get creative! Be sure you give the cork enough time to dry before using. Also, because cork is porous, you may need to choose more vibrant colors and/or use a little more paint to make the colors pop.


Take cork measurements if you plan to use paper. You will want the paper to fully cover the cork so you will need to be precise with your measurements.






Cut paper using sharp sewing scissors for a clean edge and cover the back of the paper with glue. Don’t use too much glue to avoid having it bleed through. Carefully place the paper on top of the cork and press down. If you are using self-adhesive contact paper, peel off the backing and stick to the cork.
 You may need to use two wall hangers, especially if the drawer is heavy.


Use a level and a tape measure to find the top center of the drawer for hanging. Especially if you are using two wall hangers, you will need to be very careful about how you place and space your hangers on the back of the drawer.
