 There are a number of types available, here are a couple.


Hand Cranked Grinders. These are the cheapest, and are usually pretty sturdy apparatuses, but they require the user to turn the crank, which in turn spins an auger that feeds the meat into the cutter wheel. They commonly clamp to a table top, to free the user's hands up for other parts of the process. Usually can be completely disassembled for cleaning and blade replacement.
Stand-alone power grinders. These an electrically operated units which are plugged in to the outlet, and do the work for you.
Mixer attachment grinders. These are grinders which attach to the power head of large kitchen mixers like Hobart and KitchenAid products. They are very similar to hand type grinders, with a coupling to connect to the mixer, rather than a crank handle.;
, Since "perfect" sausage, or almost anything else, is an individual taste, the choice is up to the preparer, but here we will look at a common recipe for a mild, basic sausage. These are common meats for sausage preparation:


Boston Butt pork roast.
Pork shoulder.
,, If you open a jar of sage, and do not smell the pungent aroma immediately, either it is stale, or your nose is not working. These are some common spices and seasonings for a breakfast type sausage. The quantity should be appropriate to combine with 2 pounds of fresh meat.
 If you are using a table mounted hand grinder, you may want to place a chair underneath to set your bowl on.
 You will want to add the seasoning as you process the meat, since it is difficult to mix in thoroughly when the grinding is complete.
 Some grinders come with a "pestle" like wooded dowel for this, but in any case, never use your fingers to force the meat into the grinder's feed auger.
 If it is too coarse for your taste, you may have to run it through the grinder, or change to a smaller grinding blade. Some grinders come with a variety of blades, and the smaller the holes in the blade, the finer it will grind the meat.
 Feel for chunks of meat or tough tissues that did not grind well, and remove them to either discard or regrind.
 To store, you can layer the finished patties between sheets of wax paper, and either place in sealable freezer bags, or put in an airtight plastic container.
, You may experiment using some brown sugar, molasses, maple syrup, pieces of fruits like apple or pear, or any of a host of other ingredients.
,