 Drinking plenty of water each day can help to loosen up the mucus in the back of your throat. Water also helps to thin out the mucus and helps your body to flush it away. Drinking plenty of water also keeps your throat moist; when your throat becomes dry, it is more likely to become irritated and make you cough.Try to drink 8 to 12 glasses of water a day, though you should drink more if you are physically active.
 If you have allergies and are dealing with a chronic cough, you should thoroughly clean your house and room to remove any allergens that could be causing your cough. When are surrounded by allergens, your body produces more mucus, which in turn makes you cough more.


Bathe your pet every other day. Pets, especially those who are furry, can accumulate dust that can contribute to your allergies.
Clean your house at least once or twice a week.
Vacuum carpets and rugs once or twice a week.
Open your windows in the morning to let some fresh air into your house, but close them halfway through the day so that you can keep allergens out.
 Dry air can make your throat irritated. It can also dry out the mucus in your throat, which can irritate your throat further. If you live in a dry climate, install a vaporizer or humidifier in your room to keep the air more moist.Clean your humidifier every week to make sure that it is not blowing dust and other allergens into your room.
 Dairy products can make the mucus in your throat thicken, which in turn can make your cough worse. While dealing with your cough, try to avoid eating or drinking dairy products. You can resume consuming these dairy products after your cough clears up.Avoid products like:


Milk, cheese, half-and-half, yogurt, and ice cream.
 Cigarette smoke contains certain chemicals, like nicotine, that irritate the mucous membrane in your nose and throat. When the membrane becomes irritated, it produces more mucus, which in turn can cause a cough. To stop or avoid a chronic cough, quit smoking.


You should also try to avoid secondhand smoke, as it can have the same effect on your mucous membrane.
 When you sleep, mucus has a tendency to accumulate in the back of your throat, which can lead to a cough. When you elevate your head by propping it up with a pillow, the mucus drains out of your throat more easily.


Try to prop your head and shoulders up so that you are in an almost-sitting position. While this might not be the most comfortable way to sleep, it will help you to get rid of your cough.
 Wash all sheets, mattress covers and pillowcases with hot water. These fabrics often collect dust and other allergens when they are not washed often. Washing them will remove these allergens and thus will help to reduce the amount of mucus in your throat that is causing you to cough.

