 The first step in reducing social stigma around PTSD is to educate yourself. Once you've learned as much as you can and challenged your own beliefs, you can then begin to educate others and change their attitudes.Learn as much as you can about PTSD. Try to understand how this condition and its social stigma affect these individuals, as well as their family and friends.
Read about PTSD through medically-sound websites, such as the Mayo Clinic, the National Institute of Mental Health, or the Anxiety Disorders Association of America.
Understand what kind of trauma people with PTSD have experienced, and try to develop a deep sense of compassion for those individuals.
Recognize that anyone can develop PTSD. PTSD may form from life-changing events like military combat, but it can also develop after a car crash, an incidence of abuse, or any other traumatic event.;
, It's important to remember that there is no universal "face" of PTSD. Each person living with this condition has had different life experiences, and each person with PTSD deserves to be treated as a unique individual.


Even if you've known someone with PTSD in the past, that does not mean that you instantly understand the experiences of all individuals with PTSD.
Some people falsely see PTSD as a weakness or character flaw. Remember that each individual with PTSD has survived something devastating, and the ability to move on required great strength and bravery on their part., Many people show a lack of compassion for individuals with PTSD, with some even going so far as to blame them for their condition. Other individuals mean well, but instead of showing compassion they convey pity. Neither is fair to people with PTSD, as they deserve to be treated well and respected.


Never blame someone with PTSD for their condition, and never downplay the seriousness of that condition.
Don't rule someone out for a job because they have PTSD, but don't hire someone just because you feel bad for them.
Don't treat people with PTSD as invalids. Recognize that they are highly employable and are capable of being contributing members of society.
 Every person with PTSD has their own unique skill set in life. Many veterans living with PTSD also have specialized training that can make them highly valuable employees and leaders.See each person as a human with talents and ambitions.
 If you're serious about reducing the stigma of PTSD, you may be able to work directly with people who live with this condition. One way to help out is by contacting your local veteran's center to find out if there are any volunteer opportunities in your community. You can search online to find the center that's closest to you.