 There are many other attractions nearby, too. While it is within blocks of the New York State Capitol building and Governor's Mansion in Albany, you will also find, down the hall, an entrance to elevator that will lead you up to the 42nd floor observation deck of the Erastus Corning Tower (North) . This observation allows you to see for many miles including sights of the Northern portions of Albany and points North including Saratoga Springs and (if you look rather closely) parts of Schenectady to the West.

Alongside that, you also have several museums and planetariums in the nearby city of Schenectady, such as the smaller Schenectady Museum/miSci and planetarium (with several shows daily) .
You'll find a mess of AHL (Albany Devils) and college-league hockey and college basketball (and sometimes even the Harlem Globetrotters come) games at the Times Union Center, along with several opera and performing arts performances at The Egg - a good walk from the New York State Museum.
A little outside and a quite a drive away, you'll find the outer-banks of the Catskill Mountains and can enjoy sightseeing in the city of Troy. If you want more museums, there's also the National Baseball Hall of Fame about a good 50-60 minute drive away in Cooperstown, NY, or if you'd like to drive even further (3 1/2 hours), there's the The Strong - National Museum of Play in Rochester, where retired toys take center stage in a museum setting..
Near the New York State Museum, you'll also find the destroyer war ship called the USS Slater that you can go visit. While very few people go and visit it on a daily average, you can go there if you have money on you. They provide tours, but you should really ask ahead to ensure someone will be there to help you, as they have a very weird schedule of only being open for 6 hours for 5 days of the week (Wednesday thru Sunday).Albany is about 2+1/2 hours (by train) away from New York City and it's major sights. However, the Albany-Rensellaer Amtrak station (the only passenger train that departs for the city from here) is across the Hudson River in Rensellaer, NY and you'd have to take a taxi or other ride-sharing program (such as Lyft or Uber) to get to the train station where you'd be boarding an Empire Service line coach to New York City or surrounding areas just North of it. Albany's train station is a terminus of the Empire line heading South to New York City but is also a central connector for other lines coming from the North and West and in fact has two separate "buildings" where visitors "disembark" or load to/from their train. Travel to New York City by regular car may take more than 4-5 hours (depending on traffic).

;
, Most often, this museum is open Tuesday through Sunday 9:30am-5pm. However, it is closed on Mondays and for a few holidays, including Independence Day (July 4), Thanksgiving, Christmas Day (December 24) and New Years Day (January 1)., Although routes will vary if you don't like interstates, the New York State Museum is inside the New York State Cultural Education Center at 222 Madison Avenue, Albany, NY 12230., This state museum has two main parking areas (both labelled P3 on the North and P3 on the South).

Out of five total underground lots underneath "The Mall" from the arterial, P3 on both sides is set up for visitors. The other lots are set up for employees and an overflow lot for employees. You can get to this arterial route off of the US-Routes 9 & 20 exit off of Interstate 787 which can be accessed via Interstate 90 or from a little further away at the other end from the New York State Thruway (I-87). This parking lot is great on the weekends when parking is freeand rarely is ever crowded, but bad thing is: most often on the weekdays (when Congress is in session), these lots are closed to the public.
During these weekdays, take the arterial around the bend near S Swan Street and exit off of P1 South. P1 will look like it's another underground lot when you see it from the arterial, but this isn't the case. Follow that back out to Madison Ave. Take a right at this controlled traffic area on Madison Ave, past the light underneath the overpass that leads to the Cultural Education Center and the New York State Archives on your right and the Museum on your left until you get to the next traffic light. Turn left at that second light. Your parking lot will await you at that intersection. You'll still have to pay either $5 or $10 (dependant on the time you choose to enter) and this area isn't surrounded by an underground ceiling, but it shouldn't be all that well packed with other cars.)

Don't stop anywhere's in P1 South, unless an employee of the building or grounds tell you it's okay. There are signs prohibiting you from doing so in this section at any time, however you'll see cars that are doing so. These cars are the cars of the employees of the parking lot agents. However, this area is a one-way area and isn't wide enough to accommodate any more than one car through it at any one given time..


You can stand your car to unload passengers under the overpass near the Museum (near the traffic light), but don't attempt to park on the street near or at the traffic light. It's illegal to park there and you will be towed if you do! However, since you'd technically be coming from the other side and Madison Ave has oodles of cars crossing from the opposite direction, this can be a confusing mess to the first-time visitor. There's really no place to turn around to head back the other way until you venture around the area, don't try unloading any passengers coming from this side if you ride down Madison Ave while trying to get to the parking area.
 This walk may differ from the location of each of the parking areas that exist that you may/may not have come from for your visit.


If you are coming from underground "The Mall" parking lots, you will need to walk to the museum using the long footpath. There are murals and paintings and sculptures down the path, but there is tons of walking here. Grab your best walking sneakers if you choose to walk from this parking area/lot - there are rarely any motorized carts that can transport you to/from the Museum if you parked inside the underground level on a weekend day. Inside the parking lot, you'll need to go from the parking lot level up a few levels to the Mezzanine then walk the path which will lead you to stairs and a back entrance that will force you to take an escalator or elevator. One part of the hallway is wide, and you can sometimes hear an echo if you talk loud enough and if no one is talking nearby (this is essentially the hallway that is below Madison Ave and a fair compromise for having to walk across busy Madison Ave if you end up being accepted in). Then take the elevator or escalators back up to the first floor and you'll arrive at the Museum's back entrance from behind the Information Desk.
If you are coming from the Madison Ave Lot, you'll see the building directly in front of you as the white building and you won't have to cross the busy S Swan Street to get to the other side. The side with all three-four hanging signs is the side you'll want to be on and the side where the Museum is located at.
 This museum is focused on two floors. While most museum-goers take in the first floor, don't miss the fourth floor gallery with the free New York State Museum Carousel, too. There's a tiny cafeteria on the 3rd floor if you can take the escalators, but the elevators won't stop on the third floor with you in it., As you arrive, you'll walk into the building and see the rather expansive Information Desk. Once you walk in, you'll initially see one entrance on your left and one entrance on your right. Towards the back of this, you'll initially see escalators that take you up to alternate levels as well as a walkway to a pair of elevators that can take you up, along with leading you to a walkway to where you'll find the restrooms that can take you in, as well., This museum is divided into several different sections with one center imaginary ring that is U-shaped. Yes, it's got its West Gallery which features an art gallery and Huxley Theater if you go through the one entrance. If you go through the entrance near the Museum Gift Shop (how this guide was set-up), you'll see the "(New York State) Museum Shop" at first glance and, after turning the corner, the Fire Engine Hall and World Trade Center areas. The Museum calls these sections Fire Engine Hall, New York Metropolis, Gallery Space, Native Peoples of New York, Adirondack Wilderness and more gallery space towards the end.

If you'd like to bypass the Native Peoples area and Gallery Space East, you can cut through the Birds of New York (yet another section designated on the printed map altogether) area that will allow you to get out and move around the New York Metropolis area. However, the Native Peoples area is well worth a visit to get a really accurate picture of what New York State's Native Peoples exhibit really means to New York State. Unless the Museum is planning to close within an hour or hour and a half, try to stop by there.
The big Gallery Space near the back changes rather seasonally. However, there are a few items that never change, such as the Mastodon's location (as you'll learn about a little later).
 Although much larger years ago, this area houses eleven historical fire engines, one fire-related item and one 1999 Ford-branded ambulance that was used in New York City shortly after 9/11/2001. Although you'll have to pass into the New York Metropolis area in back of the World Trade Center exhibit to get there at first, it's actually marked as being it's own separate area on the map. It's large and filled with older historical-licensed ambulances and fire engines galore (including one ambulette that was given to the Museum in 2001 following the loss of the World Trade Center), but it does have several older style fire engines from the 1800s onwards.


There are multiple fire engines being viewed here dating as far back as a 1791 Tub and a 1875 Parade Carriage., Whether it's the large piece of steel that was pulled from the rubble at the former World Trade Center, or one of the many other pieces, this is an interesting place to obtain information on this horrible tragedy that killed multiple thousands of people on that horrific day of September 11, 2001.
,, The Museum was able to obtain 2 pews and has been on display since 2015.

On signs in the area, you'll find note about fencing that was given to the Museum, and although years ago it existed, the fencing can now no longer be found to the average visitor.
 Such things include name badges, keys, door plaques, and much, much more., This area is diverse and takes up the majority of your time in this Museum.
 You'll have to either go up several stairs, of if you can signal a Museum employee for help, they can help you up an small personal elevator to and from this Subway train.

Read some of the many New York City subway-affiliated motif on the wall nearest the subway car on display. or one of many other similar train and subway information placards on the walls (including a copy of the Subway maps as they appeared in the 1970s and 1980s).
Imagine yourself rocking to-and-fro from the handholds of the Subway car as the car turned a corner in New York City at the city's slightly-slower (but still high) speeds banking around a curb.
, Here, you'll find the neighborhood near where the Robinson family sometimes entered and exited as well as where Oscar and his trashcan is. However, this area is barricaded off. Look at the TV where it is showing a video montage of information relating to the show.

Although you can see this area from the top of the steps of the Subway car, it is best you see this up-close for the full feeling of the exhibit.
 Although it is still on display, there is no longer a placard denoting it's use nor is it inuse as it once was (a Museum employee used to get in and operate the elevator).,,,,,,, Though not too popular a place for pictures or a selfie, it is a spot where some folks actually take pictures. If you've passed the Crossroads Gallery or the Birds of New York exhibits, you've gone too far.,, This is often an important stopping place for some., However, this section is tricky to find and some of this is set back in from the main path, it's sometimes impossible to find the way in to view it., Although this changes often, as of July 2017, this area was devoted to Ice Ages and artifacts/bones from this time period. However, this area has no sign calling it the "Crossroads Gallery". It does have signage to the gallery type on display at the time you pass through.


If you come across the Woolly Mammoth in your trek' (although there's no chance of missing this dino'), you've gone too far! There is one bench near the Mammoth, but several people walk past him and admire his reasoning on this Earth.
 If not, you can pass through and see the Cohoes Mastodon. This area changes seasonally. As of June 6, 2017, there's a new "Ancient Life of New York" gallery in this area, but it's only under renovation right now with no anticipated date of re-opening announced just yet.


As you walk past, you can pass by Birds of New York on your right, as well as the Fossils exhibit, and if you look way off into the distance, you can also spot Discovery Place on the other side. However, you might not be able to see it with the pillars and signage in the way from the Birds of New York section.
 You will more likely encounter the Woolly Mammoth area (if you came in from the East entrance near the Adirondack Wilderness section, the effects of the Wooly mammoth will increase tenfold for a small child and can sometimes be overpowering enough to scare them gratefully, however, they can sometimes be reassured that there's a glass separating them and be ultimately reassured that the Mammoth is dead and is stuffed now).
 Go inside if you'd like and listen to the traditional story ceremony that is told at the one head of the longhouse.




As signs say, do not place or climb onto the beds outside the enclosed space. Doing so may make the longhouse topple over and down.
, This area contains stuffed birds of New York, including the cardinal, blue jay, bluebird, house wren, orioles and many others. If you walk towards the area called Fossils, you've walked in the wrong direction and have to retreat back the other way.


There are plenty of large benches to sit down on in this area, but you will still have a little more to go, if you'd like to experience all there is to see and do at this museum.
 Although there are two entrances in the Birds of New York section, head back in the direction of the Native Peoples exhibit, but pass into the Adirondack Wilderness section as this section will also enter you into.
,

Look at the various walls worth of minerals found in New York state in the Minerals of New York section of the Adirondack Wilderness section.
 You can look at things such as their moose or deer that they have there.,, It features some signs that were used as remembrances of family members that became deceased or were thought to have been deceased following the September 11th, 2001 attack. However, in respect to those who died, try not to photograph the inside of this trailer.,, It can be found near the entrance to Birds of New York., Inside Adirondack Wilderness (behind your back when facing the Elk Pond), you'll also find an area devoted to logging. (If you'd like to donate paper cash instead, you'll find a special box for this near the Information Desk in the Main Lobby.), This is often a place to find an amateur photographer (or photographer-to-be) taking a selfie or a group shot of people. Historical markers like the one you see inside the museum called State Land dote the landscape of New York when the area has some historical significance.

Take a few seconds to look into the "Prehistoric Wilderness" section to the right of the Elk Pond.
 It seems like it's always closed; it's got a curtain up to prevent people from entering and it just isn't something people will want to visit (if they get in)., Here you'll find an area devoted to kids' play activities including a huge Checkers mat with large Checkers pieces.
 Although in May the West Gallery is free to Bank of America debit card-holders, it can easily be passed up if you don't like art very much.
 Keep the Museum Shop in mind for later, if you plan on going up to the 4th floor gallery as well. The Museum Shop is small, but contains quite a lot of items in a lot of different travel-oriented categories. Prices a tad on the expensive side, but the quality of the products will differ over the time the museum thinks the product will need to last.
 There is a bank of three elevators in the center alcove behind the main lobby's Information Desk. However, if you desire more space and can tolerate going up an escalator a flight or two, you will find an additional three elevators starting on the third floor.

On the third floor, you'll find a rather small cafeteria where you may eat. However, the selection of snacks they serve here are rather limited.
 Take a right off the elevator and walk straight back. If you pass by 1931 Pierce Arrow/Hansom Cab and the Plow/Wall Street area, you'd be going the right way to get there.

Rides on the New York State Museum Carousel are free but you can donate if you'd like. Donating is easy and they do take in and use every dollar you give to them to improve in exhibits and gallery space. Most people feel like after they've gotten off, most people want to ride again (and again and again). As a general rule of thumb, rides begin boarding every eight minutes, but you can ask the Carousel attendant and they'll tell you how long you'll need to wait to board.
There are signs near the Carousel that people weighing less than 225 pounds are allowed to sit on a horse. However, they do have stationery "carriages" that have no weight limit.
According to one of the signs on one of the walls, there is only one word on the whole entire carousel. It will be on one of the stationery carriages. While this should be easy to spot, see if you can find out what it is and spot it.

Think "son of Greek goddess" (Neptune) when looking around to find it.


Look out the window as the Carousel circles around and around and around again. You can see gorgeous views of the City of Albany, including The Egg and several other nearby popular venues.
If you walk and arrive at the Reception Desk (with a museum security guard), you've gone the opposite way to get there and you must pass through the elevator area walking back the opposite way.
 There's a whale scull, sailplane, and 1932 Packard, as well as a Conservation Department plane down one side. Down the other, there's Wall Street (including an old-styled) Automat Machine (from Hand & Hardart) and a Plow blade. Near the elevators, you'll find a 1931 Pierce Arrow car as well as the Hansom cab (horse-drawn carriage meant to be used as a taxi).

While the Wall Street area may seem to be a great place to take a picture when you see what types of museum pieces it has, it's got improper lighting and some additional wall-pillars that destroy the effects of the area.
Throughout the 4th floor exhibits you'll see some international flags that are flying. You can take a picture of these, but these aren't the best pieces on display on this floor's gallery space.
 (It's tail number is N397R8)., They might not be too major in the museum, but they shouldn't be missed either.

There used to be a Subway Sandwich Shop on the fourth floor (later replaced by a "Salamanca Back Bar" but now this whole entire area is quartered off by large colored-tall screens and this dining area no longer exists.)

,