 Meeting others that are excited about the field of marine biology will acclimate you to those that you'd be likely to work with. Also, it will help you build a network of contacts that could tell you about job openings. Then, find workshops or conventions in your area by talking to universities that offer marine biology as a major. You can also find research facilities in your area and inquire about upcoming workshops there.Some of the biggest international marine biology organizations include, the Association for the Sciences of Limnology and Oceanography (ASLO), the International Collective in Support of Fishworkers, and the International Whaling Commission
Some of the most popular marine biology organizations that have chapters across the U.S. include, the American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS), the National Association of Marine Laboratories (NAML), and The Oceanography Society., Search for jobs based on the experience you've already gained in marine biology. Because the term is so loosely defined, finding a job in "marine biology" may be difficult. Instead, specify your experience and look for jobs that you've done before. Consider any internships or hands-on experience you've had. There are a number of different jobs that are available to marine biologists in a number of different environments.


Jobs include titles like biological technician, ichthyologist, fishery biologist, marine mammalogist, microbiologist, systems analyst, mathematician, physicist, hydrologist, or physical oceanographer.Many marine biology jobs may require you to relocate. Keep this in mind while you're on your job search and expand your filters to accommodate the lack of positions readily available.
Some of the most popular places for marine biology include, Hawaii, California, Washington, Florida, and Maryland., If you've gone for your graduate or doctorate, then there's a good chance you've worked with people that are actively involved in the marine biology industry. Talk to former mentors and ask them if any job openings are currently available. While they may not always be able to land you a job, it is possible that they can connect you to the right people.


You can write an email or give them a call on the phone.
Say something like, "Hey Professor Xavier, I've just completed my master's degree in marine conservation and was wondering if The Association for Dolphin Preservation was looking for someone to work with the marine life."

