 Often when kids drink, they end up binge drinking because they are trying to feel the effects of the alcohol, but don’t realize just how, when, or how hard the drinking will effect them. By the time they are ‘feeling the buzz’, they may already be close to the point of alcohol poisoning. Explain to the kids what binge drinking is and how it can harm them.For instance, you may want to say, “Binge drinking is when you drink a lot of alcohol at one time. It can cause serious problems, including death in some cases.”

, Sometimes, older kids may find themselves in a situation where alcohol is or will be present. This may also, unfortunately, be true for younger kids, as well. When you talk to kids about alcohol, make sure you talk about underage drinking and how to deal with it if and when alcohol is present in a situation.For example, you could tell them, “You can always leave any situation if you feel uncomfortable, whether its because of alcohol or anything else.”
Or, you might say, “In situations like parties, you should always make your own beverage and keep it with you. You can also cover your cup with a napkin and stick a straw through it to make sure no one ‘spikes’ your drink.”

, Kids often give into peer pressure to do things like drink before the legal age because they aren’t sure how to say ‘no’. When you discuss underage drinking, also take the time to give the kids some examples of how to turn down alcohol. The more practice they have saying ‘no’, the easier it will be for them to do if and when the situation actually occurs.For example, you could role play various situations with the kids saying things like, “No, I’m not thirsty,” “I don’t like the taste”, or “I don’t drink.”
You can also encourage your kid to keep a bottle of soda or water with them at parties. Other kids will be less likely to offer a drink to someone who already has one, and if they do, your kid can always say, "I already have a drink."Present the kids with different scenarios. For example, you might role play someone offering them a sip of a wine cooler or even, a friend trying to force them to drink.
 Although you may have already talked to the kids about the effects alcohol can have on a person in general, you should also talk to them specifically about the ways it can harm kids. Understanding how it can impact them may help them think twice about underage thinking.For instance, you might explain that it takes less alcohol to poison a kid than it does an adult.
Or, you might talk about the effects drinking can have on kids’ grades and social life. For example, “Underage drinking can interfere with you making good grades. Some people might decide not to hang out with you if you’re drinking, too.”

, It’s important to talk to kids about how they can avoid underage drinking and to build up their confidence in handling situations with alcohol. It’s also important, though, to discuss what kids should do if someone they know is participating in underage drinking. Knowing when and how to get help for a peer that is drinking can help the kids cope with the situation and may help a kid with an alcohol problem.Let the kids know that they can talk to their teacher, coach, parents, or other adult they trust. For example, you might tell them, “You can always talk to Coach if you think a teammate is drinking.”
Explain that this isn’t snitching or being a tattletale. You could say, “When you tell an adult, you aren’t trying to get your friend in trouble. Even if they get upset, when you tell an adult, you’re helping your friend.”
Tell them that they can tell the adult something like, “My friend was drinking beer at a party. Even though it was the first time he did it, it has me worried. Can you help me?"

