 Many unnecessary challenges and problems you may face can easily be resolved through effective communication. As with any relationship, these tactics will work best if everyone benefits from the agreed resolution while understanding each other's expectations. Communication is important here so that the grandparents understand what is expected of them.

There is no easy solution. You need to work with the grandparents to identify possible solutions to current or potential issues together.
Both the parents and grandparents can be involved with telling the children about these rules or solutions. Allowing children to be involved will encourage them to learn how to work as a family unit effectively and respectfully. It may help prevent any future miscommunication between family members.
Your children come first, which means that you should be placing the child's needs first. Put any minor parental irritations or annoyances aside. Work out any arrangements so that everyone will be able to identify some benefit from the solution.
 Since it can be easy for grandparents to forget new guidelines and slip back into old ways of doing things, your job is to carefully watch them with your child to verify that they are following updated policy. This also goes for any other caretakers such as other relatives or daycare centers.If you notice a rule being broken, don’t overlook it. Correct the grandparent as soon as possible by saying, “No, Mom, remember there doesn’t need to be any stuffed animals in the crib when you put the baby down. Let’s remove that. It poses a safety hazard.”

, If you consistently spot grandparents making mistakes while caring for your child, or they seem resistant to following new guidelines, it may be in your best interest to delay having them act as caretakers until your child is older. That way, you can minimize any incidents, and give yourself greater peace of mind.
 Make sure your parents or in-laws know how much you appreciate their love and care for your child. Grandparents usually want to spend time with their grandchildren, but they need to feel appreciated, too. When you give them positive feedback, they’ll be more likely to continue helping you out and following the appropriate guidelines.For example, when you spot your Dad placing the car seat towards the rear, you might praise him by saying, “Great job, Dad! You caught on so quickly with these new car seat rules. I feel great leaving Caroline in your care.”

, It may not be possible to keep your household rules completely consistent between your house and Grandma’s house. Decide which issues are most important to you, and be willing to let smaller inconsistencies go without a fight.For instance, you might insist that your parents not give your daughter candy, but you might decide to overlook it if they let her stay up past her bedtime. However, rules that pertain to health or safety hazards should be consistent across environments.
Tell your kids that the rules at their grandparents’ house are a little different from the regular rules. That way, they’ll understand that things like sleeping in and watching movies are special treats they shouldn’t expect at home.
 You might bristle at the thought of letting someone else tell you how to raise your children, but grandparents have years of experience and hard-won wisdom about bringing up kids. When your kids’ grandparents give you advice, listen. Of course, you have the final say in parenting decisions – but you might gain a valuable new perspective from hearing them out.While some advice may be helpful, never negotiate on rules that you have set forth that compromise the safety of your child or your own parenting values. If you continually get unsolicited advice, simply say, “Thanks, Mom, but we’ve decided on how we’re going to handle this situation. I’d appreciate it if you could show your support of our choices. “

