 Are you training to be a professional dancer? Are you trying to lose weight? Are you dancing for fun? It is important that if you are serious about dance that you don't get stuck in recreation oriented classes. At the same time, joining a difficult class if that isn't what you want can lessen your enjoyment. Also, people who start dance just to lose weight often end up disliking the class. If all you want to do is lose weight instead of dancing because you like to, reconsider your choices.;
, Many excellent dancers do not make good teachers. Your teacher does not need to be a great dancer, but needs to be knowledgeable enough to be able to instruct people with different body-types, abilities, and learning styles. A teacher with an impressive dance resume may not know how to describe movement for children or beginners.
 See what they have to say about the dance studios. Dancers have usually attended more than one dance studio in their lives, if they've been dancing since they were young, and they will probably have a suggestion. They will know who to avoid, too.
 Do you want to be able to walk there? Is driving for 30 minutes going to be okay? Is there a convenient train or bus?

, Do not be upset if visitors are not allowed, though, as this can disrupt class. Some studios offer 'open classes' designed to give future students a feel for the rigor of the instruction. Be wary of these; they are usually stiff and nerve-wracking and can give students the wrong impression of a studio. You won't really be able to judge whether you like or dislike the studio until your child has taken a few classes with a few different teachers. Teachers should give positive reinforcements to students and be able to point out muscle alignments to improve technique. It is normal for schools to use older students to demonstrate to help train the younger ones.
 Depending on your goals (fun, improvement...) you may not be willing to alter your schedule a lot to include classes. Be sure you explain to the owner of the studio when you could take class, as well as your skill level and the level of intensity you are considering. He or she will probably have a schedule, but the names of the classes can be confusing. Sometimes intermediate classes are classified as advanced, just to separate them from an even more intermediate class. Also, Intensive options are often offered, which can be confusing as well.
 Usually, you can participate in a class without paying if you ask. Don't be put off by the exterior of dance studios. Usually, the outsides are really, really trashy, but often the inside will be brightly painted and welcoming. Even if the inside is trashy, don't assume the instruction will be bad. Some of the best studios invest as much as they can in making an excellent program instead of a pretty waiting area.
 If you want individual attention, don't go to a school with 15-20 dancers. If you don't want a lot of attention, which would actually be bad, go to one with 15+ dancers.
 Do they charge a little extra each month for costumes, or charge separately? Do your research and figure out what would be a reasonable price to pay.
, Do the teachers use calm voices when teaching, or do you hear yelling? Watch the little ones, do they look like they like being there, this is a good indicator of how happy any age dancer will be there!

