 You can find some monologues through multiple channels:


Internet. Look for some monologues using keywords, such as contemporary or classical, female or male. If you want to be more specific, you can search with an age range too.
Plays. If you like any particular plays, you can use the internet to search for monologues for these plays, or you can find a monologue yourself just by looking in the script for the play.;
, Read each monologue to see whether you like it. If you do, great, move on to the next step. However, if you do not like the monologue chosen, then your performance isn't going to be great, so keep looking until you have found one you like.
 Reading the play will help with your performance when it comes to the audition. The more you read of it, the more in-depth your character becomes, and you will find this a lot more easier to play rather than not knowing your character at all.
 Read the monologue aloud for a while, whilst moving around. This is the starting point to your performance, and this will help you get the sense of the text.
 Once you have done the above step, try to incorporate movement into the monologue. This doesn't mean what you did in the previous step when you could just walk around, this time you have to see if you can dig deeper into the monologue and see if you can choreograph some movements into each word or sentence you say.
 Now try to say the first sentence and the movement that goes with it, without the monologue. This may be hard at first, but keep trying until you have it.
 Remember to keep repeating the 'Movement' step and 'Start Memorizing' step until you can remember the first line. Then, keep doing this for each small section.
 Once you can remember at least half of the monologue, start the monologue from the beginning without the text in front of you, and keep going until you have gone as far as you remember.
 Too much can make matters worse for you. Once you have had a break - perhaps by playing a game or focusing on something else - repeat the above step, to ensure that you still have the previous parts memorized.
 Now continue memorizing each section using each step above in the 'Memorizing Your Monologue' part until you can remember the whole monologue with the movement, feeling, and without the text in front of you. Every day, keep rehearsing your monologue until audition day comes.
 Once audition day is here, make sure you are completely prepared. Don't feel scared, or nervous, and certainly don't talk to too many people who are auditioning for the same part as you. (An exception to this 'rule' would be if you are auditioning for something like The National Youth Theatre, as teamwork is essential).

