 It should be long enough that when you hold the top edge of the board, it comes to the middle of your upper arm. The board should also be wide enough that your arms are extended straight out from the shoulder.


Some kick boards come with holes in the sides for holding. These are useful for beginners but are not a long term option, as holding the board on the sides should only occur when first learning, as the correct position is to hold the board from the top.;
, Hold on to the bar at the sides of the pool, and then push your body upwards, it should float easily.
 Before you learn to swim with a board, or even simply swim, you have to learn how to kick properly. Practice kicking techniques by holding on to the edge of the pool for support, stretching yourself out to float on the water (see first step) and kicking in the water. Try to kick so as to keep your feet under the water––breaking through to the surface makes for a less efficient kicking motion.


Keep your legs straight and don't bend your knees.
if you have no swimming experience at all, then use the shallow end of the pool.
 Once you're confident with floating and kicking, it's time to let go of the wall and start using the kick board to propel yourself around the water., As you gain experience, you will be able to put your palms on top of the board and simply press down lightly to bring your hips up into the proper horizontal position. This latter position is the correct way to hold a kick board but it's not always easy for beginners, so holding the sides will reassure you to start with.


In time, when you are used to the kick board and swimming with it, shift to holding onto it from the top edge.
 Your elbows should rest on the board for support. Rest your face in the water between your arms.
 All you have to do is lay on your belly, and float.
 Do a little push off to get you started. It is good practice to get used to keeping your face in the water and moving your face to your left or right to take a breath.


When you need to breathe, turn your head to one side so that your mouth is out of the water. Lifting straight up is harder on your neck.
 Obviously you have to kick to get moving. Try these different ways to kick:


Traditional butterfly kick






Breast stroke kick (frog style)






Caterpillar kick






Back kick






Side kick






You can try these out after getting the hang of the basics!



, Changing the kicks and styles will also help to prevent boredom. Keep making use of the kick board when swimming and training––even the elite swimmers make use of kick board swimming as part of their training routine.

