 If you’re going to pay for a background check, gather as much information as you can about the annulment and the parties to it. Internet background checks are done by algorithm and not by a human, so they show a lot of false positives—flagging different people with similar names as the same person. Knowing details about addresses, dates of birth, employment, or criminal history can be helpful in removing the false positives.
 Internet background checks are usually cheaper than private investigators, but have their disadvantages. Both can tell you if a court record for an annulment exists and where the record is located, but you’ll have to weigh the pros and cons of obtaining additional information.


Although some internet background check companies have better reputations than others, all of them show some false and incomplete information. In addition, an internet background check might not tell you that an annulment was filed in a county, just that a case was opened in that county. In addition, if you want an actual copy of the court judgment, you’ll still have to go through the clerk of court to get it.You can hire a private investigator to run what’s called a “skip trace” on the person you’re looking for. “Skip tracing” just means locating (tracing) a person (who skipped town). In this case you’d be looking for the whereabouts of a person when they got an annulment. Private investigators typically have access to more powerful search tools than internet background checks do, and they’ll be able to procure a copy of the actual judgment., If you’ve decided to go with a private investigator, hand over any information about the annulment you’ve been able to find, and then wait for them to complete their investigation. If you’ve gone with an Internet based service, run your search.


In an internet search, cross reference any positive matches you get against the information you’ve already gleaned about the parties to the annulment for accuracy. For example, if you find a record of the right name in the right place, make sure family members and the date of birth also match.
Make sure you monitor your credit cards after running a background check. Background check companies are notorious for adding reoccurring monthly charges to a person’s bill. Make sure you’re only paying for what you want to pay for.

