 The bowl will need to be large enough to submerge all of the chicken you are cooking, but also able to fit into your refrigerator. Fill the bowl with enough water to cover the chicken completely. Consider using warm water as you will be dissolving some solids into solution., All brine contains salt, as it is necessary to force the water into the meat's cells. The amount of salt used can vary greatly, but start by adding 3/4 cup of kosher salt per gallon of water (46 ml of salt per liter of water). Stir the salt into the water to dissolve it.
 Sugar, while not required in a brine, is a useful ingredient to brown the skin. Adding sugar to a brine will increase the amount of caramelization achieved when cooking the chicken, regardless of cooking method. Try adding the same amount of sugar as salt. You can use any type of sugar, including white, brown, turbinado, or even molasses or honey. Stir the water to dissolve the sugar.
 You can also add other ingredients to your brine to season the chicken. Peppercorns, fresh herbs, and fruit juices are all options for seasoning a brine. Some great ingredients to mix and match include:


Add aromatics such as: 2-4 cloves of garlic (crushed with a knife), bay leaves, a handful thyme, sage, or rosemary sprigs, 2-3 tablespoons uncracked peppercorns, parsley, juice from 1-2 large lemons or oranges, bay leaves, or 1-2 tablespoons of mustard, cumin, or coriander seeds.Beer and Tyme Brine: Mix 4 12-ounce cans beer (lager, like Budweiser), 1 cup kosher salt, 3/4 cup light-brown sugar, Small handful of thyme sprigs, 5 bay leaves, 1 tablespoon cracked black pepper, and 6 cups ice in a large saucepot.

Rosemary Lemon Brine: 1 small onion, thinly sliced, 4 garlic cloves, smashed with the flat side of a knife, 1 teaspoon vegetable oil, 1 cup Kosher salt, 5 or 6 branches rosemary, 1 liter water, juice of 1 lemon.
 Otherwise, the flavors won't penetrate the chicken. Add all ingredients (salt, sugar, water, seasonings etc) and bring to a boil for approximately 1 minute. Allow to cool completely before moving on.
 Make sure that the chicken is fully submerged in the brine. You can use a brine for either a whole chicken or for smaller pieces of chicken; the process is the same either way.
 Place the entire bowl into the refrigerator, covering it with plastic wrap. Let the chicken soak in the brining solution for several hours. For small pieces, 1 or 2 hours is sufficient, while 8 to12 hours is ideal for a whole chicken. If you can't spare that much time, a brine will still impart flavor and improve tenderness if used for only a short period of time, at least 2 hours.Never brine chicken at room temperature, as this can lead to bacteria growth.
 Take the chicken out of the brining solution and pat off the excess water before cooking. Dispose of the brining solution by pouring it down the drain.

