 If you are having a hard time getting through an assigned book, consider using a study aid to help you get through the book. This may help you understand complex topics and actually learn to enjoy the book.


Most major works of literature have study aids. These have annotated comments that can explain difficult sections of the book.
Talk to your instructor or boss if you’re having a difficult time. She may be able to suggest effective ways to read the book.
 If you don’t enjoy reading and realize that you have required reading for school or work, accept it and develop a plan to tackle the assignment. This will help you figure out how to strategically get through the activity.Allot to each section of the reading a specified amount of time so that you don’t get mired on one part of it.For example, you’ll probably want to spend more time on the introduction and conclusion than the body of a text.
Make sure to schedule breaks for yourself to refresh your brain and recharge yourself., It is never too early to start required reading. This can minimize your stress and help you retain information.You can read for 20-30 minutes a day to help you get through the text in a more effective manner.
 Working with smaller and more manageable sections can help you get through your required reading. This will ensure that you address every section of the reading, even if it’s not enjoyable.Before you start, skim the entire text to get a basic idea of what it is about. This can help you from getting lost or confused by the work.Pace yourself: allow yourself no more than an allotted time for each section. This may help motivate you to get through the text., People who have to read a lot of texts, such as academics, employ strategies to quickly “gut”—or get the most important information—reading assignments. Learning how to gut can help you more effectively and enjoyably get through the tedium of required reading.The most important sections of any text are the introduction and the conclusion. Make sure to read these thoroughly and then skim through the remainder of the text for important details.
The first and last sentences of paragraphs usually offer previews of the paragraph's argument.
Sidebars, text boxes, and summaries in textbooks often condense the most important information. Always read these.
 Reading aloud can be especially helpful for texts such as plays and poetry. Plays were written to be performed, and it could make that Shakespeare play a lot more accessible to hear what the words sound like, rather than just reading them on the page. Similarly, reading poetry aloud, paying attention to line breaks and punctuation, can help you discover things about the text that you wouldn't if you read it silently., If you’re reading required texts, you’ll likely need to recall the information at a later juncture. By taking notes as you read, you will construct a built-in aid for when you need to recall what you’ve read.


Taking notes is a delicate balancing act between getting too little and too much information. You don’t want to write down everything you read, just the most relevant information. For example, if you are in finance you may want to focus on important figures instead of facts. Conversely, if you are reading a historical text, you’ll need to know the significance of events instead of details.
Take notes by hand. Studies have shown that people learn more by writing notes instead of typing them in to a computer or recording them on a device., If you are in a team or a class where everyone is reading the same required text, break down the reading among several people. Make sure to take notes and then have every person exchange what they’ve written. This may help you avoid having to read too much.


Reading groups with colleagues or classmates can be very helpful in effectively tackling reading assignments. Every person has different strengths with learning and material you may not understand someone else likely will.

