 Pimples do not occur because your face isn’t clean, but keeping your face clean can decrease the amount of sebum (oil) and cell debris — some root causes of pimples. Make sure you wash in the morning and before bed and after any periods of heavy sweating.Take a bath or shower once a day, and if you sweat a lot, consider taking a shower afterwards.
 Look for a cleanser labeled as “non-comedogenic.” Because these products will not clog your pores, they should not promote the formation of acne — blackheads, whiteheads or pimples.


There are many store-brand products that are non-comedogenic but you will need to read the label to be certain.
Use alcohol-free products. Alcohol dries, irritates and can damage the skin because it strips off the natural oils.
It is recommended that you be gentle with your skin. Don’t use astringents, toners and exfoliants that irritate your skin. Chemical exfoliants such as salicylic acid (beta hydroxy acid) and alpha hydroxy acid chemically detach the dead and dying skin cells, but these can be drying and irritating as well., Do not scrub. This can cause permanent scarring and the skin will take longer to heal. Vigorous exfoliation often does more harm than good.


Exfoliation can cause micro-scarring, obvious scarring, and it can often make acne worse.
Don’t use a washcloth or a sponge, as this can irritate the skin and cause even more problems.
Don’t pick, pop, squeeze, or touch blackheads.This can also cause flare-ups, cause scarring, and will cause a longer healing time.
 Sun (and tanning beds) can damage your skin cells with UVB radiation.Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, daily. If you are active then you will want to use a water-resistant sunscreen.
Some specific acne medications or certain other types of medication can make your skin even more sensitive to the sun. This is called photosensitivity of the skin and you should talk to your doctor about this side effect. These drugs include antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim); antihistamines (diphenhydramine); drugs used to treat cancer (5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine); heart drugs (amiodorone, nifedipine, quinidine and ditiazem); non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) like naproxen; and the acne medications isotretinoin (Accutane), and acitretin (Soriatane).

