 Your pet finch needs to stretch its wings every day. Flying time is important for both their physical and mental health. Let your finch out in a closed area such as a living room or office for at least an hour every day so that it can fly around. Just be sure that all openings out of the room and harmful obstructions are closed or covered.Close all windows and doors. This is the best way to keep your finch from escaping. Make sure all openings that could lead out of the room, and especially those that lead outside, are closed.Cover windows with curtains or blinds and mirrors with a towel or sheet to keep your finch from mistakenly flying into the glass.
Turn off all fans and small appliances such as stoves or lamps that may run hot. Also make sure to cover up or move chewing hazards such as cords and house plants while your bird is out. ;
, Finches are active, so giving them with some entertainment when they are out of their cage is a good idea. Cage-top and tabletop play gyms are available from most pet stores and bird speciality stores and can provide your finch with climbing, chewing, and flying activities all in a safe space., Finches like to keep clean, and their out-of-cage time is a great time to entertain them with a bath. Let your finch bathe itself in a shallow dish of tepid, clean water. They only need around one inch (2.5 cm) of water, and the dish should be heavy enough that your finch can’t flip it.Some finches also like being misted with cool water and preening. Try using a spray bottle of clean water and gently misting your finch, making sure to not get them too wet, if your bird doesn’t seem to enjoy bathtime.
 Finches love to fly even more than most birds. Even with daily fly time, they need a cage big enough to let them fly without much obstruction from toys, perches or dishes. Look for a rectangular cage that is at least 24 inches (61 cm) long, and at least half that size in width and height. If you have multiple finches, double that size.Make sure your finch has a clear flight path from one end of the cage to the other without being blocked by perches and dishes.
 Finches love to hop from perch to perch. Help keep them entertained while they are in their cage by giving them multiple perches on which to hop. Find perches of different sizes and textures to help keep their feet strong. Natural wood and rope-wrapped perches are great for small birds.Try to avoid plain wooden dowels, as these are too smooth and
If you have more than one finch in a cage, they can sometimes be territorial about having another bird on their perch. Providing more perches than you have finches helps keep the peace.
 Finches naturally like to climb, and adding a climbing ladder to their cage helps them fulfill that instinct. Colorful wooden climbing ladders are great toys to keep your finch entertained when they are in their cage.Finches also like swings where they can perch and rock back and forth.
 Finches are nesting birds, so they constantly look for nesting materials. If you have a single finch or a single pair of mixed-sex finches, providing them with a nesting box and nesting material such as twigs, moss, and dead leaves will help them satisfy their nesting instinct.It also provides them with a place where they feel secure.If you have multiple finch pairs or multiple finches of the same sex in a single cage, they may become territorial about the nest. You can try putting multiple nests in the cage, but you should watch your finches closely for fighting.
 Finches like to peck and chew. Give them a few toys that they can destroy so that the rest of their cage stays nice and intact. Rope toys and soft, undyed wood toys with bells or other noisemakers are often appreciated., Foraging toys help birds work for their food the way they would in the wild. They are a great mental activity for your finch. Place some treats or some of your finch’s daily meal in the foraging toy. Try not to put more than half their meal in there, though, as your finch should have easy access to food if it doesn’t feel like playing.