 No matter how well you seem to be handling life, you’re “at risk” of becoming a functional alcoholic if you consume more than three drinks a day (or seven a week) as a woman and more than four drinks a day (or fourteen a week) as a man. Another way to identify a high-functioning drinker is through their drinking patterns and habits.


Do you find yourself having strong cravings after only one alcoholic drink? Do you drink as a reward, to relieve stress, or when upset or angry? Do you find yourself impatiently waiting for your first drink of the day? Do you tend to obsess about alcohol? All of the above reflect the drinking patterns of high-functioning alcoholics.;
, If you are a high-functioning alcoholic, or HFA, you can probably sustain personal relationships in spite of your drinking habits; however, one tell-tale sign of a problem is displaying remarkably different personality or behavioral quirks when under the influence.


For instance, if you are typically reserved in personality, you may become rambunctious and impulsive while drinking.What’s more, these extreme changes in behavior and personality may also result in you saying or doing things that you later regret. You may feel shame or guilt the next day after drinking., During normal hours, you may defy the alcoholic stereotype by performing at work or school with minimal issues. To others, you may appear to be managing life rather well.


A red-flag to compartmentalization is hanging with different people when drinking or hiding episodes of drinking. For instance, you may compartmentalize by going to bars alone or you may decline visits to your home so your drinking habits are not exposed., However good a functional alcoholic may be at hiding the negative consequences of a drinking habit, there are generally easy-to-spot physical signs that point to alcoholism.


One of these is developing a tolerance for alcohol, meaning that you start having to drink more and more to get the same effect as before.This can be demonstrated when you say you will only have two drinks, but, more often than not, you break this rule and drink more. To hide the fact, you may try to drink privately before joining in on a social occasion.
The other physical indicator of alcoholism is physical dependence. Dependence signifies that you no longer have control over how much you drink. You may try to stop, but be unsuccessful. Withdrawal is a clear sign of dependence in which you may experience undesirable symptoms when you wait too long to drink or try to stop. These symptoms may include shakiness, anxiety, upset stomach, and sweating., One of the most distressing aspects of functional alcoholism is the lengths the person will go to deny having a problem. Like others around them, HFAs may refuse to see their drinking as a problem because they don’t fit the typical picture of an alcoholic.


Not convinced you’re in denial? See if any of the following excuses sound familiar to you. If you are a high-functioning alcoholic, you may only drink certain kinds of alcohol or very expensive brands as a way of deluding yourself into believing you don’t have a problem. You may also come up with excuses for excessive drinking, such as stress at work or rewarding themselves after a productive week.While non-alcoholics may share some of the same traits like drinking to relieve stress, if you're a high functioning alcoholic, your excuse-making is generally coupled with other signs like hiding drinking behavior and experiencing extreme changes in personality when drinking.
 Being concerned about whether you are a functional alcoholic could lead to you over-analyzing drinking habits that are reasonably adaptive in nature. Not all drinking is unhealthy or a sign of alcoholism. Here's how to spot the difference.


Low-risk drinking characterizes those who drink alcohol in moderation. For healthy men under the age of 65, this translates to an average of two servings per day or no more than four servings in any day. For women in the same age group, healthy drinking habits mean an average of one serving per day and no more than three servings in any day.One serving of alcohol is equivalent to 12 ounces of regular beer, 5 ounces of wine, and 1.5 ounces of 80-proof distilled liquor., One of the most common tools used in clinical practice when diagnosing hazardous levels of drinking and alcohol dependence is called the CAGE questionnaire. CAGE is an acronym of the most likely behaviors that increase the risk for alcoholism: C is for “cut down,” A is for “annoyed,” G is for "guilt," and E is for an “eye opener.” You can do a self-test by asking yourself four questions.Have you ever felt you should cut down on your drinking?
Have people annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?
Have you ever felt bad or guilty about your drinking?
Have you ever had a drink first thing in the morning to steady your nerves or to get rid of a hangover (eye opener)?
If you answer yes to two or more of the above questions, this indicates a problematic relationship with alcohol.
 In order to truly find recovery from alcoholism, you and your loved ones must be willing to accept that not being at rock bottom doesn’t mean there’s not a problem. It may only be through sheer luck that you haven't experienced major losses or negative consequences due to your drinking habits; however, you may see this as a sign that you are doing okay.


Clearly being hung-over or intoxicated with rocky relationships and poor finances is not the only picture of alcoholism. Estimates say that as little as 20% and potentially as many as 75% to 90% of all alcoholics meet the criteria for the high-functioning type, which means you could be in need of help even though you “seem” to be managing., Being in denial about alcoholism is a common construct of alcohol abuse. Furthermore, denial is often a significant barrier keeping you from getting help. It may not just be you, the functional alcoholic, that's in denial. Your friends and family may also come up with excuses for your behavior, such as stress, illness, or depression., Denial is a mechanism that protects a person’s ego from a harsh reality. Because you are probably high-achieving and successful, it can be difficult for you to admit the problem. Many times, it is friends and family members who start to see cracks in your otherwise well-put-together exterior.If a loved one points out your problem, have the courage to admit that you are no longer in control. Acknowledging the problem is the first and most necessary step to recovery.
Mental health providers outline three stages to breaking through denial. Recognition, which requires admitting the problem; acceptance, which requires taking action to change the behavior; and surrender, which is a genuine commitment to becoming sober.In some cases, admitting the problem becomes impossible for you and your loved ones are forced to stage an intervention. This process allows family and friends to share concerns with you about how your drinking affects them. During an intervention, your loved ones will also encourage you to seek recovery treatment., Once you have come to terms with denial and admitted the need for help, it’s important to take action right away. For support, request that a loved one accompany you to see a doctor. You can merely mention your drinking habit to your doctor during a routine visit or schedule a special appointment to discuss it.


Your doctor will conduct a thorough interview to assess the severity of your drinking, understand any symptoms you may experience, and evaluate your medical and family history. Your doctor may also complete a physical examination and a mental health evaluation.
Depending on the severity of your drinking and associated symptoms, you may be admitted for detoxification or referred to a specialized center for alcohol recovery.
 As you get started in the recovery process, your mental health provider will also assess for comorbidity — that is, the co-existence of a psychiatric disorder. It is very common for alcoholics to struggle with other mental health conditions such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, or anxiety.


If it is determined that you are experiencing a comorbid disorder, your team of providers will work with you to develop a personalized treatment plan for dual diagnosis. Depending on where you live and your access to recovery treatment, you may be able to get help for both conditions simultaneously, or your team will treat the alcoholism and then focus on the underlying mental illness., Whether you are getting recovery services inpatient or outpatient, you will probably receive counseling services. While detoxing from alcohol is necessary for recovery, addressing the problematic behaviors that led to alcohol dependence is an important component for lasting change.


Therapy, particularly cognitive-behavioral therapy, has been shown to help alcoholics develop successful coping skills to manage life problems and prevent relapse. CBT may also be effective at treating any comorbid psychiatric disorder that may play into alcoholism., Having a network of people to support you through your recovery is vital to long-term success.In addition to the support gained from your mental health providers, family, and friends, it can be practical to join a local or online support group of people who are also recovering from alcoholism.

Support groups allows each member to share details about their recovery journey. This fosters a deep sense of connection and makes each individual member feel less alone in their own recovery. There is Alcoholics Anonymous and SMART recovery, was well as a host of support groups to consider for teens, children of alcoholics, and families.