 Deworming your dog frequently will help to control hookworm infections. Most heartworm medication includes medication that is effective at killing hookworm infections. Treating your dog once a month with a deworming medication will keep these pests in check.Mother dogs and puppies should also be dewormed frequently. Pregnancy may reactivate an undetectable infection in mother dogs. A veterinarian should be consulted in order to make sure the dewormer is safe to use on pregnant or nursing dogs and on puppies.;
, The main step to prevent hookworm infections from spreading is to pick feces up immediately. This keeps any eggs from being able to develop into infective larvae. Fecal material should be picked up immediately after a dog defecates and disposed of in the garbage.


If the dog or puppy defecates on a surface that can be cleaned, after picking up all fecal material, it can be disinfected with a dilute bleach solution. This can be made by mixing one part of bleach with nine parts of water. Make sure to spot test the surface to avoid bleaching the material., Humans can easily get hookworms from infected feces or contaminated ground. To protect yourself and others, do not let dogs or puppies defecate in areas where children play. This includes playgrounds, sandboxes, and beaches. Take them to a designated potty spot before going for walks in these areas.You should cover children's sandboxes when they are not being used to discourage roaming cats and dogs from using the bathroom in it.
If the dog or puppy does defecate in these areas, clean the stool up promptly and thoroughly.
 One way you can prevent hookworms in you and your family is to wear shoes and other protective coverings. Make sure not to walk barefooted in areas where dogs may have defecated. This is how many cases of dog hookworm infections are acquired by humans.You should take precautions when gardening if your dog or neighborhood dogs or cats defecate in your garden area.If you are to tropical climates, consider wearing shoes on the beach and using protective mats when lying down on the sand.
 You should take your dog to the vet at least once a year for checkups. You may want to bring a sample of your dog’s stool to the checkup to have it examined for possible parasites. This is a simple and quick way to make sure your dog is as healthy as possible.Your vet can perform tests in the office where he can check for parasites if you do not want to bring a stool sample.

