 Determine what bothers you about this family member. Be rational and analyze your own thoughts openly and honestly. If it helps, try saying your thoughts aloud to a trusted friend or another family member. Always sleep on your emotions for several days to ensure they are accurate and not irrational.Recognizing how you feel will help you tailor a solution to the problem.
 Writing down what you want to say allows you to construct a coherent and rational communication plan.


Begin with a flow chart or brainstorm your thoughts and emotions.
Practice and rehearse what you will say. Whether you talk in front of a mirror or go over your talking points with other family members, get comfortable speaking about this issue and being in a hostile scenario.
 Silence enables bad behavior. Other family may not be comfortable stepping in. Have a frank discussion and let her know how her behavior is affecting you and the rest of the family.


Take a deep breath before and during the confrontation.Keep calm when delivering news that the person may see as accusatory. Open body language and a friendly demeanor can help defuse their defensiveness.Remember people who are rude may be in denial or become defensive.
Use "I-statements", to express how you feel rather than starting a statement with "you". Don't place blame but rather state clearly how you feel while listening to what they have to say.
 Make sure to choose your words carefully and not to escalate the emotions with an angry or elevated tone.For example, if you are confronting your younger brother, say something similar to, "I don't appreciate your snarky and sarcastic comments. There's a time and place for jokes. It's fine to joke around with your friends, or with me when we are watching tv, but please don't say things that will upset mom and dad. Don't say things at the dinner table, especially after they've both had a long day."

, You may escalate the situation if you confront your family member in front of others because they may feel embarrassed and will want to lash out. Choose a place where you can present yourself as equals.


Scheduling around her can ensure that she doesn’t feel blind-sided or rushed for a response. Scheduling shows that you are considerate of her time and that you have thought about this conversation enough to prioritize it.
 Be objective and don’t let any emotions cloud your judgment. Make it a priority to get to know your family member more before you confront him. Perhaps he is rude because he had a tough upbringing or because he feels insecure about his accomplishments relatives to the rest of the family.Don't broach difficult topics by becoming rude yourself. For example, if she often references how much you make compared to her, let her know that you know how hard it's been for her and her family. Offer advice and let her know that you know where she's coming from with an example of how you had to move up to get to where you are financially.
Say something like, "Am I misreading you? You're coming off very rude. Please let me know if I'm misinterpreting what you're saying or let me know why you're upset. I'm here to listen and make sure I understand what you're saying."

