 Do not leave your driveway with frost or snow on the windows. You'll need to have the best possible visibility while you drive over ice and snow. Give your car time to warm up a little so the windows are completely defrosted and snow-free.


You should also check the wipers to make sure they aren't frozen. If you have to drive through blinding snow it's imperative that they function properly.
Make sure your side mirrors are clean of snow and ice as well.
 If you know you have to go out in a snowstorm, steer clear of places that get so little traffic or are so hard to reach they don't get treated with salt and plowed. Find a route to your destination that doesn't get clogged with traffic, but that's central enough to get properly treated.


The salt causes the ice to melt, allowing your tires to gain better traction as you drive, but in very cold temperatures, it won't melt. In these cases the roads might get treated with sand, which sits on top of the ice and helps your tires grip the road better.
Highways are usually treated and plowed right away, but you want to avoid areas with a lot of traffic. Ice and snow tend to bring out the worst in other drivers. Even if you know what you're doing, you don't want to be surrounded by panicked drivers.
Stay alert for the presence of salt trucks and plows, since they tend to drive more slowly than other vehicles on the road.
 Going too fast in the snow and ice is the easiest way to run off the road or cause an accident. Start out slow to test how much traction your tires are getting. Find a comfortable speed you can drive without sliding or losing control.


Visibility is often low when snow is driving into the windshield, so you might have to slow down whether you want to or not. If you have trouble seeing other cars, drop your speed even more.
Though you should err on the slow side, you don't want to go so slow that you impede the flow of traffic. Try to go the same speed as the cars around you so another driver doesn't bump you from behind.
 Do not get so close to the next car that you'd easily hit it if the driver were to slam on his or her brakes. Leave enough space so that the other car or yours has room to slide or weave without risking a collision.
 Black ice is nearly impossible to see until you're on top of it. It tends to occur in shaded areas and toward the sides of the road. People tend to drive over it at high speeds since they don't realize it's there, so black ice is responsible for a lot of bad accidents. Be extremely alert as you drive, and if there's any chance at all that black ice might be on the road, make sure you're driving slowly.


Overpasses and bridges freeze before the rest of the road, so approach these areas with caution as well. As soon as snow starts to fall, you should drop your speed and be on high alert.
The other big hazard in icy conditions is other cars on the road. As mentioned, snowstorms tend to make drivers feel panicked. Check your mirrors often and stay as alert as possible so you have time to react if you see a car careening toward you. Stay as far away from other drivers as possible.
 If you encounter an area where accidents are constantly happening, you are sliding often, it may be simply unsafe to continue. Better to be late than wreck your car or be injured.

Pull over and wait out the storm or until the roads are more passable. Ideally, this would be a relatively comfortable place to wait, such as a restaurant, rest stop, mall, or the like. #*On an interstate or major highway, you may have to pull over to a shoulder. Put on your emergency blinkers so you are more visible. However, if you are in a situation with heavy traffic this may be dangerous if traffic passing are sliding off the road.






In an emergency situation, take measures to keep yourself safe and prevent hypothermia. Keep your heater running and use the blanket and other supplies from your emergency kit to stay as comfortable as possible. Use your cell phone to call emergency services for assistance. Even if you have to wait a few hours, they will know where to find you.
If you get stranded in very cold weather, and you are trapped you in the car, studies have shown that the best thing you can do is stay put. If you try to leave the car you risk getting overexposed to the cold.Rescuers will likely be looking for cars in the area where you got stranded.

