 Search by the name of the designer and you can often find some great, gently used pieces. This method will take a bit of time, because sellers will typically be selling one item, in one color, and in one size. It’ll be harder to find exactly what you want, but your patience will be rewarded in great savings.To figure out the size you should order, try on clothing by that designer in store. It can be tricky to shop online because of the different sizing used by each designer, so try on different brands to get an idea of which size to order.
Make sure you know each seller’s return policy before ordering with them. If you dislike something, you may not be able to return it.;
, This can require a bit of time and effort, but these shops can be a gold mine for discount designer clothing. Consignment shops take gently used clothing, often designer clothing, and resell it. Discount retail stores such as Nordstrom Rack, TJ Maxx, and Marshalls sell any unsold inventory of designer stores at a discounted price.There is something extremely satisfying getting an amazing, quality designer piece for a fraction of the cost.
 There are several websites that will have flash sales on various designer collections, such as Gilt, HauteLook, and Zulily.You can check their schedules, and figure out when they will be selling your favorite designers. Log in early, and check out the savings you can get on some high-end pieces.


Avoid the temptation to check these websites regularly, because the discounts they offer can be tempting even if you don’t love the brand. Save your money for the sales on designers you really desire.
Follow designers on social media too. They will often post notices about flash sales for their followers.
 This won’t work if you need certain types of clothing quickly, but it’s great for the patient shopper. Stores will discount items as the seasons change. For example, summer clothing will go on sale as summer ends in order to sell it and make room for fall and winter inventory. Scoop up these sale pieces, and just save them until the next year! You’ll have a closet full of brand new, discounted designer clothing when the season rolls around., Lifetime items are things that you truly believe you could wear for life, such as thick, beautifully built coats, sturdy leather boots, nice handbags, and suits- basically high quality, durable, and classic pieces. If you’ve saved up your money, why not invest in something that you will use forever? Often times a designer piece has the lifespan of multiple cheaply made pieces, so it can be worth the investment.


If you invest in nice pieces, make sure to invest in their care too. Store them properly and get them dry cleaned. Besides keeping them looking nice for yourself, you may also be able to resell them later if you choose.
 If you are absolutely in love with a specific style of a designer, try searching for cheaper brands that make similar designs. Often times, there will be "knock off" pieces that are created in a similar style of the pricey, high-end brands. Sometimes you can't even tell the difference! Start your search my Googling the designer you like, followed by keywords like "imitation" or "replica." Make sure you read reviews of online shops before placing an order.
 It may be tempting to pop into cheap clothing stores and stock up on clothing, but cheap clothing generally doesn’t hold up. You’ll end up wasting money on poorly made pieces rather than saving up for more durable designer pieces.Plan out the pieces you most want and that make most sense for your lifestyle and current wardrobe, and stick to it. Don’t get caught up in the excitement of shopping and blow your money on items that seem great in the moment.


If you shop spur of the moment, you may be tempted to purchase the killer red leather mini skirt on sale. However, said skirt may not make sense with any of your clothes at home. Always shop with a plan.
 Set a goal to put aside a little bit of money every time you get paid, and watch it get bigger and bigger. It doesn’t have to be a large amount, but just enough so that you are actively working toward your goal. Once the money goes into the wardrobe budget, don’t take it out for anything else. Save it until you find something worth your hard-earned money.Decorate a jar or a pot to create a piggy bank. Put it somewhere that you see everyday, and start dropping your spare change and extra bills into it as you walk by. It may seem like a minor thing, but it’ll start adding up!

, That venti Starbucks latte tastes delicious and wakes you up every morning, but it creates a bigger dent in your bank account than you may realize. Cab rides, take out food, and salon manicures are all nice, but are they really essential? By cutting down on anything you can technically live without, you can set aside more money for designer clothing., If you want to set a goal to afford designer clothing, you should know which designers you actually like! By researching different brands, you can pinpoint the ones you absolutely love, and develop an “eyes on the prize” mentality. Find designers that embrace the style you enjoy, whether that be feminine florals or dark, sleek leather.Don't let trends influence your shopping principles. If magazines are promoting a hot trend that doesn’t fit your style, flatter your body, or fit your needs, think twice before buying it. If you spend large amounts of money on passing trends that you don’t love, you’ll be wasting your money. Be authentic!

, If you are a jeans and a t-shirt kind of girl, embrace it. If you prefer dresses and heels, embrace that! Instead of trying to completely replace your current wardrobe with all designer clothing, think about how you can incorporate designer pieces into your current look. Another important thing to take into consideration is your lifestyle. If you love five inch stilettos but work in a daycare, you may want to save your money for more practical items., Consider items with a specific function, such as coats to keep you warm and comfortable shoes for work. If you buy a piece of clothing that you know you’ll wear often or treasure for years, you’ll make sure you get your money’s worth. Calculate how much you’ll need to purchase your goal items, and start saving!


To motivate yourself to save money, cut out pictures of the designer clothing you long for. Glue it onto a piece of cardboard or poster board and place it somewhere in your home. Every time you see these pictures, you’ll remember your goal.

