 For most tea drinkers, a ceramic teapot and cup will provide a good experience. Alternatively, you can put an infuser in your cup and brew a single serving directly. You can use any infuser, but a large cup-shaped insert works well as it allows the leaves to expand.If you're a serious tea drinker interested in learning the Chinese tea ceremony, look for a Yixing clay teapot. Many consider this the best way to drink Oolong, but only if you handle them carefully.;
, The best tea is rarely sold in bags, so it's best to look for a loose leaf Oolong, of which there are many varieties. The amount you use depends on personal preference. To start out, try the following amount of tea for every 180 mL (6 ounces) water:If the leaves are rolled into balls, put in 2 tsp (10 mL).
If the leaves are rolled into wiry strips, put in 1¼ to 2 Tbsp (18–30 mL).
If the leaves look mostly whole or broken, put in 1 to 2 Tbsp (15–30 mL).
If you have a kitchen scale, you can measure out 2-3 grams of tea regardless of appearance.
 Filtered water is usually a good option, while some tea drinkers prefer distilled. You can try it with regular tap water, but chlorine or other impurities and additives can impair the taste of the tea.
 This temperature is ideal for brewing Oolong without breaking down its fragile aromatic chemicals. If your kettle does not have a temperature control, watch the surface of the water and remove it from heat when you see "ropes of pearls," or streams of large bubbles rising to the water surface.As a general rule, Oolongs with lighter colored leaves work better with water at the low end of this range, when the bubbles are smaller but still forming ropes.This visual test only works near sea level. Above 3,000 feet (915m), just bring the water to a rolling boil and use immediately.Alternatively, bring your water to a rolling boil, open the lid, then let cool for two minutes. This is not ideal, since the method is less accurate and the water loses some oxygen when it boils.
 Pour a tiny bit of hot water onto your leaves, and immediately pour it down the drain without losing any leaves. (This is easy with an infuser: just let the water drain through.) This rinse opens up the cellular structure of the tea leaves, and washes away any impurities.
 Now you can pour in enough hot water to fill the container, typically about 180 mL (6 ounces) per serving of tea. Let steep for anywhere from two to five minutes, depending on how concentrated you prefer your tea.


This is the Western style of brewing. The Asian method generally uses a larger amount of Oolong, then drinks it in a series of small cups brewed for 30–60 seconds each., Appreciate the aroma and bright color of the tea, then sip away. If you find the taste is too powerful, use fewer leaves or a shorter steeping time on your next cup. If the tea is too watery for your tastes, use more leaves or a longer steeping time.

