 Horses can sense nervousness and tension, and it will affect their performance. Even if you are nervous, scared, or tense, try not to let the horse know it.;
, Are you clenching the horse with your heels? This may cause him to go faster. Are you yanking on his mouth or holding your reins high and tight? Both of these things may confuse and/or agitate your horse. If you are doing something like this, fix it.
 Show him that you are the boss, but don't haul on his head. If you are riding in a group, get your instructor's permission to let you use the whole arena for a minute so you can get your horse under control.
 Is it storming or about to storm? Is something nearby making a loud noise? Is another horse crowding him? If none of these things are happening, keep reading.
 If you find any of the following defects in the tack, replace it immediately. Check for:


Worn-out leather that might rub
Pieces of tack that are too tight or too loose
Sharp objects embedded in or rough edges on the saddle

, Try a different type of girth and see if his behavior improves. If he is wearing a breast collar, see if it is too tight (it may be pinching him) or too loose (it may be bouncing around and annoying or rubbing on him). Ideally, you should be able to fit about four fingers under the breast collar. The bit may also be pinching his mouth or too strong for him. If you have a gently curb or snaffle bit, stick with it, but if you have a stronger curb, kimberwick, or gag, consider switching to a gentler bit.
 These can cause the horse to not want to move for you., Remember, every horse is different. If you usually ride a horse that needs strong cues and you have gotten in the habit of practically kicking to make him speed up, consider that this horse may not need such an aggressive kick. Try using softer aids and don't pull so hard on his mouth.
 They may scare the horse, annoy him, or he just may dislike them. The horse may not need artificial aids.
 Maybe the horse has a sore back or other physical problem, especially if this behavior is out of character for him.
 Don't panic! Just make sure your actions are clear to him and that what he is doing will not get him anywhere.

