 Don’t worry if it’s organized or not. This is only about brainstorming, not a to-do list. Take an hour or so, and jot down everything you have to do each day (and everything you don’t do but should be doing).If it’s difficult to think of everything, carry around a small notebook, and write down your activities throughout the day.;
, When you first start, no activity is considered too small. If it’s something you need to do, it’s something you need to do. When you’re creating a timetable for the first time, it’s better to put everything in and edit it later, if need be.


If you have to walk your dog in the morning and evening, then jot that down.
 What tasks do you need to do to make sure you eat well? Which tasks do you need to complete each day in order to get to work? What do you need to do to make sure your daughter is picked up from school?


You’ll probably be surprised at how many small tasks need to be taken care of in order to achieve your bigger responsibilities. But there is light at the end of the tunnel. A timetable will help you to identify areas where you’re not getting much back in return and that you can work on eliminating.
 If you find that you have little or no discretionary time available, re-evaluate the tasks to see if they are absolutely necessary. You may find that some responsibilities can be tackled in a more efficient way or delegated.


If you find yourself at the stove more often than you’d like, think about asking a neighbor if he or she wants to share cooking duties. The two of you figure out a few dishes you both like and then trade in cooking them one or two days a week.
 Make a column of times on the left side of the page and a row of days of the week at the top.
 Begin with those activities that need to be done at a certain time every day. Based on your assessment above, slot in tasks based on the time you think it makes the most sense to tackle them. Also be sure to give yourself a break or several throughout the day.
 Hourly time frames are generally large enough. However, it can take time to get into the flow state required by some tasks so you may need 90 minute or even two hour blocks. Don’t forget to schedule in 30 minute tasks as well. Be careful of the tendency to wedge yourself in too tight.To create bigger blocks of time, you can merge cells together.
 It's difficult to predict how long each activity will take. So make sure your schedule can bend easily in one direction or another when need be. You also want to factor in a small buffer of time for unexpected delays.Also, don't fall into the trap of using your relaxation time as a "buffer" zone. Relaxation time should not be seen as a luxury; it should be treated as important as any other activity.
 It is generally helpful to print multiple copies -- put one on your refrigerator, one in your bedroom and one in the bathroom. Underline or highlight important activities.
 Use a different color marker for the separate areas in your life. You could use yellow for work, red for exercise, blue for school and so on. This way you’ll get a good sense of how your day is planned just by glancing at it. If there’s a lot of blue, for instance, you’ll know that you’re overloaded with school right now., Most people’s critical thinking skills and creativity are strongest in the morning. However, they tend to decrease as the day progresses. If this is how you are, then schedule your “big thinking” activities, like writing, for instance, in the morning.However, maybe you do your most creative work at night. Neither time is wrong. It’s all about coming up with an effective timetable that suits you and your needs.
 If you’re like most, your energy has dissipated somewhat by the afternoon. If so, then this is a good time to do more boring, routine tasks. Things you don’t have to think much about basically. Think about spending this time of day for setting appointments, running errands, answering brief emails, etc.
 For many, evenings are good for planning and preparing for the next day. Your “get ready” tasks might include packing lunches, laying out your clothes, and spending time straightening up and de-cluttering.
 Choose to spend 30 minutes a day on writing that novel, organizing your garage or learning how to garden. Moving a little towards your goal each day will help you in developing the good habits to maintain it. This is because you’ll be on autopilot. Essentially anything you do on a regular basis, good or bad, eventually becomes a habit., How does it feel? Did you schedule your activities at times that made sense? Do you need to adjust things? Change anything that is not working on a case-by-case basis. You don’t have to wait until the end of the week or month. Adjust little by little every few days until it feels workable to you. You will also need to probably make big and small changes to it every month, as the only thing that’s certain in life is change.

