 At all stages of the process ask yourself, “How will this impact my children?” You can minimize their anxiety by sticking as closely to a standard routine as possible. Even with interviews, keep to the same meal and school schedule when you can. Express your concerns to the evaluator and ask for their help in maintaining some normalcy.


Also, consider your childcare needs during the process. There will be times when you will need to be interviewed separately and it is important to arrange for a quality caretaker., If they are younger you may be able to simply reassure them that the evaluator is a kind person who is interested in your family and wants to spend time with them. If they are older you will probably need to go into more detail. You can tell them that the evaluator will ask questions about their everyday life and to be honest when answering., Your evaluator works with kids on a regular basis so they are a great resource if you are concerned about how your children will react to the questioning and observation. You might ask the evaluator for some ideas as to what you should say before and after the meetings.


You can also ask the evaluator to tell you what they plan to say to your children. This will let you get on the same page., Speak in soothing tones. Tell them that it will be okay and that these visits are only temporary. Reassure them that you will be close by if they need you. It is very important to control your anxiety levels around your children because if they see that you are too concerned then they will mimic your behavior and possibly act out.
 Resist the urge to give your child a ‘script’ of what to say and what not to say. It will make your children uncomfortable and place a great deal of pressure on them. It is also virtually guaranteed to backfire as the evaluator will be able to identify scripted responses. Instead, just tell your children to be honest and respectful.
 Most good evaluators have a plan in place to distract your kids and keep them occupied while asking questions. They may let your kids tell stories or play with puppets. They might bring along coloring books for little ones.
 Aside from gathering information, your evaluator is also present to protect the mental and physical status of your children. They will not ask questions that scare or intimidate your child. And, they will make arrangements for physical security measures if these are necessary due to concerns about family violence.Your evaluator will not usually ask your children where they want to live. This puts the children in the uncomfortable position of choosing one parent. They will, however, make a note if your child expresses a particular opinion about their living arrangements.