 If you suffer from oral herpes, you may be more likely to experience an outbreak after spending a long time in the sun.You may be able to reduce your chances of developing an outbreak by reducing your exposure to direct sunlight.


Try staying in the shade or wearing a wide brimmed hat when you will be outside for long periods of time.
 The friction produced during sex may trigger an outbreak. To reduce friction during sex, use a water based lubricant. Always wear condoms as well if you suffer from genital herpes or you may pass the condition on to your partner.


Do not use a lubricant that is oil based or that has the spermicide nonoxynol-9 listed in its ingredients. Oil based lubricants can weaken condoms and nonoxynol-9 can irritate mucous membranes.Avoid sex when you are having an outbreak. You are more likely to transmit herpes when you are having an outbreak so it is best to avoid intercourse altogether when sores are present.
 Stress is a common cause of herpes outbreaks, so managing your stress is essential. Consider taking a yoga class, doing deep breathing exercises throughout your day, learning to meditate, or taking relaxing bubble baths on a regular basis. Find ways to relax and minimize your stress to help prevent outbreaks. Some other ways that you can reduce stress include:Getting more exercise. Exercise can help you to stay healthy and manage stress. Aim for 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day.
Eating better. A well-balanced diet can help you to feel better and reduce stress. Eat lots of fruits and vegetables and avoid junk foods.
Sleep more. Sleep deprivation can contribute to excess stress. Make sure that you are getting at least seven hours of uninterrupted sleep every night.
Stay connected. Reaching out to someone when you are feeling overwhelmed can also help reduce your stress levels. Call up a friend to talk to if you are feeling stressed.
 Lysine is an amino acid that is used for preventing and treating cold sores.Lysine acts by blocking the action of arginine (which increases the multiplication of the herpes virus). Lysine may be taken whenever you are having a herpes outbreak or prior to onset of symptoms.


Talk to your doctor before deciding to include Lysine as a supplement, especially if you have kidney disease or if you are pregnant or nursing.Follow the product instructions if you decide to include Lysine as a supplement.

