 Getting the attitude is the most important part of playing any rich girl. You don't have to be rich, but you need to act like it. Look down at anyone who is less fabulous than you, (and who isn't, right?)


You can choose whether to be up-front rude or only bratty when you're alone, but either way, you'll need to be a bit "snobby rich girl" at some point. Take Mitchie, for example. Tess was up-front rude to her until she "found out" that her mom was in charge of the most popular pop music TV Show in China. Tess never trusted her, and neither should you to anyone. Although you are most likely a poser, act like you're not and make anyone else who is act like they never met you.;
, They can be designer, they can be bargain-fabulous, or they can be a mix of both. Either way, you need to keep up the I'm better than you and you know it attitude, so act like you're wearing a Versace evening gown all the time. If you don't know who the heck Versace is, you need some magazines. Maybe start out with CosmoGirl! or Seventeen. Move on later to Teen Vogue, Ellegirl, or Elle.


It depends on what's popular where you live, but some things are always fabulous. A few top designers (for people with a bit more cash than others) are Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Dooney & Bourke, Louis Vuitton, D & G, Versace (as mentioned before), and Juicy Couture. All are fabulous.
Some other, not-as-couture, more budget-friendly, brands are American Eagle, Hollister, Abercrombie, Abercrombie & Fitch, and (sometimes) Tommy Hilfiger. It's really easy to find all sorts of designers at discount stores such as TJ Maxx, Marshalls, and, if you're lucky, thrift stores, (the Goodwill, etc.).
 Okay, not good, astoundingly amazing. You can polish that "good/great" voice with school or professional chorus classes. If you're a pop-person, listen to actually talented singers (aka, not Britney Spears, Madonna, or Ashley Simpson) like Leona Lewis, any American Idols, or any other people who actually sound like they could sing without a microphone, mixers, or sound technicians.
 unlike Tess Tyler. You can have some popular friends who are rich like you, but make sure your real BFFs are people you could trust if you gave them $25 not to spend it. Really.


Well, if you really don't have any friends at camp or wherever you are, you could get some temp-friends, or BFFNs (best friends for now). That way you aren't too lonely, and you won't have to worry about having long-distance relationships.
 Tess doesn't let everyone know she likes Shane, but still tries to get him. Don't try too hard to get him though, otherwise you will end up like her.


Again, if you are going for the total-Tess, try so hard to get the guy that you crash and burn in front of everyone who thought you couldn't.
 It will make you seem a billionaire who just turned into a hobo. Everyone who envied you will realize that you are not totally flawless, which will completely ruin your rep. Exceptions are:


If you don't it will hurt your reputation
Someone just came up from behind and told your deepest, darkest, and most shallow secret and now everyone is either laughing at you or badly gossiping about you.
You absolutely need to look like a saint to prove you're not the backstabbing, lying, mean, bratty, witch that you actually are.
Or, for some other reason that you feel in your gut that you absolutely need to apologize because you just made a huge mistake that everyone will hate you for otherwise.
,, Tess has very natural looking makeup and does not overdo it. If you want to get lots of makeup, you should wear foundation, light pink blush, eyeshadow, black pencil eyeliner on the upper lid not winged, mascara, and lipstick. If you don't want to wear lots of makeup, you should wear mascara, eyeshadow and lipstick if you wish.

