 Yoga isn't bad for your cardiovascular system by any means, but the exercise it offers is endurance training, not cardio exercise per se. That being said, yoga styles can vary widely between types. The general format of any yoga is to learn a position and attempt to master it while holding it for a sustained period of time. Most of the basic forms are the same across all types of yoga, but the specifics and more advanced forms are often different.
 Though yoga can be practiced in private, no amount of reading online or watching videos can take the place of a good instructor. He or she will teach you all the nuances of proper form, and give you important feedback on what your mistakes are so that you can fix them early on.
 Yoga doesn't require anywhere near the level of equipment that weight training does, but there are still some useful items you'll want to have:


A yoga mat is a thin, soft mat that unrolls so that you can hold poses on it without sullying yourself on the floor (and vice versa). Most classes require that you use a yoga mat.
Yoga clothes can be anything that's comfortable, lightweight, and either flexible or loose enough to allow you to reach positions without being restricted by your clothing. Many people wear special yoga pants and a tank top, but you could also wear such things as bike shorts or well-fit jogging pants.
The yoga block is a small rectangular block designed to provide extra support for those still learning positions that are difficult for them. Most people find a yoga block useful for at least some of their positions. Yoga blocks may become unnecessary for advanced practitioners, but they're generally a wise investment.
 The following few steps describe some of the simplest and most common poses in yoga. Of course, nothing beats an actual yoga teacher, but if you want to get some idea of what the exercise feels like, try these out at home first. Be sure not to strain or injure yourself. The first pose is the Mountain pose, a standing pose.


Stand straight, tall, and evenly balanced on both feet, with your arms at your sides and your feet close together.
Take a deep breath and lift your hands from your sides, keeping the palms facing each other, until they're all the way overhead. Reach upwards with your fingertips and hold.
 This pose can put some strain on your lower back if you aren't careful, so practice it gently.


Lie back on your mat and scoot so that your knees are lifted over your heels. Your lower legs should be straight up and down from knee to heel. Your butt and upper legs will naturally lift off the ground.
Clasp your hands together under your lower back and push off of your flat arms, raising your hips until your thighs are roughly parallel with the floor.

If you're nervous about straining your back, you can put a few pillows or a yoga block underneath your tailbone for support.


Push your chest towards your chin, lifting the rest of your back except your shoulder blades off the mat. Hold the pose for one minute or so.
 This face-down position is a good general position, working many different parts of your body at once.


Go down on all fours like a toddler, with your hands below your shoulders and your knees below your hips, lower legs trailing behind on the ground.
Walk your hands out a few inches past your shoulders, and press into the mat with outstretched fingers.
Curl your feet onto the floor as you push your hips up towards the ceiling slowly. With your feet about hip-width apart, keep lifting until your knees are only slightly bent, so that your body forms a triangle. Hold the position for 3 breaths.

