 You’ll want a pack that can take abuse, even if you don’t plan on being rough with it. Packs tend to take falls, knocks, and other damage that you might not intend. Look for a pack manufactured with ripstop fabrics – a class of woven nylon resistant to tearing and ripping., The water bladder included with your hydration pack will probably have an opening that screws open and closed so that you can fill it with water. But some hydration packs feature bladders that slide shut or need to be clipped closed.With screw-topped bladders, cleaning can be difficult, especially when compared to the ease of cleaning a water bottle or even a standalone water bladder.
The average opening of a screw-top water bladder in most hydration packs is only about three inches (about six centimeters) in diameter.
With bladders that clip or slide closed, you can often turn them completely inside out to easily clean them.If you use electrolyte/sugar mixes in your water, the tube and pack will need to be cleaned more frequently than one where you use only pure water. But eventually, every hydration pack will need to be emptied and cleaned completely.
 All hydration packs have a tube coming out of the pack so that you can drink the water within. But some packs have a second compartment within the water pack that squirts the water out of the pack through a pressurized system. In other packs, you have what amounts to a long straw, so that instead of squirting the water out of the tube, you have to suck it out.Some people find pressurized packs superior to non-pressurized packs because they can get to that last drop of water with minimal effort.
The other benefit of a pressurized hydration pack is that you can turn the pack to uses other than a source of drinking water. Hikers and climbers tend to favor these packs for their ability to spray mud off of hands, clean dishes, and clean up messy pets before they jump in the car or tent.Pressurized packs are more expensive and heavier than non-pressurized packs, but require less cleaning because nothing can backwash into the tube.
 Some packs resemble typical backpacks, while others are closer in design to a vest. Some have a bit of space between the pack and your back, while others fit far more snugly against your body. Some packs have straps along the side, while others have strips of fabric to allow for extra pockets and storage capacity. Most packs are also aimed toward either men or women, though there are a few unisex options available. Before you buy a hydration pack, try it on to ensure it is comfortable.Bikers, runners, and skiers might prefer a slender backpack-style pack.
Hikers and mountain climbers will probably prefer a pack with greater storage capacity.
Female packs will accommodate the shorter average torso length of women.
Be sure to get a pack that is sized properly for you. Sizes usually run small/medium/large.
Play with the straps and clips to find a fit that works for you.
 Hydration packs generally tend to be quite heavy. Don’t be deceived by their small size. When shopping for a pack, check the label for information about the hydration pack’s weight when filled. If you’re unsure or can’t find info about the pack’s weight, ask a sales representative.One liter of water weighs one kilogram, so you can also add the weight of the water to the weight of the pack to get the loaded weight.
Pressurized hydration packs are heavier than unpressurized hydration packs.
Packs that hold more water will be heavier than packs that hold less water.
 Instead of a hydration pack, you could use a regular water bottle and stick it in the pocket on the side. Alternatively, you could invest in a water bladder, which is basically the part of the hydration pack that holds the water. But unlike a hydration pack, the water bladder can be placed in any pack you want and removed to another pack if you later decide you want a different backpack.Most backpacks designed for outdoor use have a hole for a water bladder hose that allows you to easily poke the drinking tube of a separate water bladder through.

