 Your rabbit lived a life before it arrived at the shelter. It may have been abused, abandoned, or neglected. These factors can impact how you will care for your rabbit and the personality of your rabbit. Knowing the history of the rabbit will help you decide if it is the right rabbit for you.Also ask if the rabbit was housed indoors or outdoors. Outdoor rabbits are more susceptible to diseases from insects and parasites, poisonous plants, loneliness, and isolation.
If a rabbit lived in a rough environment, it may need more care and attention.
 Spend time with the rabbit to determine its personality. Also ask the shelter staff about the rabbit's personality. A rabbit's personality determines the type of relationship you will have with your pet.If you like a lot of interaction, look for a rabbit that is more playful and enjoys a lot of attention.
You may have to visit the rabbit multiple times before you get an idea of its personality.
Go with your gut when choosing a rabbit. Do you feel a connection to the rabbit? Are you drawn to the rabbit and vice versa? Does the rabbit enjoy being petted? Does the rabbit take a while to warm up to you?
If there are other people in your house, all of you should spend time with the rabbit.
See how the rabbit behaves both inside and outside of the cage.
 Ask about the health history of the rabbit, and then examine the rabbit yourself. Check the coat, teeth, claws, eyes, and body of the rabbit.The coat should be glossy and clean. There should be no visible wounds or abscesses on the body.
The teeth and ears should be clean, and the rabbit's eyes should be bright.
There should be no discharge coming from the nose, eyes, or ear.
Teeth and claws should be trimmed.
None of the fur should be matted. Check the fur under the tail for matting and discoloration. These are signs that the rabbit may have diarrhea.
Ask if the rabbit has been spayed and neutered.
 If you are an inexperienced rabbit owner, small and medium breeds (e.g. Netherland Dwarf and Dutch) are best. If you have experience, you may consider a larger breed (e.g. Californian, Flemish Giant, or Angora).Two breeds of rabbits require extra attention:English lops have long ears that drag on the ground and are prone to infection and injury.
Angoras have very long hair, are prone to hairballs, and require a lot of daily maintenance.
 The ideal age to adopt is between 9 and 12 weeks of age. At this age, rabbits are easy to handle and train. However, young rabbits like to explore and do not want to held a lot. If you have young children, a baby bunny is not a good idea.A rabbit's personality also changes a lot during the first year of life due to hormone changes and growth.
An older rabbit is more stable and predictable.

