 Be sure to only pick rose petals that have never been treated with chemical pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, fertilizers, et cetera. If in doubt, don't use it.;
, Being in nature, the petals are likely dirty and need to be cleaned. Gently rub each petal individually under running water until clean. If there are any that you cannot clean, discard the petal.
 Fill a 300 ml (about 1.2 cups) container with cleaned rose petals. Then, fill the rest with unflavored vodka.
 After sealing the container, shake vigorously for about a minute. This makes sure that no petals are stuck together, gaining as much of the oil as possible. Leave in a cool, dark place for two weeks.
 Right now, the liquid is not concentrated enough and would have almost no rose taste. Drain off the liquid into another container, replace the rose petals (be sure to repeat steps one and two),  reseal the container, and repeat step four.
 Repeat step five until you reach the desired concentration; three times is the normal amount. You now have rose oil, but you want rose essence powder.
 The liquid is mostly vodka with a little rose oil mixed in. You have two options here; you could vaporize the vodka, which will take some time and a lot of work, but provide the best result or you could burn off the vodka, which will take much less time and work but provide a less desirable result.
 Pour the liquid into a fry pan and place it in the oven at 50 degrees Celsius (about 120 degrees Fahrenheit). This temperature is inhibitive towards bacterial growth and will accelerate the drying process. Be sure to not use the broiler, as this will burn the rose powder.
 This will take a long, long time that varies depending on the vodka used and the humidity of your environment. Do not leave the oven running overnight, even though it is just at 50 degrees. When all the liquid is gone, scrape it off, and you are done!

, This step is an alternative to the previous step. Pour the liquid into a shallow fry pan, get the corresponding lid to the pan and a long mit before you start. With great caution, use a long match or long lighter to light the vodka. If flames begin to reach whatever is above the oven or higher than your head, put on the long mit and quickly place the lid atop the pan.
 While it will be exciting at first, the veracity of the blaze will decrease as the process continues. With a metal spatula (avoid plastic and wood because they will melt or burn), move the liquid around until the flames die away. What you have left is rose essence and water.
 Set the stove to its lowest setting and evaporate the water. Keep the mixture moving lest it begin to settle then burn. Do not completely dry the liquid.
 What you have now is a rose and water mush. This has just enough water in it to rot, so smooth it out on a baking pan and follow step 8, then complete step 9.
 In recipes with rose water, syrup, essence or oil, just replace the liquid form with the solid. Use the following ratios, with the essence powder as the second number; rose water - 5 to 1, rose syrup - 1.5 to 1, rose essence - 1 to 1, rose oil - 2 to 1.

