 Common symptoms typically occur one to four months after Hepatitis B infection. In addition, keep in mind that having just one common symptom, such as fatigue or a fever, does not indicate you have Hepatitis B. If, however, you believe you may have been exposed to Hepatitis B and you are displaying common signs and symptoms of the disease, you should talk to your doctor about getting tested.If you think you were exposed to Hepatitis B within the past 24 hours, a preventative treatment may reduce your risk of infection.
If you believe you were exposed to Hepatitis B but do not have symptoms, you should still talk to your doctor, as those with chronic Hepatitis Be remain symptomless for as long as 20 or 30 years.;
, You may feel as if your guts are burning, cramped, swollen.The abdominal pain will often be in the epigastric area, or right upper quadrant of the abdomen.
 Excessive or unusually-colored stool can indicate Hepatitis B. If you have diarrhea and/or clay-colored stool, contact your physician.It might not be Hepatitis B, but it should be cause for concern nonetheless.
 Technically, a fever is any body temperature above the normal 98.6°F (37°C). Usually, however, doctors will not diagnose someone as having a fever until their body temperature is above 100.4°F (38°C).Take your temperature with a thermometer to determine if you have a fever.
 Fatigue is a very common symptom of Hepatitis B.Fatigue is a long-term feeling of weariness or tiredness. Normally, you can dispel fatigue by getting a full night’s sleepor eating more healthily. If you have Hepatitis B, however, your fatigue will last many weeks or months and you will be unable to shake it.
, Contact a doctor immediately if you’re experiencing mental disturbances.
 You might also notice a star-shaped pattern of veins across your swollen belly.Contact your physician immediately if you notice your belly has swollen.
 Since Hepatitis B symptoms last for weeks to months, you’ll know it isn’t the flu when nausea has lasted more than a week or so., Both or either may turn yellow. This is due to the inability of the liver to process old red blood cells.While healthy babies might have jaundice for a few weeks immediately following their birth, in adults jaundice is a possible symptom of Hepatitis B.
 An inability to urinate or a constant thirsty feeling could indicate your are dehydrated. Try to drink as much water as possible to combat dehydration.
 The loss of appetite could be a result of abdominal pain, but it might be independent of it, too. Monitor your eating habits and your weight closely in order to determine whether you’re eating less than before and, as a result, losing weight.
 You may have less patience with friends or loved ones and become easily frustrated by situations which, before the onset of the primary Hepatitis B symptoms, caused you no stress. Listen to your friends and family to determine if you’re becoming irritable, and monitor your own behavior if you think your demeanor is changing.
 If you think you have Hepatitis B, you should see your doctor for testing. Acute Hepatitis B cannot be treated with medication. If you have Hepatitis B, however, you and your doctor can come up with a plan to treat and minimize symptoms. Though not appropriate for everyone, the following medications may be used to treat Hepatitis B: entecavir, interferons, and lamivudine.
 Fruit juice, iced tea, and sports drinks are also good for replenishing your body’s water content. Soups and smoothies are good options during meal times.


Daily fluid intake (including fluids found in foods and all beverages, not just water) for women should be 11 8-oz glasses (2.7 liters) and 15 cups (3.7 liters) for men.
 If you have chronic Hepatitis B, avoid both for the rest of your life. If you have acute Hepatitis B, avoid both until you've been cured of the infection.
 Eat a satisfying breakfast, but don’t eat too much. Make fruits and whole grains the foundation of your healthy breakfast. Later in the day, eat light meals consisting primarily of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and small portions of lean protein. Avoid processed foods heavy in salt, sugar, and fat.Integrating ginger into your diet can relieve nausea.
 Tylenol and other pain medications use acetaminophen as an active ingredient. Unfortunately, this can exacerbate your liver’s already compromised state. Ask your doctor for alternatives to traditional pain relievers.