 Start and/or continue on a plan now that you will follow toward self-actualizing your desires and needs, including such goals as:

Setting a goal for training or eduction requires action/starting. You may apply and start at a community college and transfer to a 4-year college if that will work for you plan.
Saving to buy a better "cash-car" can answer needs, but now and then you have to take some money from the fund for upkeep on your older car. Instead of worrying about not using all your savings for the newer vehicle, tell yourself that it will only take a month or two to catch up to your savings goal.
Working on goals for lifestyle-routine can buoy you from a sunken feeling, even developing new hobbies can help with long-standing frustration.If you’re having trouble allowing yourself to indulge in a hobby rather than work all the time, choose something that has a pragmatic side, such as learning how to make your own bread, soap, clothing, etc. You may find inner/intangible as well as real-world benefits in learning to master one or more of them., Coping with frustration is about finding hope to overcome hopelessness, inaction and dissatisfaction. To counteract frustration, take action to make some personal advancement. “Action” is literally using the capacity to do something, while helplessness is the feeling that you can do nothing to improve your situation. Choose something within your reach at this moment—however necessary it may seem—and do it. Merely washing your clothes, changing your outfit or cooking dinner may seem trivial in comparison to your problem, but it is not nothing, and because of the way our brains work, each success can bring hope.
 Find friends you can talk to about your frustrations, who will listen and won't judge you. If you do not have close friends you feel comfortable doing this with, find someone who can provide good company during frustrating tasks, such as searching for jobs or using dating websites. Social time is generally beneficial to the regulation of mood. Even if a problem seems obvious, discussing it may help you discover hidden issues such as low self-esteem or specific anxieties.A supportive mentor or counselor can help you talk these through.
 Frustration can build tension and anxiety, which can have deleterious effects on our mood, sleep cycle, and general body chemistry. By improving your self care--especially care of your body--you can relax and let go of the feelings that were stirred up by frustration. Simply taking a bath, going for a walk, baking a nice loaf of bread, or reading a book is better than fuming and blowing up on someone. These slow, soothing activities can help change your body chemistry from alarmed and dysregulated to calm and focused.
 Frustration is often accompanied by the feeling that you lack purpose or meaning, but frustrated people rarely have a realistic view of themselves. Fight this by keeping a record of all your achievements, including daily tasks that you have to perform.If you have trouble recognizing any of your accomplishments, you may be suffering from self-esteem issues. Have a friend or family member help you come up with achievements of which you can feel good or proud.
 Physical activity can relieve tension and stress caused by frustration, especially if you exercise in the right environment.Walk, jog, or hike outdoors in a natural environment if possible.If you are not used to exercising regularly, take it slow so you feel refreshed, not exhausted.


If you aren't able to take an exercise break while working on a frustrating task, take a shorter break to practice deep breathing or meditation instead.
 Avoid apathy, or severe lack of motivation by working/doing your goals. Choosing purposeful, focused activities that are productive and can be enjoyable, instead of letting your goals slip away due to procrastination. If this description fits, break the cycle with the following tips, if applicable to your situation:Remove needless distractions. Whether you are easily distracted, or tend to distract yourself to put off doing a task, take charge of your attention. Turn off your phone, other electronic devices, or the internet, unless required for the specific task you are working on. Clear your work area of all unnecessary items.
Set your own reasonable, hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, semester and yearly goals, and even mini-deadlines for some personal rewards.
Getting through with unpleasant or difficult tasks can strengthen your motivation to turn that success to say" "Now, I'll work hard on my own goals". Add additional reasons to get going, with a positive spin, by rewarding yourself with a healthy snack, good entertainment, or other reward on the condition that you meet a mini-deadline within the hour, or by the end of the day.
 If a personal project or repeated task is frustrating you, set another phase of a project, goal, work or hobby to manage for a while. If you are frustrated at work, brainstorm ways to make your work go more smoothly, or request a shift in your work duties or scheduling.


Stay focused on the steps of one task/idea at a time. Stop multitasking/lacking focus on your present effort. Multitasking almost always makes each task more difficult and easier to avoid, even if you personally think you are good at it.Instead of working on two tasks concurrently, alternate between them if they’re frustrating.
Consider alternating between "competing" projects to avoid hitting a wall of frustration while staying productive on both. Spend thirty to sixty minutes on each one with five-minute breaks in between.
If your job is causing severe stress and frustration, consider a vacation, take a sabbatical, or even look into changing jobs.
 If you hold expectations that things will go easily, that nothing can or will go wrong, and you will achieve everything effortlessly, then you will likely be extremely frustrated and disappointed. The important things in life—work, school, relationships, mastering a skill—are rarely quick or easy. If they start out easily, rarely do they remain so. In fact, the important things in life are rarely easy.

Be careful of comparing life to media. In movies and TV, plots are often clear, and easily wrapped up by the credits. Everyone tends to be young, gorgeous, and glamorous. But in real life, rarely if ever is this the case. If you are spending a lot of time consuming media, you will likely get a very skewed sense of the world.
Ask others about their struggles in life. The best mirror of reality tends to be friends, family, and peers. Their struggles--jobs, school, romances, family--are likely similar to yours. By talking to them about goals, progress, barriers, and overcoming them, you can get a sense that others are in a similar situation. This can help produce a clearer reality.
 Frustration often leads to thoughts and behavior that only make the situation worse. Try to catch yourself when these negative events occur, and immediately take a break using the advice above. Negative behaviors stemming from frustration include:


Thinking about what could have happened or what you wish your life was like.Spending hours on a task that is neither enjoyable or productive, such as watching a television show you don't like.
Sitting and doing nothing at all.
 Practice. Practice builds mental as well as what is called "muscle-memory". Your hands can know what to do almost like the automatic-pilot of an aircraft. Your "trained subconscious mind"/and instant reactions "know from experience" what to do and when. So you may play music on an instrument perfectly from memory. Developing a goal takes practicing your skills, talents and knowledge (it's building personal experience in your area of expertise).