 Wash the squash by rinsing it under running water.


If you notice any large spots of dirt or debris that you cannot scrub off using your fingers, you can use a vegetable brush to clean them off. Scrub carefully to avoid breaking the skin.
 Cut the squash into 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) slices. You do not need to peel the squash first.
 Boil 1 gallon (4 L) of water in a large stockpot over high heat on your stove. Place a wire basket or colander into the stockpot.


The wire basket should dip down into the water. You are not steaming the squash in this method. Instead, you are using the wire basket as a way to easily fish the squash out of the water when ready. The cut pieces still need to be immersed in the boiling water, though.
 Place no more than 1 lb (450 g) of squash in the boiling water at a time. Cook for roughly three minutes., Remove the squash from the stockpot using the wire basket. Immediately transfer the squash into a large bowl of ice water and keep it there for another three minutes.


Dunking the squash in ice water after you blanched it can stop the cooking process, thereby preventing the enzymes from breaking down any further. As a result, you are left with squash that retains its color, flavor, and most of its texture.
 Spread the pieces of squash over a baking sheet in a single layer. Place this baking sheet in the freezer and let the squash remain there for a couple of hours, or until the pieces are frozen solid.


Consider protecting the squash as it tray freezes by covering the top with a sheet of plastic wrap.
Tray freezing the squash first allows the pieces to freeze individually. Once the pieces are frozen solid, they are much less likely to stick together when frozen as a mass for long-term storage.
Do not allow the pieces of squash to overlap or touch as you tray freeze them. If they touch, they will end up sticking together, which defeats the purpose of tray freezing.
 Fill freezer-safe plastic containers or plastic bags with the squash, leaving 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) of empty headspace at the top of the container.


If you do not leave adequate headspace, the squash could end up breaking the container as it expands during the freezing process.
 Place the containers of squash in the freezer. Keep them there until you are ready to use them.


Frozen summer squash will usually stay good up to 10 to 12 months.

