 Smoking and consumption of alcohol is not only frowned upon during pregnancy. Women trying to become pregnant are advised to abstain from smoking and drinking during the conception process.It is also advisable for women to stay away from any illicit drug use while trying to carry a pregnancy to term.
Quitting smoking is a long-term process, but many women have found a combination of nicotine reduction supplements such as the gum or the patch and community support groups either online or in person helpful tools in their struggle to quit., Certain supplements may be beneficial for women trying to maintain a healthy pregnancy. Consult with a medical professional before beginning any course of supplements and ask your doctor for advice on dosages.Supplements for women who are already pregnant include folic acid and prenatal vitamins that contain folic acid, calcium, iron, and Vitamin D.Taking a multivitamin that is not formulated for the needs of pregnancy is not advised as it may provide improper nutrients for the mother and child., Rest is crucial. Sleep as much as your body tells you is necessary, and adhere to bed rest if it is recommended by your doctor. If you suspect any complications due to over-activity, especially where you've had recurrent miscarriages, seek medical help immediately.


An extra 45 minutes to an hour of sleep per night is recommended during the first trimester.Getting eight restful hours of sleep during the second trimester is recommended. This may be difficult, however, as the second trimester often sees the start of nighttime indigestion and poor sleeping patterns.It is advisable for women in the third trimester to rest whenever they feel fatigued, as sleep patterns may become irregular due to discomfort at this time. Naps and regular bed rest are advised., When trying to conceive and during pregnancy, it is recommended that you keep your caffeine intake under 200 milligrams per day. This includes coffee, tea, and soda. You can try decaf versions of your favorite drink or even try "herbal coffees", which are caffeine-free tea drinks that imitate coffee flavor.


If you are trying to become pregnant, try gradually cutting back so that you don’t shock your system by going cold turkey after conception.Remember to look for caffeine in more than just beverages. It can also be found in chocolate and even certain over-the-counter medications such as those meant for treating headaches.