 If not, try to get in shape as soon as possible and buy some basic equipment like dumbbells or join a gym.;
,


Do make sure you aren't exercising on an empty stomach either, or you won't have the energy to perform them. Have a meal 40 minutes prior to exercising, and just a little snack 10 minutes before you start if you are hungry again.
 This will get more oxygen in your bloodstream and to your muscles. It also prevent -or at least reduce- muscle soreness after your workout.


Try to do the same warming up every time, because it will eventually become natural for you.
A typical warming up routine is 5 push ups and 7 sit ups, after you have done both, rest for 30 seconds. Then 15 of each, rest 1 minute again. 30 of each, rest. Then work down to the 15 and 7. After that, stretch your torso and do squats and stretch those muscles again. This is just an example of what you could also do, but feel free to make your own warming up schedule. The main goal should be to get your blood flowing and increase your heart rate and to prepare your body for a workout.
 Get a weight which you can comfortably handle, but is still heavy enough so you can train your muscles.


Get the weight heavy enough where you can 'only' do a max of 15-20 reps. Then do pyramid sets with the weights (this means that for example you do one set of 5, rest. Then 1 set of 10, rest. 1 set of 15, rest and then work your way down to the 5 again.)
An example of a workout could be to bench press 50 kilos 7 times, rest 30 seconds. Then 14 times, rest. 20 times, rest. 14 times, rest. 7 times. After this one pyramid set, rest for 1 minute (don't rest after your last reps, this rest is included in the minute of rest you get.) After the minute, do another pyramid set that trains the same muscle groups with the same amount of reps and rest, like a pectoral fly if you are training your chest. After this set, go back to the exercise you did before it (in this case the bench press) and do another pyramid set. After these three sets, you move on to another muscle group, your biceps for example.
 After your workout, do a cool down stretch. This could be just stretching, or the same like your warming up. The goal is to gradually lower your heart rate again and prepare your body for a rest.
 It really has to be hot, but still within your comfort zone. This will help you relax and will also make your arteries in and around your muscles expand, which allows oxygen to flow in more easily and let the acids that developed in your muscles flow out easier.
 For example:


Monday: Concentrate on Biceps.
Tuesday: Concentrate on Legs and Back.
Wednesday: Concentrate on Triceps.
Thursday: Concentrate on Abs.
Friday: Concentrate on entire torso.
Saturday: Rest.
Sunday: Rest.
 Continue with these exercises and weights until the end of the week, making sure you are doing it with the right form. After this week, add some weights to what you were already using. It shouldn't be too much, just enough to make it just as tough as your first week. So just to make it clear:




You will want to make a schedule for an entire week which says on which days you train what.
You will want to use weights which are still comfortable to use, but heavy enough to 'only' let you do 15-20 reps.
You use the same weights for a total of two weeks, doing the same exercises.
Add some more weights, and use these for the next two weeks, doing the same exercises.
Repeat.



