 Casseroles and starches don't always have to be savory. Baked rice pudding makes a wonderful finish to a meal that's spicy and light on starch. To make rice pudding:


In a casserole dish, combine a cup of cooked white rice (or brown rice, if you prefer the texture), with two cups of milk and one of water, two beaten eggs, a half-cup of brown sugar, and a quarter cup each of chopped walnuts, and raisins (or whatever fruits and nuts you prefer). Season with cinnamon, nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a half teaspoon of vanilla. Bake at 325 F for 30 minutes, or until golden brown. Check for doneness with a kitchen knife in the center, which should come out clean.
 Oatmeal can be prepared the night before and popped into the oven in the morning for a wonderfully warm and comforting breakfast. It's perfectly amenable to whatever fruits, nuts, and additions you like in your oatmeal.



In a mixing bowl, combine a cup of raw oats, two cups of milk, and a cup of water. Mix in a half cup of brown sugar and a teaspoon of cinnamon. Add whatever nuts and dried fruits you like, or leave them out entirely. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.

In the morning, spoon the oatmeal into a casserole dish and bake at 350 for about half an hour, or until golden brown, with the edges bubbling. Halfway through the cooking top, remove the oatmeal, and top with slices of fresh fruit and a sparkling of cinnamon-sugar. Sliced peaches, apples, or pears are all appropriate.
 A great way to liven up stale bread is to mix up a bread-based casserole. While bread-puddings can be sweet or savory, the desert variety is the most well-known, particularly in southern cuisine and BBQ cooking.



In a casserole dish, tear up at least 6 slices of stale bread, or about half a loaf. In a separate bowl, beat 3 eggs and mix in 2 cups of milk, a half cup of brown sugar, and a teaspoon each of vanilla and cinnamon. Add a quarter cup each of chopped nuts, or dried fruits that you enjoy. Pour this mixture over the bread, and bake at 350 for about 45 minutes, or until springy. Test with a kitchen knife in the center, which should come out clean.

To make a savory bread pudding, substitute your favorite shredded cheese for the sugar, and dried sage, oregano, and rosemary for the cinnamon.

