 In the Account Management section, set recovery questions for your account so your password can be reset should the need arise. This action is necessary in order to progress through the Stronghold in step 3.;
, Consuming food as necessary will help prevent premature death. Many fishermen drop their catches on the bank of the River Lum in Gunnarsgrunn (Barbarian Village), but you may require someone to assist you in cooking the free raw fish. The Varrock Grand Exchange is a good place to purchase food.
 The rewards inside will assist you in equipping your strength pure.


Venture through the labyrinth of the Stronghold until you reach the large, central room containing a treasure chest. Loot the Gift of Peace to find 2,000 gold pieces.
Climb down the ladder to the next level. Make your way to the large room with a giant treasure sack near the center. Search the Grain of Plenty, and you will discover 3,000 coins inside.
Descend to floor 3 of the Stronghold of Security. Be advised that the beasts in this area are capable of hitting up to 70 damage points. It is strongly recommended you bring food that heals at least 50 life points, such as the aforementioned fish. Navigate through the maze to arrive in the reward space. Open the Box of Health to retrieve your prize of 5,000 gold pieces. The Box will also restore your life and prayer points.
Move down to the final level, and negotiate the chambers. In the reward room, take your pick of either fancy boots or fighting boots from the Cradle of Life. Exit the Stronghold via the portal.
 This building contains additional items that will be of use to strength pures. At this point, you may wish to continue north into town to deposit your loot in your bank account.


At the Training Centre, descend through the cellar door into the jail. Speak with the guard, then proceed to the empty cell. Pull back the poster on the wall to expose a hidden tunnel leading to the Stronghold of Player Safety.
Make your way through the old cell block. In the northwestern part of the Stronghold, there is a room near the surface containing level 83 cockroaches and a rope hanging from the ceiling. Pull the lever on the far wall to unlock the door downstairs.
Exit the room, and climb down the steps to the east. Walk through the nearby door. Search this large dungeon section to locate a reward chest. Open it to receive 10,000 gold pieces, 2 lamps that grant 500 experience each, and a pair of fighting gloves.
 Travel to the Varrock Grand Exchange, and put your reward money to good use.
 Use your lodestone teleport to go to Burthrope and go into the cave near the mountain. Here you will kill the troll brutes, making sure that in your settings that you have the "Defense" option for combat exp switched off. You can switch from attack to strength as you please, but strength should be the primary training option.
 As you go along, buy the best weapon as you go along.These are located in the small hut west of the G.E and require a brass key to get in. Be sure to collect the limpwurt roots, as you will need quite a bit of money later, and bury the bones as much as possible. Do this until about 60 strength and 30 attack.
 A few are located below the Kilimanjaro  Jungle, but there are aggressive bats here. Be sure to bring some food, as these can hit accurate and hard. Train here until 40 attack and 80 strength.
 These are located in the Edgeville dungeon just before the monkey bars. These are very consist rates of 300k xp/hr, and it is comparable to even the best of members rates. Kill these until level 99 strength and 50 attack.
 You are going to want a rune scimitar, rune kiteshield, monk robes, a rune 2h sword, an amulet of strength, and leather boors. Then, buy a strength potion and a full inventory of swordfish.
 The popular world for pking is world 1 for f2p, so go there. Ask people for fight, and then beat them!

