 It will be easier to pronounce that way. “Wikipedia” has five syllables.It’s how the first and second syllables are pronounced that generates the controversy. As for Wikipedia itself? It suggests two versions as acceptable, both presented here.
The bottom line is that sometimes a word's pronunciation shifts because so many people deviate in how they say it that the new version becomes the most common. That’s happened here.;
, The key point is that the “i” in “wi” and the "i" in “ki” sound like the “i” in “sit.”However, Wikipedia itself presents that version as only one correct option, and it flies in the face of the word’s Hawaiian etymology.There is a great deal of confusion over how to pronounce “Wikipedia” but the “wi-ki” version is the most commonly used in America and in dictionaries., The British and American English pronunciations of Wikipedia are similar, but they are not exact. The British version is, ironically, more similar to the native Hawaiian.


Although the American English version is “Wi-KI-pee-dee-ah,” the British version pronounces the first and second syllable differently.
Instead of “wi” and “ki,” the first syllable is pronounced “wee” and the second syllable is pronounced “kee” in British English. So, Brits say “Wee-kee-PEE-dee-ah" (or "we-key-PEE-dee-ah.) Brits also put the emphasis on the third syllable.Some Australians and UK speakers will say this word more like “wi-kee-PEE-dee-ah” but they still elongate the second syllable more than most American speakers., What confuses people sometimes is that some believe the proper pronunciation of “wiki” is “we-key” or "wee-kee," not “wick-ee” when it stands on its own. However, “whicky” or “wi-ki” is a term preferred by some big brands, including when added to another word.


”We-key” matches the British pronunciation of the first two syllables of “Wikipedia” but it’s different from the American version. There are many other words that start with “wiki” in addition to Wikipedia, such as (obviously since you’re reading it), wikiHow, and wikileaks.
 If you want to be a purist, you should know that those who argue the word should be pronounced “we-key” or “wee-KEE-pee-dee-ah” say they are basing that on the Hawaiian language. And they have a point.Wiki is a Hawaiian word. It means “quick.” When you repeat the word, such as saying “wiki wiki," you are saying “very quick” in Hawaiian.The developer of the first wiki decided to use the word after discovering a “wiki wiki” shuttle bus on a trip to Hawaii. He thought it would work for what he was considering the “quick Web.” In Hawaiian, the proper pronunciation of the word is “we-key” or “wee-kee.” However, “wick-ee” or “wi-ki” has widely taken over that usage with many people.
It’s become so common that most dictionaries now present the “correct” pronunciation as “wick-ee" or "wi-ki" when used with "Wikipedia."Bottom line: To be a purist, say "we-key-PEE-dee-ah" but realize that many people won't think you are saying it right and that "wi-KI-pee-dee-ah" is also now considered correct usage, especially in America.

