 Lifestyle-related risk factors for worsening kidney disease include:


Smoking
High blood pressure that is left untreated
Chronically elevated blood sugar levels
A sedentary lifestyle
Being overweight or obese.;
, Depending on the type of diabetes you have, your doctor will recommend that you test your blood sugar levels one to three times a day. Your doctor will also give you a set target range that you should try to be at when you check your blood sugar levels to take some of the stress off your kidneys. This range will depend on your own personal health so talk to your doctor about the level you should be at. To learn how to check your blood sugar levels, click here.


If you have type 1 diabetes, you will most likely have to check your blood sugar levels three or more times a day.If you have type 2 diabetes, you will most likely have to check your blood sugar levels one or more times a day.Monitoring your blood sugar levels is key to helping you better control them, and to keep them in a range that will not worsen your chances of developing kidney failure down the road.
The most effective way to control blood sugars is through proper diet and exercise and then medications.
 When you are diabetic, you already have increase sugar levels. Because of this, eating a high-sugar diet or refined carbohydrates while being diabetic can speed up the process of kidney failure. Because of this, it is important to try to eat a low-sugar and low-glycemic index diet as much as possible. Cut back on or avoid the following::


White bread, white rice, packaged pancake and waffle mix, muffins, etc. are all refined carbohydrates (Note that whole grains consumed in moderation are much better for you to eat than refined carbohydrates, especially if you are diabetic.)
Soft drinks like soda and drink powders.
Candies, pies, cookies, and cakes.
Dried fruit.
Ice cream.
Jams, sauces, and salad dressings.
 Diabetics spend a lot of time focused on their blood sugars; however, perhaps surprisingly, it has been shown in medical trials that blood pressure is equally important to blood sugar levels in the prevention of worsening diabetic kidney disease.Ideally, you want to aim for a blood pressure below 140/90 (the top number being the "systolic reading," and the bottom number being the "diastolic reading").
Speak to your doctor about how best to achieve that blood pressure goal if you are not within that range already (and note that there are always exceptions, so it is important to speak to your doctor before making any dramatic lifestyle or medication changes).
 While it was once believed that all fat is bad, we now know that fat is an essential part of our diet and certain types of fat should be consumed in moderation. Trans fats should be avoided altogether, but monounsaturated, polyunsaturated fats and some saturated fats are necessary for a healthy diet. Avocados, nuts, seeds, certain oils (olive, peanut, canola, corn, sunflower), and fatty fish, are all good sources of healthy fats.Eat lean meats sparingly.
Trans fats are found in fried foods, candy, and commercial baked goods like cookies, cakes, frozen pizza, pie crust, and crackers. Avoid using margarine and any foods with "partially hydrogenated oils" listed on the ingredients — these are trans fats., This is because salt constricts your blood vessels, making it harder for your body to circulate blood. Try to only eat a maximum of 4 grams of salt per day. High-salt foods that you should try to avoid or reduce your intake of include:Extra table salt on your food.
Too many sauces and salad dressings
Cured meat like bacon, jerky, and salami.
Cheeses like Roquefort, Parmesan, and Romano
Snacks like pretzels, chips and crackers
Fast food

, Protein can be difficult for your kidneys to process because it can contain a good deal of toxins that your kidneys have to work through. If you are concerned about your kidneys’ health, try to limit your protein intake so that they don’t have to work as hard. Try to limit the amount of protein you eat to 40 to 65 grams a day. Foods that have a lot of protein include:Beans; nuts and seeds (pumpkin, squash, watermelon seeds, almonds, pistachios); cooked lentils; oats; green peas
Tofu and soy products.
Meat like chicken and turkey breast, pork loin, and lean beef
Fish like cod, tuna, salmon
Cheese, particularly low-fat mozzarella, Swiss cheese, and whole parmesan
Eggs, yogurt, and milk
Note that it is important to keep some protein in your diet in order to have balanced nutrition; it is just about eating protein in moderation rather than in excess if you are worried about the health of your kidneys.
In fact, it is best to eat a plant-based (preferably vegetarian or vegan diet). You can obtain more than enough protein by consuming different types of vegetables, whole grains, and especially different beans, legumes, and nuts.
 Smoking can also cause you to have high blood pressure.
 To control your weight and keep your kidneys running properly, you should try to exercise for at least 30 minutes three to five times a week. Try to pick exercises that you really enjoy so that you are more motivated to stick to your exercise regimen.Try running, swimming, biking, hiking, rock climbing, or kick-boxing. Anything that gets your body moving and elevates your heart rate is a good thing.
Be sure to get clearance from your doctor before beginning any exercise program for the first time or after a long period of inactivity.
 Seeing your doctor regularly can help you stay on top of any illnesses that might develop because of your diabetes. In particular, ask your doctor to regularly check for signs of:


Hypertension (high blood pressure).
Diabetic kidney disease.
Kidney failure.

