 Put small pieces of cotton or gauze between each finger at the base of the hand to help absorb sweat.
 Measure out a length for the splint that can adequately immobilize the hand and fingers. The length of the splint should be approximately the length from the middle of your forearm to the fingertips.Curve the splint so that it follows the curve of the injured limb and provides a cupping support to the wrist/arm/elbow.


Pad the splint and your hand with cotton padding.
 Splints are meant to allow an injury to safely recover while positioned in a safe and natural resting position. The splint should be applied with the hand and wrist in a neutral position. A neutral position is generally the relaxed and natural position of the resting hand where your fingers are naturally slightly curled without any active flexing or use of the muscles.Take a rolled up crepe bandage segment, rolled gauze or a small cloth and set it between the resting fingers and the bottom of the splint to support the fingers in the resting position
In general, the wrist is usually at a position of 20 degrees extension, and the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints are positioned in 70 degrees of flexion. The MCP joints are the joints at the base of your fingers that attach to your palm. The interphalangeal joints are the joints between your fingertips and and the MCP joints and should be roughly straight.
For finger injuries, be sure to allow the fingers to flex naturally. There should not be anything rigid that keeps the fingers from passively flexing or bending at rest.
 Use gauze, a clean cloth or belt. Wind it securely around the splint and wrist area to keep the splint in place. Secure the splint without wrapping too tightly.Work from above the injury site to the injury site. If possible, wrap up to the injury, then put a different colored bandage over the injury. This allows the doctor to remove only the bandage over the injury to assess it, leaving the splint in place for support.
A splint is not a cast, and should allow for more mobility. If the splint is wrapped too tightly, there will be no flexing (bending of your hand and fingers downward towards the natural resting position) and too much constant pressure may be applied to the injury.
Ensure that the splint is only wrapped tightly enough to make the splint secure in its position. Check the fingertips for circulation by gently squeezing over the fingernail. If the color returns to the fingernail in good time, circulation is good. Otherwise, rewrap the bandage and retest the capillary refill in this manner.
 Only remove it at your doctor's recommendation and under his supervision.