 Depending on your climate and the plant variety, planting times may vary. Check the seed packet for details.
 Hold your sieve (sifter) above the tray and put soil, usually seed starting medium or potting soil, into it, breaking it up as you do. Don't worry if some of the soil gets on your work area and not in the tray; you can brush it up and use it for the next tray. Fill the tray until it overflows, and then lift the tray a little and tap it against your work surface to settle the soil.
 Drag the stick or striking board across the top of the tray to make sure the soil is flush with the top and evenly dispersed. Your hand can perform the same function. Take about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) of soil off the top of the tray. If you have a striking board, you can easily insert the indented side of it into the tray and sweep away a thin layer of soil. Otherwise, use your hand or some tool that will fit into the tray to scrape the soil off the top.
 Press the firming board (a thin board that fits perfectly inside the tray) down on the soil until the top of the board is level with the top of the tray. You can also use your hands if you don't have a firming board.
 Use a watering can with a rose (the apparatus with many holes) on the end of the spout. Turn the rose upside down and hold the can to one side of the tray. Tilt the can until water begins to shower out, and then pass the can over the tray four times.
 Pour some seeds into the palm of your hand and pinch some out with your other hand. Sprinkle the seeds on top of the soil, leaving a little space between each one and its neighbors. The amount of space you need to leave depends on the plant, so check your seed packet for further instructions.
 Most seeds need to be covered with soil. Check your seed packet to be sure. Sieve a light layer of soil over the tray. In general, seeds should be covered with soil to a depth equal to twice the height of the seeds, but check the packet for exact information.
 Use your hands or the firming board to gently, but firmly press the soil down over the seeds. Seeds need good soil contact to germinate properly.
 Use a permanent marker or pen to write the variety planted on one side of the label and the date planted on the other side.
 The temperature, amount of sunlight, and amount of water the seeds need will be detailed on the instructions.

