 Most women have a 28-day cycle, which means they start bleeding every 28 days. The first day of bleeding is the date your cycle begins.If you do not know at least a general date of your last cycle, you cannot find your date of conception without visiting a doctor.
Cycles can be as short as 24 days or as long as 34 days in some women. Knowing the length of your cycle will be important when calculating ovulation.;
, You can only conceive when ovulating, but without daily testing for ovulation, there is no way to know for sure when it occurred. Doctors usually give a short range of dates surrounding the middle day of your cycle. If your cycle starts every 28 days, count backwards 14 days from the date bleeding began and mark it on the calendar.Women with a regular 28 day cycle can ovulate anywhere between the day 11 and day 21, but day 14 is the standard for estimation.If your cycle is 24 days, estimate ovulation at day 12. If your cycle is 30 days, ovulation probably occurred around day 16.If your cycle varies month to month, use the average to calculate your date of ovulation. For example, if one month your cycle starts again after 24 days, but the next month it lasts for 26, use 25 days as your cycle length.
Once the egg is released from the ovary it has a roughly 24-hour lifespan in which it can be fertilized.
 Since exact time of ovulation cannot be specified, knowing what days you had sex around the middle of your cycle can help you figure out when you conceived. Look at the week around your estimated ovulation date, and mark any in which you know you had intercourse.


Conception may have occurred on any of dates you had intercourse between day 11 and day 21 of your cycle depending on your date of ovulation.
Although you cannot get pregnant unless you are ovulating, sperm can live inside the body for up to five days. If you had intercourse in the five days before your estimated date of ovulation, it is possible sperm were still present when ovulation began and fertilized the egg.