 When you begin your course, email your instructor and introduce yourself. This is an excellent way to build a relationship with your instructor and open the lines of communication. It can also help foster a stronger connection with the course and the topic, which can help enhance your overall experience and understanding.


Let your instructor know why you enrolled in the course and what you hope to gain from it. “I often help design brochures and programs for my company’s clients, and I hope that this course will help me create polished, professional material.” Sharing your background and goals will help your instructor understand your needs.
 If you are struggling with your coursework or are having difficulties understanding some of the material, do not hesitate to reach out to your instructor. This will not only help foster the relationship with your online instructor, but it will help prevent you from falling behind in your course.Email your instructor with any questions or concerns you may have. “I am having a hard time grasping this concept described in Chapter 8. Could we set-up a phone call or a video call to go over this theory? I think if we can talk it through, I’ll have a better understanding.” Your instructor will be happy to help and ensure that you understand the material.
 You can still interact with your classmates and make new friends even though your class does not meet in a traditional classroom setting. Participating in online discussions is important for succeeding in an online course and building rapport with your classmates. Think about adding them as friends or connections on social media platforms, or create or join an online group for the class. These groups can help foster course discussion outside of the online course platform and can provide a great opportunity to schedule in-person study sessions.


Message your classmates if you think you’d benefit from creating an in-person study group. “Hey everyone, I live in Somerset and am interested in forming an in-person study group for our next exam. Does anyone live in this area? We could meet up at the local coffee shop or library during the weeknights and review the material.” Use these opportunities to enhance your online classroom experience, make new friends, and expand your understanding of the material.

