 If you are a member of an online payment service such as PayPal, your account typically will have options for you to dispute a transaction completed using that service. Read about the dispute resolution process before you begin so you understand what will be expected of you.The process may differ depending on the type of account you have. For example, PayPal has a different process for business accounts than it does for personal accounts, even if you have the same role in the transaction.
The payment service typically will have a deadline if you want to dispute the transaction. For example, PayPal gives you 180 days from the date a payment is posted to dispute the transaction. Note that this is longer than you might have with a traditional bank or credit card company.
 Follow the prompts on the payment service's website to identify the transaction with which you have a problem and send a dispute notification to the seller. You may have to provide information about the transaction and the reason for your dispute.Typically you will be asked to categorize your complaint, and then you can provide details about the specific nature of the dispute.
For example, PayPal provides three categories for disputes: item not received, significantly not as described, or unauthorized transaction.
Since the transaction was processed through the payment service, you typically don't have to provide any receipts or other other information about the transaction itself – the payment service already has this information in its records.
 Typically you and the seller will message each other directly, through the site's resolution center, to resolve the dispute you have with the transaction. While you're negotiating, the payment service may put a hold on the disputed funds so neither party can access them.For example, PayPal gives you 20 days from the date you open your dispute to negotiate with the seller. During that time, the company places a hold on the funds.
However, if you don't resolve or escalate your dispute before the 20-day deadline is up, PayPal will close your dispute and release the funds to the seller.
Typically the seller will get an email notification alerting him or her to your dispute. The seller then has a deadline to respond – usually about a week.
 If you are unable to come to a satisfactory resolution of your dispute, typically the payment service provides a means for you to escalate the dispute and get assistance from customer representatives.Keep in mind that if you're disputing a transaction because you haven't received an item, there may be a waiting period before you can escalate the dispute. This period is designed to ensure that you don't get a refund for the product and then receive it the next day.
Escalating the dispute brings the payment service in as a mediator between you and the seller. The payment service may ask for additional information from you regarding the dispute, and then investigates the situation.
 Once the payment service receives your information, a customer service agent will work with you and the seller to resolve the transaction dispute. Typically you can get updates on the progress of the investigation by checking your account.Services such as PayPal usually provide an estimated date by which your dispute will be resolved after receiving your information.
The customer service agent working on the dispute will request evidence, such as a shipping receipt, from the seller to demonstrate he or she lived up to his or her end of the bargain.
Typically the disputed transaction funds will remain on hold while the customer service agent investigates the situation and works to resolve the dispute.
 If you are dissatisfied with the resolution or believe that the seller was unfair or took advantage of you, leave a customer review for that seller so others can learn from your experience.


Customer reviews can be powerful. Some sellers may refund money even when they know they were in the right just to avoid the possibility of a negative customer review.
If you believe the seller was dishonest, relating your experience to others, either on the seller's website or profile on an online marketing site such as eBay, can serve as a warning.
Recognize the power of your review and keep it honest. Avoid stooping to personal insults or disparaging remarks about the seller. Simply relate the facts about what you experienced.

