 Place the rice in a colander and rinse it under cold, running water. Continue until the water drains clear.White Japanese rice or Japanese sweet rice works best, but any short-grain white rice can be used. Do not use brown rice since the outer kernels can taint the flavor of the finished sake.
Rinsing the rice strips away the starch powder clinging to each grain. The drain water will likely look cloudy at first, but after several minutes, it should eventually turn clear.;
, Place the rice in a large bowl and cover it with 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of cool water. Allow the rice to soak for approximately 90 minutes.

Alternatively, you can store the soaking rice in your refrigerator for up to 18 hours if doing so works better with your schedule.
Drain off the rinse water before continuing to the next step.
 Place the rice in a fine mesh colander and rest it inside a large pot filled with 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of water. Cover the structure and simmer the water over low heat for approximately 60 minutes.

You may need to add more water throughout the steaming process. Never let all of the water boil off.
When it's ready, the rice should be very sticky. Allow the finished rice to cool down for approximately 10 minutes before using it.
 Soak the brewing bucket, lid, measuring cup, rubber stopper, and airlock in steaming hot water for approximately 10 minutes. Dry each piece well with clean paper towels.

If you want to sterilize the equipment even more thoroughly, you could clean it a "no rinse" brewing cleanser. You'll usually need to use 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of the cleanser for every 1 gallon (4 L) of water. Soak the equipment in the solution for 2 minutes, the rinse each piece with hot water and dry with paper towels.
 Place the steamed rice, koji, yeast, and 4 qt (3.8 L) of distilled water in the brewing bucket.Lightly stir the ingredients together but do not mash any of the rice.
"Koji" is also called malt-rice, and it's made when spores of Aspergillus oryzae mold blooms over steamed rice. The grains of rice then become sweet. You can technically perform the process yourself, but it can be difficult to perfect, so it's usually best to start with prepared koji instead.
For the yeast, beer and wine yeasts are usually good choices. You can also use active dry yeast (a.k.a. bread yeast) if you are unable to find either of the other options.
Ideally, the overall temperature should be around 100 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) at the start of the fermentation process. If it's too much hotter than this, the organisms responsible for fermentation will die.
 Cover the top of the bucket with plastic wrap, then place the lid directly on top.

Covering the container with plastic wrap can help prevent unwanted microbes from getting inside and ruining the mixture., If you use an actual brewing bucket, there should be a place for an airlock. Insert a standard brewing airlock into that spot.

The airlock prevents harmful microbes from getting inside while also allowing pressure to escape from the bucket as the beneficial microbes inside generate carbon dioxide.
If you do not use an airlock, you should avoid sealing the bucket too tightly so that some of the built-up pressure can escape during the fermentation process.
 The mixture will immediately begin fermenting, but you should allow it to ferment for roughly 14 days before continuing to the next step.

Keep the brewing bucket in a dry place with an air temperature between 55 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit (12.8 and 18.3 degrees Celsius). If you have a cool garage, cellar, or basement with an ambient temperature in the appropriate range, you can store the fermenting sake there. Otherwise, you may wish to keep the sake in a wine cooler or miniature refrigerator.
Check the airlock. Bubbling should begin within the first few hours of the fermentation process, and the rate of bubbling will reach its peak between days three and seven.
After 12 to 16 days, the rate of bubbling should slow to one bubble every 15 minutes. At that point, you can move onto the next step.
 Open the lid and scoop out a small sample of the liquid using a ladle. Strain the sake, then sip it to gauge the taste.

The rice should be floating on the top and the yeast should be resting on the bottom. Carefully remove the sample of sake between the two layers to avoid stirring up the yeast and contaminating the sample.
Strain the sample through a piece of cheesecloth. The cloth should catch any grains of rice you scooped up, along with any other pieces of sediment that got into your sample.
 Siphon the sake out of the bucket and into a sanitized glass jar. The jar should be at least 1 gallon (4 L) in volume.

If you don't have a siphon, you can pour the sake into the jar using a funnel. Layer the funnel with clean cheesecloth the filter out any rice or yeast.
 Once all the sake is inside, plug the top of the jar with an airlock.

As before, the airlock allows some of the pressure to escape as the sake ferments. If you don't have an airlock, you'll need to seal the jar with a loose, sanitized plug.
 Store the glass jar in a dry place with an air temperature of 55 degrees Fahrenheit (12.8 degrees Celsius). Allow it to ferment for another few weeks.

During this secondary fermentation, any remaining sediments should sink to the bottom of the jar. This will result in cleaner-looking and cleaner-tasting sake.
Check the appearance of the sake each day. When it's ready, there should be a very thick layer of sediment at the bottom of the jar, but the liquid above it should be clear.
 Use a siphon to transfer the prepared sake into sanitized beer bottles.

Consider using a special bottling valve for this part of the process. The valve will only allow sake to flow through the tube when it is pressed to the bottom of the bottle. As a result, you'll be less likely to spill any sake during the transfer.
You may also wish the wrap a cloth around the tip of the siphon pump as you work with it. Doing so can prevent rice and other sediments from clogging the pump.
 Set aside several bottles for immediate enjoyment. The remaining bottles should be aged to improve the flavor.

If you plan to enjoy the sake immediately, you don't need to go through any of the remaining steps. Simply seal the bottles with sanitized caps and a hand-operated capper, then store the bottles in a cool place. Drink this portion of sake within two or three months.
 Fill one-third of a large stockpot with water and set it over medium-high heat. Allow the water to reach a boil.

The stockpot needs to be large enough to fit the bottles of sake inside. If you don't have a large enough stockpot, pasteurize the bottles in separate batches.
 Place the bottles you wish to age inside the boiling water. Monitor the temperature of the sake using a clean food thermometer.

Note that you only need to do this with sake you plan to age. You do not need to do this step if you plan on consuming the sake immediately.
Once the sake reaches 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius), it should be sterile and safe to age.
 Use a hand-operated capper to seal the bottles with sanitized caps, then store the pasteurized sake in a cool, dry place.

You can allow it to age for several months or several years—experiment as desired and note the differences in flavor that each different time frame produces.
 Homebrew sake is best enjoyed chilled or at room temperature.

Don't bother heating up the sake before drinking it. Heating sake should only be done when you have a low-quality version and you're trying to mask unappetizing flavor undertones. Homebrew sake is actually fairly pure when you take the time to do it right, so there's no need to heat it up.

