 Most custom shop guitar builders will offer a small range of available body shapes, some of which are riffs on classic body styles like the Stratocaster and the Les Paul. Choosing a body shape is largely a matter of aesthetic preference, but it will also have an effect on how the guitar sits against your body during play.;
, The wood out of which the guitar's body and neck are constructed has a significant impact on the instrument's tone. Mahogany is the standard for solid body guitars, but alder and ash are popular alternatives that provide a brighter sound. Exotic woods like koa are also available; these woods look especially dramatic when allowed to show through the guitar's finish coat.
 The paint or stain color of your guitar is purely an aesthetic preference. Solid colors tend to be inexpensive, while stains, quilted finishes, and "burst" finishes that include a gradient between several colors are more dramatic in appearance. You will also need to decide whether the headstock finish should match the body finish.
 The primary consideration you'll face when choosing a bridge is whether or not to include a tremolo or "whammy bar." Another consideration, however, would be the choice between a stop-style tailpiece and a string-through-body tailpiece.
 The fretboard can be made out of many types of wood, with maple, mahogany, and ebony being the most popular. Fret markers or inlays also pose a design consideration. The classic white dots are the most common style of fret markers, but complex and beautiful inlays made from mother of pearl or abalone are attractive alternatives.
 Your selection of pickups will perhaps have the most significant impact on the overall sound of your guitar. Generally, high-output or "hot" pickups are preferred in loud, abrasive styles of music like rock, while softer, low-output pickups work well for blues, jazz, and folk. The pickup and bezel color is a matter of aesthetic preference.
 Again, this is an aesthetic matter. Guitar hardware, including the bridge, strap buttons, and tuners, is typically available in chrome, gold, or matte black. Coordinate the hardware finish with your guitar's paint or stain color for a cohesive appearance.
 Finally, choose a set of strings for your custom guitar. Medium-gauge, nickel-wound steel strings are the standard choice, but you can vary your gauge and metal preferences to suit your style of playing.

