 Combine the buckwheat flour, cornstarch, and baking powder together in a medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together to incorporate everything and remove lumps.

For extra flavor, consider adding ½ teaspoon (1 g) of cinnamon to the batter.You can also sift all the dry ingredients together into the mixing bowl to avoid whisking.
 Add the non-dairy milk, maple syrup, and vanilla to the dry ingredients. Whisk everything together until it becomes a smooth batter with no lumps.Because buckwheat isn't actually wheat and doesn’t contain gluten, you don’t have to worry about overmixing this batter.

You can use any sweetener you like in place of the maple syrup, including corn syrup, agave, white sugar, or brown sugar.
Good non-dairy milks for these pancakes include almond, soy, and coconut.
 Transfer the blueberries and banana slices to the batter. With a rubber spatula or wooden spoon, fold the fruit into the batter. Folding is a gentle method of stirring that will protect the banana and blueberries from getting crushed or mashed.Instead of blueberries, you can use any combination of blackberries, sliced strawberries, raspberries, currants, or other fruit.
 Add vegan butter, margarine, or even coconut oil to a large griddle. Heat the griddle over medium heat. Add a pea-sized drop of batter to the griddle, and let the griddle preheat until the batter starts to sizzle., Drop the batter into the heated griddle by the ¼ cup (59 ml), making sure that each scoop has some banana and blueberries. Cook the pancakes two or three at a time, depending on the size of your griddle. Cook for three to four minutes on the first side, and flip the pancakes when the bubbles on the surface start to pop.Cook the pancakes on the other side for an additional two to three minutes.
Add more oil or margarine between batches if necessary, and continue until all the pancakes are cooked.
 Butter the pancakes before serving if you like, and serve with maple syrup, brown rice syrup, chocolate sauce, more fruit, coconut whipped cream, berry compote, nut butter, or any of your favorite toppings.