 It's usually the cheapest option, and readily available, so you can listen to it just about anywhere. Many public libraries now allow their cardholders to download electronic audiobooks to personal MP3 players. Alternatively, you can buy audio books on CDs or specialized MP3 players. You could also buy the audio version of a book you already own.;
, That way, you will have it with you when you have a few moments of reading that you can slip in.


Buy a pocket version of a book, such as the Barnes and Noble Pocket Classics. These are cheap, small and can fit in your purse or back pocket.
Read or listen while you are waiting or on line for something. Read or listen on your lunch break at work, or even during breakfast.
If you are a college student, read a book between classes instead of the school newspaper.
Pick books for ease of reading and/or interest level. Even if you do enjoy involved reading during quiet times at home, a crowded airport might not be conducive to the level of focus required to absorb it.
 The elliptical trainer, arc trainer and stationary bike all accommodate book reading, and some gyms have book holders to hold reading material for those who want to read during their workout. Then you will get smarter and fitter simultaneously, and your workout will become more enjoyable at the same time.
, Books and audio books make great traveling companions.
 These can protect it from wear and damage.
 This can encourage deeper thought and analysis of the book, or help to remember the plot line if you can't read it often.
 This can give you more incentive to finish the book by a certain time. People give you more time to sit and read if you tell them you have to read the book for a book group.
 If you are very busy, you're less likely to finish that 600 page literary epic.
 If you don't like what you are reading and it's not required, read something else. There's no law that says you can't abandon a book just because you don't like it. If you do love a book, you're more likely to return to it and you'll probably finish it faster.
 Opportunities like these make reading a part of your everyday routine, and they take advantage of times when your mind is most flexible and your life is probably quiet.



Read in the bathtub (but keep a towel handy so the books don't get wet). If you're no good at keeping books dry in the tub, read a magazine or newspaper instead.
 It's a great opportunity to spend some quiet time together. You could also read aloud to each other.
 If all you have time for is a page or two today, just read that much. It might be enough to get you into the story, or to keep you going until a day when you have more time.
 Start by reading at the pace that feels natural to you. You'll naturally speed up with practice.

