 Place 2 1/4 cups (281 g) of all-purpose flour, 1/4 cup (20 g) of cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons (24 g) of granulated sugar, 1 teaspoon of salt, and 1 cup (230 g) of cold and cubed unsalted butter into a large food processor. Put the lid on and blitz the mixture 15 to 20 times, so it becomes crumbly.If you don't have a large food processor, you can place the ingredients in a mixing bowl and cut the butter in with a pastry cutter.;
, Open the pouring spout on the lid of your food processor and slowly pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of cold whole milk or heavy cream while you pulse the dough. The dough should look shaggy and soft. If there's still a lot of flour or dry ingredients in the bottom of the food processor, you can add another tablespoon of milk or cream. Divide the dough into 2 large disks and wrap each in plastic wrap. Chill them for 2 hours.You can refrigerate the dough for up to 5 days.
 Sprinkle a little flour or cocoa onto your work surface. Place one disk of chilled dough on it and roll it out until it's just a few centimeters thick. Use a 3-inch (7.5 cm) cookie cutter to cut out hand pie shapes. Re-roll the scraps and cut more hand pie shapes. Roll and cut the other disk of dough and chill the hand pie shapes while you make the filling.You can set the shapes on baking sheets.
You can use a circle cookie cutter or your favorite shape. Try heart hand pies or fluted circles.
 Coarsely chop 1 4-ounce bar (113 g) of semi-sweet chocolate and put it in a large bowl. Pour 1/2 cup (120 ml) of heavy cream into a small saucepan and heat it over medium. When the cream starts to boil, take it off the heat and pour it over the chocolate. Stir it slowly until the filling is smooth. Chill the chocolate filling for 15 minutes.If you want to make chocolate peanut butter filling, just stir in 2 tablespoons (31 g) of creamy peanut butter.
The chocolate filling will thicken as it cools.
 Turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (200 C). Take the chilled hand pie shapes out of the fridge and divide them among 2 baking sheets. To make the egg wash, crack one egg into a small bowl and add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk or heavy cream. Beat the mixture with a fork or small whisk.The egg wash will make the hand pies shiny and crisp on the outside. It will also help the pastry stick together, so the filling doesn't ooze out.
 Dip a pastry brush into the egg wash and brush the edges of half of the pastry shapes with the wash. Spread one spoonful of chocolate filling the pastry shapes that have the egg wash. Set one of the shapes that doesn't have egg wash over the filling and gently press down on the edges. Use a fork to crimp the edges and seal the filling in. Repeat this for all of the hand pie shapes you made.You can use a spoon or small cookie scoop to portion out the chocolate filling.
, The edges of the hand pies will start to look a little dry, but the tops might still seem a little wet. Remove the pies from the oven and let them cool for 10 minutes.Avoid over baking the hand pies, which can dry them out.
 Coarsely chop 2 ounces (57 g) of semi-sweet chocolate and put it in a small bowl with 1 teaspoon of canola or vegetable oil. If you want extra peanut butter flavor, you can also add 1 tablespoon (16 g) of peanut butter. Microwave the mixture for 20 seconds and stir it. Keep doing this until the chocolate is melted. Drizzle the melted chocolate over the hand pies and serve them.You can store the chocolate hand pies at room temperature for a few days or refrigerate them for up to a week.

