 Seek out a doctor who is knowledgeable about MS and can explain the complex personal and medical issues that come with a diagnosis. It may take time, but continue to shop around for a doctor whom you like and are willing to have potentially difficult conversations with. Once you’ve found a physician you like schedule regular appointments to be able to discuss your current state and be informed as possible.Research multi-disciplinary MS clinics for a physician you can see regularly.Consult your current physician for referrals to an MS specialist by asking questions, like “Can you recommend a specialist whom you like?” or “Is there a MS specialist within your group practice?”;
, Understanding the progression of your diagnosis and the potential treatment options will give you a larger scope of what your options are and how best to go about treatment. There are four different types of MS (Relapsing-Remitting, Primary-Progressive, Secondary-Progressive, and Progressive-Relapsing) that call for different treatments at varying points in the progression of the diagnosis.Consult your doctor, and visit online resources like the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, to understand the different types of MS and their potential treatments.MS treatments consist of multiple elements: disease-modifying medication, treating exacerbations, managing symptoms, rehabilitation, and providing emotional support. Discuss each of these elements with your doctor to fully understand your options for treatment., Work with your doctor to choose a treatment plan that works best for you. Creating a treatment plan will provide actionable steps to managing your diagnosis and allow you to set attainable and realistic goals.


Ask your doctor questions like, “How do I go about treating my symptoms?” “Which disease modifying medications would best benefit my diagnosis?” and “When should I enroll in a rehabilitation program?”, Family, friends, or loved ones can provide emotional support as well as another perspective to ask questions from. If you already have a primary caregiver in mind have them accompany you to your initial appointments to learn as much as possible about your diagnosis as possible.Have your family, friend, or loved one take notes on diagnosis explanations, treatment options and methods, as well as medications, rehabilitation, and referrals.Draft a list of questions about your diagnosis or treatment to ask your doctor together.
 Joining support groups can not only provide emotional support but can also be a great resource of information about the progression of MS and the many coping strategies around diagnosis. Reach out the the National Multiple Sclerosis Society to see where local support groups meet near you.Enroll in the National Multiple Sclerosis Society’s “Knowledge is Power” program to have access to literature, videos, and worksheets for those diagnosed with MS.