 You'll want to have your shirt or top on (such as a choli), your petticoat (sometimes called an inskirt) on and tied snug, and your shoes on before you start wrapping.The top worn with a saree is typically known as blouse (choli).
While not necessarily required, safety pins make all sari wrapping much easier and better looking.;
, Hold the sari so that the shorter distance goes from your waist to the floor and the long end can be wrapped around. Then, start at one end and tuck the corner of the fabric into your petticoat at your left hip, wrap it around behind you, over your right hip, past your navel, and around again until it reaches your navel once more. Continue to tuck it into your petticoat as you go around like this.










Ensure sari is not too high. Ideally, your feet should not be visible from under the sari hem.
You can use a safety pin to pin it into place at your waist right now, but the petticoat should be secure enough to hold it in place.
 Switch to the other, more decorated end of the sari (called the pallu). You'll want to make the pleats that go over your shoulder. Do this by using your fingers span to space the pleats, and fold them across the short end of the sari.










You can use a flat hair clip to keep the pleats in place until you're done with your look. Just don't forget to remove it later!

, Reach the pleated section around behind you and drape the pleated end from the right hip and then over your left shoulder. Adjust it to the length you want and then pin it to the shoulder strap of your choli or top.
 Pulling the fabric from the top left of the skirt until it is taut at the back, drape it diagonally so that it covers your exposed love handle (or place where a love handle would be) and then tuck the fabric into the waistband at the navel.
 Adjust the fabric so that you have a loop in front of you of the fabric that is making up the waistline. Pleat this remaining fabric to reduce the size of the loop until it fits your waist. You do not need to pleat until it is very tight; a little loose fabric is desirable.
 Pin the front skirt pleats together at the top, adjust them to match the length of the front of the skirt, and then tuck them into the waistband.
 You can pin your sari in more places if you want to make it more secure. A pin at the armpit on the right can help make sure it stays draped over your right breast, for example.









