 The primary cause of a dry nose and throat is a lack of moisture. Using a humidifier may solve the problem. Humidifiers are available as attachments to your oxygen system; in fact, your system may come with one included. They moisten the oxygen, preventing dryness.


Using the humidifier is most important if you are using a trans-tracheal tube. If you are using other methods, the humidifier won’t hurt, but you may not need it; you can use a nasal saline spray instead.
Always use sterile or distilled water with your humidifier. Tap water can cause blockages or mineral sedimentation inside the tube.
Change the water in the bottle every one or two days. Once a week, clean the entire humidifier (as well as the cannula, if applicable, and rubber tube) with distilled water and soap. Doing so will prevent microorganisms from building up and infecting your respiratory tract.
 In addition to the built-in humidifier, you can try using a room humidifier to add moisture to your environment. Room humidifiers are especially useful at night, when people tend to breathe through their mouths.


Clean your room humidifier regularly – at least once a week – to prevent the build up of microorganisms.
If you don’t have access to a room humidifier, you can use a kettle. Fill it with water, and heat it on the stove until it boils; water vapor will come out of the nozzle, humidifying the air. Repeat as often as necessary.
 Tubes and nasal cannula need to be kept in good condition to minimize side effects. In addition to the regular cleaning, you should use a mild detergent and water to periodically clean these items. You should also replace tubes and cannula every six months.
 Jellies and other similar products can provide instant relief for a dry, irritated nose, soothing and moisturizing the nasal mucosa. Aloe Vera gels work well, as do many water-soluble products. Your doctor or oxygen cylinder provider may have a specific recommendation about the best jelly, lotion, or balm to use. Whichever you decide on, apply a thin layer to your upper lip and inside your nostrils, using a clean cotton swab. Repeat two or three times a day.


Be careful not to apply too much and not to get any in the cannula, if that’s the method of oxygen delivery you are using. You don’t want to interrupt oxygen flow, as this will reduce the effectiveness of your treatment.
Do not use petroleum-based products, such as petroleum jelly. These products are a fire hazard when used with oxygen tanks.
 Sesame seed oil has anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-viral properties, and it can soothe your mucous membranes. Apply a thin coating of the oil inside your nostrils and above your upper lip, using a clean cotton swab. Repeat two or three times a day.


Sesame seed oil is found at most natural food stores.
 Saline spray, which is available at most pharmacies, contains a 0.9% sodium chloride solution, which is equal to that of your body fluids and secretions. The spray will rehydrate the mucous surface of your nose and throat. Spray one puff into each nostril every one or two areas (or as needed – the spray is safe to use as often as you want). Wipe the nozzle with sterile gauze or tissue after each use.


If the salty taste doesn’t bother you, you can also spray saline into the back of your throat.
 If nothing seems to be working adequately to prevent a dry nose and throat, talk to your physician. He or she may recommend a nasal decongestant (such as Oxymetazoline or Xylometazoline), which can be used every four to six hours.


Your doctor may also prescribe an antihistamine or steroid medication to deal with itching and irritation in your nose and throat. The particular drug and dose will depend on your specific circumstances.

