 The first day of your period is the day that you actually start to bleed. Your menstrual cycle runs from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. The length of a menstrual cycle is different for each woman, but a typical cycle is between 21 and 35 days. Bleeding usually lasts for two to seven days.Count the number of days between your periods and the number of days that you bleed.
If you have started your period within the last two years, your cycle may be longer. Your cycle should become shorter and more regular the older you get. The length will also change when you are in perimenopause or close to menopause.
The frequency and length of your menstrual cycle may also be altered by taking some forms of contraception (e.g. extended-cycle birth control pills).
You typically ovulate between day 11 and day 21 of your cycle. This is the time of your cycle when you are most fertile and most likely to become pregnant if you have sex.;
, Record the heaviness of your flow and any pain that you experience. Try to be as detailed as possible. In addition to keeping track of your physical symptoms, note the day of your cycle that you are experiencing them. For example, do you experience cramping a few days before your period starts?How many pads or tampons did you use?
Are you experiencing cramps? Are the cramps in your lower abdomen and/or your lower back?
Are you experiencing any breast tenderness?
How does your vaginal discharge change throughout your cycle?
Do you experience diarrhea or loose stools during your period? (This is a common symptom.)

, Many women experience emotional changes as their hormones fluctuate. You may experience anxiety, a depressed mood, mood swings, irritability, appetite changes, or crying spells. These symptoms typically occur before your period starts. Write down the day in your cycle that you experience any of these symptoms.Also note any other sources of stress that may be affecting your mood. This can help you determine if you are feeling anxious because your period is on the way or if your are anxious because of a project at work or school.
If these symptoms appear around the same time each month, they are likely related to your cycle.
 Track your cycle for a few months in a row to get an idea of what is normal for your body. You should begin to notice trends and similar physical and emotional symptoms each month. Note any changes that happen from month to month.


Some variation is normal. You may bleed for five days one month and three days the next.
What is normal for you may not be normal for someone else.Do not worry if your cycle is different than other women you know. Look for consistency within your own cycle.
Keep in mind that if you are taking birth control pills, using a hormonal IUD, an implant, patch, or shots, then you will probably have a lighter period than when you did not take the birth control, but this is normal.

