 Asking what firearm is the best for home defense is not where anyone should begin. There are three words you need to implant into memory for any and all situations in this life: Mitigate The Risk.;
, Shrubbery, close proximity fencing, and other general blind zones will make you a target. Big shiny toys in your yard you use to make your neighbors jealous are also big draws. While an intruder knows he can't hook up to the Bayliner and tow it down the road, it's a pretty good indication that the marriage gods have been appeased with sacrifices of jewelry kept inside. If you're in a war with your neighbor to outdo one another, let him win. You'll end up ahead in the long run.
 It may have 10 locks on it, but it will inevitably be in a blind zone and nothing short of installing cameras or cutting your neighbor's tree down so he can see it will fix the situation. Here an intruder can spend all day testing and perfecting his entry if he so chooses. The best solution here is to give a friendly heads up as to what waits inside whether it be an XXXL dog crate or a pan of policed brass. The threat of personal injury is just as effective implied as it is spoken.
 We've avoided confrontation as much as possible and have done our best to Mitigate The Risk. The first and foremost weapon of choice for home defense is the 12ga pump shotgun. The versatility, availability, and low user learning curve make this the ultimate choice. You can even get pepper spray rounds for it. The icing on the cake however is the intimidation factor. Few things available to the public will elicit as strong a reaction from an intruder as the sound of a shell being chambered in a pump action shotgun.
 Most people will tell you that 00 buckshot is the cure all. While it is devastating, there are a few flaws with this philosophy. First we're dealing with indoors and common walls that in places are nothing but two sheets of sheetrock. Inside a house full of family, 00 just runs too huge a risk.


Target loads are perfect for this. Far less penetration and can still send a message. They are insanely cheap, can be bought in bulk by the 100's, and loading up target -> buckshot sets up a protocol. If you make it to the buckshot before the situation is resolved, then you know you did everything you could. For this, there are an assortment of home defense rounds with low powder charges to help reduce wall penetration.
 This is more important than almost everything else. This only applies should an intruder be between you and a safe exit. Removing yourself from the situation entirely should always be the first course of action. Again, Mitigate The Risk.


Knowing the layout and terrain in a tactical sense improves your odds exponentially. Staying low and hugging walls will give you extra milliseconds should you be noticed. An intruder's first movement to a noise or peripheral glimpse is going to be to where he expects you to be. If you can make sure to not be in that place, should the intruder be armed he will have to search, recognize, and adjust his aim.
Pick a path where everything your eyes look at for the first time is directly in front of you and narrow a field of vision as possible.
 Stairwells if you find yourself at the top of one are by far the best places to hide in wait. Many battles in history have been won by holding the high ground alone. Avoid going from the bottom of stairs to the top at all cost. If you must do this, stay low and out of sight until you can put your back against the wall and stand straight up quickly aiming and searching the landing for targets.
 As soon as you know everyone in your family has made it out, leave immediately and get everyone to a safe location.

