 The businesses you want to ask for donations are going to depend on the type of charity or other project you're raising money for. Focus on businesses that would benefit in some way from the donation.Giving the business a good reason to donate makes it more likely that they will do so. For example, if you're raising money for a local little league team, focus on small businesses that are owned by people who live in your community, so they can get some advertising out of the sponsorship.;
, Before you even begin to approach a business for donations, you must learn all you can about the business and the types of organizations to which that business normally donates.Learn more about the business itself and what it offers to the community, so you can determine what benefits the donation would offer to the business.
If the business has a website, you may be able to find out more about the business and its donation strategies and policies there. For small local businesses, do a general internet search for local news websites or community interest blogs.
 If you send a generic solicitation for donations, it likely will get thrown in the trash and never read. To make sure the business takes your request seriously and considers it, address your request to a specific person.If you're approaching a larger corporation, you typically can find the name of this person by visiting the corporation's website or calling a general business information number.
With small, locally owned businesses, there may not be a specific person (other than the owner) who is in charge of donations. Just call or stop by the business and ask.
 Once you have the name of someone who is in charge of the donations for the business, do some research on them. Assume their personal opinion will hold some sway on whether the business makes a donation.For example, suppose you are raising funds to build a new no-kill animal shelter in your community. If you find out the person in charge of donations for a business adopted three dogs from a shelter, you can appeal to their love of animals to stoke their interest in your project.
 When you're approaching a business to ask for a donation, think like a business rather than thinking like a charitable individual. Businesses don't donate to organizations or charitable projects for entirely altruistic reasons.Typically, a business will make a donation because they want to improve their image or standing in the community and ultimately attract more customers. Look for ways in which a donation to your organization or project could accomplish this.
For example, if you're seeking donations for a little league team, you may offer a sponsorship package that includes placing the business's logo on the kids' uniforms. This provides the business with advertising and also encourages the families of kids on the team to shop at that business.
 If you want to get a business donation, you typically want to present your request in person. It typically is much more difficult for someone to decline a donation request when that request is made in person.Craft a short speech lasting a couple of minutes, and memorize it. Practice in the mirror or in front of friends. They can give you pointers to help improve your delivery.
Practice your speech until giving it becomes second nature. When you speak to the business owner, you don't want it to sound like you're reciting something you've just memorized.

