 This program is run on both the Windows computer and the Mac, and transfers files and settings to the Mac. During this process, it will create a new user on the Mac computer, and all information will be transferred to that new user.


Out of all the methods listed here, this is the only one that will transfer personal information such as bookmarks, calendar information, contacts, and preferences.
Macs come with the Assistant already installed.
The program can be downloaded directly from the Apple website. Once it is downloaded, run the program to install it. After installation, the Migration Assistant will automatically open.;
, To ensure that the transfer happens without interruption, disable any anti-virus and firewall software on the PC.
 Depending on what you are transferring and where you may need the administrator information for both the PC and the mac.
 In order for Windows Migration Assistant to work, both computers must be on the same network. The most stable way to do this is to connect both computers directly with a CAT6 Ethernet cable. Both computers can also be connected to a home network through a router. You can also connect with wireless, but this is not recommended due to the amount of data that may be transferred and the potential to get disconnected.
 Once you’ve opened the Assistant in Windows, click Continue to begin searching for the Mac. On the Mac, open the Migration Assistant in the Utilities folder. Open the Finder, then click Go then utilities. Double-click on the Migration Assistant.


Select “From another Mac, PC, Time Machine backup, or other disk” then click Continue. After entering the administrator password, select “From another Mac or PC” and click Continue.
 The Assistant on the Mac will ask your permission to shut down other running programs. It will not function properly if other programs are running.
 In the Mac Assistant, select your PC from the list and wait for the passcode to appear. You should see the same passcode on both your Mac and your PC’s screen. Once you have verified that they are showing the same code, click Continue on the PC assistant to move on.
 After your Mac has scanned your PC for data, a list will appear showing you the data that can be transferred. You can select and deselect the data you prefer to transfer. Once you are satisfied, click Continue on the Mac. The transfer process will start, and a window will show the progress.
 Once the transfer is complete, you can log in to your newly created account and adjust your settings. You will be prompted to enter a new password when you log in to the new account for the first time.

