 Eating foods filled with empty calories, excess fat, salt, and sugar will only slow down your cognitive abilities and leave you feeling tired and drained. Selecting nutritious foods from all food groups delivers essential vitamins and nutrients to your body for abundant energy, clear thinking, and a positive mindset.


Enjoy a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, low-fat dairy and plenty of water. Eat several small meals per day and include healthy snacks such as nuts, seeds, dried fruits, and raw vegetables. Avoid junk food, fast food, and foods that are overly processed (e.g. have long, extensive ingredient lists)., Staying physically active is a terrific way to foster good mental health. Exercise not only supports physical fitness, it also lifts your mood and gives you energy to function effectively. Engaging in heart-pumping exercise produces feel-good chemicals in the body called endorphins. These chemicals give you the characteristic “high” that you feel after exercising.


Most studies suggest that you should get in at least 30 minutes of physical activity on most days of the week. What you do, however, is up to you. Pick and choose between activities that you like and that challenge you physically. You can run, swim, weight train, dance, or kick box—just get moving to reap the benefits!Aim to get a workout in each morning before you do anything else. Doing so gives you a burst of energy to move through your day and prevents you from skipping it later.
 Rest is important for long-lasting mental health, too. You may think that sacrificing a few hours’ sleep will give you the advantage to get ahead in life, but doing this regularly can actually detract from your overall well-being. Feeling sluggish or tired while at work or school can cause you to make mistakes and perform poorly.Aim for 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night. Doing so can increase productivity during the day, help you stay alert, boost your immune system to prevent illness, and fight off mental health issues like depression or anxiety.
To optimize your sleep quality implement a few strategies. These may include creating an unwinding routine each night with activities such as journaling, reading, taking a hot bath and making a cup of tea. Try to rise and retire at the same times each day. Turn off your tech devices at least 30 minutes before bed. And, make your sleep environment comfortable by lowering the temperature of the room, removing distractions, and using black-out curtains.
 If you feel stressed out on a day-to-day basis, your mental health (and physical health) may suffer. Although it’s impossible to completely avoid stress, it’s a good idea to have strategies in place to prevent stress from affecting your life satisfaction. Develop a toolbox of useful skills that help you keep stress at bay.


Your stress relief toolbox may include relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing, meditation, or visualization. In addition, incorporate activities/hobbies that bring you joy, such as listening to music, painting, writing, or getting a massage.
Don’t forget that eating an unhealthy diet, skipping your work out, and failing to sleep can all worsen the effects of stress. Good mental health requires consistently attending to your physical and emotional needs on a regular basis.
You can also develop a spiritual practice as a way to relax. This may include meditation, prayer, or some other spiritual practice that you find satisfying.
 During tough times, substances like alcohol and drugs can seem like a good idea. These substances often help people numb their feelings or provide a temporary mood lift. However, in the long run, alcohol and drugs only worsen the core problem. Minimize your use of alcohol and say “no” to drugs for overall health and wellness.If you have trouble quitting alcohol or drugs, it’s important to get help as soon as possible. Excessive use of either can lead to problems functioning at work or school and issues in your relationships. See a professional counselor or therapist to help you overcome alcohol or drug abuse in a healthy way.