 A craft store could sell products that you produce as well as crafts made by other artists. This could be purchased through a consignment program or wholesale. In addition, you could sell supplies and hold classes and craft parties. Study the competition in the area to see what is offered already and find a niche.;
, This can be as simple as a few pages or a complex document written by a professional, depending on your needs. If you plan to get investors or bank financing, detailed, standard plans will be needed.
 For a home based store, you'll need a place to work and a place to store supplies and finished products. For a retail location, you'll need to purchase or rent a store that has a lot of foot traffic and enough square footage to display the products you want to sell. If you plan to run classes, you'll also need space for people to work. Ideally, there should be room to set up a space for children to play while their parents shop, without having to worry about them damaging merchandise or disturbing other shoppers.
 Either learn how to take care of these tasks and prepare to do them, or prepare to hire someone who can.
 To sell craft supplies, set up an online storefront and an eBay store. For finished products, set up your own website and storefronts on eBay and Etsy. For a brick and mortar location, a simple site that gives information about your store and its location is a good starting point. Be sure to register with Google, Google Places, and online directories related to your location and products. Keep an online presence with blogs, copy that is optimized for search engines, membership in forums and online press releases and articles. Advertising through Google is another way to gain an audience online.
 You'll also need a tax identification number for ordering wholesale products and paying taxes and applicable insurance for your store and items.
 This will be used on signage, stationary and website pages. Choose colors that will be used in website graphics and store fixtures and decoration.

