 Before you begin to plan your graduation party, you’ll want to pick a date. Unlike a high school graduation party, most college graduates plan parties around the graduation weekend, as many people leave soon after.


Consider the time of your graduation. For example, if you have an afternoon or morning graduation ceremony, you may be able to have your graduation party on the night of your actual graduation. However, this may be more difficult if you have a late afternoon or evening graduation ceremony.
Know your close friends’ graduation times. In college, different schools and majors graduate on different days or at different times. If you want to invite your significant other or close friends to your party, make sure to plan around their graduations, as well as yours.
 If you can have your graduation party at your house or apartment, this is often the best and least expensive venue option.


Other options for college graduation party venues include local bars, restaurants, or parks.
If you do plan to book a venue, make sure you do so well in advance, several months if possible. Many graduates will be competing for reservations during the same weekends.
 Make sure to invite all of your family who are coming to the graduation ceremony.


Consider throwing your graduation party with some of your closest friends. That way, you can all celebrate with your families together.
Decide whether you want to use paper or electronic invitations. Because graduation ceremony invitations are often on paper, it can be simple to use electronic invitations for your graduation party.
If you do use electronic invitations, consider setting up an online way that your family and friends can send monetary graduation gifts to the graduate. Even though guests usually send money upon receiving a formal graduation ceremony invitation, this can be a nice way to reach out to more extended family. Crowd funding sites are a great way to do this. Simply include a link in your electronic invitations. This is only appropriate if you are throwing the party for a graduate other than yourself, as it may be perceived as rude to ask for money for yourself., Just add a few things to make the occasion seem festive.


Consider including a board filled with photographs from the graduate’s college experience.
Hang balloons or streamers in the college’s colors.
Make a playlist for the party. Include fun, upbeat songs. Attach your music-playing device to speakers, and let it play throughout the party. Music adds festivity to your celebration without being obtrusive.
 Keep it simple, and serve snack foods and finger foods.


If you plan to have a meal, either have it catered or make it something guests can assemble, like a taco bar or grilled hotdogs and hamburgers.
Serve drinks, or tell guests that the party is BYOB.

