 It is important to know why your family members might have racially biased ideas, and how those ideas might affect their views of your relationships.


Your family members may have racial prejudices they are not even aware of, and if you accuse them of racism, they may become defensive. Often racial prejudice and bias is something we are taught from the time we are children, and it becomes such a natural part of life that we don't realize when we are acting or thinking in unfair ways.
Whether your family is a member of the racial minority or majority might make a difference in how they respond to news that you are dating interracially. Keep in mind the historic relationships between your own race and your partner's to help you understand why your family might react the way they do.
Check out this wikiHow article for more pointers on how to recognize racism and prejudice and how to deal with it.
 Older family members or those who have had little education or contact with diverse groups of people are often rather old fashioned in their mindsets, and sometimes this manifests in prejudices and biases against other races. You can help educate these family members so that they are more tolerant and loving toward people who are different from them.


Talk about race at home. The first step in educating others is to talk about race, disparities, and injustices when you see them. A lot of people have been raised to believe in a "color-blind" society where race is not a factor in what happens in people's lives. But in reality race matters, and people are still treated unfairly based on the color of their skin. Talking openly about race is the first step to helping other people, especially members of the racial majority, understand when racial disparities are taking place.Share news articles, books, web articles, or anecdotes about everyday occurrences. If you read an article that teaches you something, share it. If your partner faces discrimination because of race, tell your family. Post about it on Facebook. Talk about it over dinner. Don't be afraid to get involved in conversations.
 Speak up if your family members make racist remarks or jokes. You don’t have to yell or call your family member names to let them know that they have done or said something that is offensive.


Talk to the person in private if possible, and let them know why you found the joke or comment offensive.
 If a family member is unkind to your partner because of racial issues or persists in making offensive comments or jokes even if you have asked them to stop, you might have to consider whether you want to continue your relationship with that family member. Let the family member know their behavior is unacceptable and you will not tolerate it.


Especially if you have children by your interracial relationship, you must consider their emotional and mental well-being and not allow racist family members to antagonize them.

