 The rubber bands should form a chain roughly 9 inches (23 cm) long when strung together, so you need to make sure that the rubber bands you choose are long enough.


If you make them too much longer, however, you may not be able to build up enough force to fling an object across the room when you pull the "string" of the crossbow back.
You could also use elastic hair ties or other stretchy bands for this part of the crossbow.;
, Feed one rubber band through the loop of a second. Simultaneously feed that second rubber band through the loop of the first.Pull the two rubber bands in opposite directions to form a knot.
Make sure that this knot is tight and secure.
 Feed the third rubber band through the loop of the first at the end opposite that of the second band. Simultaneously feed the first rubber band through the loop of the third.


Pull the bands in opposite directions once more to add this third portion.
Your string is not ready. Set it aside until the time comes to attach it to the crossbow.
 Roll the sheet into a tight tube, working from long end to long end.


Use clear tape to secure the tube. Tape up the ends by wrapping the tape all the way around the tube at both ends. For added support, you can even tape the open side of the tube down the entire length.






Make sure that the tube is as tight and evenly rolled as possible.
 Roll four separate sheets of printer paper into four separate tubes, working from long end.


Again, you should secure the tubes by taping up the ends and open side, and make sure that the tube is as tight and evenly rolled as possible.
 The first two tubes must be taped together at a perpendicular angle. Line one tube up so that the top end meets the center of the second tube. Secure in place with tape.Wrap the tape around the two tubes at a diagonal so that each piece of tape crosses over both tubes. Work from both perpendicular corners, essentially creating an "x" shape with the tape.
You might need a lot of tape to fix the two tubes together. Use as much as you need to ensure that the two tubes are firmly attached and not wiggling around, as this bond needs to be steady for your crossbow to hold together.
 Use a sharp pair of scissors to cut a third paper tube in two even halves.


If necessary, use more tape to prevent the newly cut ends from unrolling.
 Place each half on either side of the "T" created by your crossbow body. Each half should extend from the vertical tube to the horizontal tube at a diagonal. Tape it all together.


The halves should be just above the center of the vertical tube and not quite at the end of the horizontal tube.
Try to keep both halves symmetrical when you attach them.
 Line up the end of a fourth tube so that it matches the bottom end of your vertical tube. Securely wrap it with tape to lengthen the body of your crossbow.


Use duct tape or masking tape for a stronger hold. Otherwise, wrap normal tape around it multiple times to keep it steady and secure.
 The two halves should be about even, but make sure that at least one half is long enough to extend from the top of your vertical tube down to the point at which the vertical tube meets with the two diagonal supports.
 Line one half up with the top of your vertical tube so that it extends from the top down to the diagonal supports. Fix it securely to the vertical tube with masking tape or multiple layers of normal tape.


This tube will help guide your ammo and make your shots more accurate.
 Flip your crossbow over to the bottom. Stand the remaining half on the vertical tube, in between the horizontal bar and the ends of the diagonal supports. And tape it in place securely.


This half will act as a handle for your crossbow.
If desired, trim it down to size so that the handle comfortably fits your grip.
 Roll the sheet into a tight tube, working from long end to long end, and use clear tape to secure the ends and side of the tube.


This new tube will be used for the shoulder stock.
 Use sharp scissors to cut the new paper tube in half. One half should be 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) longer than the other half.
 With the crossbow still facing upside down, stand the shorter half of your new tube up on the top of the vertical portion of the body, near the bottom. Tape in place securely, making sure that it does not wiggle or move around.


This half should be placed about 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the bottom of the vertical tube.
 Roll up another sheet of paper into a tight tube, working from long end to long end, and use clear tape to secure the ends and side of the tube.


This new tube will be used to give your shoulder stock more support.
 Position one end of this new tube near the top of the upright post. Angle it downward so that it reaches the long body of the crossbow, meeting it at about the same place where the two halves of the long body come together. Tape in place.


Note that the end of this new diagonal support will be about 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top of the upright paper post.
At this point, you should be able to stand the crossbow up on its handle and the shoulder stock, and it should remain standing without little to no support from you. If this is not the case, identify the weak point of the crossbow and strengthen it with more tape.
 Stretch the rubber band string so that one end loops around one side of the horizontal bar and the other end loops around the other side of the same bar. It should be taut against the front of your paper crossbow.


Use tape to secure the ends of the rubber band string in place.






You can also use tape to tape up the center of this band. Doing so will make it easier for you to launch projectiles.
 Tape a spring-action clothespin to the top of the long body of the crossbow. It should be positioned just before the joining of the two body halves.


Make sure that the clothespin is in the right place by pulling back the rubber band string. The band should be able to stretch back comfortably without bending your crossbow. Take it as far back as possible for this to be true, and make sure that the opening of your clothespin falls out at this spot.
 To give your crossbow more support, consider wrapping the entire thing up with masking tape or duct tape.
 Insert a pencil into the guide tube on top of the crossbow body.


The point should face outward, toward the front of the crossbow, and the back should stick out from the bottom of this tube, toward the back of the crossbow.
 Pull the rubber band string back and clip it in place using the clothespin.


The band should be behind the pencil projectile, but at the moment, it should be completely stilled and secured by the clothespin.
 Shift the bottom of the pencil projectile down so that it lies flush against the top of the clothespin.


This action will make it easier for the rubber band to strike the projectile accurately once it is released.
 Hold your paper crossbow up with the front facing your target. Press on the back of the clothespin to open it and release the rubber band, thereby sending the pencil projectile flying toward your target.


The force of your band should be enough to send the projectile flying forward.
With this step, the process is complete.
