 Choose a color that matches your peppermint candy, such as white or red; if your peppermint candy is green, then you could even use green ribbon. This will give the hot glue something to stick to. It will also conceal any Styrofoam that might show through any gaps.Secure both ends of the ribbon to the back of the wreath using hot glue.

Choose the kind of Styrofoam wreath that is flat on the back, as opposed to one that is a tube shape. It will be easier to fill with candy.
 You will be gluing the candies directly onto the wreath to create a tiled, mosaic effect. If you'd like a non-permanent wreath, one where you can pull the candies off to eat, leave the candies in their wrappers.

You can use other types of candies for this method; a mixed bag of Halloween candy would work great!Leave these candies in their wrappers, however.
 Arrange the candies in a brick-like pattern instead of straight rows. This will help conceal any gaps. Start gluing from inside the ring first, then work your way outward towards the outer edge. Stop when you are 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) away from the back edge. Your candies likely won't fit all the way, so you will hide it with a ribbon trim.Do not cover the back of the wreath with candy.
If you are using a mixed bag of candy, consider laying them in a random order and overlapping some of them.This will give you a "bushier" wreath.
 Take the wreath outside, or into a well-ventilated area. Coat the entire wreath using spray sealer, then let the sealer dry. If you need to, give it a second coat. This will keep the candy from getting dirty or sticky.If you made the wreath using regular candy, you do not need to spray it. The candies' original wrappers will protect them.
 Remember the 1-inch (2.54 centimeter) gap you left unfilled along the back edge of the wreath? Now is the time to hot glue a strip of ribbon to that edge. Glue the ribbon a little bit at a time; that way, the glue won't set too fast.

You can use the same floral ribbon you used to wrap around your wreath in the very beginning. You can also use a fancier ribbon instead.
 Tie the ends of the ribbon into a large bow.If you'd like, you can cut the ends of the ribbon at an angle or into a V-shaped notch., Use this loop to hang the wreath over the front of your door, on the wall above your fireplace, or wherever you'd like.