 Find a pair of jeans you won't feel bad about cutting up. If you have a decent-sized wardrobe, chances are you'll have a set of jeans you don't normally wear anymore. Rather than throw them out outright, you can reconfigure these old jeans into something new. If your wardrobe doesn't have a suitable pair used jeans can be purchased very cheaply at stores.


If you're not willing to let go of jeans you already own, you can find old pairs at discount clothing shops and consignment or thrift stores. These discount jeans aren't usually fashionable on their own, but they can be reworked into a thing of beauty with a DIY approach.
A friend of yours may have jeans she doesn't use anymore. Provided you're the same size, you may consider asking her to donate them.;
, This will give you a visual template of how short to cut your shorts. Make sure the shorts you're using to guide your cuts with is roughly the same size as the jeans you're cutting.


Cut an inch below the shorts template mark. This will give you material to make your frays and slits with.
Cut your jeans with the side seam facing you.Keep the pant pockets in mind when you cut. You don't want to cut so high up the leg that the pockets are cut as well.You can use garment chalk to help trace your cutting line properly.
 After that, fold the jeans over in half, and use the cut leg as a template for the uncut leg. This helps ensure that your legs are both the same length.
 It's better to use chalk before confirming your decisions with scissors or a knife. That way, you'll be able to "erase" mistakes you decide you don't want. Get a visual idea of the distressed shorts you want. Do you want them fashionably worn, or tattered to bits? Planning out your cuts will give you time to think before you take the final plunge.
 Take scissors and cut into the fabric wherever you marked it with garment chalk. Make your incisions, and try to make them rough and chaotic. Clean cuts will look awkward in the context of distressed jeans. Slits can be as abundant as you would like them to be, but holes should be kept to a minimum. Going overboard on full-blown holes may destroy the cut-offs completely.


Make sure not to cut through both sides of the pant, unless you were meaning to in the first place.
You can also fray the denim by scraping a knife against the fabric., Pulling out individual threads will cause a reaction throughout the surrounding area of denim. This is a perfect way to make your jeans look naturally frayed. You should put special focus on the areas you cut. This will make the holes look like they occurred from natural wear and tear.
 Bleaching shorts is a common technique, and can be done by applying a water-bleach solution to your pants. Put on rubber gloves and dip your jeans in the solution to bleach them. As soon as you begin to see the jeans' colour lighten, remove them.


A 1:1 ratio of bleach to water works well for bleaching jeans with.
 Making your shorts permanently dirty will give your cut-offs an edgy, devil-may-care appeal to them. To give the shorts a yellowed or faded look, you can stain them with mud or coffee grounds. Try one of these four methods:


Mud water method: To get the mud water, put some loose clumps of dirt in a bucket, fill the bucket with water, slosh it around, and pour the water off into another bucket big enough to hold your shorts folded up. Don’t just mix dirt and water together; the dirt will settle out. Keep checking on the shorts until they are stained enough. Remember, the shorts will be a lighter color when they are dry.
Coffee ground method: This method will last longer. In a bucket, use about two cups of coffee grounds and enough water to turn them into a liquid. The more water you add, the lighter the stain will be. Place the jeans in a bucket and let them sit overnight.
Running over method: A "quick and dirty" way is to place the cutoffs on muddy ground and drive over them a few times with a car.
Motor oil method: While working on your car or bicycle, or in your garden, wipe your hands on the shorts. Stains from dirty motor oil or from the bicycle chain are practically impossible to wash out.
 If you're trying to go for a natural, authentic look, it doesn't hurt to have it dry in the open air.
 A patch can be taken from any other piece of fabric and sewn on. This results in an off-kilter look, but it works well with a hole-ridden, distressed style.


Band patches are a great way to show off your individuality. If other people share your musical taste and see your patch, you may end up making a new friend.
 Use cold water and no detergent.
 You'll only be able to know how a pair of cut-offs really look when you're wearing them. Put them on an check yourself out in the mirror.If there's anything you'd like to change about them, you can make the modifications after the fact.
 If you end up making distressed cut-offs again, you'll be able to use their innovations to further your own designs.

