 All snakes may bite if provoked, but some pack more of a punch and are venomous. It can be hard for someone without an expertise in snakes to tell from only looking at a snake, so proceed with caution. If you suspect that a snake is venomous, do not try to catch it with your hands. Some of the most common U.S. based venomous snakes are:


Copperhead snakes. These are found most commonly in the eastern and mid-southern states. They get their name from unique copper colored scales on their head that slowly fade throughout the rest of their body.Their markings are often triangular in shape. Cottonmouth snake.These are usually four to seven feet in length. They are generally a dark shade of brown or a dull black. They have pupils that are shaped like slits and have a bulky body. They are found predominantly in the southern U.S., throughout Florida and the Mississippi River region. Diamondback Rattlesnake. These can grow up ten feet long. They are recognized by their distinctive black or brown diamond patterns down their bodies outlined in a light shade of yellow. They are a rattlesnake, and as that name implies, they have a series of hollow segments on the end of their tale that create a rattle sound when its shook. They live in the southern and south western parts of the U.S. and some of Mexico. Coral snake. These snakes can be difficult to recognize since it resembles other similar species. They are found in the eastern, southwestern, and southeastern portions of the U.S. They can grow to be around thirty inches. They are universally a red-yellow-black-yellow pattern with black heads. They are venomous, so you should be very careful if you think you spot one., Catching a snake by hand is a little trickier, and should be done with caution. However, if you do not have any tools or nets handy, you can catch a snake using your hands. Use an object to distract the snake's head, like a stick. Firmly grasp its tail and lift the snake upwards, leaving the front part of its body on the ground, but keeping your legs and body as far away as possible. Place the snake in a pillow case or sack immediately. If you know how to safely approach a snake, you can also grab the snake by the back of head to neutralize its chances of biting you. However, getting so close to the snake's head can be risky. If you use this method, it may be best to have a tool, such as a snake fork, that can pin the head down before you reach for it.
 Besides the risk of biting, snakes can also carry harmful bacteria. Make sure to use gloves to prevent your risk of catching a bacterial infection from the snake.


If you do not have gloves, make sure to wash your hands thoroughly after touching the snake. Do not handle food or touch anyone else before you have washed your hands thoroughly.

