 The quest to activating the armor stone is only for members of the Thieves Guild, so if you’re not yet a member, become one.


The Thieves Guild can be found in the sewers of Riften.
For more in-depth information on becoming a member of the Thieves Guild, see this article.;
, As you progress in the game as a member of the Thieves Guild, you will be going through many quests. The Trinity Restored quest is right after the Pursuit.


To begin Trinity Restored, return to the Thieves Guild and speak with Brynjolf. After divulging Mercer’s plan to steal the Eyes of the Falmer, you will be directed to speak with Karliah, who can be found in the Cistern of the Thieves Guild.
When you speak to Karliah, she will inform both you and Brynjolf that Mercer was once a Nightingale (an elite thief that serves under the Daedric prince of darkness). Karliah will ask to meet you and Brynjolf at the Shadow Stone.
 The Shadow Stone can be found to the south of Riften. Exit the city, and just head south, but if you are having trouble finding the Stone, open up your quest menu by hitting the start button, and select “Trinity Restored” to make it an active quest. This will place a white, triangular quest marker on the Stone’s location, which you can follow with your compass at the top of the screen.
 After meeting with Karliah and Brynjolf at the entrance of Shadow Stone, the former will explain why she gathered you here and will lead you inside the cavern. Simply follow Karliah.


At first, the hall will look like an ordinary abandoned cave. Continue through the tunnel, listening to Karliah explain the history behind the Nightingales’ existence.
 After a few minutes of walking, you will come upon a large open area lit by several large torches. Take a right and head over to the wooden bridge, pass under the stone arch to your left, and you will enter a room with three large stones.
 Once you have reached this room, your quest log will update with the “Activate the Armor Stone” direction (you will see the new quest prompt at the top of the screen). Simply walk forward and stand in front of the stone in the center, and hit the appropriate button to activate it (there will be a prompt on the screen that will give you the proper button depending upon which console you are using).


After activating the stone, you will receive an entire set of Nightingale armor directly into your apparel inventory, which consists of Nightingale Gloves, Nightingale Armor, Nightingale Boots, and Nightingale Hood.
 After receiving the set, you will now be prompted to equip them. Simply open your inventory, and select the Apparel category, and scroll down to the N’s (as your inventory is organized alphabetically), and hit the appropriate button to equip each piece of the nightingale armor.


Once you have donned the Nightingale Armor, Brynjolf and Karliah will come into the room, signaling the revival of the Nightingales.

