 A bias is a prejudice for or against something. Understanding their position on dating will help you decide how, and if, you should talk to them about you dating. Dating is a non-negotiable in some families. This means dating is absolutely not allowed. If this is the case in your family, you may need to consider how to be content being single. Their decision may make you feel angry, confused, and upset with your parents. Your emotions are all completely normal reactions to have, however, there are online resources (including the one listed here) that will help you concentrate on positive aspects of being single. Some parents may have biases and attitudes about other people that are discriminatory and not about keeping you safe. Discrimination can be about a person’s gender, skin color, ethnicity, class, or appearance, etc.. Discrimination can be obvious, like not letting people come over because of their identity; and it can also be less obvious, like if they talk badly about that person in terms of stereotypes, or assumptions, based on the person’s identity. If your parents have strong religious views on dating, you may want to talk to someone who has similar religious views to your parents, and ask them to help you understand the rules of dating in their religion.;
, Trust your instincts, you are the best person at judging whether your parents might be very opposed to you dating or having sex. If you have any concerns about your safety, contact a counselor about what is going on in your family, and they will help you- read on to the next step.


If you are worried about your safety in the event that your parents find out about you dating, you may want to look into making a safety planner. A safety planner is your plan for how to get help if you are in a dangerous situation, and you can find one in the link listed. , Talking to your parents about dating may bring up problems in your family that you need help addressing. Luckily, there are free counselors and online resources with toll-free hotlines for teens who need help talking to their parents. Make sure that it is a safe or government website, however, before you call. 