 Taking notes helps in two ways. First, you’ll feel more active and engaged if you’re physically doing something. Second, you’ll be recording information that you can review later.


Make sure that you can process what the teacher is saying. If you have trouble writing and listening at the same time, first absorb what the teacher is saying, then copy it down in your notebook.;
, Doodling can actually help you pay attention to what the teacher is saying by keeping your body occupied.You can doodle in color around your notes, which will make them more distinctive and easy to recall.


Math classes offer a lot of interesting visuals that you can doodle with-- graphs, matrices, geometric shapes and equations are all fun to doodle in the margins and change around. The benefit is that you will actually be thinking about math subconsciously if you doodle using math shapes.
 You might go into class with the best of intentions, but the more bored you are by the class, the more tempting distractions will be. It’s best to avoid them altogether.


Avoid talking about unrelated topics with your friends. You can discuss the material, but don’t get sidetracked. If you tell them that you need to raise your math grade, they will understand when you disengage from conversation.
If you often leave class or space out, remember that paying attention to something that you find boring is also a matter of willpower. Willpower is like a muscle-- the more you use it, the stronger it becomes. If you can get through one lesson without leaving class, you’ve become that much better at staying engaged in class. Don’t give up-- as you strengthen your willpower, paying attention in class will become more of a habit than a chore.
 Whether you are doing research for class or quickly checking your email, the immediate gratification that you get from your phone will make it harder to pay attention.


While multitasking may feel good and productive, it is actually just feeding your need to see something new every few seconds. You will find it easier to focus if you shut you phone off, put it in your bag, and check it at the end of class.
 Don’t let yourself fall behind because you failed to understand something. If you feel like you’re missing something, don’t get distracted. Ask a question and stay engaged in the lesson.


Don’t be embarrassed. If you don't "get it", there are probably other students who don't either.
You can talk to your teacher after class if you’re having more trouble with the material. You can also use that time to ask the teacher about more concrete examples of how the material is relevant to real life- this can help you keep from feeling like it is completely abstract and unrelated.
 Math usually requires that you understand every step of the process. If you miss even the first quarter of class, you might have missed an important step, and you will be spending the rest of class trying to catch up.


Make up work you missed when you were sick. Talk to your teacher, and set up a time before or after school when you can meet to go over lessons.
 This means re-writing what you scribbled down in class in a format you truly understand. You don’t necessarily have to do this at the end of class, but maybe the following evening, or during a study hall. In some cases, using text rather than numbers can help you if you are not a “numbers person”., Your teacher didn’t assign your homework by accident. Ask yourself “Why did my teacher assign this homework question? What strategies am I meant to use to solve it?” It will likely be something that you recently learned in class.


Use homework to gauge how well you understand the material, and how much more time you need to spend on extra studying.
 As you take notes and do your homework, copy key problems on a separate sheet of paper. Keep adding to this throughout the unit, and then use it as a study guide come test time.
 If you spend more time on re-writing notes and making practice exams for yourself, you will need to spend less time struggling over homework and cramming before the test.
 Relying on memorization can only take you so far in math. If you have no context, there is no way you can simply memorize everything. Understanding how your lesson can be applied to your life will make it much easier to recall later.


Your teacher might be interested in making context a part of the class. Paying off the mortgage for a house or a car loan, figuring out what saving 65% of your allowance will come to in a year, and so on are good ways to connect to the math lessons and make them less abstract more real to you. Ask your teacher if they have any examples like these.
 Philosophers have been using math to deal with everything from the size of the earth to proving their own existence. It is only recently that math became a subject that was abstract and separate from life-- finding a concrete connection may help you be more comfortable with the concepts.


Math can be found in nature, outer space, and music. There are plenty of videos and books that cover this topic using everyday language. , Everybody learns differently, and it could be that your teacher’s style does not work for you. This doesn’t mean that you can’t understand the information-- it just needs to be given to you in a different way.


Ask your teacher for the name of a tutor. It is common for teachers to have the names of tutors for students who have issues with the material.
 There are plenty of resources online to help you solve your homework issues-- the trick is figuring out how to find them.


If your word problems are coming from standardized tests, you might be able to type in key phrases and find similar practice problems. Don’t use the specific numbers found in your problem, as this will rule out most available answers.
Your teacher has probably spent time researching math help online, so ask them for a helpful website.
 Even though you might be having issues with one particular problem, the core issue to solve is your understanding of the underlying concept.


Check your notes and your textbook. What is this unit called? What is the strategy for solving called? Use the terms from class and your textbook when you research homework questions, and you will be able to find lessons that address more than just one homework question.
 The most obvious reason you might be fighting sleep in math class isn’t boredom, it’s because you didn’t get enough sleep the night before. A study of high school students correlated better grades with sleeping better and getting to bed earlier. Elementary school children should get 10-11 hours of sleep.Middle schoolers should get 9-10 hours, while high school students should aim for 9 hours. In order to get a good night’s sleep, you should set a regular sleep schedule and stay with it, even on the weekend. Avoid eating or exercising right before bed (although more physical activity throughout the day will make sure you are ready for sleep come nighttime). Do the same relaxing activity every night before bed. This will train your brain to transition into sleep. , The body and the mind work in tandem, and if your body isn’t fed, your brain will suffer.Include protein, fat, complex carbs, and fiber in your diet.Leafy greens have a lot of iron and other beneficial vitamins and minerals in them. Make sure to eat whole grains to avoid a sugar rush.Coffee, tea, and energy drinks can help when you’ve had a bad night’s sleep, but a dependence on caffeine can cause you to be more sleepy in school. Try to use these things sparingly.
 A study correlated low iron in the body with lower concentration and the inability to pay attention. Another study linked zinc to memory function. .The brain needs to make amino acids and choline in order to work with neurotransmitters.
 These are important vitamins to boost memory. Vitamins B12, B9 and B6 help brain development and aid in the formation of chemicals native to the brain.Research has shown that they improve memory function.


B-vitamins are often found in animal products, so if you avoid a lot of animal products, be sure to take these in supplement form.
 Acetyl l-carnitine is said to help you focus. Also try the herb bacopa monnieri, which should help you focus by reducing anxiety.Both of these work best if you take them regularly over a long period of time-- results can take up to 6 weeks., Up to eight parts of the brain are affected by chewing gum. Chewing gum can increase blood flow to the brain, shorten the reaction time to mental stimuli, and improve alertness., Cardiovascular exercise increases blood flow to the brain, improving cognition and focus. Exercise also stimulates the growth of brain cells, which will aid your memory. Ask permission from your teacher, or take a quick bathroom break to stand and stretch. Try a few squats, jump up and down, or stretch your arms and hamstrings.
Physical activity can also reduce test anxiety, so try to do a little bit of cardio on the day that you’re meant to take a test. 