 Many people in Australia hope to adopt a child born in the country. The process begins with determining whether you are eligible.


You must be married or have been in a stable relationship for two years. You must be able to provide evidence of this.You must be physically healthy enough to raise a child. This usually means you must be around the age that someone would typically have a child.;
, Information sessions are held on a regular basis to explain the process of adopting and to help you determine whether or not adoption is right for you and your family. You must attend one of these sessions to proceed.You'll need to check out the website for your state's human services department to determine when and where the next session will be held.
 If you decide adoption is right for you, your next step is to attend a training session that will give a more detailed understanding of the process and help prepare you for some of the challenges that can come with adopting a child.If you or your spouse have undergone fertility treatment in an attempt to have your own child, you may not participate in a a training session until six months have passed, to ensure that you aren't currently pregnant.
 Once you've completed the necessary training, you'll have to fill out a detailed application. This application will be used to verify your eligibility and suitability to adopt, and will require the following:A police check
A medical checks
A working-with-children check (used to verify that you haven't been charged with or convicted of harming a child)References
If you're in a de facto (non-married) relationship, documentary evidence will also be required.
 There is a formal assessment process that will be used to predict whether you will be a suitable adoptive parent. The process typically takes three to four months.The assessment will consider your age, health, relationships, stability, and ability to provide financially for an adopted child., In Australia, the birth family of a child does not end their relationship with a child they have given up for adoption. They have a say in selecting a family to adopt their child. They may also have visitation rights.If a birth family selects you as a good family to raise their surrendered child, you may end up working closely with the birth family until the child reaches adulthood.

