 Some research suggests that low levels of iron may result in female hair loss.Try to increase your daily iron intake, or go see your physician to see if your iron levels are low.


You may be at a risk of iron deficiency if you’re a vegetarian, have a history of anemia, or have heavy periods.You can increase your iron through food. Lean red meat is a good source of iron. Other meat, like chicken, turkey, and fish, also contains small amounts of iron. Beans, nuts, cereals, and some vegetables like leafy greens also include iron, but the type of iron found in these sources are harder to absorb.You may consider taking an iron supplement. Most multi-vitamins include the recommended daily amount of iron, while a separate iron supplement will have more than your daily amount.
Females need approximately 18 mg of iron each day. If you are pregnant, you need 27 mg.;
, Walnuts contain many nutrients, like omega-6 fatty acids, zinc, iron, B vitamins, and protein. These nutrients contribute to hair health.The oils they contain help promote hair growth.Having proper oils in your body keeps your hair from breaking.
Eat approximately 30 grams of walnuts a day.
 Collagen helps hold in hair follicles, which helps promote healthy hair.Add vitamin C to your diet by eating fruit, like strawberries, pineapple, papayas, guava, and citrus, such as oranges and grapefruit. You can also find it in vegetables, like kale, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts.
 B-vitamins help cells thrive, including cells in the scalp and follicles. With healthy cells, your hair will grow stronger and healthier.B-vitamins are found in salmon, trout, shellfish, lean beef, pork tenderloin, and chicken breast. They're also found in bananas, spinach, turnip greens, soybeans, okra, beets, broccoli, lentils, and black eyed peas. You can also find it in whole-grain breakfast cereals, oatmeal, and low-fat cottage cheese.
 Zinc helps promote hair growth. A zinc deficiency can cause hair loss or reduced growth.You can find zinc in meat, peanut butter, pumpkin seeds, chickpeas, kidney beans, and wheat germ.
 Thinning hair might be due to a protein deficiency. Protein helps your body replace the hair that you lose daily.Eat more chicken, fish, or lean beef. Try a four-ounce serving of chicken with dinner.
You can also get protein from non-meat sources, like chickpeas, quinoa, and lentils.
 Though eating a healthier diet can promote overall health, including hair health, it may not help treat your hair loss. Many things contribute to hair loss, such as aging, genetics, and autoimmune disorders. If your hair loss is due to these factors, instead of malnutrition, diet may not help reduce hair loss.