 The concept that you need to eat for two when you become pregnant has actually be shown to be wrong in a lot of cases.When you ‘eat for two’, you can gain weight. Excessive weight during pregnancy can actually lead to other medical problems, which you want to avoid when you already have a high risk pregnancy. Instead, you only need to increase your caloric intake by 300 calories or so. The medical conditions associated with gaining weight while you’re pregnant include:


Gestational diabetes.
Pre eclampsia.
Eclampsia.
 Aside from overeating, eating less or dieting is another dangerous thing to do during pregnancy, and especially during high risk pregnancy. If you do not get a healthy amount of calories and nutrients each day, it can lead to a low birth weight, premature delivery, and learning disabilities. The following steps in this section discuss the different nutrients you need to try to consume each day.
 Carbohydrates provide the body with energy that you need to stay healthy and happy during your pregnancy. When considering what to eat for the day, try to make sure that at least 300 of your calories for the day come from carbohydrates. You can figure out how many calories each carbohydrate food has by reading the nutrition information, or running an internet search. Good carbs include:


Whole grains like whole wheat and multigrain bread, oatmeal, and brown rice.
Beans like black, garbanzo, and kidney beans.
Fruits like apples, apricots, and avocados.
Almonds, Brazil nuts, and cashews.
 Proteins help your body to repair worn out tissues and build up the immunity of both you and your baby. The daily recommended amount of protein for a pregnant woman is 71 grams, which you can get by eating foods like:


Tofu, lentils and black beans.
Chicken breast, salmon, and lean ground beef.
Cottage cheese, low-fat yogurt, and skim milk.
 Fruits and vegetables help to boost your immune system, as well as the immunity of your baby. Five portions of fruits and vegetables might be difficult to determine however, so here is a guide of what a serving or fruit or veggies actually means:


One serving of fruit is: 1 apple, ½ cup of berries or grapes, or one banana.
One serving of vegetables is: 1 orange bell pepper, ½ cup of cooked squash, or one cup of leafy greens.
 When you get pregnant, you will have to increase your iron intake because iron helps to form your baby’s blood. It also helps to transport nutrients from your body to your baby via your blood. You can take iron supplements, though you should talk to your doctor before doing this. You can also eat food that is rich in iron like:


Dark leafy greens like spinach or kale.
Dried fruit like raisins or prunes.
Iron-enriched cereals.
Soybeans, chickpeas, lentils, and beans.
Artichokes.
 Calcium helps your baby’s bones and teeth to become strong. It also helps your own bones remain strong, which will come in handy when you are delivering your baby. Talk to your doctor about taking calcium supplements, and eat foods that are rich in calcium like:


Skim and nonfat dairy products like milk, cheese, and yogurt.
Spinach, collard greens, and turnip greens.
Canned salmon and sardines.
Sesame seeds or dry roasted almonds.
 Vitamin D helps your body, and your baby’s body to absorb calcium, which in turn helps your baby’s bones and teeth to grow strong. At the same time, it will help your bones stay strong; strong bones are an important part of being able to deliver your baby. Your body makes vitamin D when you expose your skin to sunlight.You can get vitamin D by spending time in the sunlight or taking vitamin D supplements.
You can also eat vitamin D rich foods like: egg yolks, milk and dairy products fortified with vitamin D, and tuna canned in water.
 Folic acid helps in the formation of blood and development of the neural tube in your baby’s body. The daily requirement of folic acid for a pregnant mother is 400 micrograms, which you can get through supplements or by eating foods that contain folic acid. These foods include:


Lentils and kidney beans.
Asparagus, broccoli, and leafy greens like spinach and kale.
Citrus fruits.
Fortified breads and cereals.
 Vitamin B12 works together with folic acid to form red blood cells that help to form blood. When you have a high risk pregnancy, increased blood levels can help carry the nutrients from your system to your baby. Foods that are rich in B12 that you can eat include:


Fortified soy products like tofu.
Fortified cereals.
Low fat dairy products.
Smoked salmon and tuna.

