 This is one time when you want to be ahead of the curve. Pregnancy is full of unexpected events, and one of those may mean needing to head to the hospital before you thought. So don't wait until your thirty-sixth week––pack for any unexpected occasion, early on.


This is especially important if your pregnancy is considered high-risk (e.g. expecting multiple births). For a low-risk pregnancy, start packing around 30 to 35 weeks. If you are having a scheduled induction or C-section, pack at least two to three weeks in advance.;
, There are things you may need to take to the hospital that might not be necessary to worry about at home.
 Sometimes your birthing location has rules in place regarding what they will allow in the labour room.
 For example, to protect your car in case your water breaks while driving, sit on a towel with a bin liner beneath it. Also, use a waterproof mattress pad to protect your bed--it's very likely to happen when you're in bed. Incontinence pads (available at drug stores and retail stores) are also useful and great for use for babies.


Have plenty of towels: You may really need them if your water breaks on the way to the hospital. Pack another towel so you can have a quick wash if you want to.
 The average hospital stay for a standard delivery with no complications is two days; the minimum stay following a C-section is three days. Pack for an extra day or two depending on your situation.
 Make sure it's weather-appropriate and realistic. Those skinny jeans may be screaming for you, but don't think that you'll be runway-ready out of the delivery room. Give your body time to recover and plan your outfit accordingly. Likewise for the baby - that little sundress may be too cute to pass up, but unrealistic if it's raining out. Your best bet for baby is a "onesie", a set of pajamas, a hat, mittens (to prevent the baby from scratching themselves), and a blanket. Dressing the baby in layers will provide for various weather eventualities.
 This day will never happen again. Make sure to capture it, and bring what you need to keep a full battery the whole time.
 Money is necessary, but not too much. Only bring with you what you may actually need, such as a cab fare, treat money and cash for sundry items.
 If you don't bring anything else, bring yours and your partner's ID's, any pre-admission forms, insurance papers, birth plan, a list of people to call when the baby is born, etc.
 Hospital gowns are just the worst, so having your own will bring you comfort. Nothing too fancy though - it's childbirth, not a fashion show and you will probably get fluids and blood on it. Comfort over style.


Buy a gown from a thrift store or a cheap store, one you won't mind parting with if it gets too messed up.
 The labour, and especially the delivery processes, steal a lot of heat from the mother's body, and socks are essential. Don't just pack one pair, pack several. You may want to layer them.
 Calming music, audio books or a good book for someone to read to you can help pass the time. Labour is a long process and, aside from the occasional jabs of pain, largely uneventful (if you are lucky). A distraction may help you to pass the time.
 Lollipops are a laboring woman's best friend. Food is not allowed during the labor and delivery process, so if your birthing location, doctor, or midwife allow it, lollipops can help you through.


Barley sugar might be another source of energy and determined sucking during the labor.

Slippers, socks, bed socks (hospital floors are notoriously chilly)
Fresh underwear
One or two pairs nursing bras or you can have leak-proof nursing bras if you will be breastfeeding.
About 3-4 outfits that are loose and comfortable that you wore when you were about 6 months pregnant. Make sure the clothes won't rub your incision in case you get a C-section.



Toothbrush, toothpaste, travel container. Toothbrushes: One for you and one for your birth partner. Be sure to have a cover of some sort.
Soap
Deodorant
Body lotion (make sure it's not heavily scented - baby's little nose is sensitive!)
Shampoo and conditioner - trial size
Hairbrush
Hairdryer. Check with the hospital you will deliver; they may have them in each patient room.
Scrunchies, hair clips, ponytail holders – to keep hair out of your eyes while in labour!
Lip balm (your lips will get surprisingly dry)
Make-up (you will be in many photographs, so might as well look the best you can)

, Consider bringing:


A shower cap (just in case your hair gets in the way during labour)
Flip flops – to wear in the shower
Wet-wipes
Your own pillow from home, or alternatively, a pillowcase
An overnight bag for your birth partner
Water: A bottle of water during labour is essential. Take in a big bottle to fill a smaller bottle.
 Again, pack for 3-4 days. Make sure they are comfortable and warm.
 Refer to mom's toiletries above.
 Hospital food can suck, and if it's 2 A.M., it might not be open.
 Laptop, books, tablets, etc.
 The hospital will provide these, but you can bring your own if you wish. Make sure they are for postpartum bleeding, which is heavier than normal menstruation bleeding.
 If you're breastfeeding, you'll need certain supplies. These include nipple cream, like lanolin, and breast pads for leakage; the hospital will probably supply these. If you're going to use breast pump, a nursing pillow or any other feeding aids, it's best to bring them (leave in the car until the baby is born, if you like) in order to learn how to use them from the lactation and any feeding consultants available at most hospitals.
 If you already packed these in considering your hospital stay needs, you're probably covered. Bear in mind that you will probably still have a nice round baby bump, so pack maternity clothes. You won't fit non-maternity for a while yet., Most of the things you'll need the hospital will provide. Some people want to bring their own things, so pack according to your wishes.


Diaper (nappie) bag
Baby blanket
Baby clothing (2 in newborn and 0-3 month sizes)
Hats
Socks
Nail clippers or emery board for baby's nails
Warm/cool clothes for going home (if the climate is below or above average).
 The baby needs safe transport home. A hospital or birthing center will not allow the baby to go home in a car without a car seat. Make sure you either bring this with you or ask someone to bring it to the hospital on discharge day.


Fit the car seat before you go into labour as they can be really tricky to fit correctly, and they are not protective unless fitted properly. If you aren’t sure, go back to the shop and ask them to show you how to do it. Some municipal agencies (like state police) may offer car seat fittings, as well as some agencies connected with baby care and needs.

