 To keep the playing ground level, most states regulate the amount of wrapping boxers are allowed to use for a fight. Generally, the rule is one roll of gauze of a particular length for the fighter.


According to the Association of Boxing Commissions, "Hand wraps shall be restricted to no more than twenty (20) yards of soft gauze, not more than two (2) inches wide. The gauze shall be held in place by no more than eight (8) feet of adhesive tape, no more than one and one-half (1 ½) inches wide. The adhesive tape shall not cover any part of the knuckles when the hand is clenched to make a fist. The use of water, or any other liquid or material, on the tape is strictly prohibited. Hand wraps shall be applied in the dressing room in the presence of a Commission representative and, if requested, one representative of the other boxer."

, Generally, competition wraps are done by the trainer, because its very difficult to wrap your own wrists and place the knuckle-guard patch on your hand without the thumb-strap on traditional training wraps. Before a fight, have your corner man wrap your hands under the supervision of a representative of the boxing commission in your state.


Most trainers have particular methods and ways they like to wrap wrists for a fight, but the general principles are basically the same--keep the fist tight and secure, offering some protection for the loose knuckle joints.
 Using the roll, start wrapping around your straight wrist joint. Bring the gauze around the wrist several times (10-20) and focus on securing the wrist as securely as possible. Most trainers won't use tape as this stage, but will use the wrap to keep itself secure around the wrist.
 Most competition wraps won't go between the individual fingers, so the wrapping process itself is much less complicated and variable. Continue creating X patterns around the thumb and palm to secure the knuckles and around the wrist. After you've gone several times around the knuckles, you're ready to add a pad for extra security.
 Many trainers will use an extra thick pad of gauze placed on top of the knuckles and wrapped in place using the wrap. This offers extra protection and some padding for the knuckles themselves.








Flex your hand frequently and make a fist during the job to make sure the wrapping is comfortable and not too tight. Often, the wrap will become tight on the outside edge of the hand as a result of bringing it around so many times. Be aware of this and let the trainer know if the wrap is uncomfortable.
 Rules vary from place to place, so be sure you're in accordance with the local boxing commission when you tape the wrap on. Use athletic tape around the wrist to secure the end of the wrap and finish the job.









Some trainers like to make sure the wrap doesn't slip back off the knuckles when the boxer puts the tight gloves on, and will use little strips of tape between each of the knuckles to keep it tight to the back of the hand. Strictly speaking, this isn't allowed in some places, however.

