 This trick can seriously injure your dog if he has an existing leg condition or weakness caused by genetics or malnutrition. Many breeds are susceptible to hip dysplasia or other leg-related problems, especially (but not only) large breeds such as mastiffs and German shepherds. Before you begin, take your dog to a veterinarian who can examine your dog's hips for possible problems.


If you got the dog from a breeder, he may have a third-party certificate confirming that the dog's parents were screened for hip dysplasia. It's even better if the grandparents were tested, since it is possible to pass on the disease through a carrier with no symptoms.
 Assuming your dog is healthy and not at risk for leg issues, get her attention and command her to sit.


The better your dog's basic training, the easier this trick will be.
 Pick a treat the dog absolutely loves, preferably one with a strong smell. Hold it right above the dog's nose, without letting the dog eat it.


If the dog wasn't sitting up already, gesture upward with the treat and encourage him to sit upright.
 Lift the treat directly upward. The dog should naturally stand on his hind legs to reach the treat. The instant he does, give the "STAND" command (or a particular hand gesture) and reward him with praise and the treat.


If the dog already knows "STAND" as "stand on all fours," use a different command instead, such as "DANCE."
Don't expect a great distance on the first try. It's fine to reward the dog for raising him front paws slightly off the ground.
Try not to raise it so high that the dog jumps. If the dog does jump, you can reinforce it with the "JUMP" command instead, but teaching two tricks at once isn't ideal.
 A dog's leg muscles are not built for a standing position. In the beginning, you may need to to help support the dog by letting him steady his paw against your hand. As he practices this trick, your dog's muscles will develop to support this position, and your dog will learn how to balance.
 Each session should only be two minutes max. Repeat no more than three times a day. Always end on a positive note, before the dog has tired out. Over time, the dog will learn to respond when you give the "STAND" command.
 If you like, and if the dog doesn't seem uncomfortable standing, hold the treat higher each time, until the dog can stand fully upright. This will also improve her balance, allowing her to hold the standing position for a little longer. Some dogs can learn to hold this position for a long time and even take a couple steps, but this is generally restricted to smaller, lighter dogs.
 Most dogs will stand up and place their paws on your legs when they're very excited to see you. If you want your dog to do this more often, encourage this by playing with the dog when it happens, fondling her ears or scratching under the neck. You can also praise them for standing up using a distinct word or sound that you only use for this situation. The dog may associate this sound with standing up, and learn that it's okay to stand on your legs if you say it.


If your dog doesn't do this on her own, sit on a chair and call the dog over. Play with the dog and lift the front legs slowly and gently until the front paws are on your knees.
Never force the dog to stay in this standing position. It is an unnatural position that causes uncomfortable strain if an unpracticed dog holds it for too long.
If you want the dog to sit down again, hold the front paws and help direct them back to the floor, rather than make your dog drop down suddenly.

