 The Barrett 50 Cal. has a large amount of recoil after each shot which makes missing your target deadly as the high recoil will make you lose sight of the target. The Intervention has the same damage as the Barret, but it has half as many bullets in the default magazine and is bolt-action which makes your rate of fire slow down and makes this weapon have to be one-shot-kill otherwise your enemy will have enough time to aim at you and kill you. The WA2000 is semi-automatic like the Barrett but has less recoil, less damage and a smaller clip than the Barett (6 bullets compared to the Barrett's 10). It is capable of acquiring one-shot-kills to the upper chest, neck and head. Note that stopping power actually has NO effect on the one-shot-kill ability of this weapon, so your Tier 2 perk is free for a different perk. The M21 EBR is the lowest damage sniper rifle, being only one shot kill to the head or neck but it has the least recoil. The M21 EBR is effectively a "double-tap" weapon, where in most scenarios, two shots will be required to dispatch your target. Most players familiar with the gun will quickly send two shots at the target, this made easier by the low recoil of the weapon. Its magazine size is ten rounds, same as the Barett.;
, The silencer keeps your shots quiet, but it sacrifices a bit of power, requiring two hits, unless to the head, or in a hardcore game, if you use Stopping Power. The ACOG scope makes your rifle suitable for CQB situations but is otherwise used to unlock the thermal scope. The heartbeat sensor is a great attachment to have, to make sure no one is rushing your position. The Thermal Scope is the most widely used attachment and makes your enemies clearly glow hot-white against a grey backdrop, but it's not as crystal clear as you'd like it to be. FMJ adds more bullet penetration to your gun. Extended mags, does just what the name describes, it gives you a magazine with more rounds in it.
 Stopping Power will make your rifle much more powerful (and is the only way to get a one shot kill with a silenced sniper rifle in a core game). However, Cold Blooded may be more useful, as enemy snipers who use the Thermal Scope will have trouble seeing you. Bling will give you two attachments. However, Sleight of Hand may be preferred for quickly reloads, or Scavenger to get magazines from dead bodies. Last, you may want Steady Aim, as it will increase no scope accuracy and can increase the amount of time you can steady your scope. But, you may want Ninja, as it will make Heartbeat sensors useless, so they will have trouble finding you.
 Having that done, try to stay as low as possible, but still have a sight of what is going on. A good hiding place will give you a broad view of the battlefield, provide cover and at least partially hide you. Good examples of the include: The houses on the edge of the map in Wasteland, The Houses in the middle of the map in Rundown, The brick house in the south of Favela,the cockpit of the plane in Terminal, The cliff behind the C-130 in Afghan, The bunkers in Afghan and the large offices in Derail, among others.
 This means you will have a higher chance of hitting your target. Aim for this spot if you want a higher chance of killing someone. If possible, hit near the neck.
 If the person is in a standing position, you want to aim for the head if possible; if done correctly, you will get extra points and a one shot kill.
 If the person is running from A to B. You always want the scope (Bulls Eye) to be ahead of him, not so much in front, but keep your space. The mere instant (because weapons have infinite velocity) the person gets into your sights, light 'em up!

, Also, claymores are imperative. Set a claymore on each opening where an enemy can enter. Try to hide it, so he can't see it, leading to death.
 (Hard-scoping, for those of you who don't know, is when you just stay aimed down the sight of your rifle.) You have to learn to spot people while not scoped in, then scope in on where they are. This will make you much more aware of what is going on around you and less likely to die from being rushed.
