 NSAIDs, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, are very effective against pain caused by menstrual cramps. The drug ibuprofen is available over the counter (OTC) in several brand names, including Advil, Genpril, IBU-200, etc. Generic brands, simply called "Ibuprofen," are much less expensive.


Take ibuprofen right away and according to label instructions for your age and/or weight range. You should not exceed 1600mg in a 24 hour period without the supervision of a physician.
If you have any preexisting medical conditions that make you sensitive to NSAIDs, you might want to avoid ibuprofen, as it can thin your blood or cause other complications.
Products like Midol, which are specifically designed for menstrual pain, contain acetaminophen. These products can cause kidney damage, but are an effective alternative for people sensitive to ibuprofen.;
, Doctors recommend using heat as a way to relieve pain associated with menstrual cramping, as well as helping the cramps subside themselves. There are a couple different courses of home treatments you can follow:


Get a hot water bottle and apply it to the stomach or lower abdomen. Wait 15 to 20 minutes to see if cramps have gotten better.
If that doesn't work, try taking a hot bath with a cup or more of Epsom salts, which are a mild muscle relaxer. Submerge your body fully underneath the Epsom salts and keep the water hot by turning the faucet on, if necessary.
 A couple days before your period is set to begin, make sure you're getting enough vitamins, as well as the right kind of vitamins. These include:


Vitamin E. Take 500 International Units (IU’s) of vitamin E per day, continuing it through the first couple days of bleeding.Some evidence (although not scientifically rigorous) suggests that vitamin B1, vitamin B6, and fish oil supplements may help people tame their punishing periods., Studies show that those who perform regular exercise have less menstrual pain.Even if it's just 30 minutes of walking fives times a week, moderate exercise is better than no exercise at all.
 While the scientific link between xenoestrogens, phytoestrogens and cramping is weak, scientists do know that xenoestrogens and phytoestrogens cause a significant health risk and should be avoided if possible.The thought about xenoestrogens and phytoestrogen and cramping is this: they cause magnesium and vitamin B deficiencies, and these kinds of deficiencies may result in cramps.
 Birth control causes your uterine lining to thin out. When your uterine lining is thinned out by the time your period rolls around, there's less chance of significant shedding, and of contractions. For painful periods, your doctor might recommend starting birth control.


Talk to your doctor about a special version of the pill that causes menstrual cycles every three months instead of every month. Although you may experience some unexpected spotting in between, this three-month alternative could be a good option if periods are putting you (literally) on your back.
 An injectable form of contraception might also be beneficial in reducing the pain associated with menstrual cramping. This injection is given every three months at the doctor's office, and — like the pill — also thins out the lining of the uterus. Many people have significantly reduced bleeding after six months of use.
 This is another form of contraception, and the hormonal IUD significantly reduces the pain associated with menstrual cramping., They may not seem like much, but they are definitely doctor-recommended:


Lie down, raise your feet, and try to rest for at least 20 minutes. Rest is a natural painkiller.
Gently stretch. Try the sphinx pose in yoga for a targeted stretch.
Stay away from cigarettes and alcohol. Aside being bad for you for different reasons, these may make your period particularly horrid.
Massage your lower back or abdomen. Or better yet, have someone else do it for you!

, If your period is making you feel like you want to roll up in a ball and forget the world, definitely see a doctor. On many occasions, patients with dysmenorrhea, or severe cramping, consult a doctor and find that they have another condition that is making the pain worse.Often, this condition is called endometriosis, where the lining of the uterus is actually found outside the uterus. If you are uncertain of why your period hurts so much, and can't seem to find an answer to persistent pain, definitely see a doctor.
 Scientific research on these herbs also supports their effectiveness in reducing the severity of menstrual pain. An Ayurvedic consultant can guide you for effective combination of these herbs and the method of preparing a formulation, to control your agonizing menstrual pain.


Saraca Ashoka: Studies suggest that this herbal remedy is useful in various gynecological disorders including dysmenorrhea. Nardostachys jatamansi: Studies suggest that this herbal remedy may relieve pain associated with menses. Zingiber officinale: Studies suggest that this herbal remedy may be beneficial in reducing the pain due to dysmenorrhea. 