 After opening your can of paint, mix it thoroughly, then pour enough of it to do the job into a separate, clean container. If the paint has been stored for any length of time, it is a good idea to strain it through a paint filter to remove any lumps of hardened paint which may have formed. These lumps can stop up the siphon tube or the metering valve, causing the flow of paint to stop.
 The exact ratio of paint to thinner will depend on your paint, sprayer, and nozzle type, but the paint should usually be thinned by about 15 to 20% for a good flow. Notice how thin the paint looks when you use an aerosol spray paint; this will give you an idea of what you are looking for.
 Whether the spray cup attaches to the bottom of the sprayer with a clamping assembly and hooks or screws on, be sure to attach it securely; you do not want the spray cup to drop off suddenly while in use.
 Practice moving the spray gun in a side to side, or up and down sweeping motion, parallel to the surface. If you have never used this type of paint applicator before, practice holding and swinging it for a moment to get a feel for the balance and weight.
 Keep the sprayer moving whenever the trigger is squeezed to avoid drips and runs caused by over application.


It’s best to test-paint a piece of scrap wood or cardboard before tackling the main job. This way, you can adjust the nozzle if necessary to get a finer spray pattern.
 This way, the "feathered" edges of the spray pattern don’t leave thin spots in your paint job. Watch for drips and runs, moving fast enough to keep the paint from getting thick as you spray.
 Do not allow the sprayer to sit with paint in it; if you need a break, remove the cup and spray some thinner through the sprayer before leaving it unused.
 For most paints, a good, even "wet" coat is sufficient, but a second coat may give a more durable finish. Sanding between coats is recommended for varnishes, polyurethane finishes, and other glossy paints to improve the bond between the coats.

