 The cause of eczema's can be difficult to determine, and it can be difficult to diagnose. Relying on the expertise of medical professionals is the best way to ensure that your child is receiving the best care for his condition.There is no test that can confirm the existence of eczema, so a physical examination and the consideration of hereditary and environmental factors are usually utilized to determine its presence.
Your child's pediatrician may refer you to an allergist. Eczema isn't an allergy, but allergies can be a trigger for outbreaks. You may also be referred to a dermatologist for examination and care recommendations.;
, This routine may help to reduce bacteria that can cause infections and hydrate the skin if done properly. Avoid hot water and overly-long baths, however, both of which can dry the skin. (Dry skin can both trigger eczema and exacerbate outbreaks.) Use lukewarm water and allow the child to soak for only about ten minutes.Wash the child with a mild, non-drying, gentle cleanser. Consider using an emollient, or skin-softening body wash, without perfumes or dyes if the child has especially bad eczema. Wash gently and avoid harsh scrubbing that can make the condition worse.
Dove, Cetaphil, and Aveeno are excellent choices for children.
Pat the child dry afterwards. Do not scrub the child with a towel.
 While it may sound extreme, some studies indicate that bleach baths can reduce the symptoms of eczema in older children. Also, even more so than regular baths, they can help reduce infection-causing bacteria.The bleach needs to be extremely diluted, however. You should add no more than 1/4 cup (60 ml) of bleach to a half-tub of warm water.
Bleach baths are usually used only once or twice a week.
You should always consult with your doctor to determine whether or not the treatment is safe for your child based on his or her age and overall health.
Try to keep the bleach water out of the child's eyes.
 This should be done after every bath, regardless of whether or not your child is presently suffering from a flare-up. The product should be applied as soon as you finish towel-drying the child, in order to lock in the moisture from the bath.Add thick layers of moisturizer. You want to build up an actual moisture barrier to keep it from escaping the skin. Ask your doctor for recommendations on the best moisturizers for your child.
Children with extreme eczema may benefit more from a moisturizing ointment than a cream. Ointments contain more oil, which locks in moisture, while lotions are mostly water that does not provide the same moisture seal. Creams tend to fall in between.
Moisturizing lotions, therefore, are often ineffective for kids with eczema. Moreover, many lotions contain perfumes that can actually inflame the skin further.
 A cool compress placed on an inflamed area can provide some temporary relief. It may also be applied as a cool, moist bandage wrap. Leave the compress or wrap on only for a short period of time.On the subject of wraps, dry bandages are often used with emollients and a steroid cream. Wet bandages may feel more soothing and can also be used as long as they are medicated with a topical cream. They can also help the steroid cream better penetrate the skin. This is a short-term treatment to use once flare-ups occur and should not extend past one or two weeks. You should consult with your doctor before determining whether or not the treatment is appropriate.
 It may offer relief for a few seconds, but scratching only makes the condition worse. Monitor your child and stop her from scratching excessively.Keep your child's fingernails trimmed short so that when she does scratch, it does not do much damage.
If necessary, place cotton gloves or mittens on your child's hands at night to limit scratching while asleep.
 Soft, breathable, loose-fitting fabrics like cotton, laundered in mild, fragrance free soaps (without scented fabric softeners or dryer sheets) are less likely to exacerbate eczema symptoms.You may also want to try so-called "eczema clothing" to prevent irritation. There are products on the market today that may improve a child's eczema symptoms by removing the ability to scratch and itch the affected area. Children can struggle with sleeping due to irritation and scratching, so improving their quality of sleep can lead to a better mood and general management of their eczema.
Eczema clothing shouldn't replace the medicines, creams, or any other medication, but should aid the treatments being used.
 There are some environmental factors that have been known to trigger flare-ups:Milk, eggs, peanut butter, and fish have all been identified as potential trigger foods. Remember, eczema is not an allergy, but it may be exacerbated by them.
Dust, dander, and other allergens may also be triggers. Discuss these possibilities with an allergist or your child's physician.
Tight clothes or clothes made with rough fibers, like wool, can irritate the skin and cause a reaction.
Low humidity can also trigger an outbreak. Use a humidifier in your child's room to keep the skin from drying out.
Keep up the bathing and moisturizing routines, even when there are no breakout spots.

