 Dizziness or light-headedness usually hits when you are standing up or moving around. At the first signs of dizziness or light-headedness, sit or lie down immediately. This will usually help to relieve the spinning sensation and is safer in the event that you fall.


If you're sitting down, try putting your head between your legs. This increases the blood flow to your brain. Lying down will achieve the same result.Remain seated or lying down for 1-2 minutes, or until the dizziness has passed.;
, Dizziness is often the result of dehydration. Dehydration can be caused by not drinking enough water generally or failing to rehydrate during and after exercise. It can also be an issue when you're suffering from an illness that causes vomiting, diarrhea or fever, which can cause you to lose a lot of fluid. Once the worst of the dizziness has passed, you should drink more water and other fluids.If you're finding it difficult to drink a lot of water, try drinking other fluids like energy drinks, hot tea with a little sugar, soups and broths, or diluted fruit juices.
 Dizziness can be caused by low blood sugar levels, especially for diabetics.When dizziness hits, try eating a quick snack, preferably something high in carbohydrates or sugar. A bar of chocolate or a banana might do the trick.
 To prevent dizziness when spinning, many dancers focus their eyes on a particular spot. The same technique can be used by people who suffer from dizzy spells.


Focusing on a particular spot, like a crack in the ceiling or a speck of dirt on the floor, can help your senses to realize that you are not actually spinning, contrary to what your body is telling you.
 Dizziness can sometimes be a symptom of an anxiety attack. Often during anxiety attacks it feels as though you cannot get a full breath. But usually the problem is that you're trying to breathe too much. If this is the case, try breathing slowly and deeply. This will help you to calm down and alleviate feelings of dizziness., If you are experiencing feelings of dizziness, try to avoid bright lights, or light from a television or laptop.


Bright light may cause you to feel disoriented and make the dizziness worse.
Try sitting or lying down in a dark room, or close your eyes for a minute or two.
 The Epley maneuver forces the calcium crystal debris causing vertigo to slip into an area of the inner ear where it can no longer cause symptoms. To perform the Epley maneuver:


Sit down and tilt your head 45 degrees horizontally towards the affected ear.
Lie back into a horizontal position, keeping your head hanging at a 45-degree turn. Hold this position for a minute or two. You should feel the vertigo subside.
Turn your head 90 degrees toward the unaffected ear. Roll onto the side of the unaffected ear. You should now be looking at the floor.
Hold this position. You may experience another attack of vertigo, but this should subside within a minute.
Slowly return to a seated position.

