 Before going to a bank for a loan, find out your credit score. The reason you need to do this is because many banks will check your credit score before deciding on the terms under which they will loan money (and if they are willing to loan you money at all). Knowing ahead of time what your score is will give you an idea of what you can expect.If you have no credit or bad credit, the bank may be willing to offer you a loan, but the interest rate will likely be very high and they may require you to “secure” the loan by offering up collateral. For example, they may ask you to offer your paid-off car as collateral. If you fail to repay the loan they will take the car from you, and it will be the property of the bank.
The lender may ask for a co-signer on loan as additional surety. Asking a family member or friend to co-sign your loan bears the same risks as if you borrow directly from them (potential personal rifts and lost relationships). The co-signer is also responsible for any unpaid portions of the loan.
 If you already have an account at a bank or credit union, you should approach this institution for your loan, especially if you have a long and good history with them, as they are more likely to approve your loan. If you don’t have an account anywhere then it may be very difficult to get a bank loan, but you can do an internet search to find out which financial institutions offer personal loans.Searching the internet will also allow you to compare different banks and credit unions which may help you get the best interest rate.
Credit unions are generally less demanding on small loans, especially when associated with an employer.
 The best way to do this is to go directly to the bank because you will be able to ask questions and clarify any information that you will provide which will determine the decision that the loan officer makes.Make sure that you have brought all of the proper documentation with you. Different banks will require different documentation so it is best to give them a call before heading in to see what you will need. You may need documentation from creditors, employers, and other sources of financial information, and you may need a few days to collect everything you need.
With many banks, you can also apply online, and this is fine. However, you should remember that doing it face-to-face will give you a better chance to make your case and make a good impression with the person who will decide to give you the loan or not.
When going in to apply for a loan, dress as though you are going to a job interview. That means wearing clean, neatly-pressed, business casual clothing. Make sure that you hair is done neatly, and that you have a generally well-groomed appearance. You may think that you shouldn’t be judged on your appearance, but the fact is that the loan officer will be affected by your appearance.
 If you are accepted for the loan, make sure that you carefully read and understand the terms of the loan. Do not accept the loan if you have not done this, or if there are terms and conditions that are unclear to you. If there is anything that you don’t understand, ask a member of the bank staff to help clarify the information contained in the document.It may also be worth having a lawyer check the document in order to identify any red flags if you can afford to do so.

