 Make sure the venue has a functioning PA system and at least 4 - 5 mics at the ready.;
, Eventually you may want to charge but for now just build your name up.
 With a venue on board, you must now think up a name for your event. It needs to be something cool and kind of iconic. My open mic shows are called Fight Night Open Mic. Everyone seems to like that. Make sure it's something that will roll off the tongue easily.
 The show will require a host to MC the show and keep it going along well. This person needs to have charm and charisma that the crowd and the artists will warm up to. If this person is you than the issue is resolved. If not, you will need to find someone you know that will be willing to be the host of your event.
 The next person you need to find is a DJ to play the music the artists will perform over. Since your artists will be bringing Cd's, this DJ is, in effect, just a person that will cue the songs up and play them for the artist. This can be done with a CD player connected into the PA system if necessary.
 Now that you have a name for the event as well as a venue, a host, and a method for playing your artists' music, schedule a date for your event with the venue that is at least two (2) months away. You will need every bit of this time to prepare you event.
 You will need to design two (2) different fliers; one to recruit performers for your event and the other to promote the event.
 The recruitment flier needs to be something that catches the eye but has room for a lot of important information at the same time. This flier needs to have the events name (written largely), an email address (yours or, preferably, one that you make especially for the event that contains the event's name in the title), a phone number (a number where you can be reached at all times), the address of the venue, the date of the show, and a basic description of the event you are hosting. Include on the flyer that they will need to sign up via phone or email and that there are only a select number of spots available. This will create a sense of urgency.
 The Promotion flier needs to do just that: promote. This flyer need to really catch the eye and pop off of the page using a wide range of colors and textures. Include the name of your event, the address of the venue, your phone number, and your email address.
 With these two (2) fliers designed, you can start promoting for the event. Take the first two weeks of your two month lead-time to prepare as many copies of your two (2) fliers as possible. You can save considerable time and money if you make just as many copies of your recruitment flier as places you can think to post them and devoting the rest of your money into making an insane amount of the promotion fliers. Make many full color promo fliers but remember to make a ton of quarter sheet black and white version of your promo flier just to pass out and leave everywhere you can.
 When people start to call, ask for their name, phone number and email address as well as how many songs they wish to perform. Try to limit the performances to about three or four songs. It also helps to get your friends out about town to search for talent that would wish to play your show. With any luck you should get a good amount of people who wish to perform. Focus the next two weeks to just recruiting your artists for the event.
 This should bring you to a month before the big show. This is when you start blanketing the area with your promotional fliers. Put them everywhere you possible can. Record stores, malls, musical instrument stores, clubs or anywhere music lovers are found are great places. Get all of your friends to hand out fliers where ever they go and make sure that they will show up to support you at the event. Do this for the next three weeks. Don't forget to keep signing up artists to perform during this time.
 With all of this done, you should now have one week left remaining until the show. Visit the venue and let them know you are still on board for the event. Try to strike a good relationship with the booking agent or club owner as this could be a valuable friendship down the road. Also be sure to keep promoting the event heavily.
 On the day of the show you should be at the venue at least two hours early to make sure everything is in order. Make sure your host (and DJ if you have one) arrives with you so you have plenty of time to discuss the game plan.
 Eventually your crowd and your artists will begin showing up. Introduce yourself to the artists and be sociable. As they arrive, take the CD with the music they wish to perform and write down the track numbers and order that they would like to perform them in. The order that the artists arrive will be the order they perform in. This will make the whole line up issue easier to resolve. First to come, first to play.
 About 10 minutes before the show, have your host grab a mic and call all of your artists to one corner of the club or outside so you can address them all at once. This is the time to be a leader. Tell them you appreciate their support and you wish them all luck. Get them excited to take the stage. Think of what a football coach says to their team before a game. This needs to be your attitude. Ask if anyone has questions before things get started. Once these things have been addressed, kick off the show.
 With any luck things should go well and everyone will have a great time. As the show closes be sure to thank everyone for coming out and let them know that there will be more of these events. Now that you have everyone's email addresses you can notify the artists directly about the next show.
 If you follow these steps and stay humble and confident, you should be able to make your fledgling open mic show grow into a staple in your city.

