 Think of places that you've wanted to see that run along your route, and see if you can include it into your cross country plan. Good things to see include art installations, national parks, museums, landmarks, and historic sites. Include these things into your travel plans.Landmarks include Machu Picchu in Peru, St. Peter’s Basilica in the Vatican City, and the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool in the United States.;
, You can visit festivals and shows that take place once a year. Do an online search for music or art events that are going on across your country and see when they are happening. If you can be in the right location at the right time, you'll be able to partake in the event.

Some special events that you can visit include Carnival in Brazil, Boryeong Mud Festival in South Korea, Burning Man in the United States, and the Harbin Ice and Snow Festival in China., Different regions contain different food preferences and unique cuisines. Search for highly rated restaurants in the areas where you'll be staying. Plan to stop and eat in different areas of the country so that you can try a diversity of food while you're traveling. If you want a more authentic experience, avoid large chains and fast food.For instance, in the United States, New England is known for their hearty dishes like pot roast, baked beans, and lobster, while the South is known for fried chicken, barbecue, and soul food.If traveling across the United Kingdom, you can try haggis in Scotland, pea pudding in Northumberland, and scouse, a lamb stew, in Liverpool., While it's good to plan, it's also important that you leave space in your schedule so you can adapt to what happens on the trip. You shouldn't turn down unique or fun experiences like visiting roadside attractions or specialty stores.If you are traveling and you see signs for special stores or attractions, you can amend your original plan to find something unique.Pick one or two must-see locations, and be flexible when it comes to the rest of your stops.
Famous roadside attractions include The Enchanted Highway in North Dakota, Lucy the Elephant in New Jersey, and Paul Bunyan in Minnesota.