 There are free versions of most software. Keep in mind they may not be the full version of a program, or have a simple interface. However, are many great computer programs designed by companies that design freeware alongside other programs with a cost. Many download sites have a way for you to narrow your search to free programs only, or at least give you the cost up front.Virtually all web browsers are free. You should never pay for one.
Media players are also generally free, except for professional or specialized programs.
There are very stripped down photo and video editors that are fine for everyday use.
Although they aren't the big names, there are many video games that are free.
 Video websites are constantly expanded with new content. If you want to check out a song before you buy it, or watch a movie that is public domain, look for it on video websites. Avoid content that was uploaded without legal consent of the owner. However, as long as you are not the uploader and you don’t copy the content, you won’t be punished for viewing it., Some TV websites feature many current shows that you can view without a subscription. The catch is that you have to sit through advertisements. However, for many, this is preferable to paying a subscription to a TV site, or paying for cable.
 This is a little different than simply receiving a free product since you are generally asked to use it in tandem with other programs. Remember, sometimes this is not actually free, but a way for people interested in shaping future user interfaces to get their opinions in. There are a few ways to go about this.


Email companies directly to ask about becoming a beta tester. Large companies need testers regularly. They will opt for people with a technical background, and people with high performance machines.
Join a beta tester community. These are fairly simple to find online, but be on the lookout for scams!
Advertise yourself as a beta tester. Upload your resume to job search engines or social media sites and you may be contacted to test a program.

