 Some of the hormonal and chemical changes that occur with PCOS can make weight loss frustrating. Increasing physical activity can help increase your metabolism and body's ability to burn calories.


Adding a minimum of 30 minutes per day of moderate-intensity aerobic or cardiovascular exercise is a good goal and will support your weight loss efforts. Aim for a total of at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity cardio weekly.If you're able, increase the amount of time you can spend engaging in cardiovascular activity. As you participate in more activity, you'll see continued health benefits.Increase exercise gradually, beginning with a low-impact exercise, such as walking. As your fitness levels improve you can increase your intensity or time of the exercise. Advancing slowly is safe and may help prevent injury.Try various aerobic activities until you find an exercise you enjoy. You will be more likely to maintain an exercise routine that you find pleasurable.
Cardiovascular exercises can include: walking, jogging/running, biking, dancing, inline skating, hiking and swimming.
 Strength training exercises should be done for about 25 minutes at least 2 days a week for minimum health benefits.Increasing muscle mass helps increase your metabolism which can help fight stubborn weight in patients with PCOS.


A strong positive relationship has been shown between weight training and improved insulin response and reducing other symptoms of polycystic ovary syndrome.Strength training exercises may include weight training, Pilates, or weight lifting classes.
 Studies have shown that working out with a friend can help you to stay motivated and stick to your routine.Hitting the gym with a friend can also help pass the time and keep you from getting bored.
If you can't find a friend or family member to head to the gym with you, try taking group exercise classes. You'll enjoy the company of multiple other gym-goers. If you keep going to the same classes, you might notice the same people showing up and can meet new friends!

