 Try jotting down two lists: one of all the good things in your life, and one of the bad. You will likely find that the good list is longer than the bad one, or even that the things on the bad list are small and trivial in comparison to what you have to be grateful for.The act of writing things down is a way to expel them from your mind and look at them from a new perspective. Write down whatever is bothering you, then tear up that paper and throw it away. This could be cathartic in that it is like physically throwing away your stresses.
 You might have something you’ve been meaning to do, like a do-it-yourself project or craft you found online. Take this as an opportunity to sit down and get to work on it. Channel your negative energy into something positive and productive that will give you a finished product to be proud of.


If your particular chosen project ends up frustrating you or giving you trouble, set it aside and do something else. Don’t put yourself into a worse mood in an attempt to actually make yourself feel better!

, Look at some travel websites and start planning a trip or vacation, or even just plan a fun activity to do right in your hometown. The act of planning an activity or vacation can help you feel happy and excited, even if you never actually book the trip or take it.Many people enjoy spending money on traveling more than they do on material objects, because they are spending money on an experience. Travel is a great investment to make, so planning a trip to help boost your mood in the moment can actually lead to more positive feelings and experiences in the future.You could simply call up a friend and make plans for the following day to get coffee, too. Having something small and simple to look forward to can also help improve your mood after a bad day.
 Science has proven that doing something good for someone else results in positive emotional feedback, and in turn, a boost in mood. Try doing something nice for someone, even something as small as donating a few dollars to your favorite charity, or helping a friend or family member with a task.There is a kind of loop that is generated when you do something nice for someone else: you do something nice, so they feel good, which in turn makes you feel good.
You don’t have to do anything extravagant for it to matter or be meaningful. Maybe your mom or grandparent needs some help with yard or housework, or a friend needs help moving to a new apartment. Lending a hand and helping someone out will help your mood just as much as, if not more than, giving a material gift.
 Exercise has always been known as a natural mood-booster. Even spending as few as five minutes engaging in light to moderate exercise can have a noticeable effect on your mood. You can do this indoors or outside, so it can help your mood regardless of the weather.Going for a short run or jog, dancing, kick-boxing, yoga, and even gardening are great ways to do some light exercise to improve your mood through physical activity. You can also try going for a bike ride, a brisk walk, or even just doing some jumping jacks to get your heart pumping.