 The sidewalk is there for a reason. If you run in the road, you will be closer to passing vehicles, making it more likely that you will be injured in an auto accident. Sidewalks are set away from the road and therefore the safest place for runners.In some cases, you might have no choice but to run in the road – for instance, if the sidewalk ends or is under construction. In these cases, run against traffic as far as possible towards the curb or on the far edge of the shoulder. In other words, run in the traffic lane where you can see cars coming toward you and cars can see you coming toward them. That way, you’ll know how close a car is to the curb and be able to react appropriately., Don’t just run wherever your legs take you. Choose a route you’re familiar with. This way, you’ll know where all the best places to cross the street are, and be able to watch out for uneven areas of sidewalk.Of course, there’s nothing wrong with changing up your route once in a while. In fact, it’s a good idea to do so, since it will help you prevent getting bored with running and keep you more engaged in your run. But before trying a new route, map it out either on foot or in a car.
 Don’t run in or near overgrown meadows, or on streets with lots of abandoned homes. You are more likely to be victim of crime in or near areas with few other people around. Plus, if you are injured or become unwell, you will not be able to quickly and easily seek help from others if you’re isolated and alone., Running in the rain increases the likelihood of trips or slips. Rain also makes it more difficult for drivers to see you, and therefore increases the odds of being struck by a vehicle. Therefore, it’s best to avoid running in the rain.Even if you’re wearing reflective clothing in the rain, drivers might mistake your reflective clothing as a refraction from lights in raindrops.
If you’re on a run and it starts raining, head home immediately.
For similar reasons, avoid running in snow and fog.
 Even on overcast or cloudy days, up to 80% of UV rays penetrate the clouds.Make sure you apply a broad-spectrum sunscreen of at least SPF 30. Look for one that is water- or sweat-resistant. Wear a hat and sunglasses.


Try to avoid running when the sun is strongest, between 10am and 4pm.
 If you’re in a park or on a bike trail, there might be specific rules about how you can use the trail as a runner. For instance, you might be required to remain within a single lane and allow bikers to pass you in the other lane. Look for posted rules and carefully follow them., Wear reflective bands, caps, and vests to ensure others see you. Wear light-colored clothing, and strap on a headlamp to ensure you can always see ahead of you. Try to stick to a route that is very well-lit. 