 While Irish Setters are generally healthy dogs, they can be prone to stomach and bone cancers, hip problems, epilepsy, and other health issues. It’s important to ask your dog’s breeder if its parents were tested for genetic disorders and breed specific health problems, preferably before adopting or purchasing your dog.Screening both your dog and its parents can detect warning signs for some health issues, but make sure you also get to know your individual dog. Being familiar with your dog’s normal behavior will help you be better aware if something is wrong, especially if you don’t have access to its parents’ health records.
Taking your dog to the vet at least once a year is the most effective way to stay on top of its health. Find a good vet by contacting your local shelter or asking friends and family for referrals. You can also search online for a breed club for recommended vets. Search “Irish Setter Breed Club near” your city or county., Talk to your vet about how much food is best for your dog in order to prevent obesity. If your dog's hips become less noticeable or an exam shows that its weight has increased, take measures to improve its diet.If your dog gains weight, cut down on treats and other food you give it between meals.
One to two cups of food twice a day is generally a good amount for a medium to large sized dog, depending on its activity level. Ask your vet if decreasing a half cup will help maintain your dog's weight.
Multiple daily feedings is best for your dog's digestion and helps decrease risks of obesity and other health issues.
Look for brands marked for medium sized breeds, or for breed-specific blends. Go with the best quality brand that's affordable for you.
 Irish Setters are prone to developing a condition called hip dysplasia. It’s typically inherited, so knowing if either of your dog’s parents had it will help you maintain your dog’s health. Whether or not its parents had hip dysplasia, be on the lookout for symptoms such as limping, hesitation when jumping, and loss of thigh muscle mass.You can prevent or manage hip dysplasia by keeping an eye on your dog’s weight, avoiding overfeeding, and giving it regular exercise.
Be aware that hip dysplasia can occur at any time during a dog’s lifespan, including when it’s a puppy.
 Canine epilepsy, or frequent seizures, is an inherited trait that usually develops when a dog is between one and three years old. Signs of a possible seizure include falling over, stiffened limbs, twitching excessively, or other uncontrolled movements.If your dog seizes, take it to the vet as soon as possible. Carefully observe the seizure so you can describe symptoms in detail to the vet.
 Bloat occurs when a dog’s stomach twists, affecting blood flow and harming body systems. Irish Setters are at a higher risk than other breeds, so it’s important to be familiar with your dog’s regular behavior in order to recognize symptoms.The first signs of bloat are restlessness, anxious pacing, dry heaving or unsuccessful attempts to vomit, and stomach swelling. Give your vet a call, and take your dog for an exam immediately.
Since Irish Setters are prone to developing bloat, consider keeping a fact sheet with symptoms, action steps, and your vet’s emergency contact number handy: http://irishsetterhealth.org/files/bloat.pdf

Feeding your dog two to three smaller meals instead of one large meal can help prevent bloat.
Talk to your veterinarian about preventative surgery. Your vet may recommend gastropexy to reduce or eliminate the risk that your dog’s stomach will twist on itself in the future.

