 Even if a to-do list doesn't offer any real rewards of its own, there's a psychological satisfaction behind seeing each item crushed as you continue studying. For some, the satisfaction of crossing things out can be enough to keep you engaged with the material.
 If you have a certain mark you'd like to get on the exam, promise yourself you'll buy yourself a sizable treat if you reach it. This sort of promise can give you a more real incentive than a mere score on paper. Write the contract on paper and set it next to your homework for a lasting reminder.


For example, write something like: "If I get at least 90% on my history final, I will buy a brand new video game from the store."

, Snacks can be a great way to stay focused. Full meals may distract you from the homework, but something light and tasty (like Oreos) can keep your body centered while you focus. Popcorn is a good option, since it's light, not very filling, and won't make your hands dirty while you write. Apples and other fruits work well too, as do mints, jawbreakers, and other candies you can suck on while you study.


Keeping up to date with water will keep you in your best shape.
 While we want to make the most of the time spent studying, you won't get far if you're going through it feeling stressed out. If the work is getting to you at all, give yourself a few minutes to collect yourself. At the end of a few minutes of conscious meditation, you'll be refreshed and enjoy working more.


Meditation is a skill. It's not something that comes easily to people in a high-tech age. Even so, you should give it a legitimate chance. Let your thoughts go and focus on your breathing. Close your eyes. The more you practice meditation, the more you'll figure out what does, and doesn't work for you.
The benefits of meditation are well-documented. People who meditate report better attention and memory.These are obviously things you will want while you do homework.
 Five-minute breaks may be seen as a sort of reward. It's always nice to take a while for yourself when you're in the middle of a big study session. Telling yourself you'll give yourself time to stretch once you hit a certain page number or word count is a great way to keep your spirits high. What's more, your studying will improve if you give yourself the time to collect yourself once in a while.


While it will be different for everyone, giving yourself 5-10 minutes of break time per hour of homework is a good place to start. It may seem like a lot of downtime, but it will make sure you never get too overwhelmed with the tasks at hand.
 Rewards can do great things for someone's motivation. However, the motivation is gone if you skip right to them. Even if you think you're doing a great job on your homework so far, don't let the promise of something fun get in the way of your progress.Smaller rewards throughout the session can be helpful, but only as long as they don't hurt your flow.

