 Take the 1 pound of beef tenderloin and put it in the freezer for a few minutes to make it firmer and therefore easier to slice. When slicing, cut against the grain of the meat. You can either make thin or thick slices, depending on your tastes. Place the beef slices in a large bowl and mix in 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1 tablespoon rice wine, 1 tablespoon water, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1/2 teaspoon baking soda, and 1 teaspoon sugar. Thoroughly mix with the beef and set aside for one hour to fully marinate. Do not let it marinate for over two hours as the baking soda will damage the meat.;
, While the meat marinates, take a 12 ounce bundle of raw spinach (2 cups), cut it in half, and place in a large bowl. Now crush and mince some garlic cloves to make 2 teaspoons of minced garlic. Cut off the ends of the 3 to 5 green onions and finely slice. Finally, grate a ginger root to make 1 teaspoon of ginger.
 In a large wok or skillet, heat two to three inches of water to a boil and then add in 1 teaspoon of kosher salt. Add the raw, cut spinach into the boiling water, pushing it down in the water. It should only take about thirty seconds to fully blanch the spinach. Now remove the spinach to a strainer and then drain well. This cooked spinach will provide a bed for the beef to come.
 Pre-heat about 2 inches (5.1 cm) of vegetable oil in a large wok or skillet. The oil should be between 325o - 350o (163o- 177o C). You will know when the oil is hot enough when you start to see smoke or little squiggly lines in the oil. For 1 pound of beef, deep fry in two to three batches so as not to overcrowd the pot. Stir continuously. Once the meat floats to the top or changes color, strain and drain on a paper towel. Continue the process with the rest of the beef slices.
 After first pre-heating your wok until it starts to smoke, add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil around the sides of the wok. Let the oil get hot and then add in the garlic, ginger, and green onions. Stir this around and then add the beef. Stir continuously for a minute or so and then add in the sauce ingredients: 2 tablespoons oyster sauce, 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil, and a slurry made from 2 tablespoons water mixed with 1/2 teaspoon cornstarch. Make sure the slurry is fully mixed before you stir it into the beef mix. Stir continuously for about a minute or two, remove from heat, and pour the beef mix on top of the blanched spinach.
 Enjoy!

,