;
, Note the following:



Coloration: Chianinas vary from white to steel gray in colour. Bulls are often a darker grey around their necks and shoulders, though there are many other bulls that are just as white as a Chianina cow is. Both sexes have black pigmented skin (covered by the white-to-gray hair), and have a black nose, eyes mouth, tail, slightly in the ears, and hooves. Those animals that are steel grey tend to have white and their muzzle and white on the poll. In those cattle that are horned, horns in younger cattle are black, but lighten at the base as they mature.

Body type and characteristics: This breed is a very large breed, with bulls commonly topping the scales at over 3000 lbs. They tend to have well-defined, heavy muscling, with the shoulders, back and rear being especially well-formed. They are quite tall, mostly because their legs are longer than most breeds, often most cattle exceeding 6 feet (1.8 m) in height at the shoulder. Their bodies are not proportionately as long as some breeds that have shorter legs, so they have this squarish look about them, when looking at them from the feet up and across from the tailhead to the shoulders.

Head characteristics: All Chianinas are horned. These horns are short and tend to curve forward and up.If you have any polled chianinas, it is not fullblood but crosses. The polled gene was not yet found in Italy where the chianina originate from. This breed also tends to have a long face (like that of a Holstein).

Other characteristics: Many cattlemen have recognized this breed as a terminal breed because of its ability to sire animals that are best for meat production and nothing else. This breed has an outstanding growth rate and carcass characteristics, but poor milking production, since it was mostly selected for draft and meat purposes, not milking purposes.But chianina have a very high protein content in their milk, that is resulting in the rapid growth of their calves. That are also the reason why their udders and teats are so small, with no problems for the calves to suck. Chianinas are docility, due to the fact that they was used as draught animals, and were always kept on small farms and spaces. This resulted in selection that see to it that no mad cattle were allowed in the breed. They are big and intimidating and very strong, but this should not be confused with bad temperament.

Chianinas are supposedly one of the oldest breeds of cattle that exist. They were praised by Georgic poets, Columella and Vergil, and were models for Roman sculptures. This breed originated in the west central part of Italy, and raised in a variety of environmental conditions.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Chianina cattle, and compare them with pictures of Chianina on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

