 Remember that you both may have changed a lot. The friend you used to adore could be super annoying now. So plan a meeting that’s long enough to get an overview of each other now, but not so long that you feel stuck if they aren’t the person you remember. This can also help to keep things positive and make room for another meeting in the future.


Meet your friend for coffee or happy hour during the week. If things don’t go well, you can easily say you’re busy the next day and can’t stay long.
If things do go well, you can stay longer or plan to meet up for a longer time on the weekend.
You might tell your friend, “Why don’t we get together Wednesday afternoon for smoothies?”

, A great way to reunite after a separation from a friend is to plan to do something that bonded the two of you in the past.For example, if you two used to love visiting all the frozen yogurt spots in the area, then invite your friend for frozen yogurt at an old hangout.
Or, if you all used to meet up at sporting events, then ask your friend to get together to catch an upcoming game.
 It may be awkward meeting with your friend if you haven’t seen each other in a while. Doing something as part of a group can make rekindling your lost friendship a lot easier on both of you.Invite your friend to a dinner party or picnic that you are attending. It will be even better if there are other people you both know.
Try asking your friend to join you and some others in a game of basketball or flag football.
You might also want to ask you friend what they would like to do. Giving them a say in what you do together may help to increase the chance that they will want to join in.
 You can rekindle your lost friendship if you talk about the fact that it’s been some time since you all were friends.Talk about how and why the relationship fizzled and what you’ve been doing since then.


For instance, you might say, “Even though we promised to keep in touch, it was hard after I switched schools. And then time just passed.” By taking the lead in accepting responsibility for not staying in touch, they may reciprocate.
Or, you could try, “After you moved, we just lost touch. The next couple of years I played soccer and learned to play the harmonica.”
If the friendship ended on a bad note you should be prepared to discuss that.
 You will likely spend time talking about the past, but don’t spend the whole time remembering the good old days. Rekindle your lost friendship by taking the time to learn who your friend has become and telling them about who you’ve become.


Ask your friend questions about their life and listen to their answers. It will help you learn about who they are now.
For example, you could say, “So, tell me about you! What’s your career like? Are you in a relationship or do you have kids?”
Tell your friend about your life. Talk about what’s the same with you as well as the changes you have made.
Opening up about yourself can help them to feel more comfortable opening up, but make sure not to talk too much about yourself. Give them a chance to talk too.

