 Use two different colors of fabric. Pastels work best for a spring wreath. You can choose solid colors or opt for patterns like polka dots. Cut your fabric into long three-inch wide strips. The precise size depends on the size of your wreathes. Bigger wreaths will require more fabric., Take two sawdust wreathes of the same size. Pin one end of your fabric strip onto one of your sawdust wreathes. Wrap the fabric as snuggly as possible around the wreath, moving across the wreath until you reach the end of your strip. When the ends of your strips are connecting, place one end on top of the other. Secure the strips with a pin.You may need to use more than one strip if necessary.
Overlap slightly as you wrap your fabric. This will prevent any sawdust from peaking through.
 Use your other color to wrap the second wreath in the same fashion. Remember to wrap the fabric snuggly and overlap it slightly with each loop. You do not want any sawdust to peak through., Take two hangers. Cut each hanger into two equal halves using a pair of wire cutters. Remove the loop on top of the hanger when you cut them in half. Discard the loop, as you do not need it for the project., Use a pair of scissors to cut the ends of each hanger into pointed tips. This will make them easier to insert in your wreathes., Using a pair of scissors, make four holes on one of your wreathes. You are making two holes for each ear, where you will insert your hangers. Leave about three inches between each ear. Each set of two holes should be about two and a half inches apart., Take your hangers. One at a time, fit them into both sets of two holes. You should be left with one wreath with two triangular bunny ears sticking out., Take your leftover fabric strips. Glue one end of the strip to hanger, near where it attaches to the wreathe. Wrap the strip around the entire hanger, overlapping slightly to cover any bare spots. When the whole ear is wrapped, glue the other end of the fabric strip down as well. Repeat with the other hanger.When you're done, you should have your bunny's head done. You should have one wreath with two colorful bunny ears.
 Use a ribbon to tie your two wreathes together. Tie the wreathes together tightly so your bunny wreath does not fall apart. Tie the ribbon into the bow for an attractive finish.You can use any color you want, but pastels may work best for spring.

