 To make a basic pie crust, you will need a food processor, a rolling pin, a knife to cut the butter, plastic wrap, extra flour for dusting, and a 9-inch pie plate.


You can use two forks or a pastry cutter if you don’t have a food processor., When making pastries, it’s always important to use cold butter, because this will create air pockets that make the crust light and flakey. Cut your butter into half-inch (1.3-cm) cubes and chill them in the freezer for at least an hour.


The butter can be chilled or even frozen when you make pastry, and that’s why you should cut it into cubes before chilling., Pour the flour and salt into the food processor and pulse it a few times to combine them. Then add the butter and continue pulsing the mixture until you have pea-sized clumps of butter.To do this without a food processor, use the two forks simultaneously or the pastry cutter to work the butter into the flour until you have pea-sized bits.
 Pour this into the mixture one tablespoon (15 ml) at a time. Continue pulsing until each tablespoon has been worked in, and then add another if necessary.


The dough is ready when it comes together and is moist but not wet., Cover a countertop or flat surface with a light dusting of flour. Break the dough into five or six smaller pieces and transfer them to the floured surface. With the heel of your hand, flatten each piece out on the counter. This process is called smearing, and it helps distribute the butter evenly.Bring the pieces back together and form the dough into a ball. Wrap it tightly with a piece of plastic wrap and transfer it to the fridge.
Chill the dough for at least one hour before using.
You can also keep the dough in the fridge for up to two days, or freeze it for later use.
 When the dough has had time to chill, remove it from the fridge and unwrap it. Flour a flat surface and transfer the dough to it. Flour the surface of your rolling pin as well.Place the rolling pin in the center of the dough ball and apply pressure as you push the rolling pin away from yourself, pushing the dough outward as you roll. Place the rolling pin back in the center of the dough, and this time apply even pressure as you pull the rolling pin toward you.
Rotate the dough one-quarter turn and repeat. Continue doing this until the dough forms a circle with a 12-inch (30-cm.) diameter.
As you roll, you can add more flour if the dough starts to stick to the counter or the rolling pin.
 Gently pick up the dough and transfer it to the pie plate. Center the dough over the plate and place it down. Gently press the dough to mold it to the pie plate.


Trim off any excess dough that’s hanging over the edge of the pie plate.
You can make the pie crust slightly more decorative by pressing the tines of a fork into the edges around the entire circumference of the pie shell.
Once you’ve molded the pastry into the pie plate, the crust is ready to cook.

