 You can find partner yoga classes near you at yoga studios, gyms, fitness centers, and maybe even your local community center. Some classes may be open to any partners, while others may be limited to married couples.You don't have to be in a romantic relationship with your partner to go to a partner yoga class, even if it's advertised as "couples yoga." In many partner classes, you can even come alone – which can be beneficial if you haven't yet decided on a partner but still want to try partner yoga.
 There are many different types of partner yoga classes, and each yoga instructor has their own style and methods of teaching. Observing a class can help you determine if it would work for you and your partner.Ideally, you want to try to watch at least two or three classes, so you can compare and contrast. However, always be open to the option that you might fall in love with the first class you visit and not feel the need to go anywhere else.
Pay attention to the instructor's style and teaching methods, as well as the other people in the class. Not only do you and your partner want to get along with the instructor, you want to be able to get along with the other people in the class as well.
Talk to your partner about your impressions of classes you sit in on, and mention anything you liked in particular as well as anything you didn't like.
 Before you sign up for a class, get an understanding of the instructor's background and experience. Ask them lots of questions to find out how long they've been teaching partner yoga.Interviewing the instructor also is a good way to determine whether your personalities mesh. If you (or your partner) has a personality clash with the instructor, you likely won't get much out of the class.
Try to avoid making a decision about the class on the spot, unless you and your partner are both enthusiastic about it. Generally it's better to visit two or three classes and then sit down and discuss them with your partner before committing.
 Other students can relay their experiences in the class and their opinion of the instructor. You also can find out more about who the other students are so you can get a better idea of whether you and your partner would fit in.For example, if the other students in the class are all married couples, you and your partner might not feel comfortable if the two of you are just platonic friends. This is something you need to talk about with your partner.
If one of you feels comfortable in a class but the other does not, choose another class. To get any benefit from partner yoga, both of you must be in an environment where you feel comfortable.

