 In preparation for filing a lawsuit, you will need your contract as well as all documents and other evidence of any breach of contract on the part of the other party.Keep in mind that in a breach of contract case, you typically must attach a copy of the original contract to the complaint.
In addition to the contract, gather other information about the particular incident that gave rise to the dispute, as well as proof of other efforts you've made to resolve the dispute before filing a lawsuit.
Some courts require proof that the parties attempted to resolve a dispute privately before submitting their dispute to the courts.
 The amount of money at stake and the identity of the parties may determine which courts are available to you if you want to file a lawsuit to resolve your construction contract dispute.If a relatively small amount of money is at stake – say, a few thousand dollars – you may be able to file your lawsuit in small claims court. Small claims may be preferred because the simplified process is designed so laypeople can represent themselves, and resolution is reached cheaper and more quickly than in state civil court. #*However, in some construction cases you want to seek an injunction, which is a court order for the other party to do something or stop doing something related to the dispute. Small claims courts typically handle cases involving money damages only, and cannot issue injunctions.
Additionally, if you signed the contract and are suing on behalf of an LLC or corporation, you may not be able to file a lawsuit in small claims. Some states restrict small claims courts to individuals, and while a business can be a defendant in a small claims case, it cannot file suit itself.
 Depending on the court in which you plan to file your lawsuit and the damages at stake, you may need the assistance of an attorney to efficiently navigate the legal system and resolve the dispute.


Generally, you want to look for an attorney with experience handling construction disputes. The attorney you use should have a background in breach of contract litigation and construction law
If you had an attorney when you entered the contract, you might consider talking to them. Although that attorney may not personally handle litigation, they may be able to recommend someone who can effectively handle your case.
If you know the other party already has an attorney they plan to use, you definitely want to have legal counsel on your side as well.
 You initiate your lawsuit with a complaint, which you'll file in the court you want to hear the case and resolve the dispute. The complaint includes the factual allegations that you assert constitute a breach of the contract.Depending on the court you use, you may be able to find a form to fill out. Small claims courts in particular have forms available to file an initial complaint.
To find a form, contact the clerk's office of the court where you want to file your lawsuit. You also can find out about filing fees, procedures, and any other documents you may need to complete along with the complaint itself.
If no forms are available and you are representing yourself, ask the clerk for a copy of a complaint filed in another breach of contract case with the same court that you can use as a sample to guide you.
Generally, your complaint will set forth specific allegations that add up to a breach of contract, as well as the exact amount of monetary damages you're seeking or order you want the court to enter.
 Your completed complaint must be filed with the clerk of the court where you want your lawsuit heard. Take your original signed complaint along with at least two copies. The clerk will keep the originals for the court's files and return the copies to you.When you file your complaint, you must pay filing fees. These fees vary from around $100 or less for a small claims case to several hundred dollars for a state civil court case.
If you cannot afford the filing fees, you can ask the clerk for a fee waiver application. You must provide information about your income and assets on the application, and if they fall below the court's threshold you won't have to pay filing fees.
After your complaint is filed you must have the other party served. Typically you get a sheriff's deputy or private process server to hand-deliver the documents. The server will complete a proof of service form which must be filed with the court.
Some courts also allow you to use certified mail with returned receipt requested. If you use this method, you'll have to fill out and file the proof of service form yourself when you get the receipt in the mail.
 When the other party receives the summons and complaint, they have a specific amount of time – typically only a few weeks – to file an answer or other response to your complaint, or you may be eligible to win by default.The amount of time the other party has to respond is much shorter in small claims than in lawsuits filed in state court. Some small claims courts don't even require a written response – you simply show up at the scheduled hearing.
When the other party files a written response, it will be served to you just as you served the complaint on them.
Don't be surprised if the other party denies most of your allegations. The other party also may include counter-claims against you. If there is a counter-claim, you must respond to it in the same way the other party responded to your complaint.
At the same time, the other party may reach out to you in an attempt to resolve the dispute outside of court. Consider settlement offers with the understanding that it may be months before the matter is concluded in court.

