 There are lots of fun games you can play with your dog, such as:


Tug of war
Throwing the ball and having your dog fetch it
Seeing who can run faster
Blowing bubbles and letting your dog catch them.;
, There are many things you can train your dog to do, from begging and catching, to fetching you a beer.
 Hang out together in the back yard where the dog usually lives. Set up a deck chair or a rug on the grass and simply "hang out", reading, snoozing, sunbathing while chatting with your dog or just lying together. Commune with nature together.


Do some stargazing together. Your dog will love having you outdoors with her at night.
 This isn't about a perfect grooming session; just a caring brush of the fur that your dog enjoys while the two of you sit together.
 Many dogs love a good belly rub and having attention lavished upon them.
 Or, make a movie of your dog. Have your dog perform tricks or do fun things like running around crazily and film it. If it's good enough, edit it and upload it on YouTube. Show Fido how famous he is becoming!


You might even consider making movies about the ways that the two of you spend time together. This can inspire other dog owners to do similar things, as they keep up with your video channel.
 Wherever you are, on the couch, on the bed, outside on the grass, just have a chat together.
 Have your dog sit with you in the lounge room and watch some shows together.
 Find hotels or resorts that will let you take your dog with you. Spend a few days being pampered together and discovering new sights and sounds.
 Let your dog hang out in the kitchen while making him some doggy treats. Let him lick the bowl and then give him some treats when they've cooled down enough, fresh from baking.


Bake some cookies for you too, so you can both enjoy a treat together.
 You can walk around the block, to the park, along a riverfront or down at the beach. Go wherever you're allowed to walk a dog and a place where both of you enjoy spending time together. Daily walks are a form of "hanging out" together, so exchange your thoughts with the dog.


On weekends, try to go further afield and find interesting new places to discover together with your dog. If there are great hiking trails in your area, take your dog and enjoy the walks together.
 If they have dogs and your dogs get alone well together, have them bring along their dogs too. In the park, you can:


Throw a Frisbee with the dog and your friends.
Play ball games with the dog and your friends.
Hold races together.
 Find campgrounds that allow dogs and set up a camping trip with your friends and your dogs. Take the dogs for walks and hikes, down to the beach, etc. and play plenty of games with them too.
 Invite your friends and their dogs over to share the day spa together, each of you pitching in and helping to wash and groom the dogs. Have treats for both humans and dogs and make a whole fun day out of it. You'll have happy, clean dogs at the end of it and everyone will have had a lot of fun together.

