 Before you apply your eye makeup, you will need to create a base. This will help to ensure that your eye makeup lasts all day long.










Start with a clean, moisturized face. Start by cleansing your face with a gentle cleanser, then apply a light moisturizer to your face and neck to reduce the appearance of fine lines.You may also want to apply sunscreen with an SPF 30 or higher rating to protect your skin from sun damage.

Apply foundation. Next, apply your foundation as usual. Make sure that you cover your entire face and blend well around the edges of your face. You can also apply some concealer to provide coverage for blemishes, discoloration, or dark circles under your eyes.

Prime your eyelids. To prepare your eyelids for your eyeshadow, apply some primer to your eyelids. This will help to prevent the eyeshadow from melting into your creases as the day goes on.Shape your eyebrows. Define your eyebrows as you normally would.;
, After you have prepped your face, apply a matte orange eyeshadow to your creases. This will help to transition between your skin and the other colors that you apply. You can apply more than one layer depending on the color of your skin.
 Next, apply your bronze eyeshadow to your eyelids. Make sure that you apply lots of bronze to create a noticeable shimmery look. You may need to pat the color onto your lids rather than brushing it to get the coverage that you will need.








Keep layering the eyeshadow until you achieve the color saturation that you want.
 Use your highlighter brush to apply a small dab of highlighter to the inner part of your eyelids, right next to your tear ducts. This will help to brighten your eyes and catch the light.








You can also add highlighter to your brow bone if desired.However, you might want to use a lighter color to highlight these areas, such as a champagne or light gold color.
 To further accentuate the inside of your eyes, apply a small amount of metallic liquid eyeliner to your lower lash line.Make sure that the line is even and straight. You may need to go over the area a couple of times to get the right coverage.









After you apply the liner, tap on the lined area to help diffuse the color and blend it in with your skin.
 Next, take a liner brush and use it to apply aqua eyeshadow to your lower lash line. You can build the color with extra layers for a bold look, or just apply one layer for a more subtle look.
 To complete your eye look, apply two coats of mascara to your upper lashes and then apply one coat to your lower lashes.Make sure that you wipe off any excess mascara from the brush before you apply the mascara. Otherwise, you may end up with clumps.









If possible, use a mascara that is labeled as “waterproof,” “long lasting,” or “all day wear.” These products tend to last longer than regular mascaras., To ensure a glowing complexion, take a large fluffy brush and sweep some highlighter just above your cheekbones. You only need a little highlighter to create a slight shimmer to your skin. Don't apply too much or you may look washed out or metallic.
 Use your finger or a small fluffy brush to dab a bit of highlighter onto the tip of your nose and to your cupid’s bow. Your cupid’s bow is the curved area just above the center of your upper lip.








If you want, you can also apply a small amount of highlighter to the bridge of your nose, right between your eyes.
 Since this eyeshadow look is so colorful, you do not need to do much to your lips. A coat of nude lipstick will provide enough color to finish your look. You can line your lips first with the same color (or a similar one) and then apply the lipstick.







