 Each night has separate parts determined by time. The main six parts are:


Early night. (6pm to 8pm)
Dusk (9pm to 11pm)
Midnight (12pm to 1am)
Twilight (2am to 5am)
Dawn (6am to 7am)
Morning (8am to 12pm).;
,, This will help to alleviate fears in the dark.
 Games are a big part of a successful all-nighter. Here are plenty of examples for you to be inspired by:


Hide and Go seek in the dark.

Pros: It's fun, time consuming, and keeps you awake.
Cons: It may be a bit loud or hard to find a good spot. Plus, if the seeker takes really long, you might dose off.


Scary stories

Pros: It's fun, gets you so scared you have to stay awake, makes you think of stories to tell.
Cons: You may get a little too scared, or you or person may be so scared you have to stay awake. For days.


Internet

Pros: Very time consuming, and keeps you awake. A lot of fun and lots of things to do.
Cons: It may be too loud, make you laugh a little too loud, or can't find anything else to do.


Video Games

Pros: Very time consuming and a lot of fun.
Cons: Depending on what game you play, it can get boring fast, or it might be too loud.


Make-up (Girls only, obviously)

Pros: Time consuming and many things to do.
Cons: Not all girls like makeup, or it might get messy.


Music

Pros: It'll keep you awake, and you can sing, too.
Cons: May get too loud.


Truth or Dare

Pros: Fun and time consuming, requires creativity.
Cons: May get too wild, Most dares won't work because it'll make noise, and requires creativity.


Gossip or just chat

Pros: Exiting and fun, usually time consuming.
Cons: May hurt somebody's feelings, or get boring fast.


Watch TV

Pros: Time consuming depending on what show, interesting.
Cons: Not everyone may like the show, too loud, or could get boring fast.
 Before your friend's arrival, if you have enough time, take a nap! It might sound ridiculous, but it actually works. If you can't seem to doze off, or stand still, then don't. If you force yourself to take a nap, you'll get more tired and exhausted, and you'll waste time.


If you don't have much time, or they're on their way, try not to fool around. Get everything ready before they end up on your door-step. They probably won't want to help set up a sleepover, after all, you are the host!

