 Take a piece of paper and write down how you think everyone else sees you: on one side put physical things like 'short brown hair' and 'green eyes' , and on the other put personality traits like 'caring' and 'nice'. This is also where you'd put your religion (if any) and favorite color.;
, Look inside yourself and see if you can find another person. For example, maybe you've always wanted to not have to worry about behavior. Search deep inside yourself and see if you have another, underlying personality with few or no connections to your first. This is your separate persona.
 Pick a stereotype opposite yours, for example, if you're mostly flower-child hippie, go for Goth or punk.
 It shouldn't sound too much like your current name or be a name you've told friends and family that you'd prefer, but it shouldn't be way too far-out unless you're pretending to be a different race or religion.
 It's best to go without your parents, for example, with friends or alone, but try to stuff things that fit your persona in the basket while they're not looking. If all goes wrong and they find out, say it's for a Halloween costume.
 You will want your persona to have interests (unless they're emo), or at least a favorite band, so with your headphones on, google music that would fit your stereotype. A good-girl might like a pop singer, and Goth might be hard rock. Find something you can do that your parents don't know you can do to be your hobby, whether it completely fits or not. Just remember not to make your persona's hobbies identical to yours.
 Maybe in an opaque bin in your closet, or in a shoebox under the bed.
 Tell your parents you'll be at the mall (or wherever you're going) and act as usual. When you get to wherever you're going, change in a bathroom and hide your bag (with you regular clothes in it) either in the bathroom, or inside another bag that you will carry. Hang around places your persona might go. Would you really see a punk outside Bath & Body Works? Probably not. Instead, stay outside places your persona would like.
 If your disguise is really good, they won't recognize you. If they do, and say something like, "Hey Kelly. What's with the outfit?" Respond, "Who's Kelly? I'm Jasmine." Or whatever your name is., For example, don't play out-of-character music without headphones or ask questions that are out of your personality or that you haven't asked before.

