 This includes any recurring symptoms, medication changes, past and current treatment options, mood swings, delusions, or other significant events in your loved one’s life. This will help you be better prepared for any psychotic episode that happens when you are around or know how to deal with your loved one's doctors when you are needed to help.


This may also help you look for early warning signs of a crisis situation or relapse when you are together., Psychotic episode, also known as crisis situations, are bound to happen at some point when you are around if you have a loved one with schizophrenia. Stopping medication is the most common reason for a crisis situation, but your loved one may have a relapse even if the medication has not changed or been stopped. If you notice any warning signs when you are together, call your loved one’s doctor right away. Your loved one may have specific warning signs, but common warning signs of a crisis situation include:Withdrawing from you and others
Insomnia
Increased paranoia, delusions, or hallucinations
Lack of personal hygiene
Increased hostility toward you and others
Unexplained disappearances
Confusing or unintelligible speech

, There are ways you can be prepared if you are around for an acute psychotic episode. You want to make sure your loved one gets help as soon as possible. An acute psychotic episode is a sudden delusion or hallucination that becomes so overwhelming for your loved one that she breaks with reality and poses a threat to her personal well-being as well as the well-being of others.When this happens, your loved one will likely need to be hospitalized until her sense of reality is returned to normal. Call emergency services as soon as you realize that your loved one needs help. During these episodes, you should also:


Always have the number of your loved one’s doctor and therapist handy so you can let them know she is on the way to the hospital.
Know which hospital your loved one needs to go to in order to get the best help.
Ask others to leave your home, if they are not necessary to keep your loved one calm.
Limit distractions or triggers, such as TV, radio, or things that make loud noises.
Talk to your loved one directly and calmly to try to defuse the situation.
Reach out to the person's therapist and ask for training and instruction on how to calm her down.
Try not to reason with your loved one, since he or she has broken with reality., If your loved one continues to be a danger to himself and to others, you may have to help put him back in the hospital. This is called involuntary hospitalization, which is sometimes necessary to get your loved one back on track. This may seem drastic, but it is for his own good in the long run.


Your loved one’s doctor will let you know if hospitalization is needed. Other than being a danger, your loved one may also need to be hospitalized if he can no longer provide basic tasks and services for himself, such as clothing and feeding.