 Although not technically a method of “saving” money for college, you can reduce your college tuition costs by taking classes earlier. You can attend your local community college and take some introductory courses while you are still in high school. The tuition for these credits will likely be much cheaper than credits at the college that you eventually choose to attend. As a result, you can, in many cases, reduce the overall cost of attending college.You may choose to take some community college classes while in high school, or enroll directly into community college after high school graduation. Many people will spend one or two years at community college, and then transfer their earned credits to another public or private institution. In the end, you will graduate with that other school’s degree, at greatly reduced cost.
Research ahead. If you have one or more schools in mind where you ultimately would like to attend, make sure that the credits from the community college will be transferable to the program that you want.
 Many high schools participate in dual enrollment programs. These are programs that allow high school students to attend classes at a nearby college. The credits earned count both toward high school graduation and as college credit that will be transferable after graduation. If your school offers such a program, and depending on how many classes you take, you may be able to save as much as a full semester or more of college tuition costs.


If you search for the term “high school dual enrollment” and the name of your state, you are likely to find information about programs that are available.
One particular example is Liberty Online Academy, which has a dual enrollment program for online students to earn both high school and college credits at the same time., Advanced Placement (AP) is a wide-spread program at most public and private high schools that gives students an opportunity to enroll in advanced level classes. Students who perform well in AP classes and earn high enough scores on the AP test at the end of the year can earn college tuition at participating colleges and universities. Each college or university sets its own policies about accepting AP test scores for credit. If you have a particular school that you plan to attend, you should contact its admissions office for more detail.Much more information about the AP program, tests and college credits is available at https://apstudent.collegeboard.org/creditandplacement.

