 Prewriting (also known as invention) is what you do to generate ideas before you actually write a paper. While it may be tempting to skip prewriting and just start drafting your essay for English class, it is worth taking the time to prewrite. By spending time developing your ideas before you write, you can improve the quality of your work.


Freewriting. This is when you write as much as you can without stopping. Even if your mind is blank, you should write “My mind is blank,” until you get an idea to write about. After you finish writing, read over your freewrite and identify any important ideas that might be useful for your paper.
Listing. This is when you create a list of all of everything you can think of that is relevant to the essay topic. When you have listed as much as you can, read over your list and identify any useful information.
Clustering. This is when you use lines and circles to connect your ideas on a piece of paper. For example, you can begin by writing your topic at the center of the page and then draw lines coming from this idea. Keep drawing more lines and making connections until you are out of ideas., Some English papers will require you to conduct research before you write. If you have to write a research paper, then make sure that you spend some time finding quality sources and reading them carefully.


Search your library’s databases rather than just doing a basic internet search. You will be more likely to find quality sources by using your library’s database. Check with a librarian if you are not sure how to use your library’s databases.
 An outline provides the basic structure for an essay. Outlines can be as detailed as you want and this can be a great way to keep yourself focused when you start drafting your paper.Outlining your essay before you get started can help you write a better paper as well.
 Drafting is when you take your notes, outline, and all of the ideas in your head and put them onto paper in essay form. If you have done adequate freewriting, research, and outlining, then this step should not be too difficult.


Keep in mind that if you struggle with the drafting phase of the writing process, then you can always return to one of the previous phases and come back to the drafting phase when you feel ready.
Remember to use your outline to guide you as you write.
 Revising is when you go over a piece of writing before you submit it to determine if you need to add, delete, reorganize, or clarify something. Revising your work can help you to develop your ideas and catch minor mistakes as well. Make sure that you allow yourself plenty of time to read over your work and revise it as needed.


Having a few days to revise is ideal, but if you can only spare a few hours then that is fine as well.
All essays benefit from revision, so do not consider this as an optional step.
You can always swap papers with a friend a provide feedback for each other. Just make sure that the friend is someone who you trust to provide good feedback. You might also consider asking your instructor or a writing center tutor to look over your paper for you.
Try to give yourself a break before you revise. Even taking a few hours away from the paper will allow you to return to it with fresh eyes.

