 New York City can be an expensive place to stay. If you use your points wisely, you can find some good redemption value for your rewards points. Try one of the following options:You can stay at the Westin Times Square for around 20,000 to 25,000 points per night. You could also try the Westin Grand Central, which will cost about 12,000 to 16,000 points. These options get you a redemption value of between two and four cents per point.
You can stay at the St. Regis New York for about 30,000 points. This is a redemption value of 3.6 cents per point, since rooms go for about $1,075 per night.
 If you are planning a trip to Tokyo, consider saving money by using your airline rewards to book your hotel. There are a variety of hotel deals to be found. Remember to calculate the redemption value of the hotels in Tokyo., You can often get the best redemption value for your points by going to remote and expensive locations. It is worth considering locations that you would otherwise not think about such as Bora Bora or the Maldives, since one can get excellent redemption value for hotels in these exotic places., Although Paris may be an otherwise expensive destination with high vacation costs, you might be able to enjoy an affordable vacation by using your airline rewards for a hotel. You can get good redemption value at a range of expensive hotels in Paris.Rooms at the Park Hyatt Paris-Vendôme near the Tuileries Gardens can sometimes be found for a good redemption value if you are a Hyatt points member.
If you are a Starwood member, you might consider staying at the Prince de Galles luxury hotel.
 This tranquil island northwest of Tahiti is beautiful, remote, and expensive. However, if you save money on your hotel with airline rewards, you won’t feel so bad about spending lots of money on food and entertainment. You can find beautiful bungalows  along the beach for reasonable prices.Inter Continental offers free nights if you are at the 50,000 point-level and book fifty weeks in advance.
IHG Rewards Club allows you to spend a combination of rewards and cash to get a great redemption value on hotels in Bora Bora.
 The Maldives on the Indian Ocean are gorgeous but also expensive. If you want a beautiful vacation in an exotic location but also want to save some money, consider using some of your airline rewards for your hotel costs.You can get good value at the Park Hyatt Maldives Hadahaa.

