 You should know that vaginoplasty can treat a prolapsed bladder. The muscles of the vagina play a crucial role in holding pelvic organs in place. When your vaginal muscles slacken, they may not do so effectively, and one of the potential consequences is a cystocele, or prolapsed bladder. This is a condition, fairly common in women, in which the bladder sinks into the vagina. If you have a prolapsed bladder, your doctor may recommend vaginoplasty as a solution.Cystoceles are divided into categories based on severity. In Grade 1, or “mild” cases, only a small part of the bladder descends into the vagina. These cases may not need any treatment at all, unless they cause troubling symptoms.
In Grade 2, or “moderate” cases, the bladder descends far enough into the vagina to touch the vaginal opening. In Grade 3, or “severe” cases, the bladder descends so far that it actually begins to protrude through the vaginal opening.
If you are considering vaginoplasty for a prolapsed bladder, understand that less invasive treatments may work for you, especially if your case is not severe.;
, Some women who don’t have bladder pursue vaginoplasty as a solution for vaginal muscles that have become extremely weak. If your vaginal muscles have slackened to the point at which medical problems might result, your doctor may suggest vaginoplasty. Depending on the severity of your condition, this surgery might seem like a good option for you.There are many reasons that vaginal muscles can weaken over time. Childbirth is a common factor, as is going through menopause.
Women can also experience weakened vaginal muscles as a complication from a previous surgery. Weak vaginal muscles can also be hereditary.
Talk to your doctor if you are experiencing problems such as vaginal pain or incontinence. Make sure to discuss your options outside of surgery.
Non-invasive options include using a pessary to hold the pelvic organs in place, taking estrogen replacement therapy, and doing Kegel exercises to strengthen the muscles of the pelvic floor

, Sex is an important part of a healthy lifestyle for many women. If your vaginal muscles become very weak, you may struggle to achieve orgasm or feel that your orgasms are less satisfying. Vaginoplasty tightens the muscles of the vagina, allowing them to contract more effectively.Vaginoplasty can improve your sex life. However, this is not the main reason to seek surgery.
Typically, enhanced pleasure from vaginoplasty is a side-effect from having the surgery for another medical issue. It is an important benefit of this surgery.
Increased sexual pleasure can lead to greater self-confidence and reduced levels of stress. Talk to your doctor about your individual issues.
 Many women worry that their vaginas are too slack or “stretched out” as they age or after they have children. This is normal. It’s true that both age and childbirth can weaken the muscles of the vagina and make you feel a little “looser,”, but in most cases, this is not a severe medical issue.The rise of “vaginal rejuvenation” as a cosmetic procedure has made many women feel that their vaginas need to be improved with surgery, but for most women, this is simply not the case.
Many times, the problem effects your self-esteem more than anything else. Work with your partner to revive your sex life.
Don't worry about what other people think. Having surgery because someone else says that you should is not a great reason.
 If you are in the process of transitioning from male to female, you might want to consider surgery. To finalize the physical transition, many people choose to have a penile inversion vaginoplasty. Talk to your doctor about the process.Make sure that you discuss the physical preparation for this surgery. You will need to be on hormone therapy for a period of time before having the surgery.
Many doctors will recommend an extended course of counseling. This ensures that you understand the emotional connotations of having this surgery.

