 Large chain dry cleaners, on the other hand, are usually more interested in turning a profit than in contributing to the life of your community. Supporting a local business will keep your community unique and could reduce the environmental impact of your dry cleaning., Dry cleaning is a chemically intensive process and regularly produces many hazardous and toxic byproducts.Ask the owner if they recycle hangers, offer reusable laundry bags, and use biodegradable plastic packaging. Most importantly, find out if the business uses wet cleaning systems or if they use perchloroethylene (“perc”) in their dry cleaning. If the business uses perc, it is not doing its part to protect the environment.


Wet cleaning is a professional laundering method that does not use harmful chemicals that can pollute and cause damage to the environment.To inquire about the possibility of getting your laundry wet cleaned at the dry cleaning service, simply ask, “Does your laundry service also offer wet cleaning?”
Pursuant to a 2006 environmental regulation, perc is being gradually phased out and scheduled for a full ban in 2020., Not every dry cleaners will be good at the same things. Some services specialize in wedding dresses, drapery, or leather restoration. If you have a particular dry cleaning need and cannot locate a dry cleaning service that advertises itself as a specialist in that type of material, don’t worry. Contact several services, and ask them what experience they have with the type of material you’re interested in getting dry cleaned.Besides material specialization, ask around about stain removal specializations. For instance, if you’re trying to get ink, wine, or grease stains out of a shirt or other garment, contact the dry cleaning service you’re considering to verify they can treat stains of this type.
 Try to get the best value for your money. Many dry cleaners may try to entice customers by cutting costs, but such companies may compromise on quality.


Bulk cleaning costs start at around $3 per pound. Cleaning services for individual items have much greater variation in cost, and are determined by the local market.
Be sure to ask what drop-off and delivery costs are, if applicable.
 Look for businesses that have certifications environmental dry cleaning, wet cleaning, and


Search the DLI database (http://www.dlionline.org/) for a certified dry cleaning service near you.
Many states have their own professional organizations that offer lists of certified dry cleaning services. For instance, the Michigan Institute of Laundering & Drycleaning provides certification for businesses across Michigan.Search online for similar organizations within your state.
 Make sure to read all the small print carefully.


Be sure to get an itemized receipt when dropping off your dry cleaning. That way, if something is missing when you pick the laundry up later, you’ll be able to prove it.
 A local dry cleaning service is usually preferable to a distant one. However, if the distant business offers exceptional service, you might opt to choose it over the closer one.

