 You can lower your risk of exposure to germs from travelling by taking fewer trips. When you have to travel, choose less crowded travel options if you can. Driving a rental car may take longer than flying, but it could significantly lower the number of people with whom you need to interact and thus lower your risk of getting sick.
 Prepare your carry-on luggage so that you will be able to clean your hands and space easily. Certain items may not be available at the airport or train station, and they will cost significantly more if they are available. Once you secure the right items, you can stash them in a travel bag so you’ll always have them for future flights.


Carry disinfectant handy wipes. A pack of disinfectant wipes will allow you to sanitize surfaces you need to use while on the plane, train, or bus. These can be a great help since you don’t know when the restroom was last disinfected.Pack a face-mask from a drug store. This can be used to a physical barrier to germs while you are seated in a cramped cabin.
Bring your own magazines and entertainment options. The magazines provided by the airline have been used by many people and some germs can survive on paper for hours or even days.
 It’s easy to overextend yourself while you’re traveling. This will leave you tired and feeling stress, which makes infections more likely. Plan your arrival and departure times so that you will be able to rest before exerting yourself.


Anticipate jet lag. While it’s uncommon to experience jet lag from taking a short flight in the same time zone, longer flights that cross time zones increase the risk. If your trip may disrupt your sleep patterns, try to schedule an extra day after your arrival in order to adjust.
 Avoid illness by limiting your possible exposure to germs. As morning flights are less convenient, taking an early flight might lower your exposure to people. If you can schedule your bus ride for the middle of the week, there is a good chance that it will be less crowded.


Holidays and weekends are the most popular flight times.
Certain destinations experience heavier traffic during certain times, such as beach spots during spring break. Plan to visit these locations during off-season in order to lessen the chance of being on a crowded flight or full hotel.
 If you are travelling to another part of the world, make sure that you have all required and recommended vaccines. Requirements vary by region, so check the Center for Disease Control and Prevention website (http://www.cdc.gov/features/vaccines-travel/) once you know where you will be traveling.


If you do get ill while traveling, consider contacting your doctor’s office. Depending on your symptoms, your doctor may be able to prescribe an antibiotic with a phone call. Proper treatment can help you recover, as well as help your fellow passengers remain healthy.

