 If you want to make the girl feel special right away and get closer to sweeping her off her feet, then you have to make her see that you don't just see her as any ordinary person. Let her know that you think she's special by complimenting her when you see her. Remember not to say something that might creep her out. Tell her she has amazing hair, a quirky sense of humor, a fantastic laugh, or the most incredible sense of style you've ever seen.


Don't tell her she's beautiful or gorgeous quite yet. Though this is a nice compliment, if you tell her too early, she may feel like you're coming on too strong or being insincere.
In your very first or second conversation, try to sneak in a subtle compliment that makes her see that you really see her as an individual, not just as any other girl.
You can compliment aspects of her personality, too. Like strong sense of responsibility, strength of character, morals, etc.;
, Generally people love to talk about themselves when they are given the chance. If you want to make the girl feel special, and like you really care, then you have to ask her a few questions about her life and her ideas. Don't give her the third degree or make her feel like she's in an interview. Just asking some slightly personal but not intrusive questions can really make her see that you're interested. Here are some topics to ask about:


If she has any pets -- if she does, what breed or what kind of cat or dog does she have?
If she has siblings, what are their names, gender, what do they do etc.?
What her favorite movies, bands, books are?
What her hobbies are and what she likes about her hobbies?
What her job or classes are like for her?

, If you want the girl to feel special and like you really care about her, then you have to show that her opinions really matter to you. Ask her what she thinks about a variety of topics, from your new shoes to her taste in music. Don't ask any questions that could start a fight right away -- steer away from politics or any other sensitive topics. But asking what she thinks from time to time will make her see that you really care about her instead of just seeing her as a plaything.


If you take her out to a movie, ask her what she actually wants to see. When you walk out, you should ask her what she thought of the movie.
If you pick her up and are listening to music, ask, "What CD's do you have in your car?"
If you're making a life decision and are close enough for her opinion to matter, don't make it without asking what she thinks first.
 This is different from nodding your head and saying, uh, yeah, every few minutes when she asks if you're listening. Pay attention to the little details, from what she really thinks of her friend, to her favorite types of sweaters. Sure, you may drift off from time to time, but you'll rack up major points the next time her friend Stephanie comes up or you find yourself sweater shopping together; if you mention something she previously said, she'll be really impressed that you care.


Really listening to her will also make her see that you're interested in her mind just as much as you care about her body.
Listening to her carefully can also help you get a sense of what she likes and doesn't like, so you can get her the perfect thoughtful gift when the time comes.
 If you want to sweep a girl off her feet, then you absolutely have to be a gentleman. You don't have to go over the top or try to do something that really doesn't fit with your personality, but if you want her to feel special, you have to make her feel like a lady. To be a gentleman, you have to treat the girl with respect, be kind and affectionate, and make her feel like all of your attention is on her, whether you're out at a fancy date or just grabbing coffee. Here are some other things you can do:


When you pick her up, don't just wait in your car and honk your horn. Get your butt out and knock on her door. When she does get in your car, open the door for her.
Open doors for her and pull out her chair for her. Always let her walk in front of you.
Ask her if she's comfortable from time to time. Is she too cold or too hot? Offer her your jacket or hang up her coat.
Always start off a date with a compliment to her. She made an effort, so tell her she looks beautiful, stunning, pretty, or both beautiful and stunning.
 This doesn't mean you should become obsessed with Power Yoga or trail her to the Farmer's Market every Saturday like a little dog for her. It does mean that you should show an interest in some of the things she loves to do, and to ask about her passion for them without being too intrusive. If she loves to write poems or paint, ask if you could see some of her verses and canvasses. If she's going to a book reading one night and asks if you'd like to come along, say yes.


This doesn't mean that you should start doing a whole bunch of things that seem completely boring to you. It does mean that you should show that you care about the girl's interests and that you'll support her as much as you can.
 Seriously. This is one of the most underrated tricks to making a girl feel really special and kind to you. When she's talking to you, look into her eyes. This may sound completely obvious, but you'd be surprised by the number of guys who barely look into a girl's eyes either because they're too shy, or too busy looking at their cell phones to really pay attention to their girl's eyes.


This doesn't mean you have to be creepy and gaze into the girl's eyes 100% of the time, but when she's talking to you and you're really listening, take a look into her eyes to show that you care about her.
Making eye contact will also make it easier for you to be really attuned to your girl's feelings. If you look away from her face, you may not see that she's really upset or agitated until it's way too late for you to do it.

