 There are myriad school supplies you could need for your classes, especially your freshman year, since you will likely be taking a variety of general courses. Make sure to bring whatever you might need to be successful.


Generally, you’ll at least want to make sure you bring a planner, calculator, binders, notebooks, folders, flash drive, and lots of pens and highlighters.;
, One of your goals in college is most likely to perform well in your classes. To do this, bring study aids that will help you focus. While these can be different for every person, there are a few general aids that will help you be successful.


Laptop “feet” raise the bottom of your laptop so that it is in a more comfortable position to work.
An extension cord will give you the freedom to work anywhere in your room that you feel comfortable.
Just in case your roommate is not on your schedule, it is a good idea to bring a small reading light so you can continue studying while they are sleeping., Bringing the right electronics is also important. While you may have any number of small electronic gadgets, in general, you’ll want to make sure you have the following:


Laptop computer. When searching for a laptop, make sure it has all the capabilities you’ll need to complete your work, including the right operating system, enough storage, and the appropriate inputs.

For example, if you’re a business student, having Microsoft Office will be essential.
It is also important to keep size in mind. If you plan to leave it in your room, a larger laptop would be fine. However, if you plan to take it to the library or class on a regular basis, consider something small and compact.


Portable speakers are another common electronic college students should have. This will allow you to play music or re-play a lecture. Remember to bring headphones too so you can do this without disturbing your roommate.
Make sure you bring your cell phone as well. You’ll need to keep in touch with friends, family, and your classmates.
Also bring extension cords, surge protectors, and 3-2 prong adapters. This will give you the versatility to work from wherever you’re most comfortable.
Check with your college to figure out if your room is equipped with wireless internet and if there are on-campus printers you can use. If not, be sure to bring an Ethernet cable and a printer., You should be able to find a list of any special requirements for your major on your university’s website. If not, try contacting your advisor to find out any special items you might need.


For example, those studying Fine Arts will likely need a case for art supplies and their own sketch pads while Journalism majors might need a voice recorder or AP Styleguide.
In addition, review your class list and course descriptions to see if you need any special materials, like a certain software program or specialized calculator., Just like different majors may require specific supplies, they may also require specific types of clothing. Again, check your school’s website or ask an advisor to see what clothing requirements your major has.


For instance, students in the science department may be required to wear close-toed shoes on lab days and business students may need a nice suit for presentations.

