 Don’t feel the need to follow all of the latest trends. Embrace your own unique appearance and work to refine it over time. Wear clothes that suit your personality and mood. Being comfortable in your own skin will give you more confidence in all of your choices, including being a loner.Most people are aware of the stereotype of the trench coat wearing, troubled loner teen. If you choose to dress this way do so because you enjoy it, not to conform to some image.
 No matter how frustrated you become with other people attempting to reach out to you, avoid the desire to head into rude territory. Stay true to your morals and give them minimal time, but not an abrupt brush-off. Most people are extroverts and have no clue how to interpret your loner signals.Some polite ways to exit a conversation include saying, “Okay, well, I have to make my next class,” or, “I’ve got to go now or I’ll be late.”

, Being a loner doesn’t mean you can’t be interesting. In fact, many loners become recognized artists due to their abilities to channel their inner energies outward. Investigate learning a musical instrument on your own. Or, try your hand at another artistic pursuit, such as writing or painting.One of the reasons that Bruce Springsteen started playing music was to find an outlet for his feelings as a high school loner. Just because you are a loner doesn’t mean you are alone in your experiences.It is also possible that you gravitate toward being a loner because you hold potential friends to higher creative standards as a result of your own artistic impulses. Being aware of this can help you to reassess your expectations of others, if you desire., Try your best to not care about the opinions of others, including those of your peers. Focus on your own inner strength and take actions that make you feel comfortable, not the ones that will make you ‘fit in.’ Part of being a confident person is not accepting bullying. Don’t allow anyone to victimize you for your loner status., Search online for the stories of other loners. You will find that many celebrities self-identify as former, or current, loners. Your research will show you that, for most loners, there is nothing unhealthy or unnatural about this affinity. You simply crave privacy.