 Almost anything can be repaired -- cobblers, hardware stores, and electronics repair shops are all available for hire. For instance, instead of investing in a whole new couch, have it reupholstered. Instead of buying a new TV, take it to the repair shop to extend its life or replace broken parts.


If a new household purchase is unavoidable, save money slowly over time in order to purchase the item you need.
Avoid rent-to-own options. Rent-to-own furniture or electronic equipment is a tempting offer because you can pay in small installments over a long period. But in the long run, it will cost you more than if you had just paid the whole amount all at once., Check supermarket flyers, factory outlets, and thrift stores to help you save. Try to find stores that offer price-matching sales so that you can save time by bringing in competitors’ ads instead of hoofing it all over to the stores which offer the best deals.Compare prices carefully. Many stores provide direct price comparisons if you look closely on shelf tags in the grocery store. For instance, price-per-unit shelf tags might indicate that one brand of juice might cost $1 per liter, while another might cost $1.20 per liter. Whenever possible, opt for the less expensive choice.
 Buying in bulk means you pay by the pound for one large bag of something rather than buying several smaller pre-measured packages of the same foodstuff. Doing this will lower your grocery costs. Since grocers can move more product this way, you’ll get a lower rate per pound. For instance, instead of buying three two-pound bags of rice for $2 each, you might buy a seven pound bag for $5, and end up with more food for less money. Ethnic grocers are good places to stock up on staples like rice, beans, and vegetables in bulk.
 Economy size indicates a product you’ll pay less per unit of measure for when buying more of it. For example, many grocery stores offer a one pound box of cereal for $3 per pound, or a somewhat larger two pound box of the same cereal for only $2.50 per pound. This nominal difference will save you more in the long run. Even though the total cost of the somewhat larger box is more expensive ($5 as compared to $3 for the smaller box), you’re getting more cereal for your money.
 Shop consciously when you go to the grocery store (or any store, really). This way, you’ll have a kind of roadmap when you’re visiting the grocery store, and won’t just wander all over the store looking at (and possibly buying) things you don’t really need.Obtain the items on your shopping list, head to checkout, and leave.


Look for more spartan shops. Part of what you pay for when you visit a grocery store is the experience. An upscale place like Whole Foods is not the best place to shop if you’re trying to survive being poor.

