 Sometimes you may feel so tired you want to skip removing your makeup before bed, but you should never go to sleep without removing it first. Leaving makeup on can clog your pores. Your skin needs to breathe and heal at night, so you should remove your makeup to allow this to happen.Wipe off any foundation, primer, or other products with a facial wipe. Make sure to wipe away any traces of makeup.
Even if you're just wearing mascara, you should still remove your makeup. Leaving mascara on can clog hair follicles, and it can also damage your lashes and make them brittle, which can cause them to brake. Brittle lashes may also bend and poke you in the eye.;
, You should always wash your face before bed. This can help prevent acne breakouts by removing dirt, bacteria, and oils that have accumulated during the day. You should use a mild soap meant to treat acne and wash your face in warm water.Do not scrub your face. Gently massage your face in circular motions until you've worked up a lather with the soap. Then, rinse your face off.
If you have any acne lotion, you should apply this after washing your face.
 Many people shower in the morning; however, if an evening shower is part of your routine, hop in the shower before bed. In certain circumstances, showering before bed may benefit you.If you typically have difficulty falling asleep, it's a good idea to shower at night. After you get out of the shower, you experience a rapid cooling effect on your body. This can help induce sleep.
If you have dry, flaky skin, your skin may respond better to a shower at night.
Make sure your sheets are clean. If you shower at night, you don't want to undo your shower by sleeping on dirty sheets.
 The light from a television, phone, or tablet screen can interfere with sleep. In the half hour before bed, avoid things like texting your friends, going online, playing games, or watching movies or TV (especially things that are exciting or scary). Find other ways to wind down.It's a good idea to remove these items from your bedroom completely. If you typically lie in bed texting your friends in the evening, or watching something on your tablet, you're likely interfering with your own sleep cycle.
It can be difficult to resist the temptation, especially after a long day. Try asking your parents to take your electronics before bed. This can help you prioritize sleep.
 A relaxing ritual will help you turn your mind off at the end of the day. It can also signal to your body it's time to rest. If you do the same thing one to two hours before bed each night, your body will recognize that it's time to sleep.Pick something non-stimulating. If you go for a walk at night, that may wake your body up.
Instead, do something relaxing. Listen to a calming playlist. Read a book (but avoid intense reading, like page-turning mysteries or suspense novels). Take a warm bath. Do a crossword puzzle.
Make sure you get all studying done well before bed whenever possible. This can make you stressed and feel more awake., Sometimes, it can be hard to get to sleep if your thoughts are spiraling from a long day. Before bed, try writing in your diary or journal. This will help clear your mind before falling asleep.You can keep a diary or journal by your bedside table. When night comes, jot down all your thoughts to get them out of your system before going to sleep.
This can be especially helpful if you had a long or stressful day. You don't want to go to sleep with stress over a fight with a friend or a coming exam interfering with your thoughts.
If you are thinking about everything you will need to accomplish the next day, try writing it down or making a to-do list in your journal.
 Once you feel like you've wound down, get comfortable. You want to make sure you're lying in a comfortable position, as this will help you drift off to sleep.Make sure your room is dark enough. Turn off the lights and pull down the curtains or shades.
Make sure you choose the position for your mattress, pillow, and blankets that are most comfortable for you.
Don't use your bed for anything other than sleeping. Don't study in bed. This way, your body will know that as soon as you hit the mattress, it's time for sleep.
 Stay away from things like energy drinks, sodas, tea, or coffee beverages in the hours leading up to sleep. Too much caffeine can interfere with your sleep cycle, even if you drank it a few hours before bed.Caffeine stays in your system for a long time after you consume it. It takes six hours for about half the amount of caffeine consumed to work its way through your system. This means that if you have a soda after dinner, you may still be feeling jittery at night.Stick to only one or two caffeinated beverages per day. When you do drink caffeine, make sure you do so in the morning or the early afternoon.
 If you consistently struggle to get ready for bed, the problem may be your bedroom. Make sure your bedroom allows you to fall asleep at night.If your room is too bright, you may need thicker shades or black-out curtains. Even at night, lights from street lamps can interfere with sleep. You can also try a sleep mask.
If there are unwanted noises in your room, consider ear plugs, ambient music, or a white noise machine.
Ideally, a room should be cool for sleep — between 60 to 67°F (15.6 to 19.4°C). Consider a small fan or a portable air conditioner. Adjust the room temperature to whatever works for you.
 If you get up and go to bed at the same time each day, this will help improve your sleep. Your body has a natural circadian rhythm that responds to a regular sleep/wake cycle. If you fall asleep at, say, 10 each night, and get up at 6, your body will adapt. You will begin feeling sleepy around 10, and wake up feeling alert.Although it can be difficult, try to stick to roughly this same schedule, even on weekends. Sleeping in on a Sunday can throw off your sleep Monday night.

