 Choose a time when you can all get together without distractions or absent family members. Ask every family member to explain what being green means to them and what they're already doing to be green at home, work, school, and in their leisure activities.The simplest definition of being green means making choices that benefit the environment.It can be helpful to keep notes so that you can revisit the different ideas, comments, and complaints that are raised during the discussion. Allot one person to be the “record-keeper.”;
, Avoid making final decisions at this stage: each member of your family will appreciate just being heard. Take a walk around your home and property together to actually see the things that could be done differently.Try to come up with a simple list of things that your household can make changes to and that every family member can be a part of.


For example, decide that each member of your family will pack a lunch, rather than eat out. This will reduce the amount of un-recyclable waste you create, both in packaging and in drive time.Your list could also include a column that shows how the change you are planning could be beneficial to the family or other people, helping everyone to see how our choices are interconnected., At this stage, you might have come up with differing viewpoints about what matters most in going green. Talk through the ways in which you accommodate each other's preferences and reach compromises on the priorities for your household. Things affecting the priority will likely include cost, viability, utility, and level of interest. For example, it may be easier to decide that your family will use green cleaning products, rather than installing solar panels on the roof of your home.
It can be helpful to create a poster, chart, or other visual format that everyone can follow when learning new habits or implementing the changes.
Consider using the Sustainable Happiness Footprint Chart. It demonstrates how daily choices contribute to individual, community, and global well-being.This helps people to feel more motivated to engage in sustainable lifestyles so that they are not just doing it out of guilt or fear., Visit the library and borrow books on such subjects as greening your home, green cleaning, green gardening, green living, etc. and allocate different categories to different members of the family.At this stage, the family will be able to discuss the merits, costs, desirability, etc., of the suggestions as a team, making this a joint decision-making process.


You could break down research into categories such as energy conservation, water conservation, green transportation, green eating, recycling and compost, etc.
Find out what other people have done and think about how your family could use those ideas.
 Find activities in the home that everyone is able to do to be green. Pick a small project that doesn't cost much (or anything) and that is more about habit-changing than anything too complicated.Some of these things might include:


Getting into the habit of turning off lights and electronics whenever anybody leaves a room unoccupied.

Starting a compost in the garden, or maybe a worm farm.
Beginning or improving on an edible garden. Aim to eat more homegrown food that is tasty and pesticide-free; this also saves money.
Having game nights where all electronics are turned off. This is about bonding together as well as saving a little energy; it's a thoughtful gesture as well as a green one., Talk to your family about the difference between needs and wants. Teach them to buy only what they need, and to purchase items with the least amount of packaging. For example, renting a DVD or book from the library or other service, like Netflix, is better than purchasing those items new., Cans, bottles, glass, paper, and most plastics can be recycled. Be sure to sort the materials if you don’t have a mixed-use recycling bin or center near you. You can compost food and other biodegradable items as well. It is possible, through recycling and composting, to have no trash pickup., Teach family members to repair and reuse household items. Develop a mindset as a family that items need to be reused as much as possible before being discarded for good. Possible options for reuse include:


Reusing old toothbrushes
Recycling old pantyhose
Saving money by reusing household items
Reusing Styrofoam
Recycling items into home decor
Reusing fabric and clothing
As an added bonus, recycling cans and scrap metal can earn extra money, and you might like to use this as an incentive for pocket money increases!

, During this time, learn how to reuse things and make new things from old ones. Borrow some books from the library on making crafts by reusing objects, and check out the many websites devoted to this activity.Some of the things you could try include:


Making reusable grocery bags from t-shirts
Making a tote bag out of a pillow case
Making a cloth gift bag
Making a corkboard from old wine corks
Renovating old tin trays

, Water conservation activities are a great family exercise. Turning off water when brushing teeth, fixing dripping faucets the moment they're noticed, washing the car on a lawn rather than on concrete, cleaning the pool regularly so that water doesn't have to be changed, etc. can all help your family be green., Encourage the family to reduce heat and air-conditioning usage. Though everyone tends to feel temperatures differently, remind each other that adding a sweater to warm up or opening a window to cool down are good options before fiddling with the thermostat.Consider space heaters and fans for elderly, very young, or chronically ill family members who can't tolerate the temperature range the healthy young members can. Everyone's needs are different but adjustments can be made individually, rather than to the entire home.
At night, keep the bedroom temperature cooler and use blankets or layer up.
 Ask everyone how they currently get around: to work, to school, to sports events, to shopping, to the local store, etc. As a team, work out how many of the trips taken need to be by car with a single person in it. Look at how many ways you can drop the car usage down by walking, carpooling, cycling, catching public transportation, or other solutions.Arrange family outings where you all cycle or walk to a local park or other place and have fun together. Make sure you know how to dress for all sorts of weather, so that you don't let a little rain deter you.
Ask the family to plan a shared timetable together in which one car trip can manage a whole lot of errands, drop-offs, and pick-ups at the one time rather than taking the car back and forth. This can be a fantastic way of working out how to save time too!Don't forget about greening your driving, and greening your boat care.
 Unless you're already a vegetarian family, this is probably not the time to ask everyone to go veggie but at least raise it as an option. Discuss ways to eat green, including using non-disposable plates, bowls, utensils, and napkins.
 Meat-free meals could be made more frequent within the meal roster. Less meat consumption is healthy for everyone, and the environmental costs of producing milk, eggs, and meat includes increased land usage, high-protein grain for animal feed, and the production of methane., Check out websites on the slow food movement or sites that are dedicated to locovore eating habits (eating locally produced food). If anyone in the family has reservations about eating vegetarian meals, borrow some books on achieving optimal health as vegetarian or vegan, to reassure yourselves that you are going to be getting all needed nutrients.Borrow some books and DVDs from the library on this topic. A few suggestions are Michael Pollan's “The Omnivore's Dilemma,” “Food Rules,” and “In Defense of Food,” or Morgan Spurlock's DVD “Super Size Me.”

, If the budget doesn't stretch to these initially, start a savings plan. This might include retrofitting options such as insulation, solar heating, and gray water systems. Not being able to afford these straight away isn't a reason to avoid them; it's a good opportunity to agree that you will save up until you can afford them.


Purchase Energy Star appliances and recycle old ones. New appliances can sometimes be a greener choice in the long run.Learn how to heat water using solar, and make your own electricity.
 Don't expect everyone in the family to change their ways overnight but do expect everyone to need gentle reminders to change long-held habits. For family members who feel less inclined to participate, try to offer incentives to get them to at least try a few small changes. Give the reluctant family member a small project and be generous with your praise when they complete it.


Small projects include recycling bottles, cans, and paper, and turning off the water while brushing your teeth.
 Incorporate green living into your life every day by showing how it is done. Also, make it clear how simple it can be and how fulfilling it is for you. Set the example and your family members will follow.


It can be a good strategy to ask your family to help you with the green changes that you wish to make and to offer to help them with the green changes that they wish to make.

