 Being a Rocker doesn't require being sassy to your teachers, being mean to other people in order to try to look tough, trying to be a 'rebel' or any other stereotypes associated with it. Anybody can be a Rocker, and they can either have Straight A-grades or like the colour pink. There will always be people who'll tell you that you should be like this or be doing that or dress that this to be one, but these people are probably just insecure about their own identities, and don't require your time.;
, Get that out of your head. This is a myth. Getting wasted and taking drugs are signs of immaturity. Everyone gets curious, and some people become drunk by various situations, but doing them purposefully will just make you look stupid and childish. Being promiscuous will only get someone a reputation, and drinking and taking drugs are harmful to your body. Again, people will tell you that you should, and you're not 'true' if you don't, but this is false. 'True' comes from inside you. What's the use of being a rocker if you're too ill from having your stomach pumped?

, Most people who are Rockers will favour Rock above all other genres, but it doesn't mean you can't like anything else. A lot of rock is influenced by Neo-Classical, such as Yngwie Malmsteen and Trey Azagthoth, and you are free to listen to Jazz, Punk, Garage, Dance, whatever you're into. Also, people will judge the bands you listen to. Some may call you a Poser or Wannabe, but there's no such thing. You're not a Wannabe for liking what you like. People who say that are just trying to demean you and make you feel bad. If you really like a band, why not get a couple of t-shirts, or badges for your bag. Show how much you admire them.
 The same goes for Piercings. Some people choose to dress all in leather, some don't, some choose to get a multitude of piercings and tattoos, others prefer not to. It's all up to you. Dress like whatever the hell you feel like, it's no one else's business how you dress, and it's your attitude and personality which makes you who you are.
 It isn't, it just showcases how scared you are. It's like putting a big flashing notice around your neck that says 'Hey, look at me, I'm really insecure so I take it out on other people'. And it's not nice. You wouldn't like it if someone did it to you. If they're mean to you, it's a different story, but it would surprise you how many people will like you if you're just nice.
 Other people might think that, but even Jimi Hendrix finished his education and joined the army. And you can't be busy being a rocker if you're in detentions all the time. What's the point in being a rocker if you have no education. You can't do much with that.
 It's a great way to express yourself and making friends who like the same stuff as you.
 Each sub-genre is bound to have something that you like.

