 Begin with a basic flow of your narrative. Focus on the conflict of the story; conflict drives drama.


Keep length in mind. When in script format, each page is roughly one minute of screen time. The average length of a two hour script is 120 pages. Dramas should be around the 2 hour mark, comedies should be shorter, around one and a half hours.
Also keep in mind that unless the writer is already known, has connections, or is extremely bankable, a long screenplay doesn’t have a realistic chance of getting picked up. If the story you need to tell can’t be condensed into less than two hours of screen time, you might be better off turning it into a novel.
 The pillars of a screenplay are the Three Acts. Each act can operate independently, and when taken together provide the full arc of a story.


Act One: This is the set-up for the story. Introduce the world and the characters. Set the tone of the story (comedy, action, romance, etc.). Introduce your protagonist, and begin exploring the conflict that will drive the story. Once the protagonist is set towards the objective, then Act Two begins. For dramas, Act One is typically 30 pages. For comedies, 24 pages.
Act Two: This act is the main portion of the story. The protagonist will encounter obstacles on the path to the resolution of the conflict. Subplots are typically introduced in the second act. Throughout the second act, the protagonist should be showing signs of change. For dramas, Act Two is typically 60 pages. For comedies, 48 pages.
Act Three: In the third act, the story reaches its resolution. The third act contains the twist of the story, and ends with the final confrontation of the objective. Because the story has already been established in the second act, the third act is much faster-paced and condensed. For dramas, Act Three is typically 30 pages. For comedies, 24 pages.
 Sequences are parts of the story that operate somewhat independently from the main conflict. They have a beginning, middle, and end. A typical sequence will be about 10 to 15 pages in length. A sequence tends to focus on a specific character.


Sequences operate with a separate tension from the main story, and often affect how the main story will play out.
 Scenes are the events of your movie. They take place in specific locations and always serve to drive story forward. If a scene does not do this, then it should be cut from the script. Scenes that serve no purpose will stick out in the audience’s mind as flaws, and will drag the story down.
 Once you have scenes, you will have characters interacting. Dialogue can be one of the hardest things to write. Each character needs to have its own distinct, believable voice.


Realistic dialogue is not necessarily good dialogue. Dialogue should be focused on moving the story forward and developing characters. You should not worry about trying to capture reality with dialogue, because in reality conversations are often dull and lifeless.
Read your dialogue aloud. Does it sound halting, stereotyped, or over-the-top? Do all of your characters talk the same way?

, Now that all your ideas are on paper, look for weak links, distractions, or anything that drags. Does the story ever get sidetracked? Are there unnecessary details or repetitions? Do you give your audience enough credit? If it over-explains or doesn’t move your story forward, cut it.
 Choose people with different tastes and backgrounds to get a variety of opinions. Be sure to ask for the cold, hard truth; you want constructive criticism, not flattery or lies.
 This may be painful at first, but when all is said and done, you’ll be glad you took the time to properly convey your vision.

