 Silence or put away your phone, and ask him to do the same if he doesn't copy you. Look right at him, and tell him you want to talk about something important.


"We need to talk" is often how break-up conversations begin. Unless you're actually breaking up, you may want to phrase it differently, such as "There's something I'd like to talk about with you."

, Subtle hints and implications may not work on your boyfriend, and are more likely to leave him confused and frustrated. Being direct is kinder than being passive. It's okay to say how you feel.
 "I" language is a good way to assert yourself in a clear, non-accusatory way.


A good template is "When ______, I feel _____."
For example, instead of "You're so lazy about washing the dishes," you could say "I feel frustrated and unappreciated when I come home from work to see a sink full of dirty dishes."

, Giving him a clear example of why you feel the way you do will help him recognize exactly what's going on. "You're such a workaholic" is an un-specific (and aggressive) way to communicate, and your boyfriend won't know how he can improve. "I feel left out and lonely when you work so late" lets him know what the problem is and how he can work on fixing it.
 Avoid the temptation to tell him a white lie about whether he looks good in that tie, or cover up the fact that you aren't okay. Work on being more honest and compassionate with your boyfriend. It's okay to tell him things he doesn't enjoy hearing. Part of trusting your boyfriend is trusting him with the truth.


Obviously, honesty shouldn't get in the way of compassion. If your boyfriend comes home exhausted after work, don't tell him he looks like a week-old zombie. Try a more tactful "Long day at work?" and help him relax.
 It's okay to admit that you feel hurt, or even to cry if you need to. It may be uncomfortable, but as long as it's genuine, it will help you both recognize the situation and understand each other's feelings. If this is scary to you, find little ways to start opening up, and build up to the more difficult parts. Here are some examples.


"No, I'm not okay."
"I need help."
"I felt hurt when you joked about my accent."
"I'm really worried about my dad. I'm scared that his grief over Grandma's death is overtaking him."

