 Stand up straight with your feet even with your hips. Your stance should be solid and stable.Some people prefer instead to do this exercise while sitting on a bench, feet on either side.This is also fine, but be sure not to slump or slouch.;
, Hold a dumbbell in each hand. Your thumbs should be around the handles and your palms should face your body.The dumbbells should rest next to your thighs and your elbows should be straight.
They weight of the dumbbell depends on your arm strength. Choose a dumbbell that will challenge you,but not one that's so heavy you have to strain just to pick it up.
A dumbbell that is too heavy can injure you. Don't push yourself to lift a dumbbell that causes strain, especially if you suffer from back problems.
 Contract your abdominal muscles to brace your torso. Pull your shoulder blades down and back, and make sure your neck is aligned with your spine.Hold this position throughout the exercise. Do not slump or arch your back. If you feel this occurring, you may need to consider lighter dumbbells.
 Before you begin the exercise, bend your elbows just a little to take the tension into your biceps., Let out a deep breath., Slowly bend your elbow until the dumbbell almost touches your shoulder, being careful not to let your elbow move forward.Only your forearm should move.









Keep your wrist straight. The palm of your hand should face your body as you lift. Do not shrug your shoulders.
Note that you can either lift both dumbbells at the same time, or alternate between arms, raising and lowering one dumbbell and then the other., When your dumbbell reaches the high-point of the lift, hold it there for just a moment and squeeze with your hand to flex your bicep., Take a deep breath in., Slowly straighten your arm to lower the dumbbell to to the starting position, keeping your back straight.








Do not simply allow the dumbbell to drop back to your side, as this does not exercise your muscles. Lower it slowly, keeping control over it the whole way down.
 If alternating arms, repeat the process with the other arm. Continue through your desired number of repetitions (reps).









For beginners, one or two sets of eight to 12 reps is recommended. Don't strain yourself.For more advanced lifters, do three sets of 12 reps., One popular variation of the dumbbell hammer curl is to lift the dumbbells with your palms facing straight out in front of you in the starting position. This is called an "offset grip" hammer curl.








This variation exercises your forearm along with the muscles that a standard hammer curl works.
 To further increase difficulty, lean on a preacher bench. With the peak of the bench in your armpit, extend one arm down the bench. Hold a dumbbell in one hand and place the other hand on the bicep of the first. Curl up. , Another variation involves adding a lunge press to the motion. Step forward into a deep lunge, touching one knee to the ground. Raise the dumbbells simultaneously toward your shoulders. Then, straighten your arms, raising both dumbbells above your head as you return to a standing position.Repeat this, but alternate which knee touches the ground.
This version of the exercise also works your legs.

