 The underground is a pretty dangerous place, more so than the surface. In fact, if you’re not prepared, you’ll die within the first day. Some renewable resources from above are not available underground, and so for every trip down there, you’ll have to stock up quite a lot of those resources.

Most resources available above-ground stock up to 40 per slot, with some exceptions. Bringing at least 1 full stack of Cut Grass, Twigs, Logs, and food would ensure prolonged survival during your trips.
Logs can stock up to 20 instead of 40. You can still carry more than that, but it takes up another slot of your inventory if you do.;
, Because Gold, Flint, Twigs, Cut Grass, and Rocks are all renewable in caves, you can afford to make your tools, armors, and certain weapons indefinitely. As for ruins, you only need to bring down Grass Tufts and Saplings in order to make all tools renewable.

Nearly all the weapons, save for the Thulecite Club, are renewable in the caves. In the ruins, all the weapons save for the Thulecite Club, Tentacle Spike, Bat Bat, and Ham Bat are renewable.
All armor except the Thulecite Suit and Thulecite Crown are renewable in caves. In the ruins, no armor is naturally renewable unless you bring down some Grass Tufts and Pine Cones, which would make Grass Suits, Log Suits, Marble Suits, and Beekeeper Hats renewable.
 Now all that’s left to do is to look for your way underground. Plugged sinkholes are basically craggy piles of rock scattered throughout the world. Normally, there are two of these found on the surface that lead to the first layer of the underground, the caverns, and another two found in the caverns (this time orange) leading into the ruins. To access it, simply start mining away with your pickaxe to reveal a hole and a rope, which you can then climb into.

If you find one on the surface early on and mined the rock, do not make your camp there or linger until dusk when unprepared. Batilisks spawn from the hole during dusk, and while they’re good to farm, they come in packs and could prove troublesome.
 Since the Caverns are always pitch-black, investing in portable lighting is a must. For a mobile source of light, the best ones are the Miner Hat and the Lantern. Both can easily be refueled with Slurtle Slime, Fireflies, or Light Bulbs, and both can be used while freeing up your hands so you can attack any opponents.

The Miner Hat prevents you from wearing head armor, but it keeps your hands free. The Lantern allows you to wear helmets, but need to be dropped on the ground before equipping a weapon to keep the light shining. This would, in turn, temporarily make your lantern a static light source until you pick it up and equip it again. It could also be stolen by Splumonkeys (underground-dwelling monkeys that steal items and sling manure as an attack) when it’s on the ground, which would take away what was probably your only light source, so be careful.
Fireflies are not renewable, so it’s not a very good idea to use them for fuel unless there really is no other alternative at hand. Light Bulbs and Slurtle Slime are both renewable—Light Bulbs from killing Tentapillars (absurdly large tentacles that spawn smaller ones when hit), and Slurtle Slime from feeding Slurtles (weird snail-turtle hybrids occasionally found roaming around the area) rocks or by killing them. A unit of Slurtle Slime grants 45 seconds of light and can be stored without spoiling. The Light Bulb grants 90 seconds of light, but spoils in 6 days.
 The clock mechanic from the surface is no longer available once you reach underground. Still, keeping track of the time is vital, especially when trying to get some sleep. The best way to figure out the time is by listening to the music of the game. Different music play whenever you move from day to night and vise-versa, so keep an ear out for whenever the music changes., This mechanic is only applicable in the Reign of Giants DLC, but it’s nonetheless vital. Outside weather and temperature will affect conditions in the caves and ruins. Rain will hydrate plants and slowly increase a player's wetness. Heat will cause crops to wither (but not catch fire) and eventually overheat the player. Cold will eventually freeze the player. Remember to prepare accordingly.

For the vanilla (non-DLC or mods installed) experience, the weather will not affect the gameplay in the caverns, so you can use it to escape the harsh Winter of the surface.
 Much like the surface, the underground is littered with unique wildlife. But unlike the surface, nearly all of them are extremely hostile towards you and attack immediately. So unless you’re sporting very good armor and weapons, try your best to avoid confrontation as much as possible., Depths Worms are one of the biggest problems in the caves. If you see a tempting, glowing blue flower, do not try to pick it! They spawn in swarms and act as the replacement of surface Hound attacks. Tooth Traps don’t work on them, but Bee Mines do!, If you see adorable Bunnymen walking about, or find some carrot-shaped houses, make sure you don’t have any meat in your inventory, or at least place those somewhere safe. Bunnymen tend to become hostile at the sight of meat, which includes Eggs. You can befriend them with Carrots from the surface since Bunnymen function mostly like Pigmen.

Oddly enough, carrying a Tallbird egg in your inventory or storing meat in Chester (an adorably hairy walking chest acquired in the surface upon picking up a randomly-spawned Eyebone) wouldn’t attract their ire. Equipping a Ham Bat, a Bat Bat, or a Tentacle Spike wouldn’t aggravate them either.
 Slurtles and Snurtles are just as slow as their component animals, but they pack a punch and have ludicrous HP on top of their hard shells. Because of this, it’s highly recommended to have a weapon better than a spear and wear a Log Suit or better when around them. Since they tend to retreat into their shells when attacked, it’s advisable to hit them when they poke out their heads instead of hitting their absurdly hard shells. Another option is to place large piles of minerals near their mounds. After an earthquake they will emerge to eat the minerals, and they will often fight each other over the resources. As long as you aren't carrying any minerals, you will be able to safely collect any slime, shelmets, or armor that they drop. Even if they don't fight, a large pile of minerals will ensure a good supply of slime as they sometimes excrete it after eating., Caves come with their own set of spiders, Cave Spiders and Spitters. Cave Spiders will act rather like Slurtles and Snurtles in the sense that they will retreat into their shells when attacked, while Spitter shoot webs at you, dealing fair damage. Since Spitters have no shell, they are fairly easy to kill once you get up close and personal with them. Preferably with a spear., Rock Lobsters are slow and strong, and when you give them rocks and other mineral items (other than Marble), they start following you around! You’re better off befriending them than killing them, since they’re extremely hardy and powerful., Batilisks are rather strange and unpredictable mobs at the best of times. Their behavior tend to vary wildly during encounters. Sometimes they will fly directly at the player, while other times they will pointlessly try to move through a wall. Much like Spiders, they tend to swarm if you strike one while others are nearby, and they have a habit of circling their prey. Strangely enough, sometimes they attack you all at once, while other times all they do is hover around you like ugly sanity-draining annoyances. Still, you should be wary when exploring the caves, since they’re “wandering” mobs with no nest or home to return to.

If you unplug the Sinkhole, Batilisks would spawn during dusk and night and return underground at dawn.
Batilisks are small, fast enemies, but a Spear and a Log Suit would be enough to lay low a swarm of them. Attacking them manually is inadvisable, but holding down F on the PC or the Square button on the console would initiate the auto-attack function, and make things easier for you.
Batilisks are worth farming, as they have decent drops and periodically drop Guano, which is better for fertilizing crops than manure if you plan on long-term survival underground or simply want some extra fertilizer for your camp.
 Splumonkeys are some of the most annoying mobs in the game, and are exclusive to the Ruins. They have the tendency to steal your belongings left on the ground, sling Manure at you (which damages both Health and Sanity), and are an all-around nuisance to your spelunking experience. They become even more dangerous during the Nightmare Phase. Fortunately, they go down quickly enough with a Spear if you’re fast. Just remember to watch out for other Splumonkeys in the area., Unless you're playing as Maxwell, your Sanity will constantly need replenishing due to the pervasive darkness of the underground, so it would be best to invest in many sanity-saving techniques and tactics. The first is getting sleep. Much like on the surface, sleeping can provide an instant, considerable sanity boost, but at the cost of a substantial amount of hunger. If you plan on using this as your main method of sanity recovery, make sure you have a good stockpile of food on hand.

Just a warning, though: a Miner Hat or a Lantern will still lose fuel, and all fires (including Night Lights) will be immediately extinguished whenever you go to sleep. If you sleep in an area where there are no natural light around, and your main light source doesn’t have enough fuel to last at least until the next day, the player will wake up in total darkness. This in turn would invalidate any sanity gain, as well as cause the Night Monster to attack unless you get to a light immediately.
In the Caverns, the best way is to simply camp out in one of the light shafts, near some Light Flowers, or beside a Mushtree. In the Ruins, you can sleep near Light Flowers or an Ancient Pseudoscience Station.
 Clothes are another reliable way to restore sanity continuously, but unlike on the surface, some of the materials that make up the clothes that restore sanity are non-renewable in caves and ruins. For rarer clothing items, it would be pretty hard to keep them intact, because you’d need a Sewing Kit, which requires Hound’s Teeth from Hounds,. Hounds only spawn on the surface. However, you can still use certain clothes to raise your sanity without having to run back to the surface: Top Hat is a renewable item of clothing since it’s made from Silk, and spiders are abundant in the underground. The Thulecite Suit, which you can craft in the Ruins and bring anywhere afterwards, doesn’t degrade when worn unless you use it as armor.

If you brought some Butterflies underground, you can make a flower farm by placing the butterflies on the ground, which spawns a flower, then recapturing it to plant another flower. If you can get a few butterflies for your venture, you can make Garlands renewable this way.
 Cooking in your Crock Pot is always a good idea, since most dishes heal your sanity by 5 points, but to maximize your sanity gains, you’d have to consider using some of your more “valuable” or “filling” foods like Meat, Pumpkin, and Honey.

One of the best recipes, which increases all three gauges considerably, is the Meaty Stew. It costs about 3 Meats’ worth of meat products. You can simply use 1 Meat, or 1 Monster Meat, and 3 Morsels to make it.
If you have a Drying Rack available, you can simply dry out your assorted meats for Jerky and Small Jerky, which restore 15 sanity and 10 sanity each, respectively.

