 Noise is arguably the most important contributing factor towards annoyance.Anything you say can be made annoying based on volume alone. Whenever you're attempting to be annoying, make an effort to keep your speaking voice loud. Try to stay clear of outright screaming, however, as it's not sustainable. To truly annoy someone, you need to keep your irritating habits up for a while.


If you don't want to get in trouble, you should gauge what your parents (or other authority figures) will think of your loud volume. Although you may be trying to annoy your older brother specifically, there's a good chance you may end up annoying others in the process.
For a boost to your volume, try speaking directly into your brother's ear. The invasion of personal space can be a great annoyance tactic in of itself.;
, If you're trying to be annoying, you should put this research to the test. If you performed well on a test at school, you should talk his ear off about it. If you like a certain trait about yourself, you should make an effort to brag about it at every twist and turn.


If you brag to your parents about things you've accomplished, it might make you look better in their eyes.
This technique is best used in tandem with a loud volume. Unless your brother has wits of iron, this technique alone should start to show cracks in his psyche.
 Stress and annoyance is affected by someone's ability to cope with their current mood and workload.If your brother is carefree, it will take a lot more to annoy him than if he's already at his wit's end. Try to look for signs that he's feeling stressed:


He's already irritable and prone to anger.
You know he's really busy with work or school.
You've seen him react badly to everyday things.
 Question-asking is a vital part of conversation in mild doses, but if you constantly ask questions that have little relevance to the conversation at hand, it tends to get annoying fast. If you and your brother are having a conversation, you should make an effort to turn your talk into a sequence of questions about things of little value. Ask him how his day was, then proceed to interrogate him about the smallest parts of his day. How was the sandwich he ate for lunch earlier that day? Was the seat on the bus ride home plushy enough for his likings? These questions are usually worthless, but being bombarded by them will get the proper response out of him.


If you want to get meta with your annoying questions, you might ask him "What is it that annoys you most?" If he's gullible enough to answer you honestly, you should put that new information to good use.
 If you heard something juicy about a friend of yours, you should start rambling senselessly about it. It's fine if your brother doesn't know anything about the people you're gossiping about; to him, it'll just make your banter seem al the more pointless.


Gossiping isn't so likely to get you in trouble with parents if they don't know the people, but you do run the risk of getting into trouble with others if they find out you've ben talking about them behind their backs.
This is especially worthwhile if you know the people your brother is friends with. People get annoyed fast if they hear people they care about being discussed in a bad light.
 Even if a joke is good in the first place, it can be transformed in an evil weapon of annoyance if it's repeated enough times.The same goes for stories, catchphrases or questions. Repeating things has a cumulative effect: The more you repeat something, the more annoying it becomes.


With the right kind of determination, you can drive an older brother crazy simply by repeating a single catchphrase.
 One common way young people annoy their older siblings is through making themselves out to look like the superior child in a family. This can be done through overachieving in school, work, creative endeavours (like music) or social magnetism (like popularity.) Try to keep in mind whenever your parents are watching you, and do your best to excel in whatever ways you can. By contrast, your older brother may look less successful, and this by itself will be annoying to him.


Although no one likes a brown noser, most parents love to see their child trying to impress them somehow.
Keep in mind that making yourself look like the best is not necessarily compatible with being annoying in more obnoxious ways. On its own however, it's incredibly annoying.
 It is natural for children to keep a level of privacy from their parents. As a relative peer of your older brother, you have a potentially greater insight into what your brother's personal and social life looks like. By "innocently" telling your parents about whatever's going on in your brother's life, the broken privacy will annoy him to no end. What's better, there's a level of plausible deniability in doing this. If your brother tries to get angry with you about this, you can pretend like you were simply telling your parents out of admiration for your sibling.
 Exclaiming something outrageous in public turns every bystander into fuel for your brother's annoyance. If you and your brother are out in public together, acting obnoxious can embarrass and irritate your brother via association. Venues like the shopping mall or a library can be great for shouting matches. If being annoying by association doesn't seem like enough, you can turn the embarrassment directly on him by accusing him of something ridiculous.


For example, if your brother is a very sombre person, you can scream at the top of your lungs in public: "Why do you wear that obnoxious clown costume to bed every night?" The weirdness of a statement like that will get everyone's attention, and your brother won't have anything to say in response to it.
Make sure your parents aren't with you when you make a scene. If they are, you'll make them feel even more embarrassed than your brother. This will almost undoubtedly get you into trouble. You should also do a quick scan to make sure no one is watching that might report the scene to your parents.
 Pranks come in all shapes and sizes. The mild irritation of a prank is often combined with the social embarrassment it causes. This makes pranks a fairly heavy weapon in your arsenal. Try placing a whoopee cushion on his seat before he sits down for dinner. Better still, put salt in his beverage. Pranks more better if other people are in on the joke as well. It's important to make sure you don't tell anyone who might spill the beans to your brother. If this happens, you may run the risk of having the prank backfiring on you.


Purely embarrassing pranks are good if you don't want to get in trouble. The emotional annoyance of being embarrassed is hard to measure for someone else. This makes it perfect if you're trying not to get in trouble.
Make sure there isn't any material damage. You can slip away without getting in trouble for relatively "harmless" pranks, but parents are much more likely to get you in trouble if there's lasting damage.
You get bonus points if everyone else thinks its funny. The laughter will help embarrass your brother even further.
 Comment on all of his posts, and start sending messages to people he is friends with online. Intruding yourself on his social life is a quick way to get your brother annoyed.


If your parents are also on social media, it's a good idea to keep your posts innocuous and pleasant. Going out of your way to be annoying or crude will get on their radar, but a sickly-sweet tone might be seen by them as one sibling trying to bond with another.
 Music is a great way to annoy someone, especially if your tastes in music differ. If your rooms are next to each other, try blasting music while he's trying to sleep or study. It helps if you know in advance that he hates the music you're putting on.


Keep in mind that this runs the risk of you getting into trouble with your family. Keep your parents' tolerance in mind, or save this for when they're not around.
 A shower is a great opportunity to simultaneously test the limits of your vocal cords and your family's patience. If you know your brother is nearby, try belting out the most obnoxious song you can think of. Whatever's charting on a Top 40 list is a great place to start with if you're unsure what to sing.
 Farting, sneezing, burping and cracking your knuckles are all but a few of the tools your body offers you when it comes to being annoying. Gross-out humour using your body can turn an older sibling off his dinner, or distract him from his studying while he's trying to focus. If you try this, you should consider what tolerance for rudeness other members of your family have. You should only try to annoy one person at a time. If you're doing this with family around, you should be reasonably sure your brother will be the only one that objects.


If you're not usually a gassy type, eating a healthy dose of beans will get you on the right track.
 A messy environment will get on a lot of peoples' nerves without them sometimes even realizing it. If your brother is a neat freak and likes to keep things tidy, making an intentional mess of areas he's usually in will put him on edge. Although a mess may not be enough to annoy your brother on its own, it does have the effect of making him more sensitive to other irritating activities.


This may be more annoying to your parents than your brother. After all, it's their place. If you do make a mess, you should try to clean up before they notice.
If you think you can manage it, try going into his room and messing things up a little bit.
, Part of annoying someone means not taking it too far. Annoyance does not include bullying or being truly mean-spirited. At the end of the day, you should make sure you and your brother's relationship is okay., Annoying someone directly is one thing, but embarrassing him in front of his friends can result in potentially serious damage to his relationships. If you accidentally take something to that point, it's a good idea to stop while you're ahead. Apologize to him, and offer to make it up somehow.


If you manage to get in trouble with your parents, making amends with your brother will be a good way of easing the consequences on your end.
Buying your brother lunch is a good way to make up if you go too far.

