 Avoid getting any combat XP. It's recommended to wield a Short Bow, Training Bow, or a Crossbow without wielding arrows/bolts; that way, if you accidentally click "attack" on a monster, it won't let you.;
, It can be started by talking to Pikkupstix in Taverly. Once you've completed the quest, you will get level 4 Summoning and 275 gold charms. Save the gold charms for later.
 Go into the Stronghold of Player Safety (the entrance is the Jail Entrance west of the classroom). If you are over 13, find your way through the dungeon (which can be found behind a "poster" in the basement wall) after talking to the guard. If you are under 13, talk to Professor Henry after carefully reading all the plaques and take the test. You will be rewarded two lamps worth 500 XP each. Spend these on Summoning.
 (If you really want, you can skip this step) The quest can be started in eastern Barbarian Village, but you need level 5 Crafting (which can easily be acquired by crafting leather gloves/wool). You will receive a lamp worth 200 XP. Spend this on Summoning.
 Penguin Hide and Seek can be started by talking to Larry in the Ardougne Zoo. There are many clans out there to help find penguins such as "world60penguins" "w60 penguins" and "w60pengs".
 From here, you have two choices: get 1925 spirit shards, 275 pouches, and 275 iron ore (for granite crab pouches) or, get 275 spirit shards, 275 proboscis, and 275 pouches (for spirit mosquito pouches). If you chose the first, you will get approximately level 26 Summoning. If you chose the second, you will get approximately level 31 Summoning. However, the second will cost much more as each proboscis costs more than 3k.
 (Only if you don't already have level 30 Summoning). This is important as the lamps you receive from the next few steps require level 30 in any skill to use. Regardless, Penguin Hide and Seek should be done every week (Cold War and Hunt For Red Raktuber quests help immensely)., Each will reward you with a lamp worth 1,000 XP. Note: Whenever combat is required for a task, for instance killing a Jogre in the Karamja Tasks, you have to hit without damaging it (otherwise combat experience will be gained) and let a Ring Of Recoil do the rest of the damage. Damage can be avoided by drinking a Saradomin brew or by drinking a strength potion, setting the monster as a target, using the kick ability (making sure your strength is 0/1) and clicking somewhere to stop attacking it immediately. If damage is done accidentally, this can be solved by running, logging out and hopping worlds.
 To do this, you need level 72 Hunter. You can start this in the area marked by a hunter icon south of the Tree Gnome Stronghold. This gives about 50-100 charms per hour (depending on your Hunter level) and about 150k Hunter XP per hour. This is one of the best methods of gaining XP, giving up to 90-100k Summoning XP per hour at levels 95-99.
 You need a high level friend to be in a friends chat with you. Turn LootShare on and let your friend do the combat. Eventually, you get charms. The best monsters to loot share for charms are Giant Rock Crabs (located in the Chaos Tunnels) and Rock Lobsters (located in Waterbirth Dungeon). Although it is difficult to make it to Rock Lobsters on a low level account, it is possible with the use of Rocktails, a defence potion, and staying behind three or more people as you travel through the dungeon. (Please note a lot has changed due to the EoC update, this may no longer be a good method).
 Get experience by doing Penguin Hide and Seek, and get charms by hunting Charm Sprites, and doing LootShare. It is a lot of work (and may be costly), but don't give up! Good luck!

