 If you can repaint the walls in your room, pick a light or neutral color to help make the space feel bigger and more open. Try using different shades of the same color for the walls, trim, and other detailing.Use a different, bright color for your ceiling, which will draw the eye upward and make the ceiling feel higher.
Paint two opposite walls a slightly different color to create more interest and make the room seem longer.
 Make sure to use a rug that is very large to make your room feel bigger instead of smaller. Stick to a light color or an elongating pattern to keep it feeling open.


Try a rug with a striped pattern to help make the room feel wider. Place it so that the stripes are going in the same direction as the longest orientation of the room.A nice light carpet or wood floors in your room may not need a rug at all and will feel bigger without it. However, a dark floor or one that’s not in good shape will benefit from a light-colored, large rug to cover it.
 Make your bed seem new and extra comfy just by adding bedding to it. Layer on several blankets and colorful accent pillows to create a plush place to sleep and hang out.


Make your bed the focal point in your room with lots of bedding, then try to keep the rest of your decor more minimal. This will help draw your eye to the bed and make the room seem bigger.
Whether or not you have a daybed, arrange your pillows and blankets to act like a couch for extra seating during the day before it transforms into your bed at night. This could reduce the need for other chairs or sofas in your room.
 Keep windows open to let in natural light to your room, which will make it feel bigger and more pleasant. Add mirrors and several sources of light to brighten it at night or or in low natural light.


Use curtains or drapes that are the same light color as your walls, or completely sheer. Keep them pulled back during the day to let the full amount of light in.Place small and large mirrors around your room to reflect light and make the space feel even more open. Use several sources of light, like lamps, string lights, or built-in lights to create a bright and cozy atmosphere., This can be a fun touch to add a girly flare to your room. Choose an area with good lighting. Somewhere by the window would work great. You should also choose an area with paler walls.Place a closet or cabinet full of clothes near this area.
Set up a full length mirror just by the cabinet.
See if you can find a tailor mannequin online. You can throw a cute dress on the mannequin to signify this is the dressing area.
 Photos of friends and family members can perk up your room. Get some Christmas lights at a supermarket. Get some cheap clips or clothes pins. Choose a variety of photos you want to display.Hang up the Christmas lights in a series of rows somewhere in your room.
Clip photos between each light. You will have a fun, cute addition to your room.
 Do you have a large collection of sunglasses? If so, you can pick a cute, colorful hanger. Hang it up somewhere in your room, such as the doorknob to your closet. You can hang all your sunglasses from the edge of the hanger.You can also paint a white hanger in a color you like.
Some stores may sell hangers with cute designs, like polka dots.
 Make a trip to the local mall or shopping center. Buy some decorations that speak to your personal style.Is there a band you love? See if you can find a poster of that band. What's your favorite movie? See if you can find a poster of that.
Look for stickers or bumper stickers with cute expressions that you relate to. You can put these up on a bulletin board above your desk.
You can also look for lamps, rugs, and throw pillows with a color or design you like.

