 Over-the-counter cough medicine can help in two ways:An expectorant, like Mucinex DM, helps to loosen mucus and phlegm in your throat and airways.
A cough suppressant, like Delsym, blocks your body’s cough reflex and reduces your body’s urge to cough.
You can also take basic cough syrup, or apply Vick’s Vapor Rub on your chest before bed. Both medicines are known to help reduce coughing at night.
Read the label of the medicine before you use it. Ask your pharmacist if you are not sure which type of over-the-counter cough medicine is right for your cough.
 Some cough drops use a numbing ingredient, like benzocaine, which can help to calm down your cough long enough to help you fall asleep., If your nighttime cough gets worse after several treatments or remedies or after seven days, see your doctor. Causes of a cough at night include asthma, the common cold, GERD, taking ACE inhibitors, a viral syndrome, chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, or cancer. If you have a high fever and a chronic night cough, see your doctor as soon as possible.The evaluation of a chronic cough begins with a good history and physical. The doctor may want to order a chest x-ray to see if there is underlying pathology. Other tests for GERD and asthma may be necessary. These include pulmonary function testing for asthma and possibly an endoscopy for GERD.
Depending on your diagnosis, your doctor may prescribe a decongestant, or a more serious medical treatment. Cheratussin with Codeine is the most commonly prescribed cough suppressant. If you already have a more serious medical issue that causes you to cough at night, such as asthma or persistent colds, talk to your doctor about specific medication you can take to treat this symptom. Dextromethorphan, morphine, guaifenesin, and gabapentin may be prescribed.
Talk to your doctor if you are taking an ACE Inhibitor, since coughing can be a side effect. They can put you on an ARB instead, which has the same benefits, without the side effect of coughing.
Some coughs, especially if they are persistent and chronic, can be a symptom of a more serious illness, like heart disease, tuberculosis, and lung cancer. However, these diseases usually also come with other more pronounced symptoms, like coughing up blood or a history of existing heart problems.