 Early on, you should decide on a date and time for your event. This will be vital information down the line as you book a location and advertise.


Do some research about your audience and event type. If you're hosting a benefit concert with alcohol, it might be a good idea to plan the event on a weekend night. If you're hosting a bake sale and selling foods at a local grocery store, a weekday night might be a better option. Ask the store about their biggest shopping days.Choose a date well in advance. It takes a lot to plan a benefit and you want to make sure you have adequate time to plan.Take advantage of holidays. People often feel more generous around Christmastime. If possible, try to schedule an event around Christmas., Once you've set a date, work on finding a location. Unless you're planning an outdoor event, you'll need to find a venue willing to host your benefit. Since you are hosting an event to benefit a charity, you can consider asking whether the venue would be willing to donate use of the space, or offer a reduced booking rate.


When selecting a location, there are some factors you should consider. How well known is the location with your main audience? Is it easily accessible? Is a politically neutral ground where people of a variety of backgrounds will feel comfortable? Is it big enough for the estimated turn out? Does it have the necessary equipment you'll need for the event type?Once you've determined the type of venue that would best suit your needs, make a list of options. It's a good idea to have 3 or 4 top choices as well as a few locations to fall back on. Start making phone calls. See what venues would be willing to host your event, how much they will charge, and what rules and regulations you'll have to adhere to. See what venue bests suits your needs and is the most economically viable.Consider cost. What is your budget for the event and what can you reasonably afford? Most organizations have a budget set aside for booking events. Keep that amount in mind when booking an event.
 As the event gets closer, you'll need to work on advertising. In addition to traditional means of advertising, branch out into the world of online advertising and social media.


Traditional means of advertising include fliers, radio ads, handbills, personalized invitations, newspaper ads, and other physical means of getting the word out. Budget for these types of advertising, especially if you live in a smaller area.You need to have a social media presence, especially if you live in a larger area. People are increasingly reliant on e-invites and Facebook notifications when it comes to making plans. Have a Facebook page for the event. Interact with your audience before the event. Share updates on your own personal social media platforms as often as possible., If you're taking donations at a benefit, you need to determine payment methods. Will people be paying in cash? With their cards? Are donations collected ahead of time or are people expected to give money at the event? You should determine this before you host the event. You should also find a way to keep money secure if people are donating then and there. Look into a locked cashbox and make sure you have a staff member willing to guard the money., Make sure you have a plan in the event of an emergency or accident. Have a first aid kit on hand. Make sure you know the location of your venue's emergency exit and fire extinguisher., Remember all the small details involved in your event. If you're organizing a raffle, keep in mind you need to buy tickets. You also need to find a way to get donors to donate small items to be raffled off. If you're hosting a dinner, calculate the cost of food, drinks, staff, and invitations.


A detailed list, including a menu if your event will have food, will help you keep track of everything.

