 This for online senders of MoneyGram money orders that have an active account.Go to the login page on the main MoneyGram website.
Find the transaction history for your account and view the order you submitted. You should find the status of the send-order there.
This is one online option, another is "Track a Transfer.";
, This is also for online sender situations. You should have the authorization and/or reference number on the physical money order stub handy for this.You should get this number from your submission receipt/confirmation.
If you're using a physical money order form then you should look for the 11-digit reference number is usually the series of large red digits on the left side of the sheet you're filling out to the recipient. The number will usually be on the edge of the detachable stub receipt.
Also enter your last name, then click "Track Transfer."
"Track a Transfer" and active account history are your front lines for online queries to track orders. If these don't work, a phone call may be your next best choice.
 This is to check if a money order was cashed.At present the toll free phone number is: 1-800-542-3590
You will need to enter your money order reference number and dollar amount sent.
You may want to allow for some time to pass to give the recipient a chance to cash the money order. Consider allowing 2-3 weeks to pass especially if it is a company you are sending to. If more than 2-3 weeks have passed then plan on submitting a claim card.
 This is for a physically lost mailed money order. You will need the form from the MoneyGram site.Download and print the claim form. Fill out the form completely. Pay special attention to the reference number you retained from the submission stub/receipt.
Prepare a $15.00 processing fee made payable to: "MoneyGram International"
Include copies of the submission stub (purchaser's receipt), the money order number from the submission, and dollar amount sent.
If it turns out the money order was cashed then a photocopy of it will be sent to you.
If the money order was not cashed then the amount will be refunded to you as a check.
If you're a purchaser missing the reference numbers on your money order then you'll need to fill out the "Number Search form."

, If all else fails then you should make more direct contact with MoneyGram's customer service system.You may try a local agent at the MoneyGram location you used to submit a physical money order. These agents sometimes may just be clerks at other stores, and not dedicated personnel. If they are not agents in direct contact with MoneyGram then you may want to use the other customer support options.
Call the main toll free number. Currently this number is: 1-800-Moneygram (1-800-666-3947). Spanish speakers can call 1-800-955-7777.
Use the online contact form. You need to leave your personal contact information for this, and while the order information is not required in the transaction section, it will help the agent to help you if you submit it along with your comment/request.
Use the money order support forms. If an agent requests you send supporting documents, you will need to use the online secure file transfer link.

