 When you take your piggie out of its cage to play and explore, do not leave it alone. Always keep an eye on it.Let other family members know that you’ll be playing with your guinea pig before you begin your play session. You might also encourage them to knock before entering, thereby giving you time to collect your guinea pig, lest it run off while the door is open.Letting your family members know your piggie is out will also spur them to watch their step when passing through the area you and your guinea pig are playing.
 Take steps to prevent your guinea pig from escaping or getting into areas it shouldn’t during floor time. For instance, roll up a heavy towel and lay it in front of nearby doors. Do the same for the gap beneath your refrigerator. Choose a play space that doesn’t have many areas that a guinea pig could escape into, hide under, or run behind.For instance, playing right next to your bed might not be a good idea, since if your guinea pig decided to run beneath the bed, it might be difficult to get it out.
 Ensure all electrical cords, plastic bags, and other sharp and potentially dangerous objects are out of reach. Some houseplants can be poisonous to guinea pigs, so don’t play with your guinea pig near houseplants. And if you have cats or other pets that could pose a threat to your guinea pig, take them to another room before taking your guinea pig out to play., There are a wide variety of acceptable toys for guinea pigs, including unpainted wooden blocks, and bird toys with bells on them. All safe toys will be free of small plastic pieces that could break off and pose a choking hazard. They will also be free of sharp edges.Do not buy wooden toys that easily splinter.
Don't buy wired balls. These pose a risk of your guinea pig getting their head stuck inside.
Never use exercise wheels or balls.
 There are many objects or toys that you can give guinea pigs, but you must ensure they are free of toxins or dyes. For instance, you can provide your guinea pig a manufactured house or igloo to hide in, but it must be made of edible or nontoxic materials. Likewise, you can give your guinea pig balls of printer paper, but only if they are blank and do not have printer ink on them.Consult your vet if you are unsure whether or not a given toy or product contains substances that could prove toxic to your guinea pig.
 The proper way to pick up a piggie is by placing one hand over its chest, with your index and middle fingers between its front legs and your thumb wrapped around the back of its neck. Place your other hand beneath the piggie’s rump, with your thumb centered on its tailbone. Be gentle but firm when handling., Running wheels and running balls are acceptable for mice and smaller rodents, but not guinea pigs. If your piggies cage has running wheels or running balls, remove them to prevent spine and leg injuries., Guinea pigs can get stuck inside of them and sometimes endangering their life. Pregnant guinea pigs can easily squash their abdomen trying to squeeze into the hay rack. Opt for friendlier alternatives instead such as sacks/cotton bags.


Guinea pigs like to sleep and hide in their hay which encourages them to get inside the hay rack. There's nothing wrong with having the hay on the floor.

