 This is a training method whereby good behavior is rewarded and so the dog wishes to repeat it to get a treat. Bad behavior, on the other hand, is either ignored or acknowledged with a brief verbal rebuke or other (non-violent) means of showing your displeasure. The idea behind this is to provide your dog with information that it chose the wrong action.;
, This might be food, a special toy, or just praising it. Even fussy eaters have something they love to eat that is a special treat for them. The trick is to find this treat. Try morsels of different foods, such as cheese, hotdog sausage, steak, chicken, or a commercial training treat, until you find one the dog really loves. You are going to use this treat as your pup's reward., This way you will be ready to reward the dog's good behavior throughout the day. Be careful not to overfeed the dog however. When using treats, cut back on your pup's daily food ration at mealtimes so as to compensate for the extra calories represented by the treats.
 Another factor to be aware of is that giving treats every time the dog does good can make it lazy, as the dog assumes it will get a treat. Once it learns to work for treats, make the reward intermittent, such as every fourth or fifth rewardable action, so that the dog stays on his or her best behavior to earn that reward.
 Training your dog to be a good canine citizen means helping it to be confident in different places, and with different people and other animals. This will help make your pet well-adjusted and able to adapt to various situations without displaying anxiety.
 Puppies have a socialization period where they learn more rapidly, so take advantage of this by taking your puppy to visit other people and carry the puppy alongside roads so she can get used to the sound of traffic and the such like. This window of opportunity closes at 18 weeks, after which the dog continues to learn but more slowly.Though adult toy poodles are trainable, it is much easier to teach younger dogs before bad behavior issues arise.

