 Every state has an agency called either the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), the Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV), the Department of Transportation (DOT), the Motor Vehicle Bureau, or some other similar name. Whatever the name, this will be the agency that controls your car registration. A quick Internet search for “car registration” and “<State Name>” will probably get you right where you need to go.;
, The official web site will usually tell you all the documents that you will need to provide to register your vehicle.
 If you cannot find all the answers that you need online, or if you still have questions that remain unanswered, locate the telephone number for the office nearest to you and call for assistance.
 In most states, you will need to bring the Title Certificate or some other proof of ownership., This is mostly likely your current driver’s license, or some other identification card., An acceptable bill of sale must generally include a description of the make and model of the car, the car’s Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), date of sale, purchase price, and the names of the both the seller and buyer., You will need to check with the agency ahead of time to find out just what form of proof of insurance they require. Some will have a particular form; some will require a sticker, seal or stamp. Some will have certain timelines that the proof of insurance can be no more than a certain amount of time before the date of the registration. Plan ahead and follow the instructions., An inspection is not required in all states, while other states may require very thorough inspections. Make sure you know what is required in your state. , Most states require a completed registration application form, which you can print from the web site or pick up in a registry office.
 Be sure to complete the portions of the form that apply to what you wish to do. The New York State form, for example, uses a single form to Register a Vehicle, Change a Registration, Renew a Registration, Replace Lost or Damaged Registration, Get a Title Only, and Transfer Plates. Make sure that you mark only what you need., Omitting information, or writing illegibly, will delay your application or could create errors on your registration form., You will be asked to describe the year, make and model of the car, and provide the VIN. Be careful to provide this accurately. Errors on the application form can lead to errors on the final registration, which can be difficult to correct later., Many states have a service that will allow you to submit your paperwork for registration through their web site.


For example, New York has an “E-Z Visit” service that will let you start your application online, which will then reduce the time you need to spend at the registry office.Another example, Pennsylvania will let you renew your registration online, as long as you meet certain qualifications.You will want to check your own state’s site to learn your options.
 Use the state’s web site to locate the registry office that is closest to you. You may also be able to find out if appointment times are available, to reduce your wait time at the office. Take your completed forms and payment for all required fees to the office.
 The registration fee is based on the value of the vehicle that you are registering. You may not know the exact amount of the fee before going to the office, but you can find out ahead of time what forms of payment are accepted. Most offices will accept cash, checks, money orders, or credit and debit cards. You should check with the office ahead of time to confirm which methods of payment will be acceptable and to get an estimate of the amount of the fee.
 States require various frequency levels for registration renewals. Some will have to renew every year, while others are less frequent. There will be a fee for renewal, and most renewals can happen online or through the mail. While in-person registrations are necessary initially, renewals are quicker and require less paperwork.
 Keep copies of all registration materials, renewals, and fees paid. This will provide proof of registration and save time when the renewal date approaches on a regular basis.
 With each registration renewal, many states provide a stamp, sticker or decal to affix to your license plate. If you forget to apply this when it arrives, you may be stopped and ticketed for having an expired registration.

