 Many writers portray characters with disabilities as one-dimensional background characters with nothing useful to do. Disabled people aren't helpless.Let your character have meaningful skills and positive points to their personality. Show that the world is better off with them around.


Even a minor character can contribute something small to the plot: the observant autistic boy who notices that something is wrong, or the sister with cerebral palsy who has incredible computer skills.
Avoid having characters refer to the disabled character as a burden, tragedy, etc. (unless you wish to show that this character is cruel)

, Sometimes writers make the character exist only to reflect upon another character (to show how nice/evil the character is, or to burden them with a poor disabled family member).Or the character may be a Manic Pixie Dream Girl/Boy, who only exists to further the other character's development., Do them a favor and outright say the name of the disability. Your disabled readers will love it, and your non-disabled readers might learn a thing or two.


Aliens and fantasy creatures can have the names of human disabilities. The same disability existing in two worlds isn't going to be the least improbable thing in your story.
 Some works have one character with a disability: the villain. The villain might be a brainiac in a wheelchair, or the dangerous psychotic person with a mental illness. Most disabled people are no more evil or threatening than your average person, and also want to imagine themselves as awesome protagonists. Let people with disabilities be heroes for once.


If you absolutely need a disabled villain, then make several good disabled characters. That way, the villain is the exception and not the rule.
Otherwise, have no disabled characters at all. No representation is better than bad representation., Too often, books pose the idea that the person's disability is their key barrier, and they need to overcome their disability in order to be happy.This can be alienating to people who will be disabled for life, and suggests that they cannot be happy unless they become someone they are not.


Instead of showing the person becoming less disabled, show them learning to handle their disability better, and others learning to accommodate them.
 If you wish to show that a character with a disability is strong, then give them non-disability challenges to face. Maybe they won an election, spearheaded a project, or defeated the supervillain. Avoid falling prey to "inspiration porn."Disabled people don't exist solely to inspire non-disabled people.
 A common myth is that all disabled people are aromantic and asexual, like children. It is assumed that they cannot fall in love, kiss, or have sex, or that even if they could, they are not desirable. This is incredibly damaging to disabled people's self-esteem and romantic prospects.


If your story involves love and romance, then let characters with disabilities be included in that. This helps show that they desirable and worth dating.
A small portion of disabled people are aromantic and/or asexual (just like a small portion of non-disabled people are). If you have an aro/ace disabled character, consider showing other disabled characters who are in love, to make it clear that disability doesn't negate sexuality.
 Most disabled people are used to their disabilities, and can function pretty well on a day-to-day basis. (Newly disabled people may still be adjusting.) They have had plenty of time to learn what their body needs and get used to it.


In most cases, seeking a cure would be a poor use of time. It would be much more efficient to get accommodations (e.g. support at school, a better wheelchair), and focus their time on projects that use their talents and yield actual results.
 How do writers often fail when writing disability? How could you succeed in those areas? Look up tropes, and ask disabled people what annoys them most in the media.


Autistic people are often represented as clinical, unfeeling, cold,and/or intensely super-powered.Mentally ill people may be portrayed as intensely creative,or as dangerous people who deserve anything that happens to them.Medication doesn't always "cure" ADD; it is still a real disability even after treatment., Miraculously curing a disability reeks of lazy writing.Too many characters with disabilities end up cured or dead, suggesting that a happy ending and disability are opposite each other. This message is disheartening to people with lifelong disabilities. Instead, let your character be happy and disabled at the end.


A happy disability-related ending could be getting the accommodations they need: an awesome power wheelchair, a fun and helpful new therapy, their dad learning sign language, etc.
Or give them a regular happy ending: acceptance into their dream college, a sweet boyfriend, being elected to the Senate, or a group of awesome friends.

