 Even with improvements in detection technology, people rarely get more than a few minutes’ warning of an impending tornado. It is essential that you have a plan in place, and the first step is defining where your safe zone is located. A purpose-build tornado shelter is ideal, but a section of the basement or a windowless interior room on the ground floor will also work.A small, enclosed room is good because it may reduce the amount of falling or flying debris, but make sure all members of the household and their emergency supplies can fit within the space.
Indoors is normally better than outdoors, but mobile homes and trailers are not built to withstand tornadoes. Identify a place of shelter nearby that you can use.;
, You probably won’t have time to scramble around and gather supplies, so make sure your safe zone is stocked at all times. In addition to human supplies, make a storm shelter kit for your pets as well. It is a good idea to have a crate ready to go in the safe zone, so — for a dog, for instance — consider filling it with supplies like:


a dog first-aid kit; disposable bowls; a familiar blanket; a harness, leash, and muzzle; plastic poop bags; any medication your dog takes; immunization records; food, water, and treats for several days or (if possible) up to two weeks.For a cat, include a supply of litter and a scoop, and a small litter box if possible.Regularly check expiration dates on stockpiled food and medications.
 Amidst the confusion and destruction that can follow a tornado, pets often hide, run away, or get lost due to fear or disorientation. The easier it is for someone else to identify your pet, the more likely it is that you’ll be reunited.A secure, sturdy, clearly labeled identification collar (that is worn at all times) is an essential first step.
However, remember that an embedded microchip cannot fall off during a tornado. Strongly consider having a chip with identifying information implanted in your pets.
Also carry photos of your pets on your person and in your phone.
 If a tornado is headed your way, you simply won’t have the time to search far and wide for your pets. Scared animals tend to have favorite hiding spots, so take note of any places where your pets tend to go during a typical thunderstorm. That way you can quickly locate them and get them to safety.Bring your pets inside (if they’re not there already) anytime a thunderstorm approaches. If there is a severe thunderstorm warning or a tornado watch posted for your area, strongly consider heading for your safe zone. If there is a tornado warning, go there immediately.
In U.S. meteorological nomenclature, “watch” means the conditions are ripe for the event, while “warning” means that type of weather has been spotted in the area. Learn the terminology for weather warnings where you live.
 Training and practice beforehand can save lives when a tornado strikes. At least once or twice a year, and especially before the main tornado season where you live, run full tornado drills for your household. Make sure every person and pet is accounted for and knows where to go and what to do.If your pets have been trained to recognize and obey commands, teach a command like “shelter” or “storm.” Dogs can probably be trained to head for the safe zone on command; cats may be able to be prodded to enter a carrier to take to the safe zone.

