 The groin, inner thighs, and buttocks are the most common areas affected by jock itch since the region is prone to dampness which help the responsible bacteria and fungi to spread. While you can treat most cases of jock itch at home, you should still see your doctor for an official diagnosis, as well as testing to determine the cause (whether a fungus or bacteria) since this can alter the treatment method. The symptoms of jock itch usually include:Itching, redness, or scaling of the skin in ring or half-moon shapes
Burning sensations
Pain (usually bacterial infection)
Blistering along the edge of the rash;
, Keeping the area clean will help stop the spread of the fungus or bacteria causing the symptoms. Wash the skin two to three times a day using an antifungal shampoo for the duration of your treatment.You can buy these shampoos without a prescription, and some options include ketoconazole (Nizoral) or selenium sulfide (Selsun Blue).Many of these shampoos are marketed for use against dandruff. However, skin fungus is a common cause of dandruff, and these shampoos do have antifungal formulations., Excess moisture forms a breeding ground for the bacteria and fungi that can cause jock itch. Dry your groin completely after each time you wash the area, and make sure you dry any excess sweat in the area throughout the day as well.Change out of gym clothes immediately and wash them between uses to help prevent jock itch.


Looser-fitting cotton underwear will help reduce excess sweating, and it will also allow sweat to dry faster.Change your towel every day while treating your jock itch, and do not share towels with anyone.
You can use a powder like Gold Bond to keep the area dry.
 Several over-the-counter, antifungal creams are available to help you treat jock itch. Apply after each time you wash and dry the area, and make sure you spread the cream past the edges of the rash.Choose options that include terbinafine, miconazole, or clotrimazole. Brands with these as the active ingredients include Lamisil, Lotrimin, Micatin, and Monistat.Always follow the directions on the packaging for your specific product, and contact your doctor if the symptoms don’t improve after two weeks.
You can also apply a layer of zinc oxide ointment over the other products.This will help protect the skin from additional irritation and wetness.Make sure to thoroughly wash your hands after each application or any other time you come in contact with the region.
 Harsh laundry detergents, bleach, and even fabric softeners in your laundry can lead to additional irritation that can exacerbate your jock itch.Try to avoid these and any other harsh chemicals that can come into contact with your groin for the entire course of your treatment.
 Aluminum salt solutions, such as aluminum chloride 10% soIution or aluminium acetate, are effective antiperspirants because they form plugs on the sweat glands. To use this mixture:


Mix one part aluminum salt with 20 parts water. Apply this solution to the infected area and leave it on for six to eight hours. It is best to apply it at night because that is when your sweat glands are least active. Wash the solution off when you think you will start sweating again. Repeat this process until the lesions become dry and start to fade.
 The fungal ringworm responsible for most cases of jock itch can occasionally cause large area of skin to blister. You can still treat these at home with medicated compresses, such as using a Burow’s Solution. This will dry out the blisters and soothe any discomfort, which will allow you to then resume treatment with the antifungal creams., If your jock itch occurs concurrently with athlete’s foot, then you can easily spread the fungi back to your groin when putting your feet through your underwear to put them on. Make sure to treat both conditions to avoid reinfecting your groin., If you’d prefer to use a home remedy option, then you have a few different options available. You can:Dip gauze or a washcloth in diluted white vinegar (one part vinegar to four parts water). Hold it against the infection twice a day. Once you remove the cloth, pat the skin dry but do not rub it too hard or the infection could scab over.
Pour 1/4 cup of bleach (such as Clorox) into a bathtub full of water and soak in it daily or every other day for minor cases. Ensure that you thoroughly dry the skin when you get out.
Apply a 0.6% ajoene gel. This extract comes from garlic and contains a natural antifungal compound. You can apply it twice daily for up to two weeks.