 A crate provides your puppy with a private den that they can escape to when they are tired or stressed. It also gives you a safe place to keep the puppy when you are out of the house. Place the crate in a common area of the home, such as the kitchen or living room. Put a blanket and some toys inside to keep the puppy occupied while they are in the crate.


Puppies under six months of age should never be left in the crate for more than three or four hours at a time. They cannot control their bladders as easily as older dogs, and they may have an accident.Do not use the crate as punishment. The puppy should find the crate a safe place to go when they want to be alone, not as a scary place they are put when they misbehave., Puppy playpens can be purchased online or at a pet store. These are designed to give puppies a small area to run and play without giving them free access to the entire house. It is an easy way to make sure they stay out of trouble when you cannot supervise them.Put some toys inside the pen so that the puppy can play while they are in there.
Playpens are useful to confine the puppy while you are home whereas crates may be more useful for when you are out of the house.
 Baby gates can help block off rooms and keep your puppy confined to a smaller, safer area. You may want to use these gates to keep the puppy away from the stairs, kitchen, and basement or any other areas that may not be puppy friendly.


Baby and toddler gates work well for most breeds of dogs, but if you have a larger breed of dog, such as a Great Dane or St. Bernard, you may want to get a specialty pet gate., Even when you are home, you should keep an eye on the puppy to make sure that they are not endangering themselves. Try to keep the puppy in the same room as you, and check on them often.


If you want to keep the puppy close to you at all times, you might try keeping them on a leash. You can hold the leash or tether it to yourself.
 An alternative to confining your puppy is to hire a dog sitter when you are gone for long periods of time. The sitter can play with your puppy, take them on walks, and interact with them. This will give your puppy more to do, and it will reduce the chances of an accident inside of the home.


Doggy daycare may also be an option for your puppy. You can leave them at daycare before you go to work and pick them up afterwards.