 People who are not serious about a committed relationship usually don’t let you meet their family and friends. They are not interested in mixing their dating life with their family or social life. The set up boundaries where they don’t have to explain their actions to you.If the person won’t introduce you to their family or friends, even after you’ve been dating for awhile or you bring it up, they may be a commitment phobe.
Suggest to the person, "I thought it'd be fun to go to dinner with your family" or "Let's invite your friends over for dinner and drinks tonight."

, A commitment phobe may always want to go to your place. Try suggesting that you go to their place. If they hesitate or don’t want you to come to their place, try to see if there is a good reason. If they don’t have one, they may be a commitment phobe and not want you in their personal space.If you do get to go to their, check out what it looks like. Sometimes, commitment phobes have sparsely decorated homes because they spend very little time at home.
Try saying, "My place is too far. Why don't we go to yours?" or "My roommate has a bunch of people over. Your place would be much more quiet."

, Some commitment phobic people won’t friend or follow you on social media. They don’t want you invading their space and having a way to contact them if they don’t want you to. Letting you on their social media may be too much of a commitment. Ask to friend them on Facebook or follow them on Instagram and see their reaction.Some people may allow you to connect with them because they want more followers and the extra attention.
Ask, "Let's follow each other on Instagram. I'd like to see your photos" or "I friended you on Facebook."

, Depending on how long you have been together, you may want to talk to the person about their level of commitment. Ask them if they are interested in taking your relationship to the next level or if they are serious about you. Pay attention to how they react.


If you have brought up an uncomfortable situation, the commitment phobic person may be honest and say they're not interested in continuing this relationship or finally admit that they are not going to go through with any larger commitments, like a wedding.
Some commitment phobes may lie, or they may lie and then stop calling you afterwards. Make sure to always listen closely to what exactly they say and pay attention to their body language.

