 There are primarily two kinds of plastic to choose from when it comes to creating a stencil--acetate and Mylar. They both do the job well, it's simply a matter of preference, so check them out at your local craft store to see which appeals to you


These films come in clear and color, are available by the sheet or by the roll and some even have an adhesive backing.
Check the surface to be sure it accepts pen or pencil well so that you can easily draw or trace your design. Look for plastic that has a matte finish as this surface will typically work with graphic or ink.
Acetate does have a couple of disadvantages if you're making a stencil that you plan to keep. With time it develops a yellow or grayish cast and its edges have a tendency to curl.
Repurpose your old x-rays. Put those old plastic films to a new use as a material for your stencil design.
 Creating a clear drawing or sharply traced stencil is key to making sure you'll be able to easily follow the pattern when it comes time to cut your stencil.


Use a permanent marker with a sharp tip to draw or trace your design. If you initially created your design in pencil, trace over it now with the marker.
Be careful not to smudge the marker line as you work. The clearer the lines, the more easily you'll be able to follow them when you make your cuts.
 A sharp blade and a hard cutting surface are all you need to successfully cut out your stencil. Move slowly and firmly around your design. Stopping occasionally to relax and refocus can help you to keep a steady hand.


Secure your stencil in place. Lightly spray the back of the stencil with contact adhesive, wait until it's tacky and place it on your cutting surface. Alternately, you can tape the outside edges of the stencil down and firmly in place.
Use a sharp, new blade in your cutting knife and remove the areas of your stencil where you plan to apply paint or ink.
Do not cut out your bridges--those borders that separate one section of your stencil image from the other.
When making long cuts, hold hold your knife at a lower angle and further away from your blade.
As you move around your stencil, turn the plastic not your hand.
To create sharp edges, cut away from corners not into them.
Use tweezers and a sharp knife to remove the cut stencil pieces.
When you've finished, remove the tape and/or carefully peel the plastic stencil film up starting from the outer edges.

If you notice that one of your cuts did not go all the way through, immediately put the plastic back done, re-secure it to the surface and go over the intact area with your blade.
 Gently go over the newly cut surfaces of your stencil with fine sandpaper to smooth out any rough edges. If edges aren't smooth, your image won't be clean and crisp when you apply your paint.


After sanding, remove the plastic dust with a piece of cheesecloth or soft cotton rag.

