 In general, both homeowners and renters insurance cover destruction of personal property and personal liability for damages. That is, if your house or apartment is damaged or someone is injured on your property, the insurance provider will cover the costs associated with repairing the damage or settlements paid to the injured, respectively.Both protections come with various levels of coverage. Your required level of protection will vary based on the value of your possessions, your property's needs, and your risk tolerance.
Homeowners insurance will repair your home and possessions in case of damage, while renters insurance will only cover your possessions. The landlord's insurance will cover the cost of (unintentional) damage to your property if you are renting.Homeowners insurance is required if the property is subject to a mortgage.
 In the worst case scenario, a total loss, you would need enough coverage to completely rebuild your home with no additional cost to you. This is where to start when determining your homeowners insurance policy. Luckily, your insurance agent can usually estimate these costs for you when you go in to apply for insurance. When estimating rebuilding costs, you should consider:


Removing the value of the land. You won't have to rebuild the land, so there's no need to include this in the cost.
The age of your house. If you have an old house, it may be more expensive to rebuild to modern building codes.
Rebuilding costs. Prices of materials and construction work fluctuate. Talk to a reputable contractor to make sure your agent's coverage estimate is on the right track here.
The value of upgrades to your house. If you've made any additions or updates to your house since you bought it, consider their cost to rebuild as well.Consider, too, that if you must rebuild your home, you may have addition living expenses to pay for temporary housing while construction is in progress. You may have to rent an apartment or house or pay for a hotel, so be sure to consider these costs as well.
This step only applies to homeowners insurance, not renters.
 For both types of policy, you will need to know how much your personal possessions are worth. Take stock of anything and everything valuable you own. The key here is to be thorough so that you can get proper compensation for your loss. For everything from furniture and appliances to diamonds and coins collections, record the following estimate price, purchase date, make, model, and any other information you can.


In addition, take pictures of everything. You can also use video.
Store this information somewhere outside your house, like in a bank or online.
Be sure to update it periodically.
Total your estimated values for your belongings and be sure to buy enough insurance to cover replacement costs., Liability coverage protects you from any liability in paying for injuries to others on your property. It also covers you from legal action in other circumstances like, say, your dog biting your neighbor. Lower level policies offer about $100,000 in coverage, but experts suggest having at least $300,000 worth. Odds are, you won't ever have to make this type of claim, so make this investment depending on how much risk you are willing to handle.


Remember, if you don't have enough coverage to cover personal lawsuits, the courts can go after your assets. For peace of mind, it can be best to have as much coverage as possible.
The presence of some items like swimming pools that increase the risk of peril and liability.
For a slightly larger insurance premium, you can get "umbrella coverage", which offers much more protection., For homeowners insurance, there are three different levels of coverage that determine payouts in the event of losses or damages: actual cash value, replacement cost, and guaranteed (extended) replacement cost. They all determine the value you get back for your estimated values for your home and belongings.


Actual cash value insurance covers your house and the value of your items after depreciation, meaning that you will likely not be able to completely replace all of your possessions with the payout.
Replacement cost insurance ignores depreciation, so you can rebuild and repurchase your house and possessions at their original value (which may still be difficult with your possessions because of inflation).
Guaranteed replacement cost is the highest level of coverage. This covers costs above and beyond your actual coverage for rebuilding your home, up to 20–25% over your coverage level., Riders are additional insurance coverages that you may or may not need based on your situation. For example, riders can protect you from damage not covered by most insurance policies, like flood or earthquake damage. If you live in an area where this type of damage is possible, you may want to consider adding a rider.Some items such as jewelry, art, etc. need to be specifically identified and may require special coverage as most general insurance has a per-item limit on liability.

