 Sometimes, your volume may work but the sound that comes out is crackling or distorted. In this case, there are several ways you can try to fix the issue.


First, check your speakers. Make sure your speakers are properly connected to the computer. If cables are loose, this can affect sound.Check where your speakers are plugged in. There are several jacks on the back of a computer where you plug in speakers. Choosing the wrong jack can lead to crackling sounds. Try switching which jack you're using and see if you notice any change.If your speakers are optional, try disabling them and just using your computer's built-in sound system. Your speakers may not be of the right quality or simply not be compatible with your computer or laptop.Check to make sure your cables are not damaged. Damaged cables may cause distorted sound and need to be replaced.
 Your sound card may not be compatible with the version of Windows you're running. You can go to the Windows Compatibility Center. This website provides an extensive list of software and devices. You should be able to see which versions of Windows a particular sound card works with. If your sound card is not compatible, you may have to invest in a new one. Remember, you can make sure a sound card is installed by going through the Device Manager., Sometimes, Windows may fail to recognize a sound card. In this case, there are several ways you can troubleshoot this error.


Try using Windows Update, which you can access through your control panel, to update your software. Normally, Windows Update updates your software once a week. However, check for updates manually by searching for "Windows Update" in the control panel. If it says you have updates to download, this may be the cause of the sound issue.
You should also download any discs and software that came with the driver. Certain software may be necessary to install for your sound card to work., If you're having trouble getting a microphone, speaker, or other audio device to play sound from your computer, this may be due to which sound jack you're using. Most computers and laptops have several different sound jacks you can use to plug in audio devices. Plugging a device into the wrong jack will affect volume, so try switching the jack. If this doesn't work, see if the jack is muted.


You can see if the jack is muted by clicking on the "Start" tab in the lower lefthand corner of your computer. Then, click on the control panel and type in "sound." If you're checking a microphone, click "microphone." If you're checking another jack, click "line in" or "line out." The line-in jack is blue and the line-out jack is green.
You can then click on the levels tab. There should be a small button with a picture of a megaphone. If there's a red cross going through the megaphone, the sound is muted. Click on the button to un-mute the sound.