 Place 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter into a large mixing bowl and beat it with an electric mixer until it's light and fluffy. This should take about a minute. Beat in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract, 1/3 cup (35 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons of milk, and 1 cup (125 g) of the powdered sugar on low speed. Keep beating the frosting on low and add more powdered sugar until the frosting is thick enough to spread on your cupcakes.You may need a total of 2 to 3 1/2 cups (250 to 437 g) of powdered sugar.;
, Arrange 24 baked and completely cooled cupcakes on your work surface. Use an offset spatula or a knife to spread an even layer of frosting over each cupcake. This will make a base for you to pipe more frosting for the turkey.You can use any flavor of cupcake. Try vanilla, chocolate, yellow, red velvet, or spice.
 Scoop the chocolate frosting into a pastry bag with a simple round tip insert. Take one cupcake and squeeze a 1-inch mound of frosting on one side of the cupcake. This will be the turkey's head. Squeeze a slightly smaller mound of frosting on the opposite side of the cupcake to make the tail mound. Repeat this for every cupcake.If you don't have a pastry bag, you can fill a plastic food storage bag and snip off a corner of the bag.
 Use 1 tube (4.25 ounces or 120 g) of white decorating icing and 1 tube (4.25 ounces or 120 g) of brown decorating icing to make the eyes. Squeeze two very small white dots on the frosting mound that will be the turkey's head. Take the brown icing and carefully make to smaller dots on each white dot.You could also use black decorating icing instead of brown.
 Insert about 6 to 8 pieces of candy corn (from a 22-ounce (624 g) package) into the frosting mound that will be the turkey's tail. The yellow tips of the candy corn should be visibly sticking out of the frosting so they look like feathers. Insert one piece of candy corn so that it's coming out of the turkey's head. Repeat this for all the cupcakes.To give the appearance of smaller feathers, sprinkle chocolate candy sprinkles behind the head near the candy corn feathers.

