 Centipedes like to eat live prey. Keep a regular supply of different live creatures for your pet centipede. They are fascinating to watch eat, since they are very quick and assertive when hunting.Feed your centipede at least twice a day. If there is any food left in their habitat after feeding, remove it with forceps from the habitat.
Your centipede can be injured if it has to fight its prey. Don’t give your centipede any live animals bigger than half the size of the centipede.
 Smaller centipedes eat small insects, including fruit flies, carpet beetle larvae, and small crickets. As your centipede gets larger, you can give them cockroaches, adult crickets, and silverfish.


Your centipede needs to be able to safely hunt live prey. Insects give to the centipede should be smaller than your centipede.
Do not feed your pet centipede wild insects. Wild insects could have been in contact with pesticides that could be lethal to your centipede. Purchase small insects at a local feed or pet store.
 Earthworms, slugs, and snails can work as live prey for your centipede. Be careful that the soft-bodied prey has not been exposed to harmful chemicals.


Centipedes should be able to handle soft-bodied prey easily. Only the smallest centipedes could have problems hunting an earthworm.
Buy soft-bodied prey at a feed or pet store. You can usually get earthworms at a local fishing or tackle shop.
 Centipedes love to feed on live prey, and arachnids (spiders) are a favorite treat. Your centipede will use its venom to paralyze the spider before feeding on it.


Be sure any arachnid you provide your centipede is not venomous. Venomous spiders may hurt or even kill centipedes., Very large centipedes can eat small animals, including mice, lizards, frogs, birds, snakes, or bats. Mice and frogs may be easiest to find and feed your centipede.


Use lizards and rats for a very large centipede. They should be able to use their venom to safely neutralize these animals and eat them.
You can also feed a giant centipede raw or cooked chicken, though it usually prefers to hunt animals.
Your centipede may not eat all prey. If it sits for 24 hours without being eaten, get rid of it to avoid rotting., Water provides centipedes with the right amount of humidity. It can be used by the centipede to stay hydrated. The water may come from a water dish or from everyday misting.Centipedes get most of their water from their food. However, a water dish is necessary to maintain the proper humidity level in their habitat.
Use enough water to keep your centipede from drying out. When they dry out, it is usually caused by loss of moisture through the spiracle openings.

