 Social media is a major way we celebrate your relationships. If order for him to break up with you, change your social media accounts to look like you're single. Change your profile picture on Facebook and Twitter from one of the two of you to one of you by yourself. Remove your relationship status on Facebook. If you look like you are single long enough, he will get the hint.To make it even better, change your profile picture to one of you looking your best. He will get the hint that you are signalling others that you are feeling single and ready to date other people.Start talking on Facebook or tweeting with other guys. When he sees your interactions, he will understand that you are beginning to move on from your relationship with him.
 The next time that you and your boyfriend are going to hang with your friends, give them a heads up about the situation. Tell them that they don't have to treat him as nice or be as welcoming. When you are all together, ignore him in favor of spending more time with your friends. He will feel the cold shoulder from all of you and know that something is up., Whenever he brings up spending time with his friends, complain about the way they act or who they are. When you are with his friends, tell them how wrong they are. If he brings them up in conversation, tell him how awful they are or contradict him when he talks about how great they are. Guys are typically really close to their friends and he will get tired of you trashing them.If you know that you are going to be spending time with his friends, cancel your plans with him. This will show him how much you dislike his friends.
 Whenever you two go out, flirt with other guys. When you see a cute guy on the street, mention how hot he is. Get distracted from your conversation with your boyfriend because you are staring at a guy walking by. You can even flirt with his best friend. This will drive him crazy and make him mad, which will make him want to end your relationship., Nothing will make a guy run faster than you bringing up your ex-boyfriend all the time. Mention him in conversation, talking about how much you miss him or how you wonder what he's been up to. If your boyfriend compliments your outfit, say something like "Oh thanks. My ex used to love me in it." Not only will his ego be bruised, he will also get the hint that he is no longer good enough for you because you keep thinking about your ex. Or how hard would it be to say that you think that you guys would be better off friends? in the end think about what it is that you really want.You can start looking through pictures of you and your ex when your boyfriend is around. Change your profile picture on social media or the background on your phone from the two of you to you and your ex. This sends a very clear message that you don't want to be with your boyfriend anymore.

