 Boil the asparagus spears in a pot of water for 3-5 minutes, depending on their thickness. When the spears are bright green and tender, place them into an "ice bath": a large bowl 2/3 filled with cold water and ice cubes. The ice bath will "shock" the asparagus to stop the cooking. Soak the asparagus for as long as it took to boil. Drain your spears using a colander or a paper towel.


Serve blanched asparagus spears in salads, or eat them on their own with dressing and seasoning. For a simple and tasty dish, add a bit of coarse salt and a drizzle of olive oil to your asparagus before serving it.
Blanching is a great way to prepare asparagus for storage if you plan to eat it later. If you are blanching asparagus in advance, or you plan on bringing it to a picnic or potluck, refrigerate the spears in a paper towel-lined plastic bag.
 Stir-fry tends to include a variety of vegetables, and asparagus isn't an unheard-of addition to the mix. Add to any stir-fry as long as the asparagus goes well with the ingredients.


If you have picky children, a stir-fry can be a great way to get them to eat asparagus. You can easily put in some shredded chicken and small chunks of vegetables, and they may not even notice the asparagus.
 Wrap bacon around pieces of asparagus and put them into a pot. Use more oil than than you would in a stir-fry. Fry for 10 minutes and serve on a plate. Be careful not to over- or under-cook the bacon. Be prepared to clean the dishes very well, as they may grow greasy and messy.
 Cream of asparagus soup is an elegant starter or lunch dish, and you can prepare it in 50 minutes. The soup is hearty enough to be a main dish, but you can also serve it as a side.To serve four:


Cut the tips from 12 asparagus spears, 1.5 inches from the top, and halve the tips lengthwise if thick. Save the tips to garnish the soup.
Cut the stalks and all remaining asparagus into 1/2-inch pieces.
Sauté one large onion, chopped, in 2 tablespoons butter in a 4-quart pot over moderately low heat. Cook, stirring, until the onion softens. Add the asparagus pieces, and salt and pepper to taste. Sauté the asparagus and onion, stirring, for 5 minutes. Add 5 cups broth and simmer, covered, for 15 to 20 minutes or until the asparagus is very tender.
While the soup simmers, cook reserved asparagus tips in boiling salted water until just tender, 3 to 4 minutes, then drain.
Purée the soup in batches in a blender until it is smooth. Transfer smooth soup to a bowl, and return to pan. Stir in crème fraîche, and add more broth to thin the soup to your desired consistency. Season with salt and pepper. Bring soup to a boil and whisk in another tablespoon of butter.
Add 1/4 teaspoon fresh lemon juice, and garnish the soup with asparagus tips. Serve cream of asparagus soup with warm, crusty bread for dipping.
 Dice up leftover asparagus to toss into your scrambled eggs. If you have a cast-iron skillet, try making a roasted asparagus frittata. If you have a pie crust, try to make an asparagus, leek, and Gruyere quiche. Try making a crust-less asparagus quiche, or an asparagus and zucchini torta.
 It may not sound tasty, but eating asparagus raw is a quick and easy way to get its nutrients. You can have it as a snack or put it into a salad. To serve with a salad, chop the asparagus up and serve it raw with lettuce, spinach, tomatoes, and anything else that strikes your fancy. Consider serving with a light vinaigrette.
 Simply add a spear or two of asparagus to your fruit smoothie. You can blend the asparagus, raw, into the smoothie, or you can dunk the spears so that they stick out of the cup.

