 The age at which your puppy reaches adolescence depends on its breed. Generally, your puppy will enter adolescence when it’s between six and 18 months old. Moreover, you’ll probably notice a change in your dog’s behavior. Your puppy might become moody, disobedient, unpredictable, or just a “brat” in general. Knowing what you’re in for can help you be prepared for this new stage in your puppy’s development.Your dog might jump on you or your guests, or howl and nip at strangers or other pets.
Your dog might also begin to mark its territory by voiding in the house again.
Since your dog becomes sexually mature during adolescence, it might start humping other dogs or people’s legs.
On the other hand, some dogs display few or no signs of puppy adolescence.
Remember, puppy adolescence is just one stage on the way to doggie adulthood. Be patient – it will not last forever.;
, During adolescence, your dog might become wild and misbehave often. Maintain your dog’s ability to obey commands like sit, come, lie down, roll over by retraining in these or related skills. Be sure to give your dog a treat four out of every five times when it successfully obeys a command.By regularly going over discipline, the tricks and ability to listen will stay fresh in your dog’s mind throughout adolescence.
Depending on your dog, you might be able to get away with discipline training sessions once every three days or every other day.
For dogs that are having a hard time obeying, though, you should try to incorporate some level of training into your dog’s routine on a daily basis.
 Behavioral schools or training schools are institutions staffed with pet professionals who can adjust your dog’s behavior, if necessary. After attending the puppy kindergarten, your dog will engage more often in good behavior and will be more responsive to your commands. Depending on the type of training you request, your dog might also learn to improve its behavior around other dogs, strangers, and learn new tricks.Your puppy kindergarten trainers can also give you tips on how to better handle your dog when it’s misbehaving.
If you have specific issues with your adolescent puppy – for instance, growling at other pets or people, chewing on furniture, or urinating where it’s not supposed to – mention them to your puppy kindergarten teacher so they can take action to correct these problems.
You can find a good puppy school by asking for a recommendation from a fellow dog owner or vet. You could also consult your yellow pages or search online using a word string like “puppy kindergarten .”

