 Not all food trucks and stalls post their prices in plain sight, which can cause problems should a vendor try to charge you too much for an order. Give the menu a thorough scan before you place your order, if there is one. Otherwise, use your best judgment in determining whether what you’re being asked to pay is acceptable.


See if you can overhear what the vendor is charging other customers. If your total comes out to something different (or if prices are just too steep in general), you may want to find someplace else to grab a bite.
Overcharging patrons that don’t speak the language is one particular scam that’s run everyday in countries that receive heavy tourism. It’s easy to pull off, as the customer will rarely take the time to make sure they’ve paid the exact amount., Unfamiliarity with other languages can also play a part in confounded patrons being taken for a ride. Ask a member of the waitstaff if they can explain menu offerings to you in a language you understand. Find out if vegetarian and seafood dishes are fresh. Never order something if the price is not clearly displayed beside it.In most cases, it will be safest to order items that you recognize or are able to identify.
Don’t feel pressured into ordering dishes that the waitstaff recommends to you. More often than not, these will usually be the most expensive items on the menu.
 Before you hand over your credit card to start a tab, ask to look over a drink menu or search for an overhead board that lists drink specials and their prices. Certain nightlife spots have been known to grossly inflate the price of drinks because they think that no one is paying attention. If you don’t remain vigilant, a night out on the town could turn into a forfeited paycheck.If possible, pay for each round of drinks individually, and use cash.
Refuse offers to drink with total strangers, no matter how friendly they seem. This type of social engagement is often a prelude to conning you into paying the bill., There is a popular scam being run in big cities that involves filling discarded plastic bottles with tap water, then selling them to overheated tourists at a high price. When buying water, always check to make sure that the container is properly sealed. Try to get drinking water from convenience stores or vending machines whenever possible.Examine the quality of bottled water before you drink it. Water sourced from public taps may be murky or slightly discolored, or have sediment floating around in it.
Get in the habit of carrying a thermos on hot days and during long outings when you think you may get thirsty.