 When you purchase your home, the mortgage becomes a lien on the property. This lien gives the bank the legal right to repossess the property if you fail to pay the mortgage. The lien holder has two different options for foreclosure. In judicial foreclosures, the bank uses the legal system to take back the property. The laws and procedures for judicial foreclosure are very strict and complicated and vary from state to state.Certain jurisdictions allow for non-judicial foreclosure. If you purchased your property through a deed of trust or other non-traditional mortgage, the bank may be able to repossess the property without going through the legal system.;
, If you have received a default notice from your lender, you need to be realistic about the situation. At this point a foreclosure is inevitable. You need to decide if you want to cure the default and save your house or begin to make plans to move.


Review your mortgage documents to see if you would be facing a judicial or non-judicial foreclosure action. A judicial foreclosure is the most common. If you could be facing a non-judicial foreclosure, you have fewer rights and should seek legal assistance immediately.
 The foreclosure process is complicated and there are several options for delaying the process. Judicial foreclosures can be slowed down both through the court system and other legal means. A consultation with an attorney can answer your questions and give you guidance on your rights and options. Some options, such as bankruptcy, will require the assistance of an attorney.


Legal Services Corporation is the publicly-owned entity that manages the network of legal aid offices across the United States. If you are low income, you may qualify for advice and representation on managing your foreclosure and possible bankruptcy.The LawHelp online portal is a good resource for the laws and legal resources available in your state.The bar associations in every state have a referral service to local attorneys who are experienced in foreclosure and bankruptcy law. Most of these services offer a consultation for a reduced fee, in the $20 to $50 range, to discuss your situation., Most foreclosures are of the judicial variety and conducted through the civil court system in the county where the property is located. You are entitled to due process according to the laws of your state. While the process may vary some, there are some commonalities you can expect to see.


When you have missed enough payments, usually about three, the lender will send a Lis Pendens or Notice of Default to the address on your mortgage. In some states, the lender will also file it with the court clerk.The intent of this letter is to tell you how far behind you are and that the lender intends to file a foreclosure.
After the initial notice, there is a pre-foreclosure period that can last up to four months. During this time, you can delay the foreclosure by contacting the lender and trying to negotiate a payment plan to cure the default. Depending on the policies of the lien holder, you may be able to delay the foreclosure for additional months with a good faith effort to catch up the payments.If you are unable to get the payments caught up or come to an agreement on the mortgage, the bank will file a foreclosure action with the court in the county where the property is located.
 Once the complaint is filed in the court, you will be served with a summons and copy of the documents. Some states require the papers to be personally served on the person or persons on the mortgage while other states allow the sheriff or process server to leave it at the home address with any resident over the age of 13.Do not try to avoid service as a way to delay the foreclosure. The residents of your home also need to understand to accept the paperwork and direct it to you as soon as possible., The summons will list the date the response is due to the court. If you do not file an answer by the given date, the court can grant a default judgment in favor of the bank and you will not be able to delay the foreclosure.If you do not feel comfortable filing an answer on your own behalf, this is a good time to consult with a lawyer experienced in foreclosure law. By not retaining an attorney, you may lose valuable affirmative defenses by filing your own answer.
However, if you cannot hire an attorney or get help from Legal Aid, an answer does not have to be a formal or complicated document. It must identify the court, the case number, and the parties. After that, you can go paragraph by paragraph and agree or disagree with each allegation. You do not have to explain anything at this point. A simple, "I agree with paragraph 1" or "I deny paragraph 2," or "I don't have enough information to answer paragraph 3" will suffice for the response. Your answer should be typed, but can be neatly printed in black ink. Sign the original copy in blue and take it to the court clerk's office for filing. There should not be a fee for this action. Then send a copy to the bank's lawyer. The address should be under the lawyer's signature at the end of the complaint.
 Once you have filed an answer, you are free to contact the lawyers representing the lender to see if you can negotiate a settlement. For example, you may be able to make partial payments for several months. If you know you will be unable to pay the mortgage or the house is worth less than the mortgage, you may be able to negotiate some extra time to move.
 If you can't come to an agreement, you must attend the court hearing. If you do not have an attorney, you can ask the judge to reschedule the hearing. This is a temporary delay to the foreclosure and can extend the proceedings by a few weeks.


Be on time. If the judge calls your case and you do not answer, he could find in favor of the lender and you will lose the foreclosure.
 Coming out of the flood of foreclosures starting with the collapse of the housing market in 2008 to 2012, lawyers developed new strategies to turn the tables on often predatory lenders. These experiences may be able to help you forestall the foreclosure action. You may even be able to file an amended answer to preserve all of your defenses.


Lawyers can ask lenders to produce original mortgage documents. With the advent of electronic mortgages and the fast bundling and assignment of mortgage securities, many original documents were lost. Demanding strict proof of the existence of the original contract can delay the foreclosure.In 2012 it came to light that foreclosures were being filed in bulk and signed by employees with no knowledge of the documents. This "robo-signing" scandal led to a routine challenge of the validity of the complaint., If you cannot negotiate a deal to keep your home and your defenses fail, you have to come up with a plan to either move or redeem the house.


If your home is scheduled for a sheriff's sale, you have time, in some states up until the day of the auction, to redeem the property. You will have to arrange it so you can pay cash to buy the property from the bank.
You generally cannot try to manipulate the sale by having someone buy the property for you. State laws are very clear on who is eligible to bid on the property.
If the property is bought by an investor, you may be able to stay on as a renter., If you are unable to pay your mortgage or the value of the home has fallen below the mortgage balance, you may want to consider a short sale of the property. In a short sale, the lender agrees to let you sell the property for a price in line with the market value.


A short sale can delay a foreclosure and having to move for several months.
Often you can negotiate that the lender will report the mortgage as paid in full to the credit agencies and lessen the effect on your credit score.
 Under the Home Affordable Modification Program, you can apply to have your home loan modified so that your payments do not exceed a percentage of your income. This is usually done by adjusting the interest rate or the loan term, either temporarily or permanently.


Applying for a HAMP loan freezes a foreclosure proceedings until your eligibility is determined.
 You will need to consult with an attorney, but Legal Aid may assist you if you are very low income, elderly, or disabled. The case will be filed in federal bankruptcy court and it is not at all advisable to try on your own.A bankruptcy filing will stop the progress of a foreclosure until the judge and the trustee approve the bankruptcy plan.
Your attorney will decide what type of bankruptcy is best for you. In a Chapter 7, your assets are liquidated and used to pay off your creditors in exchange for wiping out all of your debts. You may or may not be able to keep your home. It will depend on the type of loan and the amount of equity you have. Regardless, you will only be able to keep your home if you will be able to make the mortgage payments once the bankruptcy is complete.In a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you make payments for a fixed time, usually 5 years, and the bankruptcy trustee disburses it to your creditors. At the end of the payment plan, all of your unsecured debts are eliminated.
You cannot keep your house in a Chapter 13 unless you can pay the mortgage payments on a secured first mortgage. However, if you have a second mortgage and the house does not appraise high enough to secure both the first and second mortgage, then the judge can eliminate or "strip" the second mortgage and discharge it with your other debts.