 Most, actuarial science programs will prepare you for one or two actuarial exams, while some may even prepare you for three or four. Seek out a program that will prepare for you at least two exams in order to increase the return on your investment.For example, programs that boast preparation for two exams include Eastern Michigan University, Oakland University, and Aurora University.
Appalachian State University will prepare you for three exams, and Roosevelt University will prepare you for four.;
, When you apply to take CAS or SOA actuary exams (to become board certified), the first thing they will do is to verify your education in a screening called VEE (or Validation by Educational Experience). Before choosing a program, make sure that they cover at least one of these essential topics, such as applied statistics, economics, and corporate finance.Be sure the subject area (or areas) offered fit it with what you would like to do.
 By looking at a school’s website and by speaking to a recruitment representative for the actuarial science department, determine the overall job placement rate for a given program. The actuary science business is growing at a rate of 26% per year, so a strong program should have a job placement rate above 80%. You can locate these figures by visiting the school’s website or by speaking to a recruitment representative., If you are pursuing an actuarial career, you are probably someone who already aims to manage risk. As such, important factors to keep in mind when selecting a university program include the cost of tuition (plus fees and living expenses), and your ability to obtain financial aid. Find out the tuition costs (and related expenses) for different schools and compare them. Also, if you will need financial aid, find out what percentage of students in your program are receiving financial aid, and look for a school will 85-90%. This information can be obtained from the school’s website or by speaking to a recruitment representative., You will also want to consider the location of each school. On an economic level, a school’s location can impact your tuition costs (in-state vs. out-of-state), your travel costs (moving, going home for holidays, etc.), and your living expenses. Furthermore, you will want to be in an environment that works for you (city or country, mountains or ocean) so that you focus on your rigorous course of study.

