 The first thing to do is to see your physician to determine the type of arrhythmia you are experiencing. For many types of arrhythmias, exercise is part of the treatment but you need to consult with your physician to determine which exercise are the most suited to your condition.For most arrhythmias, exercise is encouraged and can often be an integral part of treatment.;
, To determine the exact type of arrhythmia you have and the exact form of exercise that could be recommended, your physician is likely to have you wear a 24-hour cardiac monitor (a Holter monitor). This is usually worn for several days to assess the heart rhythm.Exercise is always an important part of health, but there are some forms of exercise that are discouraged for some forms of arrhythmia. This will help your doctor assess what is best for your exact situation.
 Your doctor may also order a cardiac stress test, such as a treadmill stress test that may be done with an attached imaging device. This will help determine if you may have an arrhythmia that is induced by exercise or made worse with exercise or if you have associated blockages in your heart arteries.This type of test can also give you a heart rate (HR) goal and to let you know when enough is enough!

, Emerging research indicates that improving your cardiorespiratory fitness and losing weight if you are obese can reduce the likelihood of the return of an irregular heartbeat.Being moderately physically active may reduce the burden on your heart and help you maintain a regular heart rhythm., Your doctor may also recommend a cardiac rehabilitation program which is (usually) a monitored set of exercises over a number of weeks on a treadmill. During a cardiac rehabilitation program, your heart rate and blood pressure will be monitored with an EKG on occasion.If your arrhythmia is serious, this may be the safest way to incorporate exercise into your recovery.
 There are four basic types of exercise categories: endurance or aerobic, strength, balance, and flexibility. Endurance is the “toughest” form and should be worked up to. Strength, balance, and flexibility exercises are the best to begin with. In other words, don’t try and run a marathon the first week!


Treating heart rhythm disorders with exercise requires that you individualize your exercise regimen, whatever type of exercise you choose to do, so that it fits your specific ability and needs. You can practice these exercise categories in many different ways, on your own and in groups.
Endurance exercises can include activities such as running, jogging, riding your bicycle, using a rowing machine, yard work, and dancing.
Strength exercises usually include lifting weights in a variety of ways.
Balance exercises include a variety of yoga and tai chi poses, for example.
Flexibility exercises include stretching in a variety of ways, including with yoga or static stretches.
 Work up to your workout goals. For example, if the overall goal for endurance and aerobic exercises should be 30–45 minutes five days a week (or at least 150 minutes a week), don't start with that much time. Start with five to 10 minutes five days a week unless otherwise recommended for you.Work your way up gradually, but don’t omit stretching, flexibility, and balance exercises even when you are doing short workouts.
You can also incorporate daily activities such as walking or climbing stairs and use these to start building up endurance. Also, many activities can build both strength and endurance or both balance and strength. For example, yoga can help with your strength, endurance, flexibility, and balance.At first, it is recommended that you work with a professional exercise specialist, along with your physician, to ensure that your exercise program is both the right one for you and that you understand how to do the exercises correctly.
 Recent research shows that high-intensity interval training, or HIIT, improves cardiovascular health and can lower rates of common rhythm disorders like atrial fibrillation.This type of training, which has the person switching between intervals of moderate-intensity exercise and high-intensity exercise (like walking and running), may, in fact, be better than endurance exercises for those with heart rhythm disorders.An example of HIIT would be a brisk, five-minute warm up, followed by 60 seconds of walking or jogging. Then switch to running or sprinting for 30 seconds, then go back to walking for another 60 seconds, and so on. After 20 minutes of switching between medium- and high-intensity exercise, cool down for five minutes.
Talk to your doctor about HIIT and what would be appropriate for you (you may need to start with longer intervals of medium-intensity exercise and shorter periods of high-intensity exercise, for instance).
 Strength exercises strengthen your muscles and improve the tone of the muscles. This can involve using resistance bands or lifting weights. Again, you want to start small and work your way into either bands with greater resistance or heavier weights.You don’t have to “bulk up” necessarily, unless you want to. Start with 1–2-pound weights and raise your arms over your head or in front of you, repeating each five to eight times. You can also do arm curls, bending your elbows to bring the weights to shoulder level. You can do the same upper body exercises with resistance bands.
For your lower body, hang on to a chair or counter, and place either weights on your ankles or use a resistance band and lift your legs to the side, the front, and the back.
 Flexibility exercises stretch, strengthen, and tone your muscles and keep you limber with greater freedom of movement. Stretching also can help decrease joint pain and decrease inflammation. Stretching exercises can be as simple as stretching your arms and legs before strength or endurance exercises or more intense and formal as doing Yoga.Stretching exercises can be done on a chair, on the floor, or both.
You should always stretch before any exercise activity.
 Balance exercises are particularly important in older individuals in preventing falls. These can be lower body exercises to strengthen your legs, practicing standing on one foot, or practicing Tai Chi. A very easy balance exercise is the Heel-to-Toe walk where you place the heel of one foot at the toe of your lead foot and then the heel of that foot at the toe of the other foot.Practice walking across the room. If you need to, walk along a countertop to hang on to.
 It is fine to push yourself, but gently, towards your fitness goals. However, be careful not to push too hard. Arrhythmias can also be induced by exercise.That is why it is very important to work with your physician, to take the recommended medications, and to be aware of any signs of a problem.


If you see any of those signs, stop and let your physician know.
Exercise and physical activity is great for your overall heart health and will benefit you, but you do need to understand warning signs and work with your healthcare professionals for the best outcome.
 Endurance and aerobic exercises should absolutely be first started with guidance from an exercise professional and you should have clear guidance from your cardiologist about your target HR and the signs that indicate you are pushing too far. Some of these signs could include:Heart rate over your target HR
Palpitations or any sense of an irregular HR (an arrhythmia)
Dizziness
Lightheadedness
Blurry vision or difficulty focusing on an object
Chest pain
Loss of consciousness
Inability to catch your breath
If you experience any of these, stop immediately and tell someone or call 911 (or emergency services)

, Heart rhythm disorders, also known as heart arrhythmias, basically involve abnormal heart rhythms. There are a number of different types of heart arrhythmias:Atrial fibrillations (AFib): The upper chambers of the heart, called the atria, contract with an irregular rhythm. The symptoms of AFib are fatigue, a rapid heartbeat, a feeling of fluttering or thumping in the chest, dizziness, shortness of breath and fatigue during exercise. The irregular heart rate can lead to stagnant blood flow in the heart, which can cause clots. These clots can travel to other organs and can lead to stroke, blood clots, heart failure and other heart complications.
Ventricular fibrillation (VFib): The lower pumping chambers of the heart, called the ventricles, contract with an irregular rhythm. VFib is the most dangerous form of arrhythmia because in VFib, the heart cannot pump blood, as the rhythm causes the heart not to pump. The symptoms are often sudden and involve a loss of responsiveness with no breathing. Immediate medical attention is essential.
Bradycardia: Bradycardia is a slow heart rate (lower than 60 beats per minute (bpm). Physically fit adults often have a heart rate of less than 60bpm because of their physical fitness. This is a physiologic bradycardia. Symptoms of a dangerous (pathologic) bradycardia include fatigue, dizziness, fainting. Pathologic bradycardia can result in heart failure, chest pain and high blood pressure.
Premature contractions are an early heartbeat that is often described as skipping a beat and are very common. They usually do not require treatment.
Tachycardia: Tachycardia is a rapid heart rate (higher than 100 bpm). There are three forms of tachycardia.
 The three types include supraventricular, sinus, and ventricular. Each type is a bit different from the others.With supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) the rapid heart rate begins in the upper chambers (atria) of the heart. SVT can be paroxysmal, meaning that it can come on suddenly. SVT is the most common form of arrhythmia in children. In adults, SVT is more common in women. The main symptoms is the rapid heart beat.
Sinus tachycardia is an increase in heart rate that may be a normal response to fever, fear, anxiety or exercise. It may also be a response to anemia, thyroid disorders, heart disease or a hemorrhage.
Ventricular tachycardia can be life threatening and requires immediate treatment. Symptoms include dizziness, fainting and a heart attack.
 Conduction disorders are heart rate abnormalities which are caused because of delay in the electrical impulse of the heart. Conduction disorders aren’t always associated with arrhythmias and arrhythmias aren’t always associated with conduction disorders, but they can be related. Conduction disorders interfere with the electrical signal that sets your heart rate and can include:Bundle Branch Blocks are a conduction disorder of the ventricles, the lower chambers of the heart. Often no treatment is needed.
Heart blocks are those that block the electrical signal from the atria (the upper chambers) to the ventricles (the lower chambers), Heart blocks most often do require treatment.
Long Q-T Syndrome is relatively rare and is a hereditary disorder.
Adams-Stokes disease is a sudden interruption of a normal heartbeat.
Atrial flutter can occur along with AFib or can occur on its own and leads to a very rapid, steady heartbeat
Sick Sinus Syndrome occurs when the sinus node, where the heart’s electrical signal begins, doesn’t “fire” properly.
Sinus arrhythmia are changes in the heart rate during breathing and is quite common in children and somewhat less common in adults.
Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome occurs in people with an extra electrical “circuit” causing the signal to arrive at the ventricles too soon, with the signal ricocheting back into the atria.

