 Use what you've got. If you are working with a girly toddler, and have a pink tricycle in the garage, that might be the perfect fit.


However, if you are working with an infant who just learned to sit up and you don't have that many play toys in the house, you are going to need to invent a game. You could do simple things, like "roll the ball to me" game (warning: this can be an extraordinarily boring game)

Count everything all the time (this is for older babies/toddlers and preschool), try something a little advanced, like "Let's count the spoons!".
It does not matter that they have no idea what that means at first, but they learn everything that way.
Start by making groups: a "one spoon" group, "Two spoons!" in another, a group of "Three spoons!", count a cluster of four; okay, 4 is high enough for beginners. Repeat; count cans of food, bottles of spice (let him or her smell of the spices as you count them) do it a few times and think of new wrinkles, again.

Count some toys or a certain color, and say
"One red block, two red blocks, three red blocks," etc.

;
, You can fill a plastic egg with beans and cement in well with instant glue and shake it to make a maraca or rattle (but, of course, never leave toys with small parts like beans for them to play with, or they may choke on them). Momentarily place a blanket or you hands over your own face and move it away to play "Peek-a-Boo!"



Sort by color. You separate the toys, shapes, etc. into little piles of one color. Play with one color for a minute, for example: red and chant "Red, red, red,..." Play with another color and sing "Yellow, yellow,...", etc. This takes advantage of many infant and toddler toys are made in single, bright colors.

Then when the child has a single color toy in one hand or bangs the toy on a chair or on your leg, then keep saying the color "Purple, purple,..." and touching it, or such... If the child has two colors, such as: green in one hand and blue in the other, then touch the blue and say "Blue!"; then touch the touch the green and say, "Green!"

Play "color tag". Once the child gets the idea or colors, then if the child places a hand on a red automobile, car door and stares at you expectantly say "R-e-e-e-d!" or shows you a solid pink wall say, "Pink,pink,pink,pink!" and stuff like "Umhuh Pink! Umhuh Pink!,..."


Make music. Babies love to hear things and make sounds themselves. Even if you're only clapping your hands, humming "twinkle, twinkle, little star", or stomping your feet to a simple rhythm, you could get them going, and remember: it's all a game to them!

, If you see them reaching for a blanket, rattle, or teething toy, encourage them to use it. Get it for them and try to make a game out of it by playing along. Sometimes, babies (even though they don't realize they are doing it) like to make the choices too. Don't immediately jump into a game - see what the baby goes for and work with that.


If a baby is trying to reach for something, give it to them, or put the toy nearer to them so they aren't struggling.
 Going into a huge, complicated game will not be fun for a baby. Let's play hide the bunny in the living room rather than Mafia. Also remember to do something that is easy for the baby. It's good to challenge the baby, but not always when your playing, or they may be too challenged and think that playing is too hard and won't want to.
 Whether it's a snack, some tummy time, or taking a nap, when you've hit rock bottom, find an activity that isn't exactly a game. Sometimes, babies like these even better.
 If you make real rules for the game that you need to follow in order to play, the baby will immediately get bored and confused and won't want to play. Babies can't follow the rules because they're only babies, and won't know how. If they change the rules a little, like pass the ball in a different direction, don't worry about it and don't try to fix it.
 Encourage them to keep playing, and if you sense boredom, become more excited. Clap your hands, smile and laugh to let the baby know you are ready to keep playing. Put lots of enthusiasm in it and the baby will have a ball!


If you think the baby is getting antsy, find a new game.
 It's okay if they don't do it right on the first try, or break a rule, or wind up playing a totally different game, because they are just babies and won't know better. Keep playing though! They'll get the hang of it.
 Talk to the baby as you do it. "Look baby, I am putting all these toys into a neat tidy tower. Oh, I hope my tower won't topple over". Turn your back. If baby knocks the tower over, play act a bit sad and disappointed, "Oh, now I have to build it all over again". If the baby doesn't knock the tower over, 'accidently' do it yourself. Start again, finish the tower, turn your back, off you go again. Many babies seem to find it hilarious to destroy your 'hard work' and will chuckle with delight as they gleefully, repeatedly destroy your tower. You can add an educational element by describing your tower, "I will put the biggest block on the bottom, add the next biggest block, the red one, next, etc." It'll get boring for you but many babies love repetition.