 Think back to your interactions with your parents, whether they were actually arguments or regular conversations. Did you refuse to listen, roll your eyes, yell, call them names, or curse at them? All of these actions are considered rude, but there are likely others.


Ask yourself, "If someone did that to me, how would I feel?" If you think you would be offended, chances are what you did was rude.
 Being able to understand other people's feelings, including directly opposing viewpoints, is an important skill that takes effort to develop.Ask yourself, "If I was my mother/father and I was on the receiving end, would I have been angry? Would I have felt hurt? What would I have done if someone treated me that way?" This will help you understand why they reacted the way they did and help you to be less angry.
 Being able to see your decision written out will make it feel more concrete and real.It also means that you can put the written declaration somewhere you will frequently see it, like on your mirror, your laptop, or in your pocket, to serve as a reminder to you.


Make your written statement specific and descriptive. Write about which exact behaviors, such as rolling your eyes or mouthing off, you recognize in yourself that you need to avoid. Don't be afraid to add more things if you realize later there was something you forgot.
 Everybody does things for a reason whether they know it or not. You can think of this reason as your "pay-off" or motivation. Ask yourself, "What am I getting out of acting this way?" Your reason could be anything from a feeling of control in your relationship, relief from frustration, retaliation from having your own feelings hurt, or maybe even you're hoping to look cool in front of friends or siblings.
 Once you've identified what you are actually getting out of your rude behavior, you can start thinking of alternative ways you can achieve your goals. Once you no longer need to rely on being rude to satisfy your needs, you will be less likely to depend on it.


If you're feeling angry, instead of insulting or swearing at them, yell into a pillow later or make up words or fun phrases you can use in conversations that aren't swears, like "that hoovers," or "great goofy goblins."If peer pressure is making you act a certain way, ask to have discussions with your parents privately so you can be rational.
 It's important to reward yourself for behaving appropriately. This validates you when you do well so that you do not feel like you are constantly failing. It is also additional incentive to continue to do well in the future.


A good reward could be anything from a slice of cake to a nice hot bubble bath to some small thing you've been wanting for a while.
Eventually, you should start weaning yourself off of rewards. Remember, the point here is to be good for the sake of being good, not so you can treat yourself to nice things!

, The whole point of changing your ways to be less rude is for your parents' sake, so obviously their opinions and feelings matter. Your parents can help you with this process by providing meaningful positive and negative feedback.Just explain to them what you're trying to do, and ask them to communicate with you when you do something right and when things go wrong.


Ask your parents to praise you and specifically state what you did right at appropriate times, like if you didn't raise your voice in a discussion about not being allowed to go to a concert over the weekend.
Encourage your parents to avoid "You" statements like "You're being rude" and instead use "I feel" statements to communicate their feelings when something goes wrong, like "I feel hurt when you make nasty faces at me like that."

, Everybody makes mistakes, and chances are that even after you make the decision to change, you're going to mess up. Feeling sorry for or excessively angry at yourself is just a waste of time and energy. Endlessly regretting things or hating yourself won't help you to improve. Instead, reflect on what went wrong, what you can do to make sure it won't happen again, and move on.

