 Get an idea of every piece or scale you might want to practice.

Always include scales, because they are the foundations of pretty much every piece of music. Regularly practicing them always helps you to improve your skills in playing piano.
Choice a song you like, which you are able to play. This boosts your confidence while playing and prompts your concentration during your practice section.;
, For example, you might need 20 mins to play your scales, or 10 mins to play your chosen song., You should always play the simple items, such as scales first, to warm up your fingers, and then play the more technically difficult pieces. Space your items according to:

Difficulty
Your interest in the item
Length
Importance

, This way, you will have clear goals of what to practice and thus stay focused on your piano section., Also, set a designated time each to practice piano.

For grade 3 and under, try at least 30 mins of practice each day.
For grade 5 to 6, try at least 60 mins.
For grade 7 to 8, try at least 75 mins.
For Certificate or above, try at least 90 mins.
 This helps you regain concentration and stay focused., If you have mastered a piece before your dedicated time frame, move on to the next item. The spared time can be used to play the piece you like most or you can compose something with that extra time. Having a reward always helps you to stay focus and encouraged to play the piano., For each day you have completed your goals, give yourself a reward. This could be anything: A bar of chocolate, some TV time -whatever you think will further encourage you to stay focused and stick to your plan., Don't have your phone lying around somewhere while practicing. That could seriously mess up your practice section., Picture yourself mastering what you're playing. Think of what your mates would say. Be grateful for your talent and keep practicing., You might be tempted to just walk out and give up on your playing. Isolating yourself from the outside world may help you stay focused., Once you have mastered what you have been practicing on, it feels great to see your fingers dancing on the keys without you even thinking about what you're doing. It also feels amazing to bring some symbols on a page come alive with your pure hard work and skills!