 Poetry is not merely fancy words that rhyme. Think on how you might say a sentence in many different ways, depending on what you want to imply to the person you are speaking to.


For example, you might say "Come here," to a friend. If you were going to write this as in a novel, you might write: ' "Come here," I demanded.' Or you might say: ' "Come here," I said insidiously.' You could also say: ' "Come here!" By themselves, the two words have dramatically different connotations than when put together. The same applies to poetry.;
, A poet will work within established rhyme and meter to use words in surprising and unexpected ways... ways that will bring enjoyment to you, the reader.
 The pause you take for breath comes at the punctuation, regardless of where it occurs in the line. Take, for example, the first paragraph of the poem "The Death of Cenone" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson:


There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier

Than all the valleys of Ionian hills.

The swimming vapour slopes athwart the glen,

Puts forth an arm, and creeps from pine to pine,

And loiters, slowly drawn. On either hand

The lawns and meadow-hedges midway down

Hang rich in flowers, and far below them roars

The long brook fallen thro' the clov'n ravine

In cataract after cataract to the sea.

Behind the valley topmost Gargarus

Stands up and takes the morning: but in front

The gorges, opening wide apart, reveal

Troas and Ilion's column'd citadel,

The crown of Troas.
 Notice that sometimes a line ends with a comma, and sometimes it doesn't. If you read it like this: "There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier (pause, pause) Than all the valleys of Ionian hills. (pause, pause)" . You might be a little puzzled as to why the poet would write a poem that doesn't flow. The reason is because you are reading it 'sing-song' like. Try reading it again without the formatting.


"There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier than all the valleys of Ionian hills."
You should notice this time that the emphasis has been placed on 'Ida' rather than on the pauses and 'Ionian' from the former reading. It sounds like a conversation. Now try it again:
"There lies a vale in Ida, lovelier
Than all the valleys of Ionian hills."

, Notice that the emphasis was still placed on 'Ida,' but the word 'lovelier' and 'all' had a stronger feeling to it- it was said with a greater accent, giving it an arrested and smitten sound. This poem was written rather like a paragraph in a story, or a monologue in a play. Notice how different it sounds when read like a story and not a ballad!

, Note: This takes practice! You might have to read it aloud several times before getting it right. When you are finished, did you see that you were actually able to follow along with the story being relayed? Oftentimes when reading a poem like a ballad (with breaks at the end of each line) you can get caught up in maintaining the rhythm, and find it difficult to concentrate on the actual poem.
 This should be obvious, but oftentimes you can simply skip over a word, and chalk up its meaning to "context clues" or "implied meaning" like they taught in 2nd grade. Look up the words you don't know, and even the words you think you know but are maybe a little unsure on. You may be surprised as to how the poem changes colors in your head.

