 One of the hardiest plants that do well in waterfront gardens are ornamental grasses, as they can withstand strong wind and salt. Grasses like sea oat and feather reed are both great for waterfront gardens. They add vibrant color and texture to the garden.Other grasses like Anemanthele lessoniana and “Walker’s Low” nepeta are also good for waterfront gardens.;
, Bright florals are another great option for waterfront gardens, as they like direct sunlight and can add color to the space. Daylily, lantana, yarrow, hydrangea, and gaillardia do well in salty soil. They come in a variety of shades, from yellows and reds to pinks and purples.If you are designing a waterfront garden by fresh water, try florals like angelica, basket of gold, bleeding heart, or calendula.
Many of these florals also attract butterflies, an added bonus to any garden.
 Perennials can add color and variety to a waterfront garden. Gazania, flowering tobacco, African lily, and red hot poker are popular perennials in coastal areas. They tend to thrive well on their own in moist conditions.Plant perennials in pots so you can move them indoors during the winter months, especially if temperatures tend to drop by the water where you live.
 Shrubs are hardy and easy to maintain, making them ideal for waterfront gardens. Try a shrub like juniper, as well as mosses like sea moss, also called portulaca. Vines like wintercreeper are also good options for ground cover or for trellises in the garden., Herbs like lavender, sage, and rosemary can withstand wind and salt. They also add color and texture to the garden, not to mention a lovely aroma. For waterfront gardens by fresh water areas, herbs like mint, basil, dill, and thyme are all good options., Determine which colors you would like to showcase in the garden. You may opt for a colder color palette, with blues, purples, and greens. Or you may try a warmer color palette, with yellows, reds, and oranges.Try to go for a softer palette for the garden so you do not overwhelm the calm, blue color of the water.
A base palette of greens and yellows is popular in waterfront gardens. You can then add in colors like red, orange, purple, and pink to the palette to compliment the greens and yellows.
 Tall grass can serve as a good base for the waterfront garden. Lay tall grass down as a border in the flower beds or by the edge of the water to protect the other plants. Putting tall grass by the water as a buffer will also prevent erosion.You can also put tall grass next to ground cover plants to add dimension and height to the garden.
 Florals should be planted in areas that get a lot of sun in the garden. Follow your color palette and plant flowers in colors that will compliment each other. Put them by tall grasses and ground cover plants like moss.


Plant perennials in large decorative pots so you can place them in the garden by walkways or on a deck during the warmer months.
 Ground cover plants like shrubs, moss, and vines can be added by pathways, decks, or walking stones. They also look good placed next to tall grass and florals. Often, the green tones of moss and vines are a good compliment to the yellow and browns of tall grasses.Be sure to include herbs like lavender or rosemary in the garden next to ground cover plants.
If you plan to have a trellis in the waterfront garden, plant vines so they grow over the trellis.
 A waterfront garden can be kicked up a notch with walking stones or a pathway. Use sandstone for walking stones, as it is a hardy material that can withstand salt and water. Gravel is also a good option for a pathway. Make the pathway so it leads to a spot by the water or around your home.You can also add a bench by the pathway or the walking stones. Get a bench made out of sandstone if it will be in the spot permanently. You can use a bench made of wood or metal if you plan to take it indoors during the cold months or during any storms by the water.
 Personalize the waterfront garden with decorative stones and garden ornaments. Large decorative stones can add texture and dimension to the garden. Place them among tall grasses and ground cover plants. You can find decorative stones at your local hardware store or find your own on the beach.Garden ornaments like driftwood, stone statues, and stone carvings can all add a personal touch to the waterfront garden. Scatter them among the plants for a detail oriented look.
 Maintain the garden by following a regular watering schedule. Water the garden in the early morning using a soaker hose. Only water the roots of the plants, not the leaves, as this can lead to garden pests.Florals require regular watering and should be given water six inches into the soil once the soil becomes dry. Perennials and shrubs should be given water 12 inches into the soil once the soil becomes dry.
Ornamental grasses do not require regular watering. They should be well watered when they are first planted and then only during periods of drought.Mosses also require little to no watering once they have been established in the garden.
 If you include tall grasses and shrubs in your waterfront garden, they will need to be trimmed periodically. Use garden shears to trim the shrubs and grasses when they start to become overgrown or crowd up the pathways.


Waterfront gardens do look their best when they appear wild and carefree, so do not over trim or shape the grasses or shrubs. A simple trim every now and then will suffice.
 If you include perennials in pots in your waterfront garden, be sure to move them indoors during the winter months. This will allow them to survive indoors until the weather warms up again.If you live in a warm climate by the water year round with lots of sun, you may be fine to leave them outdoors in pots. Try to move them to spots with direct sunlight and avoid leaving them in shady areas.

