 If the person has already been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, then you may know all about the symptoms of this disease already. Bipolar disorder is characterized by periods of mania and depression. During manic phases, someone may seem to have boundless energy and during depressive phases, that same person might not get out of bed for days.


Manic phases may be characterized by high levels of optimism OR irritability, unrealistic ideas about one’s abilities, feeling energetic despite getting little sleep, speaking rapidly and going quickly from one idea to the next, not being able to concentrate, making impulsive or poor decisions, and even hallucinating.Depressive phases are characterized by hopelessness, sadness, emptiness, irritability, losing interest in things, fatigue, lack of concentration, appetite changes, weight changes, difficulty sleeping, feeling worthless or guilty, and considering suicide.;
, Bipolar disorder is divided into four subtypes. These definitions can help mental health practitioners to identify the disorder whether the symptoms are mild or severe. The four subtypes are:



Bipolar I Disorder. This subtype is characterized by manic episodes that last for seven days or that are severe enough that the person needs hospitalization. These episodes are followed by depressive episodes that last at least two weeks.

Bipolar II Disorder. This subtype is characterized by depressive episodes followed by mild manic episodes, but these episodes are not severe enough to warrant hospitalization.

Bipolar Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (BP-NOS). This subtype is when someone has symptoms of bipolar disorder, but they do not meet the criteria for a bipolar I or II diagnosis.

Cyclothymia. This subtype is when someone has had symptoms of bipolar disorder for two years, but the symptoms are mild.
 If you think that someone may be suffering from bipolar disorder, then you should say something. When you approach the person, make sure that you do so from a standpoint of concern and not judgment. Remember that bipolar disorder is a disease and the person cannot control his or her behaviors.Try saying something like, “I care about you and I have noticed that you have been struggling lately. I want to you to know that I am here for you and I want to help.”

, Someone with bipolar disorder may feel comforted by having someone who is willing to listen to how he or she is feeling. Make sure that the person knows that you are happy to listen if he or she wants to talk.


When you listen, do not judge the person or try to solve his or her problems. Just listen and offer some genuine encouragement. For example, you might say something like, “It sounds like you have been having a really hard time. I don’t know how you feel, but I care about you and I want to help you.”, The person may be incapable of making an appointment for him or herself due to the symptoms of bipolar disorder, so one way that you can help is by offering to make a doctor’s appointment.If the person is resistant to the idea of seeking help for the disorder, then do not try to force him or her. Instead, you may consider making an appointment for your the person to have a general health check-up and see if the person feels compelled to ask the doctor about the symptoms he or she has been having.
 If the person has been prescribed medications to help control his or her bipolar symptoms, then make sure that he or she takes those medications. It is common for people with bipolar disorder to stop taking their medications because they feel better or because they miss having manic phases.Remind the person that the medications are necessary and that stopping them may make things worse.
 Even though there may be some improvement in the person’s bipolar disorder after a few months of treatment, recovering from bipolar disorder can take years. There may also be setbacks along the way, so try to be patient with your the person as he or she recovers., Supporting someone who has bipolar disorder can take a large toll on you, so make sure that you take time for yourself.Make sure that you have some time away from the person every day.


For example, you might go to an exercise class, meet a friend for coffee, or read a book. You may also consider seeking counseling to help you deal with the stress and emotional strain of supporting someone with bipolar disorder.

