 Shredded white paper is a great choice for hamster bedding.Dry white paper is ideal hamster bedding for several reasons, one of which is the color—the white would allow you to notice if your hamster has an illness, such as diarrhea, or is bleeding from an injury.In addition, the ink on white paper does not rub off as easily as newspaper ink, meaning that your hamster’s fur would not get stained with ink.Use scissors to cut the paper into thin strips. It may be helpful to cut the strips into smaller sections so that your hamster can play with it and burrow in it more easily.;
, Both toilet paper and tissue paper are comfortable bedding choices for your hamster.As with the white office paper, make strips of the toilet paper or tissue paper. Because toilet paper is so soft, it may be easier to tear it into strips with your hands.


You can also shred facial tissues with your hands to make hamster bedding., In addition to being a toy, an empty toilet paper roll can also be a source of comfortable bedding for your hamster. For larger hamsters, such as Syrian hamsters, you can cut the toilet paper roll into large strips and allow your hamster to shred it more himself.If you have a smaller hamster, like a Roborovski dwarf hamster, you may need to cut the toilet paper roll into smaller pieces that he will be able to shred more easily., Making your own bedding out of common household items can be fun. If you have a cat, you may have thought about putting cat litter in your hamster’s cage. However, cat litter is not recommended for several reasons, one of which is the litter’s rough texture that would be very uncomfortable for your hamster to walk around in.


In addition, the chemicals in cat litter to control odor can be very harmful to hamsters.
Hamsters cannot digest cat litter. If your hamster tries to eat the litter, he may end up with an intestinal impaction that could make him very sick.
If you try to use litter that clumps when it becomes wet, the clumps could become stuck in your hamster’s fur like small blocks of cement.

