 Reflect on your relationship and come up with some themes she enjoys. Even if you haven’t dated for too long, a well thought out gift can get you extra relationship points. If you don’t typically make things, buying a gift can still be a personable choice.


Think back to any hints your girlfriend has given you about Valentine's Day. Some people are against Valentine's Day, but even those people can be happy with a small gift.
Make a list of things your girlfriend likes or purchases. Some theme ideas are horse memorabilia, X-Files, vinyl records, soccer, antique bookends, or even craft beer.
 A classic romantic gift you can buy is a gift you and your girlfriend can take advantage of together. Pick something that will bring you closer together. Some of the classic options for couples are concerts, massage dates for two, and sporting events.Think about how you first started bonding together and think about an event that caters to this.


For example, if you first started bonding over a Steely Dan song, buy tickets to a Steely Dan concert.
If you started bonding over tacos, buy a cooking class for two that is only for cooking tacos.
 The three classic gifts for Valentine's Day are chocolate, flowers, and jewelry.These are good gifts if your girlfriend enjoys traditional romance and you cater the gift specifically to your girlfriend. For example, if your girlfriend loves coconut, buy a set of chocolate truffles with coconut. You can make traditional gifts more personal by adding something extra to your gift.


Jewelry is a good place to offer something unique to a gift package. Take note of the type of jewelry your girlfriend wears. Buy something that caters to her style and make sure it is not too flashy, unless she is a flashy girl.
 One of the best options for a gift is something that uniquely caters to your girlfriend. Think back to your time together and think about her hobbies or what she regularly buys. If your girlfriend is an artist or musician, consider a gift that will save her money like oil paints or guitar cables. If your girlfriend loves cat-themed items, take a look in vintage clothing stores or online for cat-themed items.


If there is a specific, fictitious character or animal she loves, look on etsy.com for handcrafted goods.
 Before getting an animal you need to make sure your girlfriend wants a pet and has the time to watch over a pet. You should also be able to commit time to taking care of this animal as well. Decide what pet your girlfriend wants the most.Think back to see if she expresses a desire to be around cats, dogs, or even bunnies.


An easy pet you can give is a pet fish. Betta Fish are fun pets and easy to take care of.
Get an older rescue animal if you’re unsure about having a pet for too long. Older rescue animals need love and care from people just as much as puppies and kittens do.
 This option should only be for older couples who have engaged in adult activities before. There are several gift options that can add steam to your relationship. You can buy small gifts to add to foreplay such as handcuffs or special lingerie. There are also sensual books on kama sutra and even sensual cook books like “Fork Me, Spoon Me: The Sensual Cookbook” by Amy Reiley.Make sure your girlfriend is into this kind of thing before going for it. Some girls may be disgusted by something like this, and many will be thrilled you want to explore more in your relationship.
 Almost every girl in a relationship wants a love note or some type of handwritten card of appreciation. This is the best way to ensure that your gift will be a success. If you and your girlfriend don’t openly say “I love you,” leave that out of the card. Write about things you like or love about your girlfriend. Be honest and write about the small things that go beyond her appearance.


If you want to express that you love your girlfriend, try saying it to her face. It is a big move and she might not say it back to you.

