 To use smoke grenades effectively, you must first know how long the smoke will last, how large an area it will cover, and how dense it will be. Smoke grenades can be selected from your inventory when you first start a multiplayer match by pressing Up on the D-Pad of your Xbox 360 controller. Enlist the help of a friend if you have to to test the density and dispersal rates so you have better knowledge of how to use the smoke grenade when it comes to a real game.;
, Practice with a friend to see which areas of a map may be good to use a smoke grenade on. See if the smoke covers a particular staircase or doorway, or how high you need to throw it from one point to smoke-out another. Take note of your findings if necessary.
 If you're under heavy enemy fire, or if there's a sniper aiming at you, smoke grenades can be quite useful if you need to escape. They can be blindly thrown while in cover, but make sure that where you throw it covers enough area to shroud your escape. Remember however, that enemies' cross-hairs still turn red if you cross them in the smoke, even if the enemy themselves can't see you. Knowing the smoke's dispersal rate will help in judging how long you have to get out of an area before the smoke is gone.
 Nothing can distract an enemy more than by throwing a smoke grenade into one area while you loop around into another. If the enemy doesn't know exactly where you are, a well placed smoke grenade can occupy them long enough for you to sneak up behind them, find a better hiding spot, or to simply see where they are if they come looking for you. This works particularly well on snipers, who will often aim at the smoke waiting for you to appear, leaving them highly vulnerable. If you need to pick up a weapon, throwing a smoke grenade down first is advisable to mask your actions.
 In a large combat, a smoke grenade thrown in from the sidelines can help give your friends a chance to retreat and heal, or even trick enemies into thinking it is a frag grenade and running away, leaving them open to attack. If you see an ally pinned down by fire, once again, smoke grenades are highly useful.
 "Smoke tagging" is performed in the same way as tagging a frag grenade to an enemy: by pressing the B button on your controller when near an enemy and when you have a smoke grenade equipped. Unlike the frag grenade, which would explode and kill the enemy, the smoke grenade will give off smoke, exposing the target's movements and generally annoying them. Smoke tagging another player is usually taken as arrogant and demeaning, but can be useful if you want to make them run blindly into a trap or disorient them. This can lead to your death and possible negative feedback on your Xbox LIVE Gamertag, so use it sparingly.
 A lot of the time, people in a match will forget about the usefulness of the smoke grenade. Whether it's a player under fire, a weapon that needs collecting, a sniper which needs distracting, or a fight which needs breaking up, the smoke grenade has nearly endless uses. Once you begin to use it frequently, it will become as useful as frag grenades. Practice makes perfect.

