 You want to start with tangle-free hair, but it doesn't have to be straight or especially neat. Part of the fun of the bohemian look is that it looks a little messy. This style looks beautiful with wavy hair, curly hair or straight hair.
 This style looks best with hair that's parted to one side, though you could do a middle part if you're going for a milkmaid look. Part it where you naturally do or move your part a few inches to the right or left for a more dramatic look. Run the tip of a comb along your part to make sure it looks nice and neat., Gather hair from near your temples on either side and drape it over your shoulders. Comb out the back so the sections are separate. The larger your side sections, the bigger your braids will be.


If you want tiny, fine braids, section out just a little bit of hair on the sides, no more than 1/2 inch.
If you want bigger braids, the sections should be about 2 inches around.
 This look is gorgeous at the nape of the neck, or you could place it higher up if you prefer. Make sure the ponytail is nice and tight so the style holds.
 Use one hand to twist it up nice and tight, so the style will hold.
 Create a bun shape by wrapping your ponytail around the holder to hide it from view. Use several bobby pins to hold it in place.
 Start near your right temple and make a simple braid all the way to the end of the section. The braid can be as loose or as tight as you'd like.
 Lay it against your head so that it curves back to your bun, then wrap the end of the braid around the bun. Pin it in place with a few bobby pins.
 Start near your left temple and make a simple braid all the way to the end of the section. The braid can be as loose or as tight as you'd like.
 Lay it against your head so that it curves back to your bun, then wrap the end of the braid around the bun. Pin it in place with a few bobby pins.
 A firm or medium hold spray is best for this look, since the braids might come loose as you go about your day. This style is perfect for bridesmaids or on days when you just want to add some flair to your look.

