 Don't lie in bed doing nothing because that won't make the most of your holiday. A few days like this would be okay but put a limit on them.;
, This type of thing is mostly for people that don't like sleeping. If you love your sleep, you should probably skip this step. If you want to pull an all-nighter, you will need small food (potato chips, sandwich), sugary and addictive drinks like Coke or Sprite (to keep you awake) and a location. You may bring friends along, too! You could watch TV or tell spooky stories to each other, or even quietly play video games. If you plan to watch a movie, watch one that's so and so. Not too funny, not too scary.
 It could be Chinese, Spanish, or French, or whatever you want! Try to buy some language books that teach you how to speak a certain language. If you can't find any, go on Google Translate and learn one word daily. After a month, try learning sentences.
 Have you ever wondered if plants can grow by listening to music? Ever thought of making a cup holder out of glue and paper clips? Whatever it is, experiment and find out what happens.
 Instead of yelling at your dad to turn off his dumb music, try listening to it. Who knows? You could become their biggest fan.
 Your friends might be busy, but they might at the least have one free day. You could go shopping, or go to the cinemas, or do something you both enjoy doing.
 When all your friends are free, invite them round to your house. Tell them to bring things they don't want anymore such as clothes, makeup, jewelry, DVD's, CD's, books, bags, etc. Then organize the things you don't want and you can swap. Alternatively, you can type in "swapitshop" in the Google search box and click on the first website, to swap things with other people.
 All you have to do is fill up a glass or a cup with juice, cover the cup with plastic cling film, and stab the cling film with a lolly stick, so that the lolly stick stays in the middle. Then put it in the freezer. It will take about a day to freeze.
 This is fun, yummy, and extremely healthy. You could make up your own, using whatever you like. You could use some unusual fruits. if you don't want to make smoothies, you could mix other drinks, such as coke with lemonade. It will be loads of fun.
 There's no better way to celebrate summer, than a barbecue. Choose a hot day, when you think it won't rain and invite all your friends and family.
 For example, learn how to chop, knead, serve food, make basic dishes and drinks, etc. Serve your family an entire meal now and then, showing off what you've learned.
 Get a tent if you don't have one and find a campsite. Don't forget marshmallows to toast and also take a torch. If you don't have much money to go on holiday, camp in your back garden!

, Get some water pistols and fill them up, or use a hosepipe instead. It's a great way of cooling down and loads of fun!

, If you have quite a few brothers and sisters, or a big family, you can all go out in the garden and play something like Rounders, or even better, you could make up your own game!

, There's normally lots going on in summer. Ask your friends and family.
 It's a great way to get fresh air and have fun with your family.
, You could hire one, or buy your own. Invite your friends round, make smoothies and pump up the music!

, Dig a hole (or ask your parents to) and make sure there is mud in it. Pour water into it and take a fun mud bath. Be sure to throw mud at your friends and get totally covered.


If you have a dog, let the dog join in––he'll love it.
 You'll make loads of new friends and also find something that you're interested in.
 You could go and work in McDonald's or go round washing people's cars and you'll earn some money.
 Find a local charity shop, or somewhere where you can get involved with your favorite charity. Ask what you can do to raise money. Maybe you could make things and sell them, or hold an event.
 It could be a summer music program or an art camp. Join a day camp that you would love to try. If you are too old to be at a day camp, or simply don't want to, you could try getting a job at that day camp if you're old enough or at your favorite store or restaurant. You'll make a lot of money!

