 Depending on the state you plan to work in, requirements for becoming a CNA vary. Regardless of the state you're living in, however, you can expect some form of training and a certification exam.


Check local regulations first. You can call a local hospital and someone should be able to provide answers there. Find out exactly what the requirements are in your state before enrolling in any training programs.In addition to local regulations, check with the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing. A wide variety of institutions offer training programs and you can find a list of programs in your area., Once you have identified the specific regulations for your state, enroll in a training program that suits your needs.


Typically, programs last from 4 to 16 weeks. Make time to fully engage in the program and get the most out of the experience.Pay-to-learn programs are often offered a nursing homes or health care facilities. These can be a great option if you're on a budget. They generally run 2 to 6 weeks and are usually full time. In exchange for free classes and education, you're required to work a certain number of hours each week at the facility. This can be a great way to save money and gain hands-on experience that will look good during the job hunt.The Red Cross and local community colleges usually offer 6 month courses that cost between $300 and $600. The benefit of such courses over pay-to-learn programs is that training tends to be more extensive. Students tend to feel more confident coming out of such programs., Once you have completed your training, there is a state certification exam you need to pass in order to become a Certified Nursing Assistant.


You can begin preparing by knowing what to expect. Most state CNA exams are divided into two sections: the written section and a clinical skills test. You must pass both sections in order to become certified. Most states require a score of at least 70% for both sections to pass.There are practice tests available online that can help you know what kind of information you can expect to be tested on. It's slightly harder to study for the clinical skills test, as it's more hands-on, but brushing up on procedures is a good way to prepare.Ask CNA's you worked with during your training about the exam. Ask them what areas they found most challenging and anything you can do to improve your chances of passing.
Form study groups. Network with the other students you met during training and form study groups. This is a great motivator to get studying. If you have questions or areas that confuse you, your peers can help you sort these things out.
 Once you feel prepared, sign up to the take the state exam and show up on your scheduled time and date.


Figure out costs. Generally, the cost to take the CNA exam is around #100 but this varies from state to state.When you go in to take the test, you'll need two forms of identification, at least one of which is a picture ID. Leave all personal items, like cell phones and purses, outside the testing area. Some states require you to bring someone to act as your patient during the clinical skills portion of the exam.You must complete the written exam, which is in multiple choice format, within 2 hours. The clinical skills test, where you perform medical skills in front of evaluators, will take about 35 to 45 minutes., Yet again, requirements vary from state-to-state but you can retake the exam.


Depending on which portion you failed, and your score, some states may require you to wait a period of 2 weeks to 90 days before retaking the exam. Check with your local certification board.Some states are stricter about the CNA exam and require you to redo your training in addition to retaking the test. Know your state's requirement.Figure out why you failed. Sometimes, people fail the exam due to anxiety rather than actually lacking the required knowledge. If this is the case with you, try to figure out how to keep your nervousness in check the next time you take the exam.

