 If you are new to string shapes, it can be tricky. The instructions will make more sense to a person who has gotten the hang of it. So, be prepared to start over a few times before it comes easily. It is recommended to try the simple Eiffel Tower before moving on to the elaborate one. Many of the directions in the elaborate method will make more sense if you have tried them out with the simple Eiffel Tower.;
, Any type of string should work but it needs to be at least three feet long if you are a child or have very small hands, or at least four feet long if you have larger hands.
 It can be hard to scroll down if your hands are 'tied' and no one is around to help you. Before you start making your Eiffel Tower, position your cursor over the 'down' triangle on the scroll bar so you can move from step to step using your palms, pinkie, or elbow to bump the left mouse button. Or, make sure no element on the page is selected so you can bump the down arrow on your keyboard.


If you are using a touch screen device, you should be able to use some part of your hand to scroll down. You might even try using your nose.
 Trim off any excess string coming off the ends of the knot.You should now have a complete loop of string.
 Place the string over both of your thumbs. Now position your hands so that the palms are facing each other and are at least a foot away from each other. Move your pinkie fingers under the string so that the string is now hooked over them as well. Pull the string taut.In other words, slide your pinkies into the loop from underneath, and then make them straight again. Afterwards, when pulled taut with your palms facing each other, the loop will be in a rectangular shape behind your fingers and pinkies, but in front of your pointer, middle, and ring fingers.
 You should hook the opposite side's string where it is going in front of your middle three fingers over the palm.


Repeat this with your other hand as well, looping the string onto your pointer finger from the middle of the opposite hand.
Pull the string figure taut once again. Now you have your string figure in "open a" position. This position is the starting position for many string figures.
Holding your hands vertically, from top to bottom you will see a downward pointing triangle, a diamond, and an upward pointing triangle.
 This will be the piece of string on the farther side your pointer finger. In other words, the two strings you count from your thumb include the one actually looped around it.


After the third string is looped, pull your thumbs back out to their normal position, pulling the figure taut while you do.
You should now have two loops of string on each of your thumbs, a lower loop, which was the original on your thumbs, and an upper, which you just hooked onto.
 Leaving the string you just looped over your thumbs in place, you will be releasing the string that was looped over your thumbs at the very beginning. In other words, this piece of string is extending from the outer edge of one thumb to the other.The easiest way to do this is with your teeth. Be careful to keep everything else where it is. Grab the string with your teeth and pull it over your thumbs, making sure to go around the string that will stay on your thumbs. Then release your teeth, and pull taut again.


If you experienced with making string figures, you can also do this by rotating your thumbs in a circle down toward your palms. As you do this, you will make sure that you are still hooked onto the upper loops while the upper loops are released.
Make sure to keep your string figure pretty taut while completing this step. It's important that you don't let loops other than the top ones on your thumbs come off your fingers.
 Pulling the string tight as the loops are released will make it so that you do not lose any other loops.
 Now you should see the classic string figure "cup and saucer."


This string figure is explained fully, with illustrations here.
 Be sure that even though there is slack in your figure that all of the loops on stay on your fingers.
 This is the piece of string you just released from your pinkies. It should have settled between your thumbs. Pull the string in your teeth up toward the tips of your fingers.If you're not keen on holding it with your teeth, nail a small tack to a board that won't move when you pull on it. Attach the string to the tack instead of your teeth.
 The result should look like the Eiffel Tower.
 Once you have gotten the basic motion down, you may find that the the one in the picture looks more like the Eiffel Tower than yours. It should only take you a few seconds to do this after practice, so play with the string to get the shape right. Experimenting with the tautness may help you get a better looking Eiffel Tower.

