;
,, Most leading cities across the world have cheap accommodation for leisure travellers and back packers.
 this will give you a lot of options and people whom you can question.
 many leading tourist cities, like Singapore, have pre-loaded metro & bus passes. These passes are very convenient for internal city travel.
 You will get a lot more space at a much lower cost than what you would get from a comparable hotel room.
 Thinking ahead can also help you get a great deal. Choose your ideal destination well in advance to secure cheaper flights and accommodation. Some hotels will even give you a discount for early bookings.
 Finding cheap Hotels online is the best way to go if you are travelling often, a site like www.quickhotelrates.com can be the best way to get the best value for money for hotels while on your stay.
 Can you travel out of peak season and at busy times like school holidays? If so, you’re likely to make massive savings on both travel and accommodation.
 Take into account the cost of living in the places you’re thinking of going. Staying a little bit longer in countries like Thailand or Turkey could actually end up saving you money, as you’ll be spending less cash than you would usually spend at home.
 If possible, try to avoid departures on a Friday, Saturday or Sunday. Midweek flights are often four times cheaper than travelling at weekends.
 If you face a lengthy check-in at the airport, think about taking a few snacks and drinks with you. Not only will it save you from paying inflated airport prices, you won’t end up standing around in lengthy queues.
 Even though your destination hasn’t had any rain for the past 3 months, it doesn’t mean that it’s guaranteed to be hot and sunny when you get there. Always pack a rain jacket or coat just in case it’ll save you from having to buy one once you are there.
 Many bars, cafes and restaurants go all out to tempt in the lunchtime trade, so take advantage of their special offers such as two for one deals or three courses for the price of two. Eat the same meal at the same place later that day and you often end up paying much more.
 Rather than paying to see a show every night, ask around and see which bars and clubs have free music or comedy performances, or find free local museums, galleries and other attractions.
 Make the most of your hotel’s concierge and other staff. Ask them where are the best places to go? Just as importantly, find out where to avoid and get to know a rough idea of the prices you should expect to pay locally so you don’t get ripped off.
 Save on expensive cab rides by exploring your destination on foot. Or maybe even hire a bike, which is a great way to get around and find some of the less well-known tourist hotspots.
 Especially if you’re staying in a big town or city, check out the local library and get free internet access. It’s also a great way of avoiding paying for costly guide books, as you can download any maps and other information you need.

