 If doing something special for yourself leaves you guilt-ridden, you need to understand what could happen if you neglected your needs. Whether self-care consists of a daily yoga session, a quiet cup of coffee before everyone else wakes up, or a weekly visit to a hairstylist, these activities help you pour into yourself.


When you overlook your own needs in favor of others, you run the risk of developing conditions like depression, anxiety, or substance abuse. These conditions can complicate your life and inhibit your ability to support, love, and care for others. See self-care as a personal investment that keep you on the right side of mental health and well-being., If no one around you has accused you of being selfish simply because you are taking care of yourself, then what you’re telling yourself is what's making you feel guilty. Pay attention to and modify your thought patterns to overcome guilt.


If you find yourself saying, “I’m such a bad mom for taking my kid to daycare,” revise that statement with a healthier, more realistic affirmation: “Being a mom is hard. Everyone needs time apart from their kids every now and then. Taking my kids to the daycare allows me to run errands when they’re gone and be present when they come home.”You can also ask family and close friends to hold you accountable. If they catch you making self-critical statements, ask them to prompt you to change the way you are talking about yourself in that moment.
 If you’re new to self-care, it can quickly seem over-indulgent if you’re mapping out several hours each day to focus on you. Although the benefits of self-care are evident, you might be slow to warm up. Try a more gradual approach to pampering yourself.


Take a few minutes each day to ask your inner self what you need. Listen. Is it a break from work? A good night’s rest? A healthy and hearty meal? Meet these needs, and notice how you feel afterwards.
Over time, you will start to notice how vital self-care is to your health and well-being. You will also become more attuned to your thoughts, feelings, and needs.You may even want to consider making a schedule to see what times you have open for self-care. This can help you manage time for yourself without clashing with other responsibilities or time with others.
 To some, taking care of others is a top priority—even when it results in a neglect of self. If this sounds like you, you could be struggling with codependency, which is making someone else more important than you to the point that your life revolves around that person. Codependency is at the core of addiction. So, if you are codependent, it may be good to seek help right away before the problem worsens.


Ask your family doctor about a mental health therapist in your area. Working with a professional to improve your relationship with yourself may allow you to open up to the idea of self-care and stop neglecting your personal needs.Remember, codependency can be just as damaging to other person as it is to you.

