 The physician in the emergency room will ask for information surrounding the accident, past medical history and any medications the patient may already be taking. Although most open fractures are more obvious, if there is a wound in the area of the fracture, the physician will assume there is an open fracture., Before setting the bone or closing the wound, the doctor will start antibiotics and assess whether the patient needs a tetanus booster. If the patient has not had a tetanus booster within five years, one will be given.These measures are used to reduce the risk of infection and promote healing.


The doctor will start IV antibiotics to cover a broad spectrum of bacteria. Each type of bacteria is susceptible to different types of antibiotics. This method of delivery bypasses the gastrointestinal tract and delivers the medication to the cells more quickly.
If the person does not remember when his last tetanus shot was, the doctor will err on the side of the caution and administer a shot. Although not painful when injected, a tetanus shot will be sore for up to three days.
 The standard medical treatment of an open fracture is surgery. From cleaning the wound in the operating room to stabilizing the bone and closing the area, the goal is to reduce infection, improve the potential for healing, and promote the functional restoration of the bone and surround joints.Once in the operating room, the surgeon will use antibiotic solutions and saline to clean the wound of debris, pull out badly torn tissue and get the area ready to be stabilized and closed.
The broken bone will be aligned with plates and screws used to stabilize the bone while it heals.
The area will usually be closed with sutures or with staples if the area is in a large muscle group. These will need to be removed once the wound has healed.
A cast or splint may be applied to stabilize the area. The cast may be removable so the wound can be attended or the area may be left open to air and an external stabilization device put in place. An external device uses pins through the leg attached to long stable bars on the outside to keep the area stable. The patient will not be allowed to use the joint below or above the break while the external stabilizer is in place.
 Infections can lead to a non-union of the fracture, meaning that the bones won’t heal together. This can lead to an infection in the bone and possible amputation.


Infection rates vary. An open tibial (leg bone) fracture has the highest rate of infection, sometimes between 25 - 50%, which significantly affects healing and restoration of function.Infection can be as high as 20% in other severe cases. However, the shorter the amount of time between the injury and medical care, the less likely you are to experience infections.