 You don’t need to twist yourself up like a pretzel, but a few gentle stretches can go a long way toward protecting you from injury. Make sure you stretch your arms as well as your legs, because it is possible to get a shoulder cramp. Stretch before and after every run, and after you wake up for bonus points. Be sure that you are warmed up before you stretch. It is important for your muscles to be warm when you stretch.


To stretch your hamstrings, do the figure-4. Sit on the ground with one leg extended in front of you, and the other bent so that its knee touches the floor and its foot touches the other leg’s knee. Reach toward your extended foot, and hold.To stretch your quads, stand on one leg and grab the ankle of your other leg. Gently pull it back. If you have trouble balancing here, tighten your abs.
To stretch your shoulders, move one arm so that your hand is between your shoulder blades and your elbow is pointing up. Grab the elbow with your opposite hand and pull carefully., It’s good to keep a consistent pace, but stopping your running to walk every now and then is actually good for your muscles and breath. Plus, if you’re doing a long run or race, you’ll need to stop running to rehydrate anyway. , This doesn't only help you run longer without losing your breath, but it also helps reduce the chance of getting cramps. 8 glasses (64 ounces, or about 2 liters) a day is the gold standard, but everybody is different—experiment until you find an amount of water that feels right for your body without weighing it down.It's possible to overdo it with hydration; excess water might make you feel bloated or weighted down. Listen to your thirst cues, and don't keep chugging water if you feel like there's no room in your stomach for it., A couple hours before you run, fuel yourself correctly! Carbohydrates are the preferred fuel for long-distance runners, and the right ones burn slowly and consistently to give you plenty of energy. You can throw a little fat into your pre-running meal as well (like olive oil or peanut butter), but save heavy-protein foods like steak or tofu for later.


The best carbohydrates are the so-called “complex” ones, which give you excellent energy without a crash. Focus on whole grains like whole-wheat bread, oatmeal, and brown rice; root vegetables like sweet potatoes; and pulses like beans, peas, and lentils.Avoid simple carbohydrates, like heavily sugared cereals and doughnuts.
 A long-distance run asks a lot of your body. Therefore, you'll want to treat your body right, so it performs for you. This means emphasizing the things you already do to keep it in good shape, and eliminating any habits that might be holding you back.


Do not smoke! It shortens your breath and constricts your blood vessels.Drink in moderation (if at all). Alcohol dehydrates you, and too much of it can keep your body from absorbing protein from food.This means you'll have to work even harder to build muscle.
Get some sleep. Sleep helps your body refresh and regenerate, and sharpens your mind, too.Everybody is different—shoot for 8 hours of sleep, and adjust if that feels like too much or too little.

