 In order to trust your teen to do things and make decisions on their own, you need to accept the fact that they are growing up. They are now at an age where they don't want their parents doing everything for them or hovering over them all the time.


Give your teen space to discover things for themselves. They need to try new things and push their limits in order to gain experience and discover who they really are.
Accept that your teen is now a person in their own right and give them the space they need to grow and make mistakes. Once you've done this, you will find it a lot easier to trust them.;
, Although teenagers need space to learn and grow, they also need to know that you are there for them and will still require your undivided attention from time to time.


You can give them this by listening to them when they need to vent or work through some issues. Teenagers are surprisingly willing to open up about their lives if they feel that you are not judging them and that they can trust you.
If you start nagging, judging or punishing them for something they've told you, they'll close up like a clam and you will have lost their trust. Remember that it's much easier to trust your teen when they trust you in return.
 Your teenager is trying to establish his own identity, separate from you. He wants to be an autonomous individual and take on more responsibilities. However, he still needs your guidance, advice, and love.


Therefore, being flexible means providing your teenager with whatever they need at the time – whether that's a parent, a friend, a comforter, a confidant, a host, or just a listener.
Being there for your child when they need you is more important than anything else. This will give them the confidence they need to make the right choices, which will, in turn, help you to trust them.
Being flexible also means being open to negotiation and listening to what you child has to say. For example, if your child wants to get a nose piercing, don't just refuse them outright. Give them a chance to put forward their arguments and then have a reasoned discussion about the pros and cons of such a decision.
 Having their own personal space is very important for teenagers. Therefore, you should allow your teen's bedroom to be their own private space, which they are in control of.


Don’t barge into your teen's room uninvited or stick your nose into their business. Always knock before entering and advise other siblings to do the same. This will prove to your teenager that you trust them and are willing to give them their space.
However, you should still supervise younger teen's online activities to ensure their safety, so it may be best to ban them from using internet in their room after a certain time.
Privacy rules also do not apply if you suspect that your teen may be engaging in some kind of harmful or illegal activity in their room, such as drug use.
 You can show your teenager trust by making them responsible for their own actions. For example, they should be able to complete their household chores and complete their homework without the need for constant nagging from you.


If your teen fails to take responsibility, rather than punishing them for this, you should allow them to experience the consequences of their actions. For example, if your teen fails to bring their dirt laundry to the wash, allow them to go without clean clothes for a week.
If they spend their Saturday hanging out with their friends instead of working on an important school paper, wait until they get a bad grade before passing any remarks.
Most sensible teens will soon see the error of their ways and start to take their responsibilities more seriously.
 Ever heard the phrase "rules are meant to be broken"? This is a mantra most teens seem to live by. You can get around this by steering clear of making too many rules in the first place.


This doesn't mean that you should give your teen no guidance whatsoever, but instead of expressly forbidding something, try to give them all the information they need to make an informed decisions and then let them know that you expect they'll make the right choice.
For example, instead of telling your teen that they are forbidden to smoke, explain all of the health risks associated with smoking, such as cancer, premature aging and yellow teeth. Once they are fully aware of all of the harm that smoking can do (and they understand that they are free to make that choice if they want to) they will be much less inclined to take it up.
 Parents cannot just say, “I trust you,” to their teenagers - you need to give them evidence of that trust.


When you give your trust to your teenagers, make sure that it is the total package. Don't give them permission to hang out at the park with their friends, then sit in your car and secretly watch them the entire time. The trust needs to be real.
However, you also need to make sure that your teen understands the consequences of breaking your trust. Remember that consistency will help to keep them in line because they will always know what expectations their parents have for them and what they can do to meet those expectations.
 There are always situations in which teens abuse the trust that was given to them by their parents. When this happens, it can be difficult to learn how to trust them again.


As parents, you must acknowledge the things that your teen has done and the consequences they have to face. Most importantly, parents need to be consistent in their expectations and punishments.
Otherwise, the teen will not take you seriously and do whatever they want, knowing that there will be no consequences.
 Even though you might have total trust in your well-behaved teenager, there will be times when they disappoint you and do the wrong thing.


There may be times where even though your teen knows what the right thing to do is and wants to do it, they change their mind as a result of peer pressure. Even though this is more understandable, a bad choice was still made and your teen will still have to face the consequences.
Let them know that one consequences of their actions is that you have lost your trust in them. Sometimes the knowledge that they have disappointed you will be enough to get them back on the track.
 Make the punishment harsh enough where they learn their lesson but not too harsh that they end up resentful. The punishment should fit the crime. You want your teen to strive to get your trust back, not try rebel against it even further.


Taking away freedoms is also a great way to teach teenagers that they were in the wrong. For instance, if a teen is late to curfew, you can give them a second chance, but deduct the time they were late from their normal curfew so they must come home earlier. This system is both fair and effective.If they do not obey, show them that trust and freedom are earned privileges by keeping them in the house for a few days. If they follow these guidelines to your satisfaction, slowly start giving back their freedoms. This will show them that you are starting to trust them again and hopefully they will start to respect that trust.
 It is important to talk to your teenager about what trust was broken and how. During this talk, it's a good idea to reinforce the boundaries that you have set.


Hear your teen out and give them the opportunity to explain themselves. There may have been extenuating circumstances which caused your teen to act the way they did.
Even if there weren't, it's important that you accept the teen's apology and tell them that you still love them no matter what.
Plan on reevaluating your teen's progress after a set amount of time to ensure that they are actively working on it.
 It’s important to share the benefits of trust with your teenager. Since teenagers tend to be inherently selfish, you need to explain why being trustworthy is beneficial for them.


Explain that you will be much more inclined to let them go out with their friends and make their own decisions if they have already proven to you that you can trust them.
For example, rather than failing to send you a text which let's you know exactly where they are (which may result in being grounded), explain to them that a simple message that communicates their whereabouts and when they'll be home will set your mind at ease and eliminate the possibility of being grounded, which makes everyone happy.
 Yelling all the time without giving any positive feedback does not help your teen at all, and does not encourage trustworthy behaviors. Instead, you need to give them positive feedback when they do something that makes you happy so you can reinforce good behavior.


For example, think about how you would react if you found out that your teenager was at party where alcohol was being served, but they were not drinking.
Instead of focusing on how they found themselves in that situation to begin with, focus on how proud you are that they didn’t partake.
 Most importantly, you need to have faith in yourself as a parent. You need to feel that you set reasonable expectations that are achievable for your teenager and be confident that trust will be regained.


Have faith that you raised your children to grow into responsible adults that will choose to make the right decisions (at least for the most part!) as they grow older.

