 Most girls in 5th grade hate boys who do that and will find you annoying and "girl-crazy." try to slowly approach her and give her the time she needs to appreciate you. Girls don't like people who don't respect them.;
, This creates an immediate connection with her. Most girls will get along with you a lot more and will hardly ever disagree with you.
"; "BFF" stands for "Best Friend Forever." Girls at this age normally will hang out with the same group of people at every chance they get, so it will give you two time to bond and maybe even get some alone time, but don't make it seem like you just want to be friends, otherwise she'll be baffled if you ask her out.
 Girls LOVE to date these "A-Guys," and will find it easier to slip into their social group and it will allow them to slide up the social ladder. But try not to be the leader of them all! She may feel intimidated and avoid you.
 Girls at this age worry about what people wear and if you make it look like you're the guy wearing green polo-shirts and beige pants she will try to break off any friendship or relationship you may have with her. She may do this to protect her social status. She will think that you can't afford clothes which are in style at the time and you are an outcast. If she is found hanging around with you, she will be scared about what others may think of her. Some brands to keep in mind are Aeropostale, Nike, Under Armour, Adidas, and Reebok. That's what's in style at my school. These brands look nice and cost a little but it's totally worth it for a girl.
 Wait a year or two before a first kiss or a date at the movies, just invite her to hang out at a nearby park or popular hangout for kids your age. For example an arcade or a bowling alley.
 In 5th grade, girls are competitive and love to try to get the guy everyone wants. And love even more to have a serious relationship with a guy who dates usually for a short term.
 Girls hate people who rush. Just keep things nice and slow. Do what the lady wants, as the number above says.

