 If you are angry, take a moment and gather yourself. Take a few deep breaths or walk away and come back when you’re calmer. This way, you’re more likely to give fair and reasonable consequences. Especially if your teen knows how to push your buttons or set you off, it’s especially important to keep your cool and not discipline them out of frustration or irritation. If you feel anger or upset coming on, tune into your body. Notice where you feel upset: do you have knots in your stomach, feel shaky, or start sweating? Notice these signs and recognize it’s time to back off.Keep a journal of how you feel when you’re upset. This can help you blow off steam and reveal patterns in you or your child’s behavior.
 The teen should know what is expected of them. Set some boundaries around when they can go out, what time they need to come home, and what their role is in the home. Teens will want to push the boundaries, so remain firm when you set a limit.Discuss these boundaries with your teen, and let them have a say in how they work. They are more likely to follow rules that they helped establish.
Put boundaries and rules in writing so that there’s no confusion as to what’s expected of your teen. Have the teen sign off on the agreed rules. If they break the rules, you can bring out the signed document.
For example, you may decide that your teen is not allowed to do extra activities without completing their chores or housework. If your teen makes a request, say,, "Oh, that sounds fun, but you never did your chores this week. I'm so sorry you can't go." Make it clear that they can go once their chores are complete.
 Learning to navigate problem behaviors can be tricky. If you’re too lenient, your teen may think they have no limits or you don’t take their behavior seriously. However, if you’re too strict, your teen may grow to resent you or they may rebel. Be firm in enforcing consequences, and don’t let your teen sway your decision. When your teen breaks a rule, calmly tell them what they did and why they are in trouble. When deciding on a consequence, make sure it’s proportional to the behavior and not given out of anger.Do not become a dictator. This can cause your teenager to rebel and become resentful. If they do something wrong, don't criticize or insult them as a person. Simply state the facts and the consequences as agreed upon previously.
Assign your teen more housework or take away privileges (such as television time or computer time) as a consequence.
Consider setting rules and their accompanying consequences beforehand. That way, when your teen breaks a rule, they know what they did and what consequence will result.
 Don’t set impossible rules. It’s not reasonable to tell your teen to go to bed at 7:30 or that they cannot hang out with friends. Teens want freedom and independence, so be reasonable in allowing them these things. One of the best ways to be reasonable is to listen to your teen’s perspective. Ask them what time they think is appropriate to go to bed on school nights. When they’re in trouble, ask them what a reasonable consequence might be. Get their input and consider their perspective. Ultimately, the decision lies with you.Consider your teen’s strengths and limitations. If your teen is naturally messy, it may be unreasonable to demand a spotless room. If your teen needs some chillout time after school, let them do so before starting their homework.
 Sometimes, your teens may want to prove themselves to you or test their independence in your home. Refuse to fight with them. You can avoid major conflicts by monitoring your own reactions to your teen, even if you think they’re being outrageous. If either of you are having a hard time managing your anger, count to ten or take some deep breaths. If things get too heated, take some time out before talking. Speak calmly, and if need be, agree to disagree.Let them know it’s not worth fighting over petty things. Using empathy in your voice, develop one-liners, such as, "I bet it feels that way” or, “I know this is difficult for you.”
Avoid yelling at your teenager. If your teenager has done something they are not allowed to, explain calmly and rationally what they have done and why it broke the rules.
Teenagers may need some space to handle conflicts, especially if they are upset or stressed. Often emotions can get in the way of rational thinking. Try to pick your battles, and let them calm down before you discuss a conflict.
 If you keep the lines of communication open, you may help them make positive, informed choices or come to you when they need help. Keep a path of open communication between you whenever possible so they can ask questions, admit mistakes, and reach out when they need help. Instead of jumping to conclusions about your teen’s behavior, ask questions. Try to understand their position without assuming they’ve been doing something wrong.Learn to make compromises with your teen. That way you retain much of the control and neither of you will end up completely dissatisfied.
If your teenager doesn’t talk to you, communicate through texts or notes. You don't have to get upset with them; just show that you’re available.

