 A wooden click-clack gun can be made using two sizes of tongue depressors or Popsicle sticks, toothpicks, glue and rubber bands.


Separate the sticks into two groups of five sticks each, one of large sized and the other of the smaller size.
 Using a drill with a small wood bit, bore a hole in the center of two of the sticks. Cut the other three sticks in half, then cut one rounded edge off of three of those halves, creating an angled corner., Place them so the newly-cut angles match up. Glue the stack together to make the handle of your toy gun using wood glue or super glue.
 Create the body of your toy gun by placing one of the bore-holed sticks on each side of the stacked handle. Angle the sticks as a gun's body would be positioned against its stock. Make sure each side of the body is lined up with the other, and glue them to the handle.
 Stack three of the smaller Popsicle sticks and glue them together, much as you did with the gun's handle. Glue the stack in between the two body sticks to extend the gun's "barrel." Make sure you place the barrel beyond the holes you drilled through the gun's body so it is not in between the holes you drilled through the larger sticks.
 Form a cross shape with two of the smaller-sized Popsicle sticks, gluing them together in the center. Bore a hole large enough to insert a toothpick through the center of the cross., Line the hole in the middle of the trigger up with the holes you previously bored through the center of those two larger sticks. Insert a toothpick through the gun body and the trigger hole.


Glue the toothpick to the gun body, but be careful not to let the trigger stick to the toothpick. Once the glue is dry, cut away the extra sections of the toothpick on either side of the gun.
The trigger should rotate freely inside the body of the gun without sliding in either direction.
 Place the segment lengthwise across the back side of the gun, just behind the trigger. Attach the segment to the gun using a rubber band. Simply spin the trigger to make a clacking sound as it drags across the final segment.