 Topping a stir-fry or rice with soy sauce has the same effect; however, be careful when adding sodium to your diet. The amount of sodium you need depends on your body, age, and gender. Talk to your doctor or a trained nutritionist before adjusting the sodium content of your diet.;
, The amount of the drop occurs in direct response to the size of the meal. In other words, if you eat a large meal, you’ll experience a significant drop in blood pressure. When you eat small meals with low carbohydrate counts, you can avoid significant drops in blood pressure.


Instead of eating three large meals, try eating five or six small meals spaced evenly throughout the day.
 For instance, foods which are processed rapidly like white rice and white bread will lower your blood pressure. Foods with beans, protein, and whole grains will keep your blood pressure stable. Replace whole grain bread with white bread on your sandwich, and eat brown rice instead of white rice with beans.
 A lack of nutrients in your diet can lead to low blood pressure. For instance, if you do not have enough B12 in your diet, your body will not not have enough red blood cells. This can lead to anemia, a symptom of which is low blood pressure.A lack of folic acid can produce the same conditions. Broccoli, beans, and lentils are good sources of folic acid. Milk, eggs, fish, and fortified breakfast foods are good sources of B12. Incorporate these foods into your diet on a regular basis.
 Not only does water prevent dehydration, it increases blood volume. Increased blood volume translates to lower blood pressure. Aim to drink at least eight to ten 8-ounce glasses of water each day.


If you engage in exercise, drink more. Exercise can cause you to sweat out a good deal of your body’s water volume.
Replace sugary drinks like soda and juice with water if you struggle getting enough water each day.
 Even moderate consumption can cause your blood vessels to constrict, leading to lower blood pressure.If you’re thirsty, drink water instead.

