 In order to be the most effective, you should choose a plant that is fully mature. Aloe plants reach maturity after about three to four years.;
, While the thorns may not get stuck in your skin if you touch them, they can hurt. Trimming them off makes it easier to work with the leaf.
 Use your fingers to gently scrub away any dirt or grime that could contaminate your aloe juice.
 Peel off the green rind, revealing the yellow-tinted aloin underneath. Breaking the leaf makes it easier to peel away the rind.


To peel by hand, pinch the top layer of the rind between your index finger and thumb. Lift the rind up and back, passing over the length of the aloe leaf, separating the rind from the rest of the leaf.
If you cannot peel the rind by hand, use a sharp knife. Carefully slide the knife directly beneath the rind. Get the knife as close to the rind as possible to avoid cutting away any of the interior gel. Pass the knife through the length of the leaf, separating the rind from the aloin. You should be able to lift the rind away without any resistance.
Only peel the top layer of rind away, leaving the bottom intact. The interior of an aloe leaf is flimsy, and it will be difficult to remove both halves of the rind without destroying the gel inside.
 This layer, called the aloin, has the consistency of latex. It will not hurt your skin, but if accidentally ingested, the aloin is mildly toxic and will cause stomach cramps and diarrhea. Use a sharp knife to scrape the aloin away. By the end, you should be left with nothing but colorless, translucent gel.


Note that you can remove the aloin by using a solution made of 1 cup (250 milliliters) water and 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) vinegar, but for cosmetic astringent purposes, removing the aloin with a knife is the best option.
 You should be able to scoop away at least 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters).
 Lemon juice is another astringent, which will improve the astringent qualities of your aloe juice. Moreover, the lemon juice will prevent your aloe gel from oxidizing.


Note that the gel oxidizes rapidly, so you will need to work fast. Once the gel oxidizes, it will turn brown and lose many of its beneficial qualities. Even its astringency may be affected.
If you want to create a larger batch of aloe juice, simply use more aloe gel and more lemon juice, maintaining a ratio of 2:1, aloe gel to lemon juice.
 This should produce a thick aloe juice perfect for astringent purposes.
 It should stay fresh for about a week. Discard it at the first sign of browning or oxidation.

