 Watching porn or reading erotica with your partner can be a good way to get both parties aroused. Just as importantly, it exposes both parties to new fantasies that they can peruse together.Conversely, watching porn habitually by oneself can desensitize a man to sex, reducing sex drive.;
, Ask your partner if there is anything he wants to try, but hasn’t. If he says there is nothing, ask for at least one new thing to try.If you are afraid to raise the subject directly, begin with indirect hints. "What did you think of the scene in that movie we watched? Would you ever try that?"
Be cautious when discussing fantasies. it can be hurtful to suggest that you are thinking of something other than your partner during intercourse. Emphasize that you want to experience something new with the person who you're already with., Try foreplay to increase arousal. Not only can this get men in the mood, it will also decrease performance anxiety. If the man is able to satisfy his significant other without obtaining an erection, he will be less anxious about his libido.One study found that the preferred erogenous zones for men in order of rank are: penis, lips, scrotum, inner thigh, nape of neck, nipples, perineum, pubic hairline, back of the neck, and ears., One study has found that people who stare at a photo of their loved one for 30 seconds or longer, you naturally begin producing the chemical dopamine. Dopamine is a chemical in the brain that is closely associated with libido., Massages can be a great bonding experience and can prime your significant other for an erotic experience. Establish a sensuous atmosphere to improve the experience. Try turning off the lights and lighting some candles. Play some music. Keep some oils near you for lubrication during the massage.
Cut your fingernails before the massage to avoid scratching up your partner., A study has shown that scents from perfumes and candles can help increase sex drive. Because a variety of factors were involved, it is difficult to say definitively which were most effective. However preliminary results suggest some scents that might be more effective than others.


The study suggested that effective smell profiles included pumpkin pie, licorice, donuts, lavender, oriental spice, cola, and various mixtures of these scents.