 LED lightbulbs offer the latest in lightbulb technology and use 75% less energy than traditional incandescent lightbulbs. You can usually identify LED lightbulbs by their ice cream cone-like design, with the round end of the bulb nestled in a sort of cone that reaches halfway up from the socket end. Your energy bill will rapidly drop when you switch your traditional lightbulbs out for low-energy counterparts. , For every degree that you turn the temperature down on your thermostat, you’ll save 1%-3% on your energy bill. Learn to tolerate a slightly warmer or cooler temperature at home and you will reap the savings on your utility bill., A crockpot draws less energy than an oven. And while you can’t use your crockpot for everything, in many instances you can easily prepare foods in your crockpot that you’d normally make with your stove. For instance, soups, stews, and smaller cuts of meat taste great when prepared in the crockpot.
 If your air conditioner or furnace doesn’t get its filter changed regularly, it will not operate at its optimal level. In other words, you’ll need to use more energy to get the appliance to do what you want it to do, leading to higher energy usage. To determine how often you need to change your filter or perform other maintenance on your air conditioner or furnace, consult manufacturer directions., A white-roofed house will absorb less heat – up to 40% less – than a dark roof. This could translate to lower air conditioning costs to you and your family. Any white, elastomeric paint will do. You can find such a paint at most hardware stores., An irrigation meter is a device that measures water used for pools, gardening, washing the car, and other uses in which it doesn’t get flushed down the drain. The meter can be obtained by contacting your water utility company and requesting one. There will be an installation fee of several hundred dollars, but if you do a lot of gardening, or have a large backyard pool, you’ll save money over the long term by getting an irrigation meter installed.An irrigation meter saves you money because under normal circumstances, you get charged by the water utility when the water comes into your home, and when it is flushed out of your home. By not flushing water through the utility provider’s drain system, you’ll save money.
 People often get distracted and walk away when using computers or televisions. But if you or someone else in your house isn’t using the TV, computer, or lights in a given room, there’s no need for them to be on. Before going to bed, walk through your house and turn off all the lights and appliances that you find on. It’s simple to do, and will save you money in the long run., The Environmental Protection Agency recommends that you set your water heater to 120 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius). A heater set at 140 degrees or higher could cost you more than $60 per year in lost heat and over $400 per year in wasted water.To save more on your water heater, turn off electric heaters and turn down gas heaters when you head out on vacation.

