 A sharp "NO!" whenever your cat goes anywhere near a clawed piece of furniture can help to reduce his interest in clawing it.Be aware, however, that the cat may only learn not to scratch when you are present, and may continue to scratch in your absence since they link the punishment directly to you.


Another way to curb clawing is to toss a can of pebbles or pennies to land near the cat (do not throw it at them) to startle them. Try not to let the cat see that you threw it. This way, it appears triggered by the scratching, and has nothing to do with you. That way the cat is less likely to scratch when you are away, because they don't associate you directly with the punishment.
Then, pick them up and place them next to the scratching pole as a means of conditioning.
Don't sound angry or go into a nasty tirade against your cat; remember they are simply following instincts and you're the higher-level being with the ability to control your emotional outburst.
Never scold your cat when they are near or using the scratching post. They need to associate the scratching post with all things pleasant and happy.
 If you have a spray bottle of water, you could try squirting your cat whenever they go near the furniture and start scratching it.Aim to do this before they start scratching but if not, squirt mid-scratch. This won't hurt the cat but it will help them to associate scratching that piece of furniture with a less-than-pleasant spritz of water!


Again, this can also cause the cat to link your presence to getting sprayed, so they may do their scratching when you are not there.
You can also use a citrus oil mix to deter your cat. Some cats are repelled by the scent of orange oil. Mix equal parts, about a cap-full each, of eucalyptus oil and orange oil in a spray bottle of water. You can test this on your cat by putting a small amount on a damp cloth and present it close to their nose. You will need to shake the contents before each use as the oil and water will separate after a short time. Using this method not only helps to deter your cat from destroying furniture or walls, but gives your house a pleasant and fragrant odor as well.
 Sometimes you will just need to physically stop the cat from scratching. Remove them from where they are scratching and give them something else to do. Try giving them a toy to play with or petting them for awhile, whatever they enjoy more than scratching.

