 Before you can get started putting together your potato clock, you first must gather the items you’ll need. You can likely buy most of these items at your local hardware or hobby store, except the potatoes which will need to be purchased at a grocery store.2 potatoes
2 copper rods
2 zinc rods
3 alligator clip assemblies (each should be two clips connected by wire)
A simple, low voltage digital clock;
, When completed, the potatoes will connect to the positive and negative ends of the battery terminals inside the clock instead of the batteries. You will want to keep the battery cover removed so you can easily access the terminals with your wires.If the clock does not have the positive and negative battery connectors labeled, mark them yourself using a permanent marker based on the way the batteries were connected.
If they are labeled, the positive end will be marked with a “+” and the negative will be labeled with a “-“.
 Begin by labeling the two potatoes as 1 and 2, this will help you to differentiate them as you move forward with the experiment. Then press one nail about an inch into each potato near the end. Once the nail is secured, press a piece of copper wire into the opposite end of the potatoes, as far from the nail as possible.Each potato should have one nail and one copper wire sticking out of opposite ends.
Make sure the nail and wire aren’t touching inside the potato.
 You will be connecting each of the potatoes together and to the clock utilizing the three alligator clip units. In doing so, you will establish a circuit that includes the clock and each potato that will allow electrical current to pass through. Connect each of the following:Connect the copper wire in the first potato to the positive (+) terminal in the clock's battery compartment using the first alligator clip.
Connect the nail on the second potato to the negative (-) terminal in the clock.
Use the third alligator clip unit to connect the nail in the first potato to the copper wire in the second one.
 As soon as you connect the third alligator clip unit to the two potatoes, the clock should turn on. If it fails to do so, check each of the connections to ensure they are tight and there is good metal on metal contact in each.This method will not last for very long, so after confirming that it works, you may want to disconnect it if you hope to enter the clock into a science fair or present it to your class.

