 The smooth texture and sharp flavor of blue cheese is an excellent addition to egg dishes. Try adding leftover blue cheese to egg bakes, breakfast casseroles, or egg casseroles.In most cases, you can mix your crumbled blue cheese into baked egg dishes right before they go in the oven.
 Preheat your oven to 400°F (204°C). Use 1 tsp of butter to grease a large size, shallow baking sheet. Set this off to the side. Melt 3 tbsp of butter in a medium saucepan using medium heat. Stir flour into the butter and cook this for 2 minutes, then:


Whisk milk into the saucepan in ½ cup increments. Season the mixture with a twist or two of freshly ground white pepper. While stirring constantly, cook this for 4 to 6 minutes.
Remove the saucepan from the heat and whisk in crumbled blue cheese and 2 beaten egg yolks. Add salt to taste.
Combine this mixture with cooked pasta in a large mixing bowl. In a small mixing bowl, combine fine, dried bread crumbs and olive oil.
Sprinkle the sauce and pasta with the bread crumbs and oil. Transfer the ingredients to the baking sheet. Bake until the top is golden and bubbling, which should only take 8 to 10 minutes., Preheat your oven to 375°F (190ºC). Heat 1 tbsp of butter to coat the bottom of a large saucepan that has a lid. Decrease the heat to low. When the butter has melted, add the leek to the pan. Then:


Cook the leek for about 5 minutes, stirring it occasionally to promote even cooking. To this mixture, add sliced, cleaned chestnut mushrooms.

Cook some pasta while the leeks cook. Remove the pasta a minute or two before it is fully cooked from the heat. As the pasta bakes, it will continue to soften.
Lid the saucepan and cook the ingredients for another 5 to 8 minutes. You'll want the mushrooms to be soft and golden brown. Continue to stir the mixture occasionally.
Add a generous splash of white wine to your vegetables. Simmer the mixture for 2 minutes, then stir in the double cream. Stir ¾'s of your blue cheese until it melts.
Combine the pasta and veggies in an oven safe dish. Spread leftover blue cheese on top. Cover the mixture with aluminum foil and bake it for 20 to 25 minutes. Allow the dish to cool, and enjoy.