 You may want to try one of the simplest DIY remedies before resorting to storebought creams, particularly if money is a concern. Washing your face is a remarkably effective way to clear up your skin. If you have dirt and bacteria in your skin, hot water will open your pores, making it easier to clean the gunk out. Using a gently soaked face towel should do the trick. The water should be hot, but not so hot that it's painful to apply to your face.
 Chances are, you already have everything you need to make a sugar-based exfoliator at home! First, mix two tablespoons of sugar into 2 tablespoons of water. Once fully mixed, add another tablespoon of sugar and stir again. Drain out some of the excess water from your sugar mixture. Following that, splash some water on your face, and rub the mixture on each cheek in a circular motion for one minute each.
 If you're the DIY type, you can approximate a good toner at home with a lemon. Get about ten drops of lemon juice on your hands after you wash your face. Smear the drops on your face, and wipe away after a few seconds. This should attend to the dirt particles your cleanser may have missed. Make sure to keep the lemon juice away from your eyes. The resulting irritation may be painful if applied carelessly. Apple cider vinegar is a great alternative toner if you don't want to use lemon juice.
 This will comprise the end of your 'ritual'. This will close your facial pores again and keep dirt and bacteria from getting in, thus keeping your skin clear. Think of this step like patching up an airlock; now that you've opened up your skin and cleared out the muck, you'll want to close your pores back up again so your progress isn't undone.



If ice cubes aren't available, a splash of cold water across the face should do, although it won't likely be as effective as the method above.
 By making a bi-daily routine of this process, you're effectively doubling the amount of progress you can make in getting clearer skin, than if you were just doing it once in the morning. Making sure that your skin is well-tended before going to sleep is just as important as the morning.
 By the end of a week, even if your skin has not cleared up entirely, you should still have seen a noticeable improvement in the clarity of your skin. Although you won't need to repeat the cleansing ritual as often now that your skin is looking better, if you have a predisposition for acne, it's recommended you take the time to repeat it at least once a week for maintenance's sake. Although if you want you can keep doing it as normal, just to be safe.









