 One of the easiest ways for a project’s costs to exceed its budget is called “scope creep.” Scope creep occurs when the scope of a project gradually expands. It creates a dissonance between the budget and the project’s objective, creating the perfect environment for a cost overrun.Scope creep is more likely to occur when a project is going well than when it is going poorly, which makes it all the more difficult to resist. When a project’s already coming under budget and ahead of schedule, there’s strong temptation to add a little more onto it. Don’t.
 A budget is going to be comprised of various line items. Since a project budget is a forward-looking document, most of the line items are estimates. When you’re creating the budget, it’s a good idea to inflate the cost of each line item just a little bit. Unforeseen contingencies arise, and they usually increase costs rather than decrease them.


The 2%-5% you add to each line item is in addition to the 5%-10% you add to the overall budget for contingencies. So if there are five items in your budget, you add 2% to the cost of each item, and then add another 5% to the total budget.
 While you’re keeping your team in the loop, create milestones corresponding to stages of completion. It helps the team keep the overall goal in mind and gives them tangible objectives to strive for.Saying a milestone corresponds to a stage of completion doesn’t mean the milestone is the stage of completion. So the milestone isn’t 25% complete, the milestone is X, which signifies the project will be roughly 25% complete.
 It might seem counterintuitive, but small groups and individual workers are usually more productive than larger groups. The larger the team, the less efficient it will be. Nonetheless, a larger team will often complete a project more quickly than a smaller one. In order to avoid the inefficiencies which sap productivity and contribute to cost overruns, you need to balance the need to accomplish a milestone quickly against the inefficiencies a large team will likely create.For example, say the project is digging a 6’x6’x3’ hole in the ground. Since people need to take breaks, it will be more productive (and faster) to have someone constantly digging, meaning there will be more than one digger. But while a group of two might be accomplish the dig more quickly and more efficiently than a group of one, a group of fifteen would be overkill, because you’ll be paying a lot of people to stand around.
 When your team doesn’t know how their actions fit within the larger context of completing the project, they’ll have a much more difficult time managing their own efficiencies. People are inherently creative, and they have a tendency to try and come up with ways to make a job easier or do it better. If you keep your team in the loop, you’ll be better equipped to harness that creative energy.For example, in the hole example, your team might be under the impression that bigger is better. Since it’s the last job of the day, they take a little extra time to widen the hole two more feet. Unbeknownst to them, the hole is going to foot a concrete pier—not only is the larger size unnecessary, it actually makes it harder to plumb the pier.
 Morale is crucial to productivity, and a good project manager ignores morale at their peril. One of the easiest ways to boost morale and productivity is by rewarding productivity. Sales teams do this all the time, awarding prizes to their top performers. If you do it in your own teams, you’ll incentivize productivity and keep morale high.It’s a good idea to reward both individual achievements and group achievements. That way you don’t create an incentive for individual workers to undercut other individual performers.

