 The mind and body are intricately related because the mind consists of the complex workings of the brain, a biological organ and part of the body. This means that mental health and bodily health are closely related. Since poor mental health is associated with drug use, and mental and bodily health are related, keeping a healthy body is an important part of being drug free. One way to maintain a healthy body is to eat healthy foods.Eat whole foods such as lean meats, nuts, fruits, and vegetables. Who knows, you might even develop a passion for cooking that builds your self-esteem and turns into a hobby that helps to keep you drug free. , Working out can release endorphins that make you feel good in a much healthier way than the way that drugs make you feel good. Exercise helps to reduce stress and can even combat minor cases of depression; both stress and depression increase risk for drug use, so it is important to exercise regularly to help to keep drug free. , Too much caffeine can make you jittery and anxious which can contribute to feelings of stress and make you more likely to turn to using (other) drugs to counteract the anxiety that the caffeine produced. , A lack of sleep can contribute to poor mental health such as by causing feelings of fatigue, sadness, and anxiety, all of which may add to your likelihood of using drugs in order to avoid feeling bad., Practice relaxation techniques to help stay mentally and physically healthy. Relaxation techniques reduce the impact of stress on your body by negating negative feelings and negative bodily sensations such as muscle tension.Stress is a common reason that people begin using drugs, so managing your stress will help you stay drug-free.Try visualization. This technique involves forming peaceful and relaxing mental images. For example, picture a calm ocean and try to imagine it with all of your senses; think about how it would smell, how the wind and sun would feel against your skin. Fully immerse yourself in the experience.Try a soothing exercise, such as yoga or tai chi.
 Meditation can be an excellent way to manage stress and focus on breathing and body awareness. Meditate to calm yourself as you confront urges to use alcohol or drugs.People who meditate tend to have greater success rates of staying off drugs in the long run.Find a comfortable and quiet spot to sit for 10-15 minutes.
Focus on your breath, inhaling deeply and steadily.
As thoughts pass through your mind, release them without judgment. Turn your attention back to your breath.
 This technique helps you to figure out the difference between tense and relaxed muscles. It involves slowly tensing then relaxing each muscle group; this will help to delineate the difference between tense and relaxed and take your mind off what is stressing you out.Begin with your toes. Clench them as hard as you can for 5 seconds, and then relax for 5 seconds. Notice the sensation of relaxation. Move up your body from your calves, thighs, buttocks, abs, chest, shoulders, arms, neck, and face.