 Any cosmetic surgery has a number of things that can go wrong, and you should weigh those risks against the value of permanently reducing the size of your lip(s).Complications from anesthesia exist in most surgeries, ask your surgeon or anesthesiologist about them.
There is a risk of infection in and around the operating site--and the lip/mouth area is already a high risk area.
Excessive bleeding or internal damage resulting in more operations can result.
Nerve damage, temporary or permanent, can result--necessitating more operations, leaving the area numb, or in pain.
Scarring can occur in the operating area, resulting in more operations to remove the affected skin.
 This procedure needs to be performed by a American Board of Plastic Surgery (ABPS) certified surgeon. This surgeon is also the doctor who will evaluate if you are a candidate for the procedure.The surgeon will review your medical history, make a clinical assessment of your lips, discuss concerns, and go over the procedure.
If the surgeon recommends the procedure, they will explain its details, costs, risks, and recovery to you.
During the 1-hour long procedure, the surgeon will give you local anesthetic or more complete oral sedation. Then they will make an incision along the length of the lip inside the mouth, remove a strip of tissue, and stitch the cut closed.
The cost of lip reduction surgery can range from $1,500 to $4,000, and because it is considered entirely cosmetic, is usually not covered by insurance.
 Soreness, tightness, and pain are common sensations to feel after lip reduction surgery. Your surgeon may provide recovery instructions and prescribe painkillers to help alleviate the discomfort.Avoid vigorous exercise.
Sleep with your head elevated, perhaps with a couple of pillows under your head.
Avoid highly acidic/citrus foods. Eat softer and pureed foods for the recovery period.
Rinse with antiseptic mouthwash to fight infection at the incision site.
The sutures should be removed within a week-to-ten days of the procedure if all goes well. Most of the irritation or swelling should have subsided by then.
If there are any signs of excessive pain, bleeding, or unexpected side effects, report it to your surgeon or doctor immediately.
