 It’s important to understand intestinal gas build up in order to help prevent it. Some amount of intestinal gas is perfectly normal-- it is produced by the normal gut bacteria (gut flora) that are essential for digestive, immune and overall health. The gut bacteria (also known as the microbiome) produce gases such as hydrogen, carbon dioxide and methane as the bacteria digest complex carbohydrates (eg. cellulose), sugars (eg lactose, sorbitol and fructose)and long-chained sugars (polysaccharides such as starch)., If you have a persisting problem with intestinal gas and it is inhibiting you from carrying out your daily routine, you may be suffering from a health complication. Call your physician right away if your gas is associated with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, heartburn or GERD, unintended weight loss or blood in the stool.Here’s a list of some possible conditions:


Celiac disease — an autoimmune disease based on cross-reactions with gluten
Dumping syndrome — occurs after surgery to remove part (or all) of the stomach to help an individual lose weight.
Food allergy or intolerance — lactose and gluten intolerance are examples.
GERD — gastroesophageal reflux disease is a condition in which the stomach contents leak backwards from the stomach into the esophagus.Gastroparesis — the muscles of the stomach do not work properly, preventing your stomach from emptying correctly.Irritable bowel syndrome — a chronic condition that can cause abdominal cramps, bloating, gas, diarrhea and constipation.
Stomach ulcers — pits or erosions in the lining of the stomach.
Rarely, intestinal gas can also be caused by intestinal parasites. They are usually transmitted when someone comes in contact with infected feces (like contaminated soil, food, or water)., Write down exactly what you eat and what you experience after eating it. Note whether you feel boated, burp a lot, or pass gas after eating something. This can help you narrow down what if any foods increase intestinal gas for you.If you can identify a food that increases your gas, the best approach is to simply avoid it, or eat it only in small quantities.

