 In some regions, duck carcasses need an entire wing left on for identification purposes with the game warden, while other places allow you to retain the heads and entrails separately for ID. Since this affects how you'll dress out your birds, it's important to find out how they'll be checked if and when the game warden comes calling.


Duck hunting regulations vary widely. In some areas, you'll only be allowed to collect a certain number of duck per day, so it's a good idea to be up-to-date on the specific regulations in your area. Federal guidelines can be found here, while local regulations can be found on the website of the Department of Natural Resources or the Hunting and Finishing bureau in your state.;
, When you collect a duck, it'll have been floating around in pond water, rolling in the mud, and probably mouthed by your golden retriever for a couple minutes before you got to it. In other words, it's pretty dirty, and it's important to take a few minutes to clean it up a bit before packing it up or dressing it out to keep the meat from spoiling.Clean any dirt and fecal matter from the feathers, especially around the tail of the duck. Dry it thoroughly and pack it in a cooler, or start dressing it immediately, depending on your intentions. Below 40 F, a duck carcass will be fine for 3-5 days in clean conditions, without doing anything.
Locate the shot and keep track of it. The meat around the area the pellets(s) entered will be scorched and less than tasty. You'll need to be careful to remove any shot from the carcass, and to trim away any meat around the area later, so it's a good idea to clean it out now.
 Letting meat dry out some will intensify the flavor in the right ways, reducing gaminess and making your duck more tasty. In the right conditions, you can do this without dressing the bird out, or you can do it after you've skinned or dressed the bird. Either way is fine for a clean bird.


If the temperature is right, you can hang birds upside down by their feet to drain out, in a shed or garage, as long as it's cool enough. Otherwise, keeping them in plastic bins in the refrigerator is also fine, as long as there's enough air circulation.
Different hunters like to dress out the birds at different points in the process. If you're out and going to collect lots of birds, it's likely you'll want to breast them out in the field as quickly as possible to keep down on your baggage. Alternatively, it's perfectly fine to keep the ducks whole, get them on ice quickly, and wait a couple days before dressing them in the right conditions.
 Skinning a duck is much faster and easier, especially in the field. Depending on how you'd like to cook your duck, though, some people prefer to leave the skin on, which means a more time-intensive plucking process needs to happen. Both ways are perfectly acceptable and will be covered below.


It's sometimes better to skin diver ducks and ducks shot around salt water. The fatty skin can sometimes taste a little fishy and be orange-colored, if the duck has consumed a lot of shellfish.
It's fine to pluck all others kinds of ducks, if you want to take the time. Foodies and gourmands agree: cooked properly, the crispy skin of a roast duck can be one of the most desirable parts of the meal. The skin is especially fatty, meaning that it can imbue the meat with lots of flavor. If you can take the time to save the skin, many people think it's well worth it.

