 Do not use pillows in cribs, where they can be a suffocation hazard. The best time to introduce your toddler to a pillow is when the child begins sleeping in a bed. Once a child's shoulders are wider than the head, the child usually will be more comfortable sleeping with a pillow.


Observe signs that your toddler is ready to use a pillow. The child may rest the head on a stuffed animal or blanket, or lay down on a pillow in an older sibling's room.;
, Press in the middle of the pillow to evaluate how quickly it regains its shape. If the pillow does not move (or moves only slightly) when you press it, it is too soft and unsafe for toddler use. If the pillow takes several minutes to regain its shape, it may be too firm and uncomfortable for your child.



Consider a toddler pillow. Several manufacturers offer pillows designed specifically for toddlers. Toddler pillows are smaller than standard pillows, with dimensions around 12 inches (30.5 cm) by 16 inches (40.6 cm) and a thickness of about 2 to 3 inches (5.1 to 7.6 cm). The smaller size eliminates the excess fabric that may be a suffocation hazard. The pillows also are firmer than typical adult sized pillows.
Select a standard-sized pillow if a toddler pillow is not available. A standard pillow, which is the most common size, measures 20 by 26 inches. Do not allow your toddler to sleep with more than one standard pillow at once. If your toddler sleeps in a double bed, remove extra pillows so there is only one pillow in the bed during sleep times.
Avoid king, queen and euro-sized pillows. Their large sizes make them unsafe for toddler use.
 Pillows can be filled with natural or synthetic materials.


Opt for 100% polyester non-allergenic Polyfill to avoid potential allergic reactions. Polyester, a synthetic fiber made up of three-dimensional clusters, is allergy and odor free. Polyester is more durable and holds it shape longer than natural fibers.
Choose 100% cotton filling for its soft fabric and breath ability. Cotton filling creates a flatter, firmer pillow that is ideal for toddlers. However, natural fabrics like cotton may cause allergy issues and are not as durable as synthetic fabrics.
Consider a pillow made of hypoallergenic foam. Sometimes referred to as posture pillows, foam pillows help to align the spine and neck to promote healthy posture while sleeping.
Avoid feather or down pillows because they are typically too soft and unsafe for toddler use. They also can contribute to allergies.
 Once you have evaluated the attributes best suited for your toddler's pillow, do some comparison-shopping. Toddler pillows and standard pillows are available at retail stores and online. Prices range from less than $10 to more than $80, depending on the style and filling you choose.

