

For this model of Lenovo laptops, the maximum RAM capacity is 8 GB. The type of RAM is DDR3 SDRAM and the speed is 1333 MHz.
This laptop has two RAM slots so take advantage of this and consider buying two sticks of 4GB RAM for optimal performance.
When you go to the store make sure the RAM meets all of these specifications.
If you are not sure if it is the correct type of RAM, ask a customer service representative to confirm it.
If you are buying two sticks of 4GB then it should cost approximately 20-25 dollars. You could also buy it online if you prefer.;
,


Establish a safe and comfortable area to perform your RAM upgrade such as a clear table.
You will need your laptop, a Philips screwdriver, and your new RAM

,


Make sure your laptop is shut down and that the battery is removed.
You are going to be dealing with fragile computer components that can be damaged by static charges.
Touch something metal and grounded before you touch the RAM or the inside of the laptop to ensure that you are not carrying a static charge.







Make sure they are all fully unscrewed so that the casing can be removed.
The casing is still securely snapped in. Carefully remove the casing so that you don't damage anything when it unsnaps from the back of the laptop. It is snapped in at several areas. Take your time and be patient.
Remove the casing and look at cool looking insides of your laptop!







,
The RAM slots should be located at the bottom right corner as seen in the image provided.






To remove the RAM, unfasten the two little clips on both sides. The RAM will come out on an angle. Be very careful so you don't break anything.







Keep your old RAM in a safe place in case you ever need it.
Now get your new RAM and prepare to insert it into the RAM slots. Begin with the RAM slot on the top. This should be the slot your old RAM was in at first.
Insert the RAM on an angle into the slot. Make sure the pins on the RAM are aligned with the pins on the slot.






Now push it in and the two clips on the side should secure the RAM in place.






If you are going to be putting in another stick of RAM then proceed to step 7.
If you are only putting in one piece then proceed to step 8.

Insert your second stick of RAM on an angle into the second slot.






Make sure the pins are aligned again.
Push it down and make sure the clips on the sides secure the RAM. You have just successfully installed two pieces of RAM!







,
Get your laptop casing and align it to the back of the laptop. Make sure everything is aligned properly.
Apply an appropriate amount of pressure and push in the casing to snap it in place.
Screw in the 5 screws and make sure they are tightly screwed in.
 Now you will test to see if your laptop is still working after installing the new RAM. Turn on your laptop and make sure it is working.
If it is not booting up then make sure you installed the RAM properly.
If it is installed properly and it is still not working then there might be something wrong with the RAM itself or something broke during the process of installing the RAM.
To confirm that it's a RAM issue, try putting the old RAM back in and see if your laptop still works.
If you installed the RAM properly and the laptop is booting up then move on to the final step!

,
Click on your start menu in the bottom left corner of the screen. #*You should see a button called "Computer". Right click on this and you should see a selection called "Properties".






Click on this and it should open a window that displays your System Properties.






In the list of things under "System" You should see something that says "Installed memory (RAM):".
If the amount of RAM displayed is equivalent to the amount of RAM you installed then congratulations! You have successfully installed and upgraded your RAM!







,

Now that your RAM is upgraded you can enjoy your laptop as it performs tasks more smoothly and faster than it did before!

