 When your cat does something you want to encourage (e.g. going to the bathroom in a litter box, scratching on a scratching post), you can praise the cat verbally, pet it, or give the cat a treat. This will socialize the cat by encouraging it to continue the behavior, and will help it to feel more comfortable around you.Make sure that you praise the cat immediately after it performs the behavior you want to reinforce.


Your fearful cat will take cues from your attitude and body language, and will be more likely to repeat behaviors that you have praised or rewarded it for.
 Since your cat is already fearful or shy, giving it negative reinforcement in the form of punishments or verbal chastisements will only deepen its fear. Your cat may also come to associate you with negative consequences, and avoid you altogether.Never shout or yell at your cat, and never punish it.


Additionally, cats tend not to learn from negative reinforcement, so it has little value as a training technique.
 Once your cat is comfortable in your presence and no longer acts shy, you can begin to introduce new people—e.g. your friends and family—to the cat. Let the cat approach and smell the new person as soon as they’ve entered your apartment. Give the person one of the cat’s favorite toys or a dish of cat food, so that the cat can gradually begin to interact with the visitor.Make sure to arrange the socialization in a neutral, quiet environment. If the cat is uncomfortable at first, it will retreat to a hiding place, and later emerge to meet the stranger.
Follow similar steps if you would like to socialize your cat with a child. Let the child know that they will need to be quiet and move slowly around the cat, and discourage them from playing aggressively with the cat.
 If you would like to increase your cat’s socialization process to the point at which it can meet other animals (such as friends’ cats and dogs), you’ll need to do so gradually. Shut your cat in a room, and bring the other pet to the outside of the door. Let the animals exchange scents and smell one another under the door. If your cat doesn’t retreat, you can open the door and allow the animals to sniff one another face-to-face.It’s advisable that the new pet be held on a leash, in case it tries to run or attack your cat.


Always bring the other animal to your house or apartment; your cat will feel safer here, and will be less likely to hide from or attack the new animal.
Only introduce the cat to one new animal at a time. Introducing multiple new animals may scare the cat.

