 Sometimes, the things people find irritating about others are just the things they don’t like about themselves. Rather than immediately deciding to dislike this person, take a moment to reflect on yourself and decide why they seem to irritate you so much.Pinpointing the real source of the irritation and annoyance can actually help you gain some useful insight into yourself and your own feelings. Maybe this annoying person reminds you of someone else in your life, or they might even be forcing you to acknowledge things about yourself that you generally try to ignore.
It’s not always easy to look to yourself when something is bothering you. It’s much easier to project and push the blame for these feelings outward. Take that extra time for introspection and identify where your negative feelings are really coming from.
 You can’t expect to get along perfectly well with every single human being you interact with. It’s human nature to have disagreements and differences from others. Acknowledge the fact that if everyone were the same, the world would be a pretty boring and one-dimensional place.There are plenty of instances where people choose to engage with seemingly annoying or irritating people and things—for instance, when people watch reality television and are entertained by others behaving in irritating ways. Even if you don’t realize it, most people appreciate that they are different from the people around them, and it’s easier to start appreciating those differences rather than being annoyed by them.
 Even if you are putting distance between yourself and this person, or choosing to be polite even when they are rude, that doesn’t mean you need to be totally silent or allow yourself to be walked on. If someone is using you or taking advantage of your politeness, it is entirely within your right to speak up and let them know that their behavior is not acceptable.Giving constructive criticism or feedback to the person who irritates you isn’t the same as lashing out at them, or being blatantly hurtful. Calmly and respectfully approach them and say something like, “I have been feeling upset about the way you have been treating me. I’d really appreciate it if you could stop treating me that way.” , Rather than immediately assuming the irritating person is out to get you and annoy you, take a moment to consider what might really be going on. The person may not even realize the way in which they are coming across to you. They might be dealing with personal issues, and those issues might be affecting their behavior.Try giving this person the benefit of the doubt—try to believe better things about other people, rather than going with the instinct of assuming they are purposefully trying to hurt or annoy you.

