 The Chicago Style is also named Turabian after Kate Turabian, who wrote a style manual based on the Chicago Style while working at the University of Chicago. It is the only style used by historians.


Chicago style uses endnotes (or footnotes) to cite sources, rather than providing inline citation.This is a key difference from MLA style, which uses inline citation.
In Chicago style, it is recommended to always write the author name and title, not just the author name, in subsequent citations after the first full one.
In Chicago style, a bibliography typically follows the endnotes. The bibliography lists all sources in alphabetical order by author’s last name. You should add entries to it every time you create a note. The format is slightly different from endnotes. See http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html for more information.
 The information required will vary depending on the type of source.Book (author) – Author’s First and Last Name, Title (Place of Publication: Publisher, Date of Publication), page number(s).

Book (editor) – Author’s First and Last Name, ed., Title (Place of Publication: Publisher, Date of Publication), page number(s).

Journal Article – Author’s First and Last Name, “Title of Article,” Title of Journal Volume (Year): page number(s).

Newspaper – Author’s First and Last Name, “Title of Article,” Title of Newspaper, date, page number(s).
For all source types, if there are two to three authors, list their names with commas between them. For more than three authors, write the first author's name, a comma, and “et al.” in place of any remaining authors.
For a complete list of source types and their appropriate formats, see http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html.
 If you have already cited a source once, you do not need to give full citation information for future citations of the sources. Simply write:Author’s last name, Title, page number(s). (If the title is not fiction or poetry, you can use a shortened form of the title if it is longer than four words.), In this case, there is no need to write even the author’s name. You can replace all reference information with “ibid.”, short for ibidem, Latin for “in the same place.”For example, if citing Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s Love in the Time of Cholera twice in a row, you would write:


1 Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Love in the Time of Cholera, trans. Edith Grossman (London: Cape, 1988), 27-28.
2 Ibid., 45.
 If you have any appendices, put the Notes page after those. Double-space the endnotes just as you double-space the manuscript.In some cases, your teacher may prefer you to single-space endnotes and leave a blank line between each entry. If you have questions, consult with your teacher.