 As a general rule, the more you buy, the better the deal. If it makes sense to go for the larger quantity of a product, it will save you money in the long run.Today, there are many bargain retailers like Sam’s Club and Costco that carry nothing but bulk products.
Remember to only buy in bulk when you’ll actually use all of whatever you’re buying over time. For instance, bulk food can be wasteful if you let it pass its expiration date without eating it.
Good things to buy in bulk include foods with a long shelf life (like baking supplies, canned goods, or frozen foods), hygiene products (like shampoo, toilet paper, or toothpaste), and household cleaners and goods (like light bulbs, detergent, or trash bags)., Before you purchase anything, make sure that you’re getting it at the lowest possible price. For big purchases, do an internet search by the product’s name to see if you can find the best deal.Price comparison websites, such as GoCompare, SuperMoneyMarket, and Price Runner, can be good resources for tracking down the best deals for products and services.
When you shop for groceries, keep track of which store offers a given product most cheaply.
 Buying cheap products doesn’t necessarily save you money. If you go through half a dozen pairs of cheap shoes in the same time it would take you to wear out one pair at a higher price point, that’s not a good value. Look for products that will give you the most bang for your buck, not the ones that are the least expensive.Besides first-hand experience, the easy way to gauge the relative value of products is to read consumer reviews associated with each of your options to assess their comparative quality and customer satisfaction.
 While not all price tags are negotiable, you’d be surprised at how many costs and payments are. Used goods, service agreements, insurances, rents, fees, benefits, salaries, and wages are all generally subject to negotiation. Approach the proceedings with confidences, firmness, and fairness, and you’ll often come out ahead.Service agreements, such as communications services, credit card contracts, and even medical bills, are often negotiable. For instance, you could call a credit card company and say: “Hi, I recently received an offer for a card from another company with a low, fixed APR. Since I’ve been a longtime customer with you, I was wondering if you could match that rate. If not, I’ll have to go with the new company.”
If you’re worried about attempting negotiations, try practicing in low-stakes venues where haggling is normal, like flea markets or estate sales. Ask the vendors questions like: “Are you flexible on that price?” or “Would you accept $60 cash for that chair?”
Informed negotiators generally fare better. Do a little research into the market so that you have a better sense of what a good deal or fair cost would be. If you can say something like, “the Crain Dealership is offering this same car in the same condition but with fewer miles for $1000 less,” it makes your case more compelling.
Be ready to walk away. To be a successful negotiator, you have to be ready to leave behind a bad deal. For example, if your credit card provider is not willing to reduce your APR to match that of a competitor, just say: “Alright, then can you please terminate my account?”

, Avoid buying things at full price. If you’d really like a particular item, wait to buy it until it’s on sale or a coupon item or offered as part of a special deal.


Sometimes this means buying things out of season, so plan ahead. For instance, you can get your Christmas presents or winter gear for the next year during post-holiday January sales.
Similarly, you might wait to buy clothing until it’s on clearance at the end of the season instead of paying full price when a style is first released.
When you grocery shop, let coupons help determine your purchases. If there are items on sale that you regularly use, stock up while they’re on discount.
If you’re making travel purchases, research when the best time to buy a plane ticket is or wait until a particular airline is offering a deal. You can also sign up for fare alerts from travel sites like Travelocity or Kayak, which track the rates for each flight and offer predictions about whether they’re likely to go up or down.

