 Whenever a customer makes an order you will collect their email address so it's important to keep a good and safe register of your customers' contact details. In addition to this, you should make it possible for potential customers to easily register with your website using their email address even if they don't buy anything this time.


A register of users is a very useful resource for marketing and surveying your customer base and should be treated as such.
You need to guarantee that your customers' personal and financial details submitted through your website are kept secure., A regular email to all your registered customers can be a very effective way to promote specific products or time-limited special offers. It's important to exercise careful judgement when sending out unsolicited communications to your customers, as nothing will turn people off as much as spam.You should tightly control your email newsletters, and only send out messages when you have something important to promote.
Too frequent emails will be annoying, but too few will mean that they might forget about your store.
Ensure that the email is well-crafted and matches the visual theme of your website and branding.
 Increase your presence and brand-awareness by getting involved in online discussion groups around relevant topics to your store. For example, if you sell specialist teas you can contribute to forums for tea lovers and enthusiasts. But be sure to tread lightly when you do this. Don't engage in any hard selling or explicit advertising as it will not go down well.Keep your online store's URL in your signature, but don't over-promote your business.
Don't just think of it advertising, but connecting with potential customers. It could give you ideas for new product lines or avenues to explore.
 Keep a close eye on any feedback you receive on review websites as well as in direct contact with customers. It's important to know what people are saying and what the perception of your company is.If appropriate, respond politely to feedback and try to resolve any issue quickly and amicably. With social media it's possible for a minor problem to quickly escalate and gain you unwanted publicity.

