: In order to be Royalty, you must first decide what you reign over! You may decide that your room, your house, your town, or even bigger is now claimed under you as a Princess. You can also claim to be Princess of and object, fashion, time, etc. (e.g. Princess of the Night, Preppy Princess, Techno Princess.) Take whatever it is that you're into, and claim yourself as it's Princess! You could also have a title(e.g. Hannah the First, Leah the Brave, etc.).


If you are a more imaginative Princess, you can create your own imaginary land and give it a name, making yourself it's ruler.;
, If you are Princess of your room, then maybe your dolls or teddy bears are your subjects, and you must treat them well. If you are Princess of a larger kingdom with lots of people in it (like your city), then you must act as a Princess towards everyone you meet. A true Princess would be involved in charity events in her kingdom, and give back to her subjects as much as she could!

, As each Princess and kingdom is different, not every Princess should be wearing pink, frilly dresses. If you are Princess of the Skate park, put on your ripped jeans and skate shoes, and head out proudly to your nation! Just remember your manners!

, When you are around your subjects, you want them to remember you for your charm, not your foul smell or dirty fingernails. Take time in the morning after you wake up and at night before you go to bed to do some simple, self-cleansing tasks. Take a shower, wash your hair and face, shave (if necessary), and file your fingernails. Cleanliness is a Princesses personal duty!

,: Whether you're in school or at work, be sure to do your best. You owe it to your subjects to be the best person that you can be! Don't be lazy and skip your homework, or chat when you should be working. A Princess should be well-rounded, and learn responsibility and work ethic.


If you thought being a Princess was all about being spoiled and pampered, think again!

,: Unless your kingdom is of a darker nature, be sure to carry true joy in your heart! Find little things to be grateful and happy for in your life, and appreciate them every day. If you've been working hard studying or working for your money, come home to your castle and pamper yourself with a video game, your favorite book, or and nice, warm bubble bath. Be positive! Don't be afraid to smile a lot, and show everyone how happy you are as a true Princess!

, Princess Points can be earned when you complete a task worthy of your crown. For example, if someone tells you "Thank you" for something you've done, you've earned 1 PP. If you've cheered someone up, you've earned 2 PP. If you've donated to charity or gave money to someone in need, you've earned 10 PP! Create your own system, and see how many Princess Points you can earn a day!

, A Princess would NEVER dislike or treat poorly a person because of their race, background, beliefs, education, or love interests. Love everybody, no matter what!


If you can say you hate a certain type of person, you are no Princess! Learn to accept everybody to get started on your path to Princess-hood.
: If it suits your style, search "buy rhinestone tiara" on Google, and find a style of tiara or crown that you like. They are affordable and will look good on any Princess!

, If you need help releasing yourself from a potentially dangerous or self-harming habit, seek it out immediately!

, Do not order their exile, but instead show them love and mercy! With your sincere kindness, there's no way they can continue to be unkind towards you.
: If you have something you love to do, do it! A Princess deserves to do what she loves and have fun doing it. Learn more about your craft, and excel in it. Maybe one day, you'll become Princess of it, as well! 

, Know that you are perfect! Know that your flaws are perfect! Wake up in the morning and think of how beautiful you are, inside and out. NEVER compare yourself to your subjects of other Princesses. Love yourself for who you are, and maybe one day, you'll meet your Prince Charming!

