 Remember in the beginning that in contrast to most other succulents, adeniums do not like to be under-potted; it is important to choose a container of the appropriate size. It is best to use a container with a diameter little more than double the diameter of that of the caudex (swollen base). It should have at least three holes at the bottom to facilitate drainage and aeration. Cover the holes with gravel up to one fourth height of the pot.;
, This should be done in line with the usual succulent mix. Use one part of garden soil, one part of coarse (river) sand and two parts of leaf mould and mix them thoroughly. Please remember to grind the soil and the leaf mould well before mixing. Alternatively, one part garden soil, one part compost, half part coarse sand, half part perlite and half part vermiculite can be used.
 Adeniums prefer bright light; hence, place the pots in an area where plenty of direct sunlight is available. In most areas it is best to provide the highest level of light possible. The exception are locales that experience extremely high temperatures combined with low humidity and drying winds. Under these conditions you will need to provide some shade during the seasons of most intense weather.



Fill the pots until the desired level with the potting mix so that the tip of the roots will touch it. 
Then, hold the plant carefully at the centre of the pot, allow the roots to hang inside and place rest of the potting mix loosely around the roots until it covers them up.
Tamp down the mix delicately, if necessary with a small stick, around the roots. You may also knock the pot softly on the ground, to settle the potting soil.
 This means applying water until the potting mix is saturated and the excess begins to run out through the drainage holes.


The amount of time between subsequent watering will vary based on your conditions, container size, and whether your plant is in active growth or not. Ideally, the mix should be allowed to almost dry before watering again.
Provide ample water during the growing season. If your soil is well drained and the weather is warm and sunny, the roots rapidly absorb soil moisture which is lost through normal transpiration. In well drained soils during active growth in the heat of midsummer, plants can literally be watered daily.
Restrict water a bit during cooler, cloudy periods, and cut back on watering as fall approaches.
 During the summer growing season, fertilize as you would with other houseplants. Stop fertilizing entirely during the winter. Nitrogen content of the used fertilizer should always be on the lower side.


A low nitrogen NPK, as in the ratio of 10-15-15 can be used in a diluted, liquid form. Depending on the season, growth rate and the overall health of the plant, this can be mixed with the drenching water every 2nd or 3rd watering. Always dilute more than the stated instructions advise, as recommended dosage is too strong for these plants.
For the organic option, liquid cow dung manure, obtained by mixing fresh cow dung with water (1 Kg in 10 Litres) and storing it for a week, can be used in 1 in 15 dilution once in a week while watering.



An annual pruning from the second year of age helps develop a well shaped plant and increase flowering. Pruning is especially required when the branches become unusually long and slender, or the plant looks leggy. It is best undertaken just before the onset of spring, when the plant is coming out of its winter lethargy and is getting ready to produce new offshoots.



For a good caudex to grow, Adeniums need to be transplanted periodically. A plant that is growing well can be taken out of its old pot at the onset of spring, its root system thoroughly washed of the old soil mix, treated with anti-fungal, air-dried for 10 days and then re-potted into a fresh medium, in an one size larger pot. The caudex should be lifted up by half to one inch at every re-potting and any damaged or tangled up roots should be carefully slant-pruned before the roots are treated with anti-fungal medication.




Seeds: The real trick to adenium seed starting is to make sure that you start out with fresh seeds. Fresh seeds will have a higher germination rate as well as germinating faster.

Begin starting adenium seeds by preparing a container with a well-draining growing medium, like a perlite or sand and soil mix. Place the seed in the growing medium, just covering them with the growing medium.
Water from below daily and from above once every three days until the seedlings appear. Keep the temperature of the growing medium at between 80 and 85 F.
Your adenium seeds should germinate in one week, if the seeds are fresh. If they are not fresh, it may take longer (if at all).
Once the seedlings appear, water only from below. In about a month, the seedlings will be large enough to transplant to a permanent container.



Cuttings: Take a cutting from the tip of a branch. Allow the cutting to dry out for a day or two, then wet the end of the desert rose cutting and dip it in rooting hormone. Stick the cutting into a well draining growing medium like perlite or sand mixed with soil. Water the cutting daily, making sure the water is able to drain out of the soil. Use a spray bottle and mist the cutting daily as well.

The cutting should take root in about two to six weeks.
Take out the rooted cuttings, and repot them in individual pots.



