 Part of the basic requirements to be a conservation officer is being a U.S. citizen over 21 years old at time of graduation. You must also be in possession of a valid driver’s license. If you get a conservation officer job, there may be a few requirements before final hiring.


Willingness to relocate within the state could be mandatory.
In accordance with Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and Law Enforcement policies, you will likely be asked to cover your tattoos., Being a conservation officer is primarily an outdoor job. You’ll potentially deal with poachers and wild animals encroaching on human domain. Some potential physical requirements follow:


Run 1.5 miles in at least 18:56.
In separate 1:00 intervals, do 24 situps and 21 pushups.
Jump at least 13.5” vertically
Some locations have more bodies of water to cover, and may require swimming (100 yards continuously) and water treading (5:00 continuously) tests. , Not only does a conversation officer need to be psychologically competent, interacting with the public in various forms, but you’ll also need to have a clean legal record. Some states have a few of the following stipulations:


Pass a psychological test
Have no prior felonies, pending felony trials, or domestic battery-related orders
Have a clean drug screening
Be willing and legally able to carry a firearm, and use deadly force if necessary
Possess no military court martial history, The Department of Natural Resources (DNR) has a state-specific application process. In some states, completing a Civil Service Commission Exam of some kind is mandatory. Once the exam is complete and DNR posts a vacancy, you can then apply for the position. , Once you find the job you want, applying for the position will require a resume shows your fit for the position. There may also be a job-fit questionnaire, identifying your ability and desire for CO work. Most of the time, a completed application form is also mandatory.


A location preference sheet is often provided, but a job vacancy may lead to the state sending you to work somewhere other than your preference.
Proof of passing results from the Civil Service Exam

