 You will need a diploma or a general educational development (GED) certificate to become a logger for a company. Most loggers get on-the-job training when they get their first logging company job.;
, Logging is a very physically demanding job, where you work 12 to 14 hour days lifting, pulling and operating machinery. Most new logging jobs are due to replacing older loggers who are retiring or moving on to a less physically demanding job.
 Logging is an extremely dangerous job. Large trees, sharp equipment and heavy machinery require loggers to rely on each other to stay safe. If you are not willing to take the necessary precautions, you risk your life and the lives of your colleagues.
 Mountain states, the Northwest US and Alaska provide the best option in the United States, since there are plenty of forests. You should begin looking for a job in those states and be willing to move along with the contracts you find.
 After a high school education, you may find this is what companies ask about. You must be willing to work outside in cold, wet and slippery conditions most of the year.


In some cold areas of the country, logging is seasonal work. You may need to move to warmer areas to continue logging or find another part-time job.
 Young loggers start out by shadowing loggers. This experience is vital and often grows into a good job., You will be asked to specialize as you move through the logging ranks; however, as a new logger you should be aware of the jobs available in the field. Try them out if possible, so that you can find the best fit.


Tree fallers are those who cut the trees with a chainsaw or larger harvesting machine. Fallers usually cut down trees marked by foresters. They work in pairs, far apart from each other in order to keep away from falling trees.
Buckers cut branches off of trees. Then, they cut timber into smaller logs for transportation, according to the job specifications.
Scalers measure the tree to determine the lumber it will yield.
Chokers wrap chains around the logs while they are on the ground. This allows them to be loaded by larger machinery.Logging skidder operators pick up the trees or drag them onto a loading deck.
Equipment operators load the logs onto the logging truck and transport them.
Foresters manage jobs. They are often the business owners or employees of the forest service or landowner. They indicate what trees should be harvested.
 You will be required to undergo seasonal or yearly sessions presented by companies, the forest service, or other government agencies.
 You can get a two-year certification from community colleges across the mountain states. In some heavily forested locations, a four-year engineering or forestry degree will guarantee you a better paying job.
 Work for several years on a crew to earn respect in the company or crew.
, If you want to work for a company, this position requires more knowledge and leadership than any other position.
 You will be asked to train new loggers, and you are likely to receive a higher wage.
 If you have worked for years or decades, trying out all aspects of the logging trade, you might be in a good position to create your own company. Once you form the company, hire workers and acquire insurance, you can bid on contracts in your local area or further away.

