 Chalkboard paint will adhere to glass surfaces, but you will need to handle the piece with care after you have painted it so that the paint will not chip. This section will instruct you on how to apply chalkboard paint to glass.


In order to paint porcelain mugs and plates, you will need special chalkboard paint for porcelain. Most such paints will require longer curing times, or will need to be baked in the oven once the paint has dried. Paint your porcelain mug or paint, and then refer to the manufacturer's instructions for more specific curing times and baking temperatures.Some paints need several weeks to cure, while others must be cured for a few days and then baked in your oven.
 Soak a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and wipe the surface of the glass clean. This removes any oil and residue that might prevent the paint and primer from sticking properly.If you do not have any rubbing alcohol, you can use glass cleaner instead.
 In order to get sharp, clean lines, you will need to cover the areas that you do not want painted with painter's tape.


You can also use adhesive stencils, or make your own by cutting shapes out of thin sheets of plastic.
 In order to get the chalkboard paint to stick to the glass, you will need to prime it. There are two ways in which you can do it:


Prime the surface you want painted with spray-on or paint-on primer. Be sure to use one intended for glass surfaces and to let it dry completely. Refer to the manufacturer's instructions on the can for more specific drying times, as each brand is different. Most primers will dry within two to four hours.
Buff the surface of the glass with steel wool.Be sure to wipe the surface down again with rubbing alcohol to get rid of any dust caused by the buffing.
 You can use a regular paintbrush or a foam brush. You can also use chalkboard spray paint instead, which will give you the smoothest finish, but it may not be as durable and be prone to chipping and scratching.Wait until the paint has dried before moving on to the next coat. Refer to the paint can for specific drying times; just because the paint feels dry when you touch it doesn't mean that it has completely dry. This can take anywhere between two to four hours, although some craft-grade brands might be ready in less than an hour.


If you are using spray-on paint, hold the can six to eight inches away from the surface you are painting, and apply a light, even coat.
 Once the first coat has dried, apply a second coat. You will need to let the paint cure for three days before you can use it as a chalkboard.
 Lightly score the edges of the painter's tape with a craft knife or scissors, and pull the tape off. By scoring the edges, you lessen the chances of the tape tearing the paint when you remove it.


If the are any gaps along the edges, fill them in with paint using a fine-tipped brush. If there is any excess paint, scrape it off using your fingernail or a craft knife.
 Before you can use your chalkboard surface, you will need to let it cure for three days. Once the paint has cured, you will need to "condition" the surface by rubbing white chalk over it, and then wiping the chalk off. Your surface is now ready to use.Refer to the manufacturer's instructions for more specific drying times. Some surfaces will be ready to use in less than three days, while others will need to cure for longer.
 Do not put your painted glass in the dishwasher or let it soak in water. Doing so may cause the paint to chip or flake off. Instead, wash the glass using dish soap and a sponge or a dishcloth. Do not scrub the painted areas, or they may scratch off.

