 Select blooms without moisture. The rose needs to be dry to the touch but should not be too dry that it loses its brilliance. The drying process magnifies and flaws of your rose especially if it has moisture. Pour 2 inches of silica gel (available at craft stores) into an airtight container. Cut the stems to about 2 inches and place the rose in the Silica Gel stem down. Using a circular motion, gently pour the Silica Gel over the roses. Fill the container and make sure the container remains airtight by using masking tape to seal the lid shut.Keep in mind that the deeper the colour, the longer it will last once preserved.
Use a small container to pour the Silica Gel to give you more control.
Make sure you get Silica Gel between each petal but don’t squish or damage the petals. Use a stick to keep the petals upright and separated as you pour in the Silica Gel.Keep at least one inch of Silica Gel to separate multiple roses in the same container.
Be sure to record the name of the flower and the date on which you sealed it.
Keep the container sealed for at least 2 weeks for standard roses and 1 week for mini roses.Alternatively, you can microwave the gel and flower in a microwave safe dish for 2 to 5 minutes on a low setting. Leave it out to sit for 24 hours before cleaning off the gel.;
, Pour out the silica gel carefully into another container. Hold the rose upside down by the stem and gently brush off Silica gel. Use a small paintbrush or makeup brush to gently remove the Silica gel. You may keep fallen petals and glue them on later.








To attach loose petals, use a glue gun or a toothpick with a drop of tacky glue. Around the outer base of the calyx on the underside of the bloom, attach a fallen petal with just a tiny drop of glue to make sure that it remains inconspicuous. Allow the glue to dry for at least 24 hours., Put on protective gear including rubber gloves, face mask, and protective goggles. Mix 2 ounces of pro-seal 2000 and 3 ounces of denatured alcohol in a bucket.Prior to an ARS rose show, Pro-seal 2000 should not be used.
Pro-seal is a clear, glossy varnish typically used in construction. While it will preserve your rose, make sure that you are careful using it. Always wear gloves and protective goggles.
Denatured alcohol is often used as a house cleaner but is toxic when ingested so be sure to wear protective gear and wash your hands thoroughly after handling.
 Using a 6 ounce preval spray gun, spray your mixture of 2 ounces of pro-seal 2000 and 3 ounces of denatured alcohol to apply a thin coat to all the surfaces of the rose. Apply the finish at 70 degrees fahrenheit with a 50% humidity or less.








Let the rose dry for 24 hours or more. Once dry, repeat the process and add a second coat.
 Remove the moisture from your silica gel by placing it in an oven pan for an hour at 250 degrees fahrenheit. Once you see vivid blue cobalt crystals remove them and cool at room temperature. Once cool, place them in an airtight container and seal the lid with masking tape.








