 Get connected with other people. In a world in which we can easily connect with others via technology, it can paradoxically also feel like a very isolating place. Break away from the routine of sitting quietly on the bus with your headphones and spark up a conversation with someone. Who knows where it could lead! You may think that you won't enjoy this but studies show that people often get unexpected enjoyment from talking with strangers. , Engage your mind with a mentally stimulating hobby. Learn how to play a musical instrument or pick up a new sport. To make it interesting, seek out others who engage in the same hobby. You can learn from them and make new friends.
 Studies show that when we help out or spend money on other people, it actually makes us feel good - more so even than spending money on ourselves. Use the positive feelings you get from helping others to become excited about life. Think about the implications: you can be a force for positive change in the world, and feel great about it.There are a number of things you could do to help others:


Donate your time to a charitable cause you care about.
Pay it forward by buying the movie tickets for the people behind you in line.
Buy a meal or a warm blanket for a homeless person.
 We are deeply social animals. Love is one of the best feelings around; it changes your perception; it is exciting, exhilarating. Although you can't just choose to fall in love, you can do things that help increase your odds:


Date. If you aren't putting yourself out into the world, you're unlikely to fall in love.
Try to be more accepting of people.
 There are countless people who have written or said beautiful things about life and the nature of living. Get inspired and excited about life through their words. Try the following to start:


A passage by Richard Dawkins from his book Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion, and the Appetite for Wonder: http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/83303-we-are-going-to-die-and-that-makes-us-the

A quote by Robert Brault: http://www.goodreads.com/quotes/1017924-why-be-saddled-with-this-thing-called-life-expectancy-of


, Sometimes, a lack of excitement about life can reflect an underlying mental health condition. It is possible that you are suffering from depression or an anxiety disorder that is getting in the way of your happiness. There are a number of ways to get help for this.


Start by seeking out a mental health professional who can help to identify whether you might be suffering from a mental health disorder such as depression.

You can find a mental health profession here: http://locator.apa.org/




