 Your child is constantly growing and changing. Make it a priority to learn about them. Ask them the name of their teacher, coaches, babysitters, and other people in their lives. Find out the names of their friends and crushes. Listen when they talk, remember details, and bring them up again later.Listening to your child can help you determine their likes and what interests have changed.
Find out what they like about school and what they struggle with.
Keep up with extracurricular activities your child is involved in.
 Children don’t always have the same conversation skills as adults. They may not feel comfortable elaborating when asked a question. When talking to your child, try to ask open-ended questions that will encourage your child to talk instead of ones that can be answered in one or two words.For example, ask, “What did you do at school today?,” “What did you enjoy about dance class today?,” or “Why do you like that movie the best?”
Ask follow-up questions when your child answers briefly.
 Just because you are not seeing your child in person doesn’t mean you can’t connect to them. Technology has made it easy to stay in touch with people. You can call your child, text them throughout the week, send pictures to each other, Skype, or even e-mail.Sending a text midway through the week letting your child know you’re thinking about them and love them is an easy way to connect them.
Call them in the evening to ask how they did on the test they mentioned over the weekend, or ask them how the project they told you about turned out.
 Letting your children know about your past can help you two connect. Tell them about interests you had when you were younger, things you did in school, or successes and failures you had. Tell them stories about their grandparents, great-grandparents, and aunts and uncles. This gives them a piece of their past and family they never had, and helps you two connect.Share good memories of their other parent, even if you two are no longer together or don’t get along.
Show them pictures, yearbooks, and mementos from your past.
 Show your child that you are interested in them by sharing that interest. It doesn’t matter if you like it or not. Your child may be young and love a kid’s television show or be obsessed with dolls. The goal is to connect to your child by showing interest in things they are interested in.If they like a television show, watch it with them. If they like a sports team, watch the games with them. Listen to their favorite band with them in the car, or read their favorite book and discuss it afterwards.

