 If you purchased the shrimp frozen, place them in a bowl of ice water until it is defrosted. Alternately, you can thaw the shrimp in a bowl of lemon juice with ice for an added citrus flavor.If you have frozen raw shrimp rather than cooked shrimp, you should next transfer the shrimp to boiling water and poach them for one to two minutes. Remove it from the pot with a slotted spoon. Rinse the shrimp in a sieve under cold water to halt the cooking process.;
, Rinse the shrimp clean, if you haven’t already. Pull off the head and legs. Remove the shells and tails. Devein the shrimp.Keep shrimp on ice or in ice water while you’re working with them.
Use one pound of shrimp. Adjust this measurement if you plan to add other types of seafood.
Peel off the outer shell beginning with the head end. Use a small paring knife to cut 1/4" deep along the outside of the shrimp’s back to locate and remove the vein., In a bowl, combine the shrimp with the following ingredients: two tablespoons of lime or lemon juice; one tablespoon of chopped green onion; and a dash of chile powder. Marinate for ten to thirty minutes before straining out the juice.Add one tablespoon of chopped cilantro, if desired.
Optionally, you can substitute Caribbean jerk seasoning for the chile powder., Slice up one onion, and place it into a bowl. Remove the core and stem from one red and one green bell pepper, and slice up the rest. Put the slices into the bowl with the onion. Remove the seeds from one jalapeno pepper. Mince the pepper into a separate small bowl.Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly in warm soapy water after handling jalapeno pepper. Do not touch your eyes or face with unwashed hands.
 Warm up a large skillet over high heat. Then drizzle on two tablespoons of olive oil. Swirl the pan to distribute the oil evenly. Pour in the white onion, red pepper and green pepper, and let it sit for one minute without stirring.Use the fan over your range and/or crack a window for ventilation.
 Keep the heat on high. Stir the contents of the pan after a minute passes. Once cooked, remove the vegetables from the skillet.Allow the vegetables to darken to a goldish brown color around the edges before removing them from the pan. The vegetables will be somewhat softened.
 Remove the skillet from the burner. Stir in the jalapeno pepper and the shrimp.For example, consider adding flaked, cooked crabmeat or chopped imitation crabmeat. You can also add cooked, chopped scallops and/or lobster meat., Brush the inside of the pan with a teaspoon of vegetable oil. Once the oil is hot, put a tortilla in.Instead of the stovetop, you can cook the quesadillas on a heated gas or charcoal grill., Spoon 1/6 of the shrimp mixture onto the tortilla. Add 1/2 cup of a shredded blend of Mexican cheese. Fold the tortilla once. Continue cooking for three to five minutes on each side, or until each side of the tortilla is lightly browned.Use a spatula to flip the tortillas. Repeat this step with all tortillas and filling.
 Remove the quesadillas from heat and allow them to cool until they are no longer steaming. Wrap any uneaten quesadillas in foil and refrigerate them.Serve the quesadillas with guacamole, lettuce, sour cream, and wedges of lime.,