 Combine your 1 1/2 cups (210 g) of gluten-free flour, 1/2 teaspoon of xanthan gum, 1/2 teaspoon of kosher salt, and 1/2 teaspoon of baking soda together in a large mixing bowl. Add the 1/2 teaspoon baking soda, 1/2 teaspoon baking powder, and teaspoon of ground cinnamon bowl and whisk. Continue to stir the dry ingredients until they are well-mixed., In a separate bowl, combine the chocolate chips with a teaspoon of the flour mixture. Mix these together with your hands or a bowl until all of the chips are coated in the dry mixture., Combine 1/2 cup (100 g) granulated sugar and 1/2 cup (109 g) of brown sugar to the flour bowl and mix it with a spoon. Break up larger pieces of the brown sugar until everything is a fine dust., Add some of your grated zucchini to the dry mixture bowl before tossing it to cover all of the pieces. Continue to mix it until the zucchini is evenly distributed in the flour mixture., Use the remaining 7/8 cups (88 g) of grated zucchini to make the wet mixture. Pulse the ingredients on medium in a food processor until they are well incorporated and the mixture is smooth., You can make a well in your flour mixture by pushing flour up to the sides and leaving an empty space in the middle of the mix. Once the well is formed, pour your wet mixture into the dry flour mixture. Mix it together with a whisk until it forms a batter., Pour half of your chocolate chips and all of your zucchini into the batter and fold it until it's mixed well. The other half of your chocolate chips should be saved so that you can coat the top of your loaf of bread with them., Use a standard 9" x 5" loaf pan when making this bread.The mixture should still be somewhat watery. Use a spatula to get the remaining dough from the bowl and pour it into your loaf pan. When all of the batter has been transferred, smooth the top with a spatula., Take the rest of your chocolate chips and scatter them on the top of your zucchini bread's surface. Press the chips down into the bread using a spatula so that they are embedded in the bread's surface.When the bread is finished cooking, it will produce a delicious looking, chocolate chip covered surface for your bread.
 Make sure that your oven is properly preheated before placing your bread into it or else your baking times will be off and your bread may come out underdone. Rotate the bread half way through cooking so that it cooks evenly throughout. Your bread will be done when the surface is a golden brown.You can also push a toothpick into the bread to check for doneness. The toothpick should have baked bread crumbs on it, not wet batter.
 Once your bread is done cooking, allowing it to cool will let the center of the bread set and finish cooking. Once you've allowed it to cool, use a knife to cut the bread into slices.