 Being bright and sunny means finding the good in almost any situation. Optimists are more successful in nearly every area of life – work, school, relationships, sports, and creative endeavors. Positive thinkers get depressed less often, make more money, and have happier marriages. Try saying, “And the good news is...,” and then finishing the sentence.You may have the flu, but the good news is...now you have time to binge-watch an entire season of your favorite show.Someone just backed into your car and broke your tail light. But the good news is...now you get to spend some quality time with your brother, who offered to fix it for you.;
, Although some researchers believe that your degree of optimism is hereditary, most psychologists believe you can learn to become a more positive person. When faced with a difficult situation, think of all the different possible outcomes and then focus on the most favorable one.If you have to move because of family or work, imagine being presented with exciting new opportunities that you wouldn't have had if you'd stayed where you are.
If you have a fight with someone you love, expect your relationship to recover and be even stronger in the future because you went through this now.
 Cheerful, optimistic people tend to be grateful for what they have. If you ever find yourself feeling envious of what others have, take a mental inventory of all the good things in your life. Remind yourself that there are people whose lives are much harder than yours.Keep a journal, and try to think of three good things that happened that day, no matter how small, like having lunch with a friend or doing well on an assignment.
Expressing your gratitude to people you care about is a critical part of maintaining close relationships., Sunny people smile a lot. If you aren't feeling sunny at the moment, try acting like you are. Research shows that the physical act of smiling actually makes you feel happier. This is called facial feedback – when you flex the muscles involved in smiling, your brain thinks something good must have just happened...and adjusts your mood accordingly.People who held a pen in their mouth – forcing their face to smile – rated cartoons more amusing than those who held their faces still.Botox patients who were unable to frown reported feeling happier overall., Sometimes life can be very difficult, and you can't help having some negative thoughts and blue moods. The trick is to try to find the balance between being optimistic and being realistic.


Staying realistic will help boost productivity and keep anxiety in check.
A potential side effect of too much positive thinking is denial, so try to be realistic and grounded as well.
 Putting too much pressure on yourself to think positive thoughts may have negative results. Remember that no one can be bright and sunny 100 percent of the time, so allow yourself to experience your own emotions in a genuine way.When people believe they are expected to feel nothing but positive emotions, they actually experience more negative emotions, and more frequently.If you feel pressured to “think positive” all the time, you may begin to blame yourself for not feeling happy enough.

