 A first grade child may be still at the precommunicative stage of writing, which means that he only has a rough idea of the alphabet. Your first grader may recognize different letters of the alphabet, but be unaware of words as a visual construct. Spaces between words may not be noticed.For children in this stage, continue to teach alphabet shapes and expose the child to written words through reading aloud with him.
Never attempt to correct the spelling of a child at this stage of writing.
 By first grade, some children will be at the semiphonetic stage of reading. A this stage, the child is making a connection between the sound of the word and the sound of a letter or two within the word. He may dramatically abbreviate the word, such as using T or D for dog.The word that the child may attempt to spell first may be his name, or the M for Mom or D for Dad.
Children's ability to segment, or separate, the distinct sounds of a word may be still emerging.
Encourage a child to write often, no matter how difficult the word may be to read. Don't worry about spelling at this stage, but provide help if the child is open.
 This is a common stage for first graders, a stage of spelling that assumes basic knowledge of the alphabet and understand that words and sounds are connected. A speller at this stage may use "invented" spelling patterns based on the sound of the word.Children at this level will be more interested in learning correct spelling. Provide models of correctly spelled words, and start to encourage them to think about how to spell words for themselves. This is a wonderful stage to start to help a child with spelling.Examples of invented spellings might be kam for came, wel for will, fes for fish, etc.
Another thing you might notice is that the child starts to recognize beginning patterns in words, noticing rhymes and similar sounds.
 A few first graders might already be at the transitional stage of spelling. At this stage, the student will have emerging reading skills and recognize many words. They begin to understand that sounds are represented by letter combinations, and that words can be made plural or altered in other ways by suffixes and prefixes.Being patient with mistakes at this stage is essential. The words might actually be more difficult to understand than with a phonetic speller, but the child's spelling mistakes are based in inadequate understanding of spelling patterns. Continue to teach the patterns that make for good spelling.
Teach the child how to laugh at spelling inconsistencies as are so often found in the English language. Reminders of appropriate spelling can also be taught at this stage, such as "I before E, except after C, unless it's an A as in neighbor or weigh."

