 Before you decide on the destination of you vacation, ask your teen where he would like to go. Let him or her do some research on possible vacation spots. Involving the teen in planning your vacation will hopefully make him more enthusiastic about the trip.


Have a brainstorm of ideas about it. You could do this during dinner when the family is complete, or a chill Sunday while everyone is up for relaxing and watching television.
However, it's important not to start an argument. Try to create a positive attitude about your adventure together. Express your excitement and stress the fact that you want everyone to be happy, including the teenager.;
, Choose a vacation that meets everyone's expectations and needs. For example, if your teen would like to go on an adventure trip but you want to go to the beach then maybe you could settle for a cruise.


If your teen likes to play games or sports but his other siblings want to go swimming then maybe you could go to a recreation resort.
Just try to find something that everyone will enjoy.
 It's a good idea to plan on bringing some items that will distract your teen and keep him happy while travelling.


Bring some gadgets (tablet, cell phone, mp3 player, etc.) with headphones. You can let your teen use these while travelling in the car, or waiting to board the plane.
You could also surprise your teen with some new books or magazines that they could read while travelling.
 Plan on bringing some snacks to keep your teen from getting too hungry, especially if you are in a place where food is not easily accessible. This is really important, as hunger will put your teen in a bad mood.


Give your teen snacks at regular snacks but don't allow him to overeat, otherwise he will lose his appetite for the next meal and won't want to sit with the family.
Some good snack options are fruits, yogurt, vegetable pizza, etc. You can choose other healthy snacks depending on your teen's preferences.
 This is one of the most important factors to consider before traveling. You have to figure out how much you’re going to need if you want a stress-free vacation.


Make sure that you set aside some spending money for your teen as part of your budget. He can use this money to buy souvenirs for his friends, buy ice cream, sodas, etc.
 When you arrive at your destination, agree on some ground rules like, “no gadgets allowed.”


Of course, you can adjust this rule according to your preferences. If you want, allocate specific times when your teen is allowed to use gadgets, for example, before going to sleep. Make it clear that the rest of the time is family time.
This rule is important because you don't want your teen to miss out on fun things like sightseeing and tours. Otherwise he may be physically present but mentally absent, just because he is too immersed in his smartphone.
 Take an advantage of the fact that your teen is so into the internet. Ask him to help you look for tourist attractions. Your teen might feel more excited when he knows more about where you are going.


This is also a good way to make him feel more involved, as it gives him a sense of authority and makes him feel like he is in charge of the family outing.
Assign a task for your teen. This could be something as simple as putting him in charge of preparing the food, for instance. This prevents your teen from getting bored, while also teaching him to be more responsible and independent.
 While you need to consider your teen’s interests, you shouldn't make the whole trip about him either. He need to understand that this is your vacation too and that you deserve to enjoy it.


Maybe you could agree to split each day in two - for the first half of the day he gets to choose what he wants to, but for the second half of the day he has to go along with whatever the rest of the family wants.
 If you want to make your vacation as pleasurable and relaxing as possible, try to be as patient with your teen as you can. Don't let him stress you out with his sullen mood.


Keep an open-mind as your teen may be really moody for a particular reason (though sometimes they will just be moody for no reason at all). Try to talk to your teen and see if there is something in particular that's bothering them.
When you have a disagreement, try to be as calm and understanding as possible. When you are composed, you are inviting your teen to be calm as well; and things won't escalate into a full-blown screaming match.
 Whether you are staying in a hotel, apartment, camping area, etc., try to make the most of it by planning some activities.


Take advantage of the leisure facilities of the hotel or apartment, as this is a fun way to hang out with and bond with your teen. You could use the swimming pool, fitness room, spa center or bike hire, for example.
For camping areas, you have unlimited “facilities” that you can take full advantage of - that is nature itself! Embrace the opportunity of being one with nature by doing yoga with your teen. You could also lie down under the stars with your teen and just talk about life.
 Souvenirs serve as something that will remind both of you of where you have been, along with the memories that you created with each other.


You could consider buying something related to your teen’s favorite activity from the trip, like a t-shirt with a surfboard on it.
Make your teen happy by allowing him choose some souvenirs to give to his friends.
 This may be his one chance to take a rest from the stress of school, exams, etc. You will also appreciate your teen getting enough sleep, as he may be less grumpy the next day if he's well-rested!

