 Your first challenge is to find a broken glue gun. You might ask your parents or an art teacher if there is a broken model that you can use as the frame for a toy you are making, but be sure you ask to use it first. To make this toy gun, you'll need:


Glue gun
Screwdriver
Party snaps (optional)
Paint (optional)
Black electrical tape (optional)
Glue (optional)

, Once you know it is safe to take apart, use your screwdriver to take out the screws from the casing.


If you have a battery powered hot glue gun, you should remove the batteries before attempting to unscrew it.
 Now that the screws are out, you shouldn't have much difficulty pulling the two plastic halves of the case apart, though you might meet with some resistance. If you have difficulty taking the casing apart, twist the casing slightly to pop it free. Then:


Identify the trigger and loading mechanisms, which should be connected. The trigger, when pulled, will cause the loading mechanism to push glue sticks through the casing.Remove all the internal components except the trigger and loading mechanisms.
Take off the metal nozzle at the front of the gun., Use your screwdriver to reinsert the screws into your casing and fasten it together again. Then, test the trigger by pressing down on it with your finger. You should be able to feel some resistance, which means that the trigger is still moving the loading device in the casing.


If the trigger is loose and feels like it isn't engaging the loading mechanism, you'll need to make adjustments.
Open the casing and check the connection between the trigger and loading mechanism. Repair any breaks between the two with tape.
If it appears that the trigger and loading mechanism have been separated, you may have to reconnect the two with tape.
 You can give your toy gun a sight by gluing a bead on top of the front end of the barrel. You should also consider painting your gun a more authentic color, like black or gray, but feel free to use your imagination.


There may be a gun in your favorite TV show or video game that you'd like to imitate. Use your paint to decorate your gun until you are satisfied with its appearance.
 A bang snap is a kind of novelty firework that, when thrown or stepped on produces a loud noise similar to the caps used in a cap gun. Create your sound effect by triggering the bang snap with the loading mechanism by:


Placing a party snap inside the loading area.
Pulling the trigger to engage the loading mechanism.

