 The more you read, the more you will be inspired to write. You will begin to naturally pick up rules of grammar and new writing styles. You will become more familiar with different styles, genres, and literary devices. By getting a sense of what sort of writing you like, you will begin to develop your own writing style., The more words you have access to, the better you will be able to communicate your ideas. With stronger vocabulary is, it will be easier for you to paraphrase the writing of others.When you encounter a word you don’t know, look it up!
Browse a dictionary or thesaurus for fun.
Talk to others. The spoken word is a great source of new and exciting vocabulary.
 If you don’t understand the basic mechanics of sentences, you’ll always have trouble constructing them.When you maintain a grasp on the basics of grammar, your unique words can flow freely and be easily understood by your readers. Study some resources on grammar and style in order to fortify your knowledge.


A good resource is Strunk and White’s Elements of Style.
Another great resources is Stephen King’s On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft.
 Literary devices, such as theme, symbolism, and dramatic irony, can be used to make your essay more interesting and to express a deeper message. Even academic essays can benefit from the use of appropriate literary devices.Theme: A common thread or idea that is appears throughout a literary work.
Symbolism: An object, character, or color that is used to represent an important idea or concept.
Dramatic Irony: Irony that occurs when the meaning of the situation is understood by the audience but not by the characters.
 Try to write using a variety of locations and tools. For example, try using a notebook and pen at a coffee shop, or typing on your laptop at home. In fact, writing with a paper and pen will make you less likely to copy, and more likely to paraphrase. Try composing a personal diary entry or a letter to a friend. All of these methods will help you to further develop your own writing style, as well as improve your skills of organization and composition. 