 The Pilot is one of the leading character in the game. The Pilot is best suited to flying the airship—though anyone can take the wheel and fly the ship regardless of their class, but compared to other classes, the Pilot has the ability to focus on aerial maneuvers.


A Pilot can equip at least 3 piloting equipment, such as Moonshine, Kerosene, Hydrogen Canister, and Chute Vent. They can also equip one repair item and one weapon.
The Pilot's role of the game is to navigate the ship effectively and help Gunners have a good aim at the enemy.
The Pilot is the head leader of the group; it is much more effective if he or she gave orders to organize the crew.
To navigate your ship, press E at the wheel. Press R to pick up speed, F to decrease and back up, and W and S to increase and decrease latitude.
Moonshine and Kerosene can be placed in the piloting equipment slot. These items are used to increase speed in order to close the distance between his or her ship and the enemy’s. They are also useful for Pilots with the intention to ram others.
Impact Bumpers are piloting tools used to decrease the damage of colliding into other ships. It’s useful with Moonshine and Kerosene or for Pilots who wish to withstand enemies’ ramming attack.
Hydrogen Canister and Chute Vent are piloting tools used to increase the output of the ship's balloon or zeppelin. With this active, the ship will be able to ascend and descend much quicker. They’re good for avoiding attacks, especially Flamethrowers.
Using Hydrogen Canister and Chute Vent will inflict a bit of damage to your balloon.
Drogue Chute is used as counter to ships with balloon-destroying weapons. This tool will make the ship descend slowly if your balloon has been destroyed, giving the Engineers time to fix it. The drawback of using the Drogue Chute is that the ship's engines will be less than half as effective than normal.
Phoenix Claw is a Pilot's tool used to quickly rotate the ship, giving -65% angular drag and +300% longitudinal drag. Using this will inflict 13 damage per second to all engines.
Tar Barrel is another Pilot's tool. While active, it is used to damage and lose pursuers, releasing a cloud of tar behind it once every three seconds. The drawback is, the engines will also take damage. Ships that pass through the tar cloud will take damage to all systems.
Tar Barrel is used mostly by Pilots.
For repair tools, its advisable that the Pilot use the Pipe Wrench because it is the middle-of-the-road tool for both repairing and fixing.
Pilots can leave the helm to assist in the repairing or fixing damaged parts or even hop on a gun to help attack while the ship continues to fly.;
, As the class name suggests, Gunners specialize in taking control of an airship's weapons and attacking the enemy crafts. Gunners can switch between three different types of ammunition, as the situation dictates.


Gunners can also carry a repair tool into battle but lacks the versatility needed for complex repair work. Gunners often resort to maintaining only their primary weapon.
Gunners have 1 piloting equipment, the spyglass, and 1 repairing equipment. Most gunners use the Dynabuff Industries Kit instead of hammer or wrench.
Dynabuff is a hammer used to increase the output of ship components without damaging them. Every ship component can be buffed for bonuses, which is why Gunners prefer to use this item in order for them to buff up their guns, gaining extra damage.
Press E to any weapon you wish to use. You can change ammunition by moving the mouth wheel. To fire, right-click the mouse, and left-click to use the scope.
Burst Rounds are often used to wreck an enemy ship's system by increase the AoE radius on the gun.
Charged Rounds are used when increased damage is needed.
Greased Rounds are great for high DPS assaults as long as the Gunner is able to be accurate. It’s very useful along with Flamethrower.
Heatsink Clip is useful to prevent the gun from becoming unusable due to fire damage.
Heavy Clip is a perfect clip for weapons with a lot of weapon spread, such as Whirlwind, Banshee, and Hwacha, because it will lower the spread, which allows for longer range and more accurate shots.
Incendiary Rounds give the enemy Engineers grief as it randomly ignites systems for damage over time.
Lesmok Rounds increase the range of a gun by making the bullets fly faster and drop slower.
Lochnagar Shot is a high-risk, high-reward ammo that increases the damage of the gun to extreme heights, but it locks the weapon's turning capabilities and instantly breaks the gun after firing one shot.
 If you believe being an Engineer is an easy job in the game, you're wrong. Engineers are assigned in maintaining and repairing the ship. They extinguish fires, repair, build, and even enhance the ship's components.


Engineers carry 3 repair equipment with different uses that would fit any possible situations they may encounter.
Engineers also have to choose between the Chemical Spray or the Fire Extinguisher. Fire Extinguisher is better for single hit, high-fire problems while the Chemical Spray is more suited for long periods of multiple-hit-sustained fire damage.
Use the mouse wheel to change fixing tools, then right-click the engine you wish to fix.
Shifting Spanner is used in rebuilding the engines.
Rubber Mallet is used, along with the Shifting Spanner, to avoid the drawbacks of both tools.
Pipe Wrench is most commonly used by Engineers who want the best of both Rubber Mallet and Shifting Spanner. These tools fix broken ship systems twice as fast as the mallet and repairs three times as fast as the spanner. Draw back is, it fixes systems 1 rebuild power less than the spanner, and repairs about half as much as the mallet, but with constant attention, Pipe Wrench will be a very effective tool.
Dynabuff Industries Kit, along with the Pipe Wrench, increases the output of the ship's component without the fear of receiving any damage. It gives bonus damage to guns and extra pushing and turning power to engines; hulls gain more armor, and balloons lose vertical drag, which increases up and down movement.
 The Galleon has six gun load-out points. It has four medium gun point on the lower deck, two on the port side, and two on the starboard side. There are two small gun points, one on the mid-port side, and one on the stern's upper deck.


The Galleon is the only ship with two medium-sized cannons pointing in the same direction.
Having two medium carronades can be incredibly strong for a more aggressive play style.
If you go against fast ships, such as the Squid or the Goldfish, it can be useful to put a harpoon on a spare small weapon slot to avoid getting circled.
 The Goldfish is equipped with three gun points. There are two small gun points, one on the port side and one on the starboard side. There is also one medium gun point on the bow of the ship.


The Goldfish is a warship that has found widespread use as a front-line fighter.
It’s capable of both menacing charges and devastating broadside sweeps.
Despite the low hull armor, the Goldfish is one of the fastest ship in the game.
 The Junker has five small-weapon hard points, three mounted topside on the deck at port, starboard, and bow. Two more are mounted below deck at port and starboard.


The Junker has a decent number of weapons to be used for defense and offense, but despite the firepower, the Junker has a slow top speed and is lacking in hull health.
 A newly released ship in the game, the Mobula is a more advanced attack ship with 5 front-facing guns, though there are no guns on the side or back. The ship has good vertical movement but is more difficult to repair in the heat of the battle.


The Mobula is best equipped with shattering weapons such as flak cannons and missiles to cripple the engines and guns than use Gatlings or mortars to burst down the enemy.
Having 5 guns facing at the front can be use as an advantage, but repairing this ship can be a pain since engines and balloon are found on either side, which leads your engineers to run back and forth just to check and repair.
 This ship is built for steady and straight-line charges, using its armor-plated balloon to ram against the opponent. Many captains prefer the Pyramidion for its overall durability and ability to concentrate fire.
 The Spire has 4 gun load-out points. It has one medium gun on the second deck, and three small guns—one on the top deck, one on the middle deck, and one in the mid top deck facing the starboard side.


The Spire is not fast enough for close combat, but Pilots often adopt a ranged tactic since the Spire can be turned quickly and with ease.
All guns can be pointed at one direction, targeting the enemy from the distance, then simultaneously fired.
The Spire is a devastating ship if in a great captain's hands.
 The Squid has three small gun load-out points, one on each of the bow, the starboard side, and the stern. Despite the low hull armor (lower than the Goldfish), the Squid possesses high speed and maneuverability.


This ship has become increasingly popular as an assault and raiding vessel, and can be quite menacing when properly equipped.
The Squid tends to come in fast, with guns blazing, then depart as weapons continue to rain bullets.
 Medium guns are currently the biggest weapons in Guns of Icarus Online. They can only be placed in medium gun slots, which are currently only available on the Galleon, the Goldfish, and the Spire.


It is not possible to place a small gun in a medium gun slot.
Hellhound Heavy Twin Carronade is a larger, slower, and more powerful carronade that fires a burst of piercing short-range shotgun. This weapon is highly effective against balloons and components. It has a shatter kind of damage.
Typhoon Heavy Flak Cannon is a medium-range cannon that fires explosive projectiles, dealing substantial damage with a wide area of effect. If combined with Lesmok Rounds, it will have a better accuracy and range.
Manticore Heavy Hwacha is best used with Heavy Clip. Manticore fires a blinding barrage of 20 rockets for a powerful area of denial effect. Each rocket does light explosive damage.
Lumberjack Heavy Mortar is a high-arcing weapon with balloon-damaging flechette AoE. This mid-range weapon is excellent for destroying both hull and balloons alike. It has a very high pitch rotation, and using this at lower altitudes than the target can yield better success.
 Light guns are the most common weapons in Guns of Icarus Online. There are a total of 12 light guns so far. You can only put light guns in light guns slots. Generally, this type of weapon don't hit as hard as the medium weapon, but it can still wreck a fair amount of havoc with quicker loading times.


Artemis Light Rocket Launcher is a slow-fire rate missile with good range and damage output. It has direct damage explosive and shatter AoE.
Banshee Light Rocket Carousel is a high-fire rate, medium-range gun. Banshee has no bullet arc and has mildly poor accuracy. It is best used with Heavy Clip.
Barking Dog Light Carronade fires a wide shotgun burst of shredding projectiles at close range. It is best used with Heavy Clip.
Beacon Flare Gun can shoot burning flare that hovers in the air to reveal ships hidden in cloud cover. It can also be used to cause fire damage.
Dragon Tongue Light Flamethrower is the best weapon for inflicting flame to the enemy. Use it at close range.
Echidna Light Flak Cannon rapidly fires four shots before reloading, though the reload time is slow. It is a good choice fit with Lesmok Rounds or Heavy clip if used for long range.
Hades Light Cannon is a new cannon released in Guns of Icarus. Its range reaches 1,400 meters (4,593.2 ft) and is effective against balloon, hull, and armor.
Javelin Light Harpoon Gun is a harpoon that deals massive damage to hulls and reels in enemies when rope is attached. Very useful on ships that has fast speed.
Mercury Field Gun has the longest distance shot and the fastest moving projectile in the game. It’s very effective with Lesmok Rounds to ensure a hit each shot.
Phobos Mine Launcher lays impact-detonated floating mines at short range. The mines will arm and deploy after 3 seconds, and each gun supports 5 mines at a time.
Scylla Double-Barreled Mortar fires heavy explosive shells over medium range with limited accuracy. Using Heavy Clip or Lesmok Rounds is recommended.
Whirlwind Light Gatling Gun is a close-range piercing weapon with a very high rate of fire. It’s effective against armor and is commonly used paired with Light Flak Cannon and Double-Barreled Mortar. Using Heavy Clip is recommended.

