 What features about yourself to you most want to change - your hair, skin, clothes? Make a list of everything you want to change.;
, Go for drastic. It sounds severe, but you're never going to change yourself, or feel better if you have basically the same thing you started with. Go to a well reviewed salon, and talk to the stylist first.


Try dying your hair a lighter colour, with subtle highlights, or go for it completely, and go for a bold red. Then get it cut. Try going shorter, it will make you feel confident and fresh. Layers are also a good change, to make it more casual, tousled look.
Then with your new style try out different styling techniques at home, maybe curling, straightening or even waving it. Also try new and different shampoos to find the perfect one for you, and apple a conditioning mask once a week.
 A good face routine is key if you want to stay looking radiant. Try the cleanse, tone and moisturise technique morning and night, for a brand new you with a clear soft face, also apply a facial scrub once a week, and a face mask once a month.
 Don't ever overdo it and look like a tart, but used in the right amounts and it can make you look flawless. You may want to try out going to a department store and get them to give you a make over, but if you don't want to do that there are other ways to find the perfect look. Try going into a drugstore to find the perfect tone of foundation, then buy a few other basics such as concealer, blusher, eyeliner, mascara and lipstick.


Experiment at home, and expand your collection until you find the perfect look for a new you. Even if you're in a rush, never leave the house with a flick of mascara and a lick of lipgloss.
 This may seem radical, but maybe you've always wanted a second ear piercing, or a nose piercing but too scared to do it? Well now is the perfect time to take that extra step, and go for it!

, Buy a few basic items for your wardrobe from cheap places or sales, so you'll never have a disaster day again. This could be things like skinny jeans, hoodies, simple t shirts and vest tops. Then find the style you feel comfortable and confident in, a splash out a bit more to walk with an extra spring in your step.
 There are certain basic shoes that are a must have for any outfit. Make sure in your wardrobe you have: a pair of heels, sneakers, ballet pumps, boots and plimsolls. Have these and you can complete your outfit.
 To get that summer bikini body, you have to keep it in shape. Try a bit of yoga, or Pilates and begin a sport to build up your stamina and keep you slim and trim. Also make sure you drink plenty of water, to keep your skin clear, and use a body moisturiser to keep it soft and smooth.
 Jewelry is the final piece to complete any look. If you what to be bolder, try layering necklaces and bangles for a heavier look. However if you want to be a more subtle beauty, try a simple necklace and bracelet with a couple of rings and a cute pair of earrings.
 Finally, keep yourself busy, and organized; there's nothing worse than somebody running around five minutes late for anything. Make sure you do exercise everyday, and try hanging out more with friends, or even acquaintances to broaden your group, it will make seem friendlier and nicer, making people notice and appreciate you more.

