 Deep cycle batteries are used in a number of applications, so they are carried at most auto parts stores. You may want to shop for deep cycle batteries at specialty RV sales locations however, as their clerks will be more knowledgeable about what you need the batteries to be capable of in order to power the interior of your RV. Ask the clerk at an RV specific retail location for help choosing the best battery for your needs.Deep cycle batteries tend to be slightly more expensive than more common automotive batteries, but can still usually be found for $100 to $400.
Let the clerk at an RV specific retail location know about things that may affect battery life like large televisions or multiple computers that will need to be powered.
 While the chassis or starter battery in your RV is designed to produce a brief but high output of energy to start the engine, deep cycle batteries are designed to produce lower, more consistent levels of output to power electronics and appliances within the RV. These batteries can be recharged more often and drained deeper than chassis batteries without compromising the life of the battery.These batteries power the lights, refrigerators, side motors, water heaters and any other mechanisms that require electricity in the living quarters of your RV.
The batteries powering your living quarters must always produce 12 volt output.
 Deep cycle batteries in your RV must product 12 volts, but you don’t necessarily have to use a single 12 volt battery. Two six volt batteries can be strung together to create the same power output, but can allow for different storage options. Storage space is always an important consideration in RVs, and the design of yours may allow for two small batteries more readily than a single large one.Six volt batteries are often sold for golf carts. These batteries can be strung together to power the living quarters of your RV.
String batteries together by connecting the negative terminal on one to the positive of the next with a wire, then connecting the open terminals on each battery to the vehicle.
 Deep cycle batteries are the best option for powering the living quarters of your RV, but they aren’t the only one. Marine batteries can also be used for this purpose. These batteries can serve as either chassis or living quarters batteries because they are designed to produce both high initial output and consistent long lasting output. They don’t do either as well as batteries designed to do just one thing, but do both well enough for use.Marine batteries are not as efficient as deep cycle batteries, but come at a significantly lower cost.
You cannot deplete marine battery as deeply or as often as you can with deep cycle batteries.
 Deep cycle batteries are designed to tolerate being depleted and recharged often, but the way you choose to recharge your batteries may affect the type of battery you should choose. Many people charge their deep cycle batteries by plugging them into an outlet at their house or a campground, but others opt to use things like solar panels. Plugging your batteries into a power source is the fastest way to charge your batteries, but not all batteries tolerate being charged quickly as well.If you choose to plug your batteries in often to charge, you may want to use a wet cell or AGM battery, as they tolerate fast charging the best.
Gel batteries will tolerate fast charging, but may not last as long.
Trickle chargers can deliver slow charges that are not as harsh on the battery.
 Just like with the chassis battery, there are two main options for battery type when powering the living quarters of your RV. Wet cell batteries offer lower costs, but may occasionally require service to maintain. VRLA batteries come in two forms: gel and AGM and often cost more than traditional wet cell batteries.Gel batteries last longer than wet cell batteries but don’t tolerate fast charging as well. They are usually more expensive than wet cell batteries.
AGM batteries are the most expensive option, but last longer than gel batteries and put up with fast charging as well as wet cell batteries.
 When you know exactly what type of battery you want, make sure to check the Amp-Hour (AH) and Reserve Capacity (RC) ratings to help you choose a specific one. The AH rating is a measure of how many amps the battery you choose will deliver over a span of 20 hours. The RC rating is the length of time the battery you choose can sustain a load of 25 amps.The higher the AH rating, the more things your battery can power.
The higher the RC rating, the longer the battery will last while doing so.

