 It is ideal to receive the vaccine at age 11 or 12 (this is the age group for which it is generally recommended). This is to ensure that the vaccine is administered well before the onset of sexual activity, as this is what makes it most effective.


Note, however, that it is better to get it even after you have had sex as it still diminishes your risk, just not as much as if you had received it earlier.
Note that the HPV vaccine cannot cure HPV that is already present, nor can it cure lesions of the cervix that may be precursors for cervical cancer (or lesions elsewhere that may be precursors for HPV related cancer).
 In addition to cervical cancer, women can also get vulvar cancer, anal cancer, and oral cancer all related to HPV. The vaccine (particularly if received early enough in life) works to protect you against all of these HPV related cancers.


For men, it can protect against penile cancer, anal cancer, and oral cancer.
Men can get the vaccine if they have sex with men, or have compromised immune systems (such as those with organ transplants or HIV/AIDS), and if they are under the age of 26.
 Gardasil covers against 4 strains of HPV - namely, strains 6, 11, 16, and 18. In this way, it is protective against the strains of HPV that predispose you to cervical cancer (and to other HPV related cancers), as well as being protective against the strains of HPV that cause genital warts, which is an added bonus of this vaccine. Cervarix is the other vaccine option. It covers for HPV strains 16 and 18, so it is protective against HPV related cancers (particularly cervical cancer) but not against genital warts.


Both Gardasil and Cervarix require 3 vaccines in total.
The second shot is received 1-2 months after the first, and the third shot is received 6 months after the first.
All three shots must be received for the vaccine to have optimum efficacy.
 With time and as more evidence around the vaccine's effectiveness becomes available, Pap test screening recommendations may be reduced for women who have been vaccinated. However, there have been no alterations to the screening guidelines to date.

