 It takes time to get over the loss of a relationship. Your ex was a significant part of your life, even if you didn’t see them in person every day, and it may take a while to get used to life without them. Let yourself feel sad, and go easy on yourself if you’re feeling less focused or productive than usual.Don't rush the grieving process. If you're worried about sitting around being downtrodden, pick a day on the calendar as your "deadline." Get out all the sadness or frustration, and choose to "move on" after this date.
Try to identify one thing every day that makes you feel happy. It could be a small bird landing on your windowsill, or someone giving you a compliment. Consider writing these down in your journal — a collection of these may help lead you toward healing.
 It’s common to feel lonely and isolated after ending a long-distance relationship. Reach out to your loved ones for emotional support and a sympathetic ear. Your friends and family can help build up your self-esteem and take your mind off your ex.You can ask a friend, “I’m having trouble letting go of my relationship. I know you have been through this before. How did you get over the loss of your long-distance relationship?”
Or you might find that you just want to spend time with people you enjoy and who make you happy and not discuss your ex. Remember that it's your choice.
 Breakups have been a source of artistic inspiration for thousands of years. You don’t have to be a professional artist to appreciate the benefits of venting your feelings creatively. Writing, drawing, dance, and other forms of expression can help you channel your emotions constructively, and you might even pick up a new hobby along the way., If you find yourself feeling guilty about the breakup or wondering if you did the right thing, revisit your reasons for ending the relationship in the first place. After the relationship is over, it’s easy to remember only the good times. Remind yourself that, while getting over your ex will be hard for a while, you made the right decision for your long-term happiness.If you struggle with regret frequently, make a list of all the ways breaking up has improved your life.

