 Most people diagnosed with vascular dementia are first diagnosed with high blood pressure, making this one of the greatest risk factors for the disease.


High blood pressure is also a risk factor for many other serious medical conditions, including cardiovascular disease and heart attack, so it is very important to manage this condition. Maintain a healthy blood pressure through a healthy diet and daily exercise and by eliminating smoking and excess alcohol consumption. If you cannot effectively lower blood pressure through lifestyle choices, medication may be required as well.;
, This will serve as effective vascular dementia prevention and lower the risk for other serious medical conditions.


Blood cholesterol levels indicate the amount of plaque build-up inside the arteries. By keeping these numbers at healthy levels, you ensure blood flow to the brain remains unhindered. Cholesterol is typically managed through a low-fat diet and daily exercise, but some people also need a cholesterol-lowering medication to keep numbers in check.
 Aerobic exercise has also been shown in recent studies to preserve cognitive abilities, and may even slow the progression of dementia once it starts.
 Diabetes can directly affect brain health. If you already have diabetes, keeping glucose levels under control can prevent damage to blood vessels that might contribute to the onset of dementia symptoms.


You can also take steps to prevent type 2 diabetes, by maintaining a healthy weight, adhering to a nutritious, low-fat diet and exercising daily. If you are at risk of diabetes, due to a family history or being overweight, monitor blood glucose levels regularly with your doctor.
 Cigarettes are highly damaging to the entire cardiovascular system, which can increase the risk of many related conditions, including vascular dementia.
 Those at any vascular dementia stage can still enjoy a high quality of life despite their diagnosis.


Remain active as much and as long as you can. Continue to eat a healthy diet rich in fresh fruits and vegetables, lean protein and whole grains. This menu will keep your heart and cardiovascular system healthy, which may slow the progression of vascular dementia. Seek support of family and friends, and stick to a regular daily routine as much as possible to keep stress and anxiety to a minimum.

