 Find an old t-shirt with a fun design or logo. You will cover your notebook with this shirt, so pick something that is fun, eye-catching, and a shirt that you don't wear any more but can't bring yourself to throw out-just make sure that the design is small enough to fit on your notebook and not too big so that you can't see it, and not to small so that it looks tiny on the notebook.http:, Put it over the logo or design you'd like to put on the cover of the notebook. Open the notebook so that the pages are facing you.
 This will help you know where to cut the t-shirt. If you cut it too close to the size of the notebook, it may end up being too small.
 Now use scissors to cut the outline of the t-shirt. This t-shirt will cover the front and back of the notebook.
 This will prepare you for sticking the t-shirt fabric onto the front of the notebook.
 Use a Popsicle stick to spread the glue all over the front cover of the notebook. Make sure to reach the edges of the notebook with the glue without covering any of the pages. You can also use a sponge brush to apply the glue. Tacky glue will work best for adhering the t-shirt to the cover of the notebook.
 Gently glide along the t-shirt with your hand and make sure that it sticks evenly to the glue, avoiding any bumps. The part of the shirt that you'll be using for the back cover will remain untouched.
 Do the same thing you did to cover the front with the tacky glue.
 Do what you did to the front side -- just take the second half of the t-shirt and press it into the back of the notebook. Then, you should wait for the notebook to dry. You can even press it between heavy books or boxes to keep it flat and to avoid any bumps that could appear under the t-shirt.
 Since you left extra room when you cut the fabric of the t-shirt, you'll have some extra fabric left over. Just cut the extra fabric with a thin and sharp pair of scissors, and touch up any parts of the t-shirt that may not have stuck to the notebook evenly with glue.

