 There are several websites that can output all the possible words that can be made with the letters in your hand. You can search for websites specifically meant for Words with Friends. This will often tell you which word will score the highest out of the ones possible. You can also use tools meant for Scrabble or solving anagrams.


These websites are each formatted slightly differently, but most ask you to enter in the tiles from your current game, and then click "enter" to calculate the potential words you can use.;
, Programs are available for most platforms that can tell you where to place letters on the board to maximize your score. These applications work similarly to the cheating websites, but are more convenient so that you can access them directly from your phone in the middle of a game.


Some apps allow you to take screenshots of your board so that you don't have to manually enter the tiles in yourself. Others can be programmed to automatically play words for you without you having to do anything.
Examples of such apps include: Free Cheats With Words, Words with free EZ Cheat, and Cheat Master 5000.
Be very cautious when downloading new programs. If you're going through your operating system's "app store," check the reviews in case the program has unwanted features. When downloading directly from a website, make sure that it is reputable and that your anti-virus software is up-to-date. Avoid giving any applications administrator permissions on your computer or access to personal data on your phone.
 If your computer is a Mac, there is actually a built-in application that can be used to cheat at Words with Friends. Only use this method if you are familiar with using the Terminal application.


To search for a word beginning with a specific sequence of letters, type the following into the command line (using the letter sequence "erg" as an example and "yourtiles" for the ones in your hand): grep –x "^erg*" /usr/share/dict/words
Likewise, you can also search for a word ending with a few particular letters: grep –x "*erg" /usr/share/dict/words, Simply type "scrabble YOURTILES" into the text box without quotes and press the "=" button. This will return a list of possible words in order from highest score to lowest. While these scores are for Scrabble, they correlate well with Words with Friends.Using Wolfram Alpha has the advantage of being quick and free from advertisements and possible malware.

