 By keeping your body low to the ground, you can move more nimbly and quickly. This will also help you maintain your balance throughout the move, and you will be ready to break into a run when you’ve completed the turn.;
, As a defender approaches you when you are dribbling the ball forward, tap the ball with the toe of one foot to stop the ball from moving.


Use the foot that is closest to the defender; for example, if the defender is approaching you on your right side, use your right foot to tap the ball. This move works equally well on both sides, although you might have more proficiency on your dominant side.
 Once you've tapped your foot on the ball to stop it from moving, spin around so that your back is facing the defender. This creates a barrier between the ball and the oncoming defender.
 While you are turning with the ball, keep your arms up so you force the defender to maintain physical distance away from you. If your arms are out a little bit, they will also help you keep your balance when you spin., As you complete the spin, take the foot off the top of the ball and plant it on the ground.
 After you plant your right foot on the ground, continue spinning and lift up your left leg in preparation to put your left foot on top of the ball.
 When your right foot is planted firmly on the ground, put your left toe on top of the ball to redirect its movement.
 As your left foot is on top of the ball, continue to turn your body in a circle, completing another 180 degrees. You will end up facing the same direction as when you started the Maradona.


You can also stop spinning after you’ve done a total of 270 degrees so that you can redirect which way you travel with the ball., As you complete the second 180 degree turn, use your left foot to drag the ball, pulling it behind you.If the defender keeps stealing the ball away, try pulling the ball further back so that it stays out of the defender’s reach. Make sure you are not just spinning on top of the ball while the ball remains stationary. The ball should move with you., The Maradona will slow down your pace as you turn and deflect the defender from the ball. As you come out of the Maradona, speed up your pace and race past your opponent.
 With this move, take your time and make sure you are in control of the ball at all times. It is easy to lose control of the ball during the Maradona move because you are trying to move too fast.While pro players can do this move quickly and effectively, it is an advanced move and therefore more difficult to perfect for amateur players.
 There are several parts to the Maradona, from tapping your foot on the ball to stepping away from it to dragging your other foot across the ball. But the most effective Maradona moves will put this all into one smooth motion.It will take a lot of practice to hone your skills, however, so be patient and keep working at it.

