 Any new hobby, be it something outrageous and sporty like motocross or something modest and home-bound, will add a much-needed dose of variety to your life. Think about things you’ve always wanted to try, or, if nothing comes to mind, try browsing a YMCA catalog or online forum for suggestions. Your hobby could be an organic outgrowth of things you’re already interested in: for example, if you’ve always loved Saturday morning cartoons or anime, consider trying your hand at cartoon artistry.


It can be especially rewarding to pick a creative hobby that yields tangible results, such as knitting, painting, or preserve-making.Not only will you feel interested and engaged in a new, unfamiliar activity, but you will also feel productive. You’ll have a self-made scarf, portrait, or strawberry jam to concretely display your accomplishments. And, as a bonus, you can use these products of your new hobby as personal gifts for family and friends!

, Many times people feel bored in life because they forget how diverse, surprising, and boundlessly interesting the world around them really is. They see the boundaries of the world as the tiny circle of their own job, family, friends, and expertise, rather than recognizing how much information, skills, and ideas exist outside of this limited, personal realm. You can fix this existential myopia by taking a class and learning a new skill or discipline.


Many studies have shown that learning a language is one of the most rewarding educational experiences an adolescent or adult can do.It not only teaches you a new mode of communication, but also a fresh perspective on the world: with every language and linguistic system, you’ll also learn about different cultures and social structures.
Learning the "language" of music is another rewarding way to stimulate your brain. Take music lessons for that instrument you've always loved.
Even though there are a wealth of online-based learning materials like YouTube tutorials and online university courses for all kinds of subjects and skills, consider taking an in-person class. This will provide you with interactive, face-to-face instruction, as well as the opportunity to meet new people and expand your social circle.
 Not only will a new physical exercise pump some variety into your life, but you’ll also feel positive effects on your general mood. This is because physical exercise increases your endorphin production and thus has been shown to significantly improve depression and alleviate symptoms.This is true regardless of your personal interests and tastes: whether you prefer to sweat in solo fashion or take up a team sport, chances are that you can find something active that appeals to you. Browse YMCA catalogs or gym class offerings for ideas about what you can do, or sign up for a home fitness mailing list that discusses options for getting active.


If you already go to the gym regularly, consider mixing up your workout routine with a new class, or you could register for a club sport that will make your gym time more social.
 Even if you don’t live in a major theater and live music capital, you’ll be surprised how many concerts, plays, and dance performances are offered in your area. Checking out these local offerings will add variety to your life as well as make you feel more connected with your community. Music even has numerous mental health benefits, including the reduction of stress levels.Live music doesn’t have to be expensive! For more affordable options, check out music calendars for bars and coffee shops that don’t charge a cover.
 Everyone has a favorite radio station and movie genre, which in itself isn’t a bad thing. The problem is that these favorites can sometimes dig us into a rut, making it so that we don’t try out artists and titles outside of our familiar boundaries.You’ll be surprised how stimulating and thought-provoking different genres can be: studies have shown that discovering new music outside of one’s usual stomping ground makes our brain’s chemistry work in different ways and can even deliver an intense, euphoric feeling.If you want to broaden your cinematic or musical horizons and don’t know where to start, use an ‘All-Time Best of…’ list from Rolling Stone or the American Film Institute as an amateur music or film 101 curriculum.

