 You should always approach the owner of the small dog and greet them first. Acknowledging the owner first, rather than running to greet the dog, will allow the dog to calm down. Dogs also take cues from their owner, so it they see that their owner is relaxed and friendly with you, they will be more likely to be that way towards you.You should maintain eye contact with the owner but avoid making eye contact with the dog. Making contact with the dog can seem like an act of aggression to the dog. Instead, look at the dog’s owner or at a neutral area on the dog, such as her chest.
Ask the owner for permission to approach the dog before doing so. You may say, “Your dog is really cute. Is it okay if I pet him/her?” Once the owner says “yes”, you should approach the dog. If the owner says “no” to you petting the dog, respect this and keep your distance from the dog.;
, Do not crouch or stand in front of the dog, as this can seem threatening to her. Instead, move to one side of the dog and squat or stand up straight next to the dog. Standing to the side of the dog will appear less threatening to her and show her you are trying to be friendly.You may chat with the dog’s owner as you move to the dog’s side or say friendly words to the dog, such as “Nice to meet you” or “You are so sweet.” Try to project a friendly, calm demeanor, as dogs can sense fear and may act fearful if you show or feel any fear around them.
 You should then let the dog approach you, rather than try to touch the dog or get the dog to come to you. This will appear less threatening to the dog and allow the dog to feel in control. You may offer a fist or closed hand to the dog at the level of her nose so she can sniff you and check you out.Avoid offering up an open hand, as this can seem threatening to the dog. Instead, let the dog sniff your closed hand. If she sniffs, wags her tail, and seems calm, you may slowly open your hand.
 Use your open hand to gently pet the dog’s shoulder, neck, and chest from the side. Do not pat her head or her back-end, as these are vulnerable areas for the dog. The small dog should appear relaxed, with a wagging tail. These are all signs that she is into a small petting session with you.Once the small dog is done with meeting you, she will likely change her body position so your hand no longer makes contact with her. She may also move away from you. Do not force her to keep hanging out with you or try to hold her down. Instead, simply say goodbye to the dog and to her owner.

