 You will need a round 8 inch (20.3 cm) cake, double depth and covered in a base color fondant.


Cut the cake in half before covering it with fondant, fill with frosting and then crumb coat the cake.
Place it on your serving plate, platter or cake board of choice after the cake is crumb coated and chilled.
Cover the cake in the main fondant color using about 1kg of fondant icing. Roll out, cover, and trim, then smooth out the fondant on the top and around the sides either by using the palm of your hand or a fondant smoother. Set aside until later.;
,


Massage the fondant until soft and then cut pieces for the main body, head, back legs, front legs (which are a little smaller), ears and tail.
Roll the main body piece into and round pear shape, narrower at the top than at the bottom but not to much, flatten slightly on the top. Sit it on a piece of grease proof paper.
Roll the head into an oval a little like a football but with the top of the head being a little more pointed. When you are happy with the shape of the head you need to secure it to the body.
Using a cocktail stick (you may need to make it shorter) push it into the body from the neck downwards, ensuring there is still some showing out of the top. Using a small paint brush, brush either a little water or sugar paste glue around the area where the head will sit. Now sick the head on to the top end of the cocktail stick. This will secure the head to the body.



Roll the rear leg pieces into a ball and then lengthen into a sausage shape narrowing at one end so it is kind of shaped like a mini caveman’s club.
Take the thicker end which will be the feet and tap on the table to flatten, squeeze in on one side to get the impression of the feet. You may need to play with it for a while.
Mark the feet with 3 little lines with a cocktail stick to mimic claws. At the narrow end of the leg curve the piece around so that it can curve around the cat’s body.
Keep placing it around the body until you’re happy with the shape. When you are, use a little water or glue and stick to the main body.
Shape the shorter fore legs in the same way but they should sit a little further back and rest on the back legs.



Roll the pieces for the ears until smooth and then squeeze and flatten between your fingers until you get a triangle shape, cut until you get the right size for the head. When you are happy take a small amount of contrasting coloured fondant, perhaps the one you used on the main cake, and roll out until quite thin.
Cut a small triangle slightly smaller than the ear, dab on a little water or glue and place on to the ear. You can do this to just one ear or both.
Using a cocktail stick, dip into a dark blue liquid fondant colour and apply small polka dots on the ear patch, (test this out on a spare piece so you know how much to apply and how big a dot you want).
Try the ears against the cats head, shape the edge a little, apply water/glue and affix to the head.
Using the same piece of rolled contrasting fondant cut a couple of small squares for patches, either leave plain or decorate with dots like the ear. Apply these with water or glue to the legs and arms of the cat.
For the face/mouth area roll a small ball of fondant in your hand and then flatten slightly with your fingers and shape in to an oval, then use a rolling pin to flatten until quite thin. When you have the desired shape and size, glue to the face. Using a fine paint brush and liquid fondant colour paint on the cat’s nose and mouth and whiskers as shown in the photograph.
For the eyes simply poke small holes close together above the nose area.
For the tail, roll a ball then work into a sausage shape, keep rolling until you have a long worm shape. Work the fondant until you reach the thickness and length you require. Narrow the tail at the end to be able to glue it to the back of the cat, curve the tail around the cat to the front of the body.
Do not glue the tail on until you have positioned the cat on the cake or it make break off when you lift it off the grease proof paper. Keep the fondant cat on grease proof paper until you are ready to transfer to the cake.



Take a good sized piece of contrasting color fondant; more is always better than not enough. Roll into a sausage shape about 2 fingers thick and then flatten slightly so that the sausage is now oval in shape. Now take a sharp knife and cut 2 slices about 1.5 to 2 millimetres in thickness.
Test the first one for size, flatten a little using your fingers and then gently roll until you get the shape and size of paw print you want (this is just the main paw pad, not the little finger spots). The shape should be oval but slightly flatter on one long side than the other.
If you’re happy with the size then as a guide using the second slice cut out as many as you think you require. If it’s too big or too small, increase or decrease the size using the 2nd slice as a guide. Flatten and shape all the pieces and then place them around the cake at intervals pointing in different directions.
For the small finger spots, roll a long thin worm and then slice with a sharp knife and flatten with your finger. Stick to the cake; four spots per paw.
 Making them is a little fiddly but easy.


Roll a ball of fondant to the approximate size you want, (the end ball will be slightly bigger). Now take your fondant and roll until about 3mm think and in an oval shape rather than circular.
Using a sharp knife or, even better, a pizza cutter, cut long thin strips about 2-3 mm width, use a rule as a guide if that helps. Take a long stringy piece and roll gently between your palms until you have made the pieces round and lengthened a little.
Take the ball you made and wet with water or fondant glue. Take the strip and place over the top of the ball and wrap round both sides but do not wrap underneath yet. Continue doing this laying each string snugly next to the one another until you start getting to the edge of the ball. Now lift up the ball carefully, tip over and wrap the loose ends of each string on both sides underneath the ball, trim and stick down.
Now turn the ball around and repeat the process in the other direction just like a ball of wool. If you check the photo you will see what I mean. Again when this side is done, lift the ball, wrap the loose piece underneath, trim and stick.
Before placing the ball of wool on the cat cake, select it position and then place a single long piece of fondant wool in a nice loop on the cake and then place the wool ball on top.
