 Glitter bomb poppers are similar to confetti poppers used to celebrate New Year’s Eve, weddings, birthdays, or other holidays. Party poppers or crackers first appeared as British party favors in the 1840s.Save money on poppers – and fill them with glitter – by making them at home. You will need:


Paper towel roll cut in half or toilet paper roll
Glitter (different colors)
Scissors
A Stapler with staples
Bakers twine or string
Scotch tape
Hot glue gun and sticks
Beads
Ribbons for streamers
Cardstock
Tissue paper;
, Glitter bomb poppers explode when someone pulls a string attached to a ‘trap door’.Cut a tissue paper square that is large enough to cover the bottom of your tube (about 3 inches or 7.5 cm). Trace the end of the tube onto a piece of cardstock and cut out the circle. Use the hot glue to glue this circle to the center of the tissue paper square. Let dry for several seconds. Use scissors or a needle to puncture the center of the circle and thread an arm’s length of string or twine through the hole.
 Before gluing the tissue paper and cardstock trapdoor to your tube tie a bead to the end of the string, making sure it is on the side that will face the inside of the cardboard tube. Attach the trapdoor by using the hot glue to glue the edges of the tissue paper to the sides of the tube. At this point, your glitter bomb popper should look like a tube with one end sealed off, and a string ‘tail’ extending from the base., Be creative when decorating the body of the tube. You can wrap it in colored construction paper or metallic foil, or glue ribbons or streamers to the sides and bottom. Before sealing the opposite end, use a funnel or measuring cup to fill ½ to ¾ of the tube with glitter.
 Turn your popper into a rocket by adding a cone-shaped top. Draw a 3.25 inch (8.3 cm) circle on a piece of cardstock. Use the scissors to cut this out, and then cut a single snip from the edge to the center. Pull the edges of the cut together until they overlap about 0.5 inches (1.3 cm) to form a cone. Stable the edges together.Attach the top by punching two small holes just below the opening of the tube. Thread a string through the holes. Bring the two ends of the string together over the opening and thread them through a bead. This will help keep the string centered. Next, thread the string up and through the hole at the top of the cone. You can use this string to hang your popper from the ceiling or attach it to a string of garland., Pull on the string extending down from the trap door. This will cause the trap door to rip-off and cause the glitter to rain down on unsuspecting partygoers.
 Modify this design so you can include them as party favors, rather than party decorations that need to be hung up. The glitter is released when you "crack open" the ends of the tube, instead of pulling on a string. Wrap your cardboard roll in tissue paper. Use enough tissue paper that it extends several inches beyond each end of the roll.Next, glue cardstock, construction paper, or metallic foil onto the body of the roll (over the tissue paper). Twist one end of the tissue paper and tie it off with ribbon. Use a funnel to fill the tube with glitter. Finally, twist and tie the tissue paper at the opposite end to seal-off the roll.


Release the glitter and crack-open the tube by gripping both ends with your hands and pulling them apart. Instruct people to pull as hard as they can so the glitter will explode and not simply fall out.

