 This weapon has the unique ability Combo Boost; this lets you do more damage the longer your combo gets.;
, This adds 3 points to Sora's strength.
 This gives Sora +25% damage reduction to all elements.
 Damage from all elements are reduced.
 These are essential in the battle in case you need to restore HP and MP.
 Zexion transforms you and your party members into books.


This attack is unavoidable, even if you try to break the books, so you'll just be missing out on precious combos that you can hit Zexion with.
Every time Zexion turns someone into a book, he'll leave you a small opportunity to land a combo on him, so stay close!

, While in the book world, books will fly at you.


This attack is blockable with Reflega

, Books will attack Sora in a certain sequence.


You can dodge this attack by gliding (while in the air, analog + □) around the area.
This attack is the best way to spot which book is Zexion.
Zexion will always be that one book that's not in sync with the others.
 Zexion manipulates your attack panel, turning it into a book.


Press ∆ to shuffle the pages and find "Release," "Sneak Away," or "Regain."
Also, you can use words such as "Treasure" or "Heal" to get some HP balls.
 You'll see 3 spotlights, 2 red and 1 blue. If you manage to step on the blue one, you'll be spared from the meteor shower, and you'll be able to find Zexion quickly.
 Donald and Goofy will get turned to books, leave them as it's unavoidable. Your goal here is to land a combo on Zexion after he turns either Goofy or Donald into a book.


You'll have about a second to land a hit on him during that time, so be quick.
 This will help you avoid the damage from his first attack and lock on to him. Zexion will be that first book that attacks you.
 Press ∆ when it appears.


Zexion may try to attack you; all of his attacks can be blocked with Reflega without a problem.
 This will be your only way of dealing damage on him, so don't let it slip. After a combo Zexion will once again pull you into the book world.
 Depending on how much damage you dealt Zexion, he may use his desperation move. A good way of guessing where the blue light will go is by counting to 13 and jumping on the spot that you predict will turn blue.
 Sometimes Zexion will use shuffle and turn your command panel into a book; just look for "Sneak Away," "Release," or "Regain" to dispel it.
,