 If you are splitting normal sized wood, unless it is unnaturally knotty or a kind of wood resistant to chopping (like elm), you likely won't need to use a wedge. If the wood is tough and several axe swings leave cuts, cracks, but no clean split, it's time for you to get some more tools.
 When an axe alone simple can't do the job, it's time for you to get a long metal wedge and a sledgehammer. You can purchase these from your local hardware store or perhaps even borrow these from a neighbor.
 Even if your axe didn't pass all the way through your piece of wood, chopping it cleanly, if you landed a few hits, there will probably be at least some deep cuts in the wood, or maybe even a crack. Look for the deepest cut or crack in your wood; this is where you will split the wood.


Some especially large or difficult pieces of wood may require more than one wedge.
 As the wood will be softer than your wedge, you probably won't have a problem jamming the wedge into the cut or crack that you've chosen for your split. If you're attempting to cut an especially hard kind of wood, you may need to tap your wedge into place with your sledgehammer., Using the same form as you did with your axe, keep your legs shoulder width apart, your dominant hand close to the head of the sledgehammer, your eye focused on the wedge, and bring the hammer into position above your shoulder., Allow your dominant hand to slide down the handle of your hammer toward your stationary non-dominant hand, and bring the hammer quickly and firmly down on the wedge.This should drive the wedge more deeply into the piece of wood, causing the cut to turn into a crack or the crack that was already there to deepen.
You may need to swing your hammer multiple times to drive the wedge deeper into the wood.
 Sometimes, the wedge will cause the knot to break apart in a clean split, other times you may have to apply some muscle to pull the mostly split piece apart. In some cases, you may need to use your axe to carefully sever any connecting pieces that remain.

