 Whether you are making small talk at a party or with a relative, finding a shared interest can make annoying people more interesting to talk to.


Stick to safe subjects. If you have a devoutly religious uncle, and you don’t practice any faith, don’t talk about religion! Change the subject if something controversial comes up.
Think of a topic or hobby you are both interested in. If the cousin who only talks about himself plays guitar like you do, steer the conversation to what he’s enjoyed playing lately.
Ask an annoying partygoer how they know the host or if you share any mutual friends., Something in your environment may provide an excuse to end a conversation.


Look at the refreshments at a party and say, “I need to get some of those brownies before they’re gone! Excuse me!”
Blame noise level. If you are at a loud event, pretend you can’t hear the person. Then slip away.
Work on something else while they’re talking. Make copies, straighten shelves. This sends the message that you are busy.
Answer the phone: “I’m so sorry, I need to take this!” Respond to an email that just popped up.
 Other people can help you find a way out of an annoying conversation.


If you are going to a party where you know an annoying person will be a guest, have a friend help you manage the situation. For example, you could tell your friend, “I’m going to talk to Kelly for ten minutes. After that, come and pull me away with an excuse.”
Flag down a passing co-worker and ask a work-related question to interrupt the annoying person.
 Even though the conversation may be annoying, it may be worth it--for work, social, or family reasons--to tough it out. You can find ways to be respectful and contribute to help keep the peace.


Talk about yourself. Your family, in particular, may be interested in hearing what you have been up to. This also can help you steer the conversation.
Ask your elders to share old stories. You may learn interesting things about their lives.
Focus on the task at hand. If you need to deliver something to their desk, drop it off politely and leave.
Don’t take rude behavior personally. If you work in a customer-centered job, you may have to deal with annoying people frequently. Politely address their concerns.