 If you are worried you may have a dream that you will want to wake up from, set an alarm for somewhere after 90 minutes into your sleep. REM sleep happens 90 minutes into sleep,and it is during this cycle of your sleep that you dream, so having an alarm rouse you might help.


Some alarm clocks have more than one alarm you can set, so you can wake up from separate cycles of REM sleep. You can also use a mobile device, many of which allow you to set as many alarms as you like.
Be careful not to do this too often, however, as REM sleep is a beneficial cycle of sleep that helps you process information, build memories, and replenish neurotransmitters, including chemicals that give you energy and help you feel good during the day.;
, Leaving a light on or your curtains open may help interrupt especially deep cycles of sleep in which you dream, essentially making you a light sleeper and possibly helping you wake up from a dream more easily. Again, though, doing so too often might have other consequences on your usual ability to get the full benefits of uninterrupted sleep.
 If you find you are somewhat conscious in your dream and can take action, you might try calling out in the dream. You may experience a situation where you call out in your dream, but it's more of a faint whisper. This could because your mouth isn't open in real life. You aren't actually activating your vocal chords or using air, so no sound is actually coming out. If you concentrate, however, you might be able to speak in real life, waking yourself up.


Think to yourself, "I'm going to actually call for help." Some people get the sensation of their brain responding with a no. Continue telling your brain that you will in fact call out for help until the sensation goes away. This might be the second or third time. At this point, try to say something. It may seem harder than usual, and that's because you are actually using your vocal chords. This time, a noise should come out, and you should wake up, realizing that it was all a dream.
 If calling out for help in your dream does not manage to wake you up, you might try blinking. When you blink in the dream, your eyes should close. When you open your eyes again, they may actually open in real life. Doing this may manage to wake you up. This technique requires practice, so give it a try—especially during lucid dreams (see method 2)—often so that you can be ready to utilize it should you want to wake up from a dream. Assuming the technique works for you, you will be ready to wake up in a hurry if you have mastered this technique.
 This technique also works well in lucid dreams, but even if you have not developed this ability, you may still be able to jolt yourself awake. Simply attempt to move in your dream with the hope that doing so will move your body in real life, thereby waking yourself up.


Sleep in a position that will make it easy for you to move around.
In the dream, try to kick your legs or move your arms around.
 Once you know that you are dreaming, and want to wake up, simply fall asleep in your dream. This will cause you to wake up in real life.

The easiest way to do this is to (in your dream) get on your knees with your face on the floor, and stretch your arms behind you. You'll be asleep (aka awake) in no time.
If there are other characters in your dream around you, you might have to tell them not to distract you. It's like falling asleep in real life - you can't do it when everyone's talking.

