 Place the long edge of the deck of cards along the base of your last three fingers. Your index finger should support the top edge of the deck. Wrap your pinky around to support the bottom edge. Your thumb should be resting on face of the cards, with the cards held vertically, and the back of the cards resting on your fingers.Grab the deck with your shuffling hand by placing your thumb in the center of the bottom edge of the cards and your forefinger on the center of the top edge.
Pull a majority of the cards from the center of the deck into the shuffling hand while gently sliding some of the cards off the top with your supporting thumb to keep them in the palm. Press those cards with your thumb toward the fingers of the supporting hand and drop the the cards from your shuffling hand back onto the top of the deck in the supporting hand.
Repeat this shuffle. Peel off more cards from the deck in your shuffling hand with the thumb of the supporting hand, until most of the cards are back in the supporting hand. When there are not enough cards left to shuffle in the shuffling hand, drop the rest of the cards on top of the stack in the supporting hand.
Tilt your supporting hand slightly past vertical so that you can see the face of the cards. Search for the cards you want in your hand.;
, When you identify a card you would like in your hand, drag the rest of the cards off of it, so that the card you want is at the bottom of the deck. Pull your thumb across the card you want in your hand. Pinch it between your thumb and forefinger to drag it to the top of the deck.Continue to shuffle the rest of the cards after floating your card to the top to hide the move.
Keep the card on top by performing a slip to hold it in place. Firmly place your last three fingers on the top card as you shuffle the others through the deck.
Use a second card deal to deal yourself the top cards and deal the second card to everyone else. For instance, if you are playing Poker, you will want to have 5 cards on top which set up a good hand for yourself.
If you are playing a partner game, like Euchre, consider placing more complimentary cards on top of the deck and dealing off the top to your partner as well.
 If you have placed all your ideal cards at the top of the deck, use the overhand shuffle to reverse the order of the deck and place your cards at the bottom. Grab the entire deck with your shuffling hand and slip one card at a time off the deck with the thumb of your supporting hand until you have gone through the entire deck.Now that the ideal cards are on the bottom, you can use a bottom deal to set yourself up with a good poker hand, while dealing to everyone else off the top.
 Cut the deck in half and place each half on the table to perform a table shuffle. Press the bottom half of each deck with your fingers while lifting the inner corners of the deck upward. Control the cards as they fall and shuffle. When you get to the top of the deck, drop the number of cards you need between the two cards you want in your hand so they will fall to you when you shuffle.The number of cards between each one you want in your hand will be the number of players minus one, which is you.
It is better to get too few cards in between on your first shuffle, because you can always shuffle again to add more.
This is especially useful for a game like Poker where you will be dealing a hand to several people at the table.

