 One of the classic signs of burnout is negative apathy — like you would be a fool to care. As you might imagine, people who feel a high degree of negative apathy don’t find many reasons to find enjoyment in their surroundings.If the last time you can remember having a good day was long ago (or you can’t remember), then know that you need to make some changes in your life. When every day starts to seem like a bad day, burnout is just around the corner.
 An increase in consumption of alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine can all be signs of impending or current burnout. The increase can be a manifestation of a cause or symptom of burnout, depending on where the increase occurs.An increase in caffeine or tobacco, which are both stimulants, can be a manifestation of the feeling of insufficiency at the root of burnout. On the other hand, an increase in alcohol consumption can be a sign that the drinker is trying to blunt their emotional responses.
 While stress is essentially an overreaction to stimuli and burnout is a loss of reaction to stimuli, prolonged stress can lead to burnout. Many people under a great amount of stress will either over- or undereat.You might find yourself craving junk foods in particular. This makes sense. Tired people crave sugar and fat, as sugar and fat can give them a temporary boost of energy and elevation in mood. While this can be true of anyone, it especially applies to those experiencing chronically low levels of energy.
Keep in mind that you can binge on things other than food as well. Some people shop compulsively or binge on social media sites when they should be working.
 Burnout is a chronic condition brought on by too much stress and too many obligations, or an unbalanced life. As such, it has behavioral symptoms beyond the consumption of drugs and alcohol. Do you find yourself procrastinating, coming in late, getting into conflicts with your family, friends, or coworkers, or calling in sick when you’re not? If so, it could be an indication of cynicism and overwork.It's not always easy or pleasant to recognize when you might be malingering, so you need to ask yourself if you're making excuses for not completing assignments, snapping at coworkers, or making complaints.

