 Be brutal. If it clutters up the room, and doesn't have a standard place to live, put it in a sorting pile. After all, do you really need those magazines which you have collected since 1998, but have rarely read?;
, Take all the clothes that don't fit or make you look awful, and put them in the sorting pile.
 Either recycle or throw away the ones you don't need. Store the rest in organized folders.
 Then remove all the items in this area. Throw away items you don't need, clean dirty ones, and put everything else back where it belongs. Anything you're not sure about goes in the sorting pile.
,
Do you use it often, or will you soon (within 3 months)?
Will you miss it when it's gone? Does it hold memories that are very important to you?

,



First pile: Pile number one should be the things that you mostly use on a daily basis and the things you "love".

For example, your phone, tools, shoes, and so on. For keys, perhaps place them in a bowl near the door, keep tools in a toolbox, or buy a shoe organizer. Whatever works for you and will help you find all the more important items easily.
Things you love, such as photos, figurines, etc. should now find a home where they can be put on display/secreted away/carefully stored, etc.



Second pile: Pile number two should include the things that you use at least once a week or once a month. These are the items that belong in closets, garages or other places that are out of the way. Organize these into storage containers (preferably clear ones so you can easily see their contents) and label them. Other items, such as clothes, hang on clothes hangers and put them away.

Third pile: Pile number three should include the things that you have not used for at least six months or a year. If you have not used them in a year, chances are you may never do so. Therefore, get rid of them for good. Give unused and unwanted items to charity, so that someone less fortunate can use them.
 Depending on how bad the clutter is, it may take you 2 days or a week. If it is emotionally challenging, it can take months and it's a good idea to get a non-judgmental friend or buddy to help you and to keep up your morale.

