 The Job Quest NPC for Ranger is located at Turtle Island, but in order for you to get this map, you must complete the Turtle Island side quest. If you have done this quest already, see step 2. If you haven’t, do the following:


Go to Alberta by using the Kafra Service in Payon, or you can ask any Priest in game to wrap you in Alberta City.
Head for the Inn. The Inn is located in the upper-left corner of the city, across from the portal that leads outside.
Get inside the Inn and then walk into the portal to the right to find the Grandpa Turtle NPC.
Talk to Grandpa Turtle and then choose from the selection about Turtle Island. Ask him to tell you more by choosing “Ting!” until the dialogue comes to an end.
Talk to Grandpa Turtle again and, this time, choose the option "How can I get to Turtle Island?" He will then tell you about a chubby sailor found at the docking area.;
, First, go to Alberta and then head to the southeastern part of the city. Approach the only ship docked horizontally in your mini map until you find an NPC named Sailor, who standing near Professor Jordan Niliria.


Talk to Sailor, and he will tell you about the island.
Keep on clicking Next on the dialogue box until he offers you a ride to the Turtle Island for 10,000 zeny.
Remember, every time you use his service, you need to pay him 10,000 zeny to enter Turtle Island, so make sure you have enough zeny with you.
 When you get to Turtle Island, there's an NPC right in front of you. Talk to him and tell him that you wish to take the Ranger exam. He will send you back to Alberta to get rid of your equipment and items in your inventory.
, Again, you need to pay 10,000 zeny to the Sailor.
 Your first test is to find the next NPC, Teardrop.


The Ranger NPC will also give you a weapon, 500 Arrows, and 10 Fly Wings to use.
Be cautious when exploring the island as there are many aggressive monsters in this area. Use the Fly Wings to avoid them, and kill any when necessary.
 Teardrop is located at the northwestern part of the island. If you look at the minimap, the island looks like a turtle. Simply approach the left arm to find Teardrop.


Before you speak to Teardrop, drop all the items you picked up on your way to him; drop everything except the items the Ranger NPC gave to you.
 Tell the NPC that you want to take the test to proceed to the next part of the quest. He will tell you about your next test.


Again, make sure you dropped any items you picked up on your way to see him, except for the items given to you by the Ranger; otherwise, he will consider you cheating then send you back to the starting point to travel all the way back to his location.
Be careful when talking to Teardrop as aggressive monsters can still attack you. Clear the place if possible before you start talking to him.
 Your first task is to kill a Dragon Tail, located on the island, and get its loot, Wing of Dragonfly.
 After giving Teardrop the loot item, he will teleport you to a small waiting room where your next test will occur. Simply click the chat box at the top of the NPC to wait on queue.


Once it's your turn to take the test, you will be automatically teleported to the next room.
 Many players who are taking this exam find this difficult. By the time you're teleported to the next room for the test, you will be given a simple instruction: find and kill a monster named Poring.


You will be placed in a small island. A monster will be summoned, and it's your job to look for the right one.
Monsters will disappear after 5 seconds unless you kill Poring. There will be 20 rounds, and the passing score is 15.



If you fail the test, you will be sent outside to wait in line again.
You will be given 100 Arrows for this quest.
 When the trapping ability test starts, an NPC will appear near you. DON’T talk to the NPC just yet.


If you talk to the NPC, she will give you 100 Novice Potions, 10 Bombring Capsules and Report Papers that will make your weight go up to 90%, making attacking monsters very difficult. With all that weight, chances of getting killed in the test is high.
 Using your remaining arrows, clear the path to the next NPC first.


Kill the monsters that can heal first and ignore the ones that cannot move, such as Mandrakes and Floras.
 After you’ve cleared the path with the last of your arrows, talk to the NPC to get Novice Potions, Bombring Capsules, and Report Papers.
 As you head to the NPC near the exit, use the Bombring Capsules to kill off the remaining monsters.


Using a Bombring Capsule will summon a Bombring; this monster will attack you then explode. Make sure you’re far from the Bombring before it explodes so you won’t be killed.
You have to use up all the Bombring Capsules before you can talk to the last NPC.
 She will automatically talk to you and take the Report Papers from your inventory before teleporting you to the next room. This will be your last exam and probably the easiest part.
 He will explain to you about the exam then give you a Flute used to summon a Baby Desert Wolf; he will then ask you to use it.
 Simply press I on your keyboard to open your inventory and then double-click on the Flute to use it.
 The task is easy, your character will be immobilized, and with the use of your baby wolf, you need to disarm 20 Egg Bombs.


To control the baby wolf, simply hold the Ctrl button on your keyboard and then left-click on the Egg Bombs or on the ground.
You need to disarm at least 10 Egg Bombs out of 20 in order to pass this exam.
If you fail, you will be sent outside to take the quest all over again.
If you pass, your character will be teleported to the next room where you get to meet the Ranger Master.
 The Ranger Master will explain to you the use of the Wolf Flute, which he will prove. This is needed for you to summon your very own wolf instead of a falcon.


The Ranger Master will also give you a Green Apple accessory and a Sniper Goggle with decent stats.
Your class will then be changed to a Ranger.
 You can use Butterfly Wings to teleport back to your saved point.


If you don't have any Butterfly Wings, you can talk to the Ranger Master again and ask him to let you leave the room.
Congratulations, you are now a Ranger.

