 Locate the Vital Records Request for Copy of Birth Certificate form on the Arizona Department of Health Services website. Download and print the form.


You can also type directly into the form before printing it out.
The form is available in English and Spanish.
 The first section of the form pertains to payment for your order. If you need to amend the individual’s birth certificate after adoption, the fee is $30. This will include the amendment and one certified copy.Each additional copy of the birth certificate will cost $20.


You can pay with a money order, Visa, MasterCard, or a business check from your attorney’s firm. Cash and personal checks are not accepted.
Make your money order or attorney’s check is the exact amount of your order. These should be made payable to “Office of Vital Records.”
If you pay by credit card, provide the full card number and expiration date on the form. Be sure to sign and date this section of the form.
 Provide as much complete information as possible here, including the individual’s full name, sex, date of birth, parents’ names (if known), and place of birth.
 Provide your own information. If you are not the individual named on the certificate, you are required to provide proof of your relationship to the individual.
 After you have filled out the entire order form, you need to get it notarized by a notary public. A notary public is a person authorized by the government to verify the authenticity of documents.
 The Adoption worksheet will amend the child’s name on his or her birth certificate. One of the adoptive parents must fill out this form and sign it. Be sure to include complete information.If the adoption has already been processed, you may not need to submit this form.
 You will also need other documentation to support your application for an adoption birth certificate amendment and certified copy. These include:


Photocopy (front and back) of the parent’s government-issued picture identification. You can also have a notary witness your signature on your application.
Certified final decree of adoption from the superior court. Be sure this decree has a raised seal on it, which indicates that it has been certified. If the adoption has already been processed, you do not need to include this document.
Self-addressed stamped envelope to receive the birth certificate and supporting documents.
 Send all of your documentation, plus the fee, to the Arizona State Office of Vital Records. Use this address:


State Office of Vital Records, Attn: Adoptions, P.O. Box 3887, Phoenix, Arizona 85030.

