 When you and your wife meet new people, introduce her in a complimentary way. Use phrases like, "Let me introduce you to my beautiful wife." or "Here is my better half." This lets her know how much she means to you. She will also realize that you want to tell others how much she means to you.You should do this when she isn't around as well. When you are having a coffee break at work, bring up how great of a cook your wife is or how she just got a huge promotion at work. She will be a star at your next office party and she will know how much you love and admire her. Plus, your coworkers and friends will see how great you two are as a couple and treat you both better because of it., Going out on dates often get lost in the daily shuffle of married life. Make it a point to have a standing date night with your wife every week. Do something that you both like to do. Try something new on each date night. Go to the movies. Go out for dinner and dancing. It can even be something as simple as a night in without the distractions of everyday life. Turn off your cell phones and make the whole night about the two of you and how much you mean to each other. She will be happy to get away from everything and have a night alone with you.


If you have kids, find a reliable babysitter so you won't have to worry about them for the night. This will allow you two to focus on each other completely.
It doesn't have to be every week if you are both too busy with work and family. Make sure there isn't too many weeks between the dates and make them frequent. Don't do it once or twice and then forget to have another one., When you have been married for awhile, you can let certain parts of yourself go because you get so comfortable with the other person. Show your wife how much she means to you by looking your best for her. Don't just dress up for a special occasion. Make an effort to look nice for her around the house. Wear a nice pair of jeans and a clean shirt to dinner at night instead of your holey sweatpants. It will make her feel special and make her happy., Ask your wife what you can help her with. Whether it is with the dishes at night or with the children after school, ask her what you can do to make it easier. Take the shopping cart back to the rack after you've gone grocery shopping. Offer to do carpool for the kids on a day she has a presentation at work. It can even be as simple as asking her if you can help take some of the weight off of her by letting her know you are there for her.


Don't wait for her to tell you when things need to be done. If you see a sink full of dishes, don't ask her to help. Just start washing them.
Make sure you do this on a normal basis. Doing it once is nice, but making a habit of it will make your wife happier everyday., When something big happens, tell your wife first. Let her know that she is the most important person in your life. If you get a promotion at work, don't call your buddy and tell him how awesome you are. Wait until you get home from work to tell your wife about it. Then you can tell everyone else. She will know that she matters to you and that will make her happy., When your wife comes to you with a problem, listen to what she has to say. Don't talk over her, expressing your ire at the situation or talk about how you want to fix it. If she tells you that she is having a problem with someone taking credit for her work at her job, don't start ranting about how unfair it is. You will stop listening to what she has to say and take away the opportunity for her to vent. Let her rage and complain to you, getting out her frustrations.


Let her know you are listening by nodding along as she complains. Having you there supporting her is what she wants and will make her happy.
Keep your replies simple and heartfelt. You can say something like, "That sucks, sweetie. I'm really sorry." This lets her know that you understand how bad the situation is., Some of the initial romance can go out of a relationship once you are married. Bring back some of the early simple forms of affection. Hold her hand as you are walking down the street together. Put your arm around her when you are out to dinner. Kiss her gently as you are waiting to cross the street. These little moments of affection will let her know how much she means to you. She will also know that you don't mind if other people know it.


Keep the affection simple and appropriate. You don't want to make out with her in full view of everyone in a restaurant. Make sure whatever you do is comfortable for both of you., Sexual connection is important in any strong marriage. Don't fall into a routine of having sex at the same time and place every week. Being married gives you time to explore and figure out exactly what she wants and needs from you to please her every desire. Ask her what she wants to do in the bedroom. Mix things up by trying something new and exciting to make her happy.


Tell her often how much you enjoy being sexually intimate with her. Let her know that you are having the best sex of your life with her., Although sexual intimacy is important, there are ways to show passion and intimacy outside of the bedroom.Something simple like seeking her advice about a problem you have at work will bring intimacy to your relationship. Show her how passionate you are about her by taking her in your arms and kissing her while she's doing laundry. Cuddle with her on the couch while you both read a book or listen to music. The closer the two of you are, the happier your wife will be.


Set aside time each day to connect with your wife. It can be having a cup of coffee or tea together first thing in the morning while you talk about what you have planned for the day. It can be time after dinner where you talk about anything that happened to you that day. Just try to make sure you check in with her every day to let her know you care.
Passion and intimacy is different for every couple. Find what works best for your wife. Look for times when you can connect with her. Talk to her about what she wants and needs from you to feel closer to you., Always being silent with your wife will make her feel disconnected from you. Talk to her about how you are feeling. Be open and honest about what you think and feel on a daily basis. Tell her when you feel insecure or upset about something. Let her know if she is hurting your feelings or making you happy. The more honest you are with her, the closer and happier you will be as a couple.If you have a hard time expressing her feelings, do the best you can. If she sees that you are making the effort, she will know how much you care.

