 Sliders are carnivorous when they are young, but become omnivores as they progress to adulthood.Feeding your slider a variety of foods will help keep him healthy. Examples of good protein sources are live crickets, earthworms and silkworms.It is preferable to choose worms and insects that have been gut-loaded to increase their nutritional value.Live snails are another good protein source, but could harbor harmful parasites, even if store bought.Your slider will also enjoy live fish, such as guppies or minnows.Your slider may suffer from a vitamin B1 deficiency if you feed him a primarily fish-based diet.Be sure to incorporate multiple protein sources into his diet.
Animal-based protein should make up about 25% of your slider’s diet., Your slider can eat a wide variety of fresh produce, including melons, collard greens, sweet potatoes, and bananas.Consider choosing produce, such as greens and lettuce, that can float in the water—this would give your slider something to munch on throughout the day.


Although fresh is preferable over frozen, fresh produce may have pesticides or herbicides on them that could make your slider sick.
Water hyacinth, water lilies, and duckweed are fresh plants that you can place in your slider’s enclosure.Keep in mind that fruit can disintegrate in the water, making it harder to keep his enclosure clean.Fresh produce should make up the majority of his diet (50 to 75%)., Turtle pellets are available at your local pet store. These pellets can be another protein source for your slider.The amount of pellets you feed your slider should be roughly the same size as his head (excluding his neck).Other types of commercial turtle food include frozen and freeze-dried food (e.g., shrimp, krill, feeder fish). They can be used as a small treat for your slider. Commercial food should make up 10 to 25% of your slider’s diet., Juvenile sliders should be fed daily, and adult sliders should be fed every other day.Be aware that sliders are voracious eaters and often beg for food.Do not give your slider food every time he begs for it—this could lead to overfeeding and health problems.
Be mindful that sliders eat only when they are in the water.Do not attempt to feed your turtle is he is in his basking area.
 Even with a well-balanced diet that is full of variety, your slider may need dietary supplements to keep him in optimal health. Calcium is an especially important nutrient for your slider. You can supplement his diet with calcium by sprinkling a calcium-vitamin D3 powder supplement on his food or feeding him cuttlefish bone.A calcium deficiency can lead to metabolic bone disease.To prevent a nutrient imbalance, consult with your veterinarian before supplementing your slider’s diet., Sliders can be very messy eaters.To keep your slider’s main enclosure more clean, feed him in a separate tank or other enclosure. Be sure to clean out any remaining food after your slider has finished eating to prevent the food from rotting.Allow your slider to eat for about 15 minutes before placing him back in his main enclosure.