 Your parents are accustomed to making all decisions for you in the way that they feel is best. For over a decade, you had little to no input on day to day care and decisions. As you are getting older, that starts to quickly change. Your parents need time to adjust to this, and you need to understand their position.For example, you might not agree that having a curfew is necessary at all, but this does not mean that your parents are wrong for instating a curfew.
 Ultimately, your parents usually make decisions based on what they think is best for you. Even if you disagree, you need to acknowledge that their decision is not a way to torture you, but is instead intended to help you be a successful adult. Even if the argument doesn’t swing in your favor, you have to let it go and avoid bringing it up next time you disagree with your parents.For example, after arguing over the time of curfew, you should not continue to be mad at your parents the next day.
 By accepting the outcomes of this argument gracefully, you are showing your maturity. Treat your parents with respect, even when you disagree, and you that respect will usually be returned. Building a track record of being mature and respectful to your parents will make it easier for them to trust you, and in the future, try to let you make more decisions for yourself.An example might be to say something like "I still do not think that I need a curfew, but I understand why you want me to have one, and I'll follow the rules."

, To avoid future arguments, you need to keep the lines of communication open. Talk to your parents about your wants and needs before you get upset. Keep any requests you have reasonable, and be willing to compromise from the beginning.


For example, if you'd like to stay out after curfew on Friday night because there is a school dance, explain the situation to your parents. Calmly mention that the dance runs until after curfew, and that you'd like to be there and will come straight home after.

