 This is simple: The greeting. The body of the conversation. The farewell. Greetings and farewells vary from simple to elaborate depending on the culture, but they follow a standard pattern. Both greetings and farewells are opportunities to swap names and to create a good feeling by wishing people well.
 After your greeting, there is no need to launch into an impressive monologue! Its much better to spend time listening to the ongoing conversation. You will pick up clues about people's interests, and you will automatically begin to pick up the rhythm of the conversation as it flows from person to person.
 It’s easy to be so overwhelmed by what everyone else is saying that you get mesmerized and no longer able to follow your own train of thought. Learn some breakout strategies to give yourself a rest and time to put together your own thoughts.
 Exclamations are expressions of feeling. When people agree with what is being said, they might call out “yes” or similar vocalizations to that effect. When they disagree, they might make other vocalizations that express this.
 Examples of conversational purpose:


Promoting fun and conviviality.
Investigating a topic.
Giving out information.
Encouraging or persuading people to do something.
 Murmuring along with everyone else is an enjoyable and low risk way of being in the conversation until you build more confidence. Asking people questions about things they want to talk about is very much appreciated and also low risk. Talking about yourself can often feel high risk but it is safe when you cover standard topics. Moving onto very personal topics, political or religious topics increases the risk of disagreement and embarrassment but it doesn’t mean you should always avoid them. Try to match the level of depth and seriousness of the other conversationalists more or less.
 To get the most out of a conversation it's important to hear from everyone, not just the dominant personalities. It doesn't mean demanding they speak or peppering them with questions, but just looking at them as you speak and making them feel they are included. Leaving a bit of time after someone has finished speaking also allows a less confident person to have their say without having to jump in too quickly.


If you notice someone is speaking but not including the quieter people, you can direct their attention to them as they are speaking to you. For example, if you have just finished talking it's common for the next speaker to direct their attention to you, since they may be addressing a point you just made. If they are focused too heavily on you however, it's possible to direct their gaze to other people in the group simply by looking at them yourself. It works because when you are looking into someone's eyes and they look somewhere else, it's natural to follow their gaze.
 The mystery can't hurt you either!

