 Public employers may offer compensatory time instead of overtime pay.The rules are different if you are a private employer.


Generally, all employees of a private business must be paid overtime pay instead of comp time unless the employee is exempt from the overtime rules.Public employers can offer comp time in the following situations:a union representative arranges an agreement allowing comp time
the employer and employee agree to comp time before the employee begins working extra hours

;
, Federal law requires that most employees be paid overtime if they work more than 40 hours in a week.However, the law also exempts certain employees from the overtime law. If an employee has been exempted, then you can offer comp time instead of overtime pay.


Salaried employees are often exempted from overtime rules if they perform certain executive, administrative, or professional job duties. The employee must be paid at least $455 a week and her duties must be like those typical of an executive, administrator, or professional.Computer professionals paid at least $27.63 an hour are also exempt from federal overtime laws.Employees who work at seasonal and recreational establishments are also exempt., If you employ “exempt” employees, then federal overtime laws do not apply to those workers. However, your state might have created wage laws which will apply.


To find your state’s laws, you can search the Internet for “your state” and “wage law.” You may also want to contact your state’s Department of Labor and ask to see applicable wage regulations.
 You need to be careful that you don’t offer comp time when it isn’t allowed. You could face an employee lawsuit and be investigated by your state or federal government.For this reason, you should meet with an employment or labor lawyer and discuss how to pay comp time legally.


If you don’t have a lawyer on the payroll, then you should try to get a referral. You can ask other businesses in your community if they would recommend their attorney. If you have no referrals, then you can contact your state’s bar association and ask for a referral.
Call and schedule a consultation. At the consultation, you can have the lawyer advise you about whether comp time is appropriate.
You should also think about getting a lawyer on retainer. When you hire a lawyer on retainer, you pay a small fee each month. In exchange, the lawyer is available to provide legal help whenever a legal problem arises., Your state may require that you get the written consent of employees in order to offer compensatory time. Be sure to keep the signed consent form on file., You can be sued if you shortchange your employees of comp time earned. Accordingly, you need to make sure that you accurately track the comp hours your employees earn.


Make sure that you review each employee’s timesheet and check to see whether comp time has been earned for that time period.
Also note accrued comp hours on the employee’s pay stub., Generally, a non-exempt public employee earns time and a half for each extra hour worked.For example, a public employee who works 42 hours will get three hours of comp time.


Things are different for “exempt” employees. Federal law does not dictate how much comp time you must give or when you must give it. (In fact, you don’t have to give any comp time). After all, the employee is exempt from the federal overtime rules.However, your state may set limits.
Another exception exists if the public employee’s regular workweek is less than 40 hours. In this situation, any hours worked up to 40 can be compensated hour for hour. For example, if an employee’s standard workweek is 32 hours, then she can earn six hours of comp time if she works 38 hours in a week., You must also comply with the law and let employees take comp time when they request it. Generally, you should allow the employee to take the time off unless doing so would unduly disrupt the workplace.There are maximum amounts of comp time that an employee can accrue. For example, most employees can accrue no more than 240 hours of comp time.If the employee has maxed out his or her comp time, then you must pay overtime for any excess hours worked., You might have to pay the employee for comp time accrued if he or she doesn’t take the time off after a certain amount of time. Also, some states require that you make payment if the employee requests it.Generally, you will have to pay out comp time at the same rate at which it was earned.For example, if an employee earned $15.00 an hour when she earned 20 hours of comp time, then she must be paid $300.00 for those 20 hours.
You also need to pay comp time when the employee leaves your employment.

