 The simplest way to get LP is by getting Achievements. There are many Achievements you can find in the game, from main quest achievements to gathering or cooking achievements. Anything you do for the first time, or for enough times, has its own set of Achievements and rewards, but each Achievement gives you some LP. You can find a list of Achievements and their requirements in the wiki or in fansites.


You can also do Daily Achievements, which has different goals that changes every day. Doing a few of them will net you at least about 100-200 LP, depending on your level and what areas are open to you. You can access them through the Journal menu, which you can get to by pressing L or clicking the book icon at the bottom of your screen. The third tab in the menu is labeled “Achievements,” and when you open it, head to the drop-down menu and scroll until you find the labels “Daily Gathering,” “Daily Top Kill,” and “Daily Wipeout.” Now keep completing all the quests there that you can do, and it will reliably net you quite a lot of LP in one day, especially in higher levels, when you have access to all the dungeons and maps in the game.;
, This requires some friends, which you can get by going on Parties or joining a Guild. Open up your Social tab, represented by the two people chumming around on your world map. Then, simply click the “Greet” button on the names of 10 people. Each name on the list yields 1 LP when you greet them, for a maximum of 10 people/LP once a day! Of course, this works best when you have a huge friends list, and requires for your friends to be online.


To join a Guild, press G or press the Guild tab icon, represented by a flag and found at the lower right portion of your screen. You’ll see a list of guilds you can join, and whichever you pick is your own preference and doesn’t really matter in the long run, unless you’re a very social person. Then just click the “Join” button. Aside from getting some friends, you’ll also get a small buff that gives you a slight increase in EXP and Loot Drops, and access to the Guild Hall, though you can only enter the Hall 24 hours after joining.
 Daily Quests are quests you can repeat every day for a given set of rewards, and they’re a good way to grind EXP, resources, and even LP! You can find a number of them in all the maps in the game, and while the rewards vary between quests, you can rely on those quests to be repeatable, making them a good way to save up LP.


Do know that some “daily” quests are only available in certain days, but still have good rewards.
So far, the Daily Quests that apparently yield the most LP are the following: “Cooking Quest” (Cactakara), “Doctor, Doctor” (Triatio Highlands), “Veggie Tales” (Crescent Hill), “Drop the Bomb” (Crescent Hill), “Moonlight Rabbit” (Crescent Hill), “Turkey Time” (Helonia), “Messenger of Love” (Helonia), and Trouble Time (Helonia).
At level 25, you will have access to Fame Quests, which are basically a random selection of unique quests you can find in Mirabelle’s Bulletin Boards. You can take up 5 of these a day, and you can access them daily. Quite a lot of these Fame Quests have Loyalty Points in their rewards too, so don’t forget about them when you’re doing a Daily Quest run.
 Here’s when things start getting somewhat high-leveled. On the northwest portion of the Crescent Hill map, directly south of the gates of Navea, there is a small, almost hidden path by the gates leading to a small pagoda. When you approach it, you can choose to transport yourself to the Temple of Eidolons. Once you’re in the temple, you can choose the level of the Eidolon you want to fight by picking from the boxes. When you pick which level you are confident you can fight, you will get an Unidentified Summoning Stone. Right-click it, and it will become a summoning stone for a random Eidolon. Now, get ready, buff yourself, and right-click the summoning stone to fight an Eidolon! You might even be lucky enough to get a Key of Gaia, or even just Key Fragments aside from Loyalty Points. Do note that you can only enter it once every 4 hours, making this a bit unreliable if you plan on employing this method alone.


A subquest appears at level 30 that makes you head on over here, so don’t worry too much if you’re unsure where it is.
You might also want to use a Treasure Charm before fighting Eidolons to maximize your loot gains. This applies for the Guild Hall Eidolon and World Bosses too.
If you’re part of a Guild, a Guild Hall Eidolon spawns every few hours on a schedule. They’re much more difficult to fight, since they’re made to fight an entire Guild, but if you and your guildmates manage to beat it, you’ll be rewarded with just about the same rewards as you do from beating an Eidolon in the Temple.
 While this isn’t exactly a high-level venture, you get to access higher-quality fishing stuff when you’re level 40. You can learn how to fish either in the earliest levels of the game or once you hit level 40, and when you go fishing, you have a small chance to pick up a Miracle Cube, which you can open with right-click for a chance to get LP coupons!


Note that you can only get Miracle Cubes from manual fishing, and not AFK fishing.
 This is when you know you hit the big leagues. The Sky Tower is accessible from level 60 onwards, and each level has different challenges and monsters for experienced players to test their mettle on. While you can only access it during the weekends, it's a great way to earn LP. On the higher floors, you get a chance to earn chests that may yield 50-100 LP at once.


If it's your first time tackling the Sky Tower, you'll also get Achievements for every floor you clear, worth 100 LP each.
 Much like the Guild Hall Eidolons, these monsters are pretty difficult and are meant to be fought by a whole lot of people. Each World Boss has their own schedule and spawning area, but are usually killed off immediately by those players camping out in the area and taking advantage of their schedule. If you manage to get a single hit on the Boss, though, you get some loot regardless.


To reduce the massive lag from the mob of players gathered at the World Boss spawn and to ensure you get a single, clear hit, use the Hide Players option in your World Map, and arrive there a solid 5-10 minutes before every boss spawn.
For further efficiency and to farm them effectively, switch channels or logout and log in again on the first channel of your server before the World Boss spawns. You’ll be in the same area you left when you switched. Once you get a hit on the Boss, wait a few seconds then switch to the second channel of the server since the boss will die in a few seconds after they appear, and you’ll still get the loot even when you switch. This will give you a small head start on the spawn on the next channel, since the World Boss appears on the first channel then moves to the succeeding channels every time they’re defeated. You can choose to chase them down the server channel list, or just stay put and count out your rewards.
 Once you hit level 50, you’ll be able to explore the Otherworld Port Skandia. This is basically a variation of your earliest map, where the enemies are much more powerful and the dungeons are much more difficult. Here, the enemies have a chance to drop LP. At level 60, you can then go to other Otherworlds, such as Helonia Coast, Miner’s Steepe, Gydaie Glen, and Alabastren Temple.


In the Otherworld, Eidolons have a chance of spawning at random, and Eidolons tend to drop LP as well.

