 You may not realize all aspects of your situation and the possible solutions.
 The most humane and effective way to get rid of cats long-term is to first trap them so you can take them to be neutered or spayed. Buy a cat trap, a plastic or metal trap with a door, and bait it with tuna, sardines or cat food. Place the trap near where the cats regularly feed and cover it with a blanket.


When you catch a cat, don't let it out of the trap. Make sure the vet you use is aware in advance that you're bringing a feral cat in, as they may not handle feral animals.
Cover the trap with a blanket to calm the cat down.
 Many vets have programs that allow them to spay or neuter feral cats at no cost, since the feral cat population is known to be a problem. Call around to vets and shelters in your area to find a program suitable for your situation.


Spaying or neutering the cat is a humane way to keep it from reproducing and control local cat populations.
Know that once you bring the cat to the vet, you'll be responsible for it afterward. Prepare to take it home with you and to make sure it is fit/healed enough to live in the wild once the procedure is complete. Never release a cat that is injured or anesthetized into the wild (outdoors).
 Here are a couple: 1) Males (regardless of being in-tact or not) serve the purpose of keeping strange males away from their colonies (keeping any in-tact females from additional opportunities to mate, which helps to control population). 2) The animal is likely already feeling traumatized and will adjust best to familiar turf. Remember: the end-goal of the Trap-Neuter-Return strategy: to prevent the continuation of breeding of free-roaming cats, so that the cat may live out its life in peace.


In order for the Trap-Neuter-Return method to be an effective way to control a cat population, most or all of the cats in the population need to be trapped, neutered or spayed, and returned. In time, the population will decrease, since the cats won't be reproducing.
If you employ the Trap-Neuter-Return method, it's safe to feed the cats once you bring them home, since they will no longer be reproducing.

