 The size of your group will likely impact the space you need in a meeting place. Homes tend to work well for smaller groups, but library conference rooms and restaurants with secluded sections tend to work better for larger groups.


Alternatively, you can also meet online. If your members are scattered across a broad distance or simply prefer to interact via the computer, you can set up your own blog, e-mail list, or forum to facilitate discussion.
 In order to set up a time, you need to balance your members' schedules. After dinner tends to be a popular choice, since most people work during the morning and afternoon, and participants with young children can put their kids down for the night before attending. Meeting well after dinner also means that you do not need to provide a meal.
 If you want to discuss your books as you read them, then you may consider meeting every one or two weeks. If you prefer to discuss the books only after you finish them, however, you may opt for meeting on a monthly basis, especially since many science fiction books are fairly long and may take that long to finish if your members have busy schedules.
 This is a science fiction book club, after all, so the odds or running into a member with a technology phobia is rare. Even if you meet offline and in person, you can still set up a blog or online forum to facilitate discussion in between meetings. You should also keep contact with your group via e-mail to inform them of any changes or other pertinent information.
 Stress the importance of reading the books and making the meetings. Without these two elements, your book club will completely fall apart. You should also make sure that each member knows when your club meets, how long meetings will last, and any rules surrounding the discussion of books in your club.
 You will need to decide whether you will moderate each session or if you will take turns with other members. You should also determine whether to follow a formal set of discussion questions or if you would rather have a loose, casual conversation about the books.

