 The most successful channels on YouTube are designed with one specific audience in mind. The audience may be people who enjoy sketch comedy, people looking for product reviews, people interested in video games, people looking for fashion advice, or any other audience you can imagine. Good channels focus on one thing that they do best, and then excel at that.;
, Besides choosing a niche, you'll also need to develop a personality. PewDiePie didn't get 40 million subscribers because he plays video games, he got them because he plays video games with a unique personality and approach. You'll want to cultivate an identity that sets you apart from the other content being produced in your niche.
 Before you launch your first video, you should have the basic building blocks of your channel established. This includes having a good profile image, unique banner art, and a basic description. All of this put together is the starting point for your personal brand, which is how viewers will relate to and remember you.


Look at all of your favorite channels and see how they brand themselves. You'll find that virtually every popular channel has a custom look that helps identify themselves.
 Your profile image will appear next to the name of your channel in searches and comments on YouTube. It will be the first thing viewers see when your content appears in their search results, so make sure that it is representative of you and your brand.


Your profile image can be a picture of you if you are the focus, or your logo if you are not the focus.
 This is the image that appears at the top of your Channel, and acts as the title. Channel Art is what makes viewers feel like they're on your "personal" YouTube, and helps cement your name in their mind.


If you are creating your own art, YouTube recommends that the image be 2560 X 1440 px. This is the size of the image that will appear on the TV. All text and logos should appear in the center of the image in a 1546 X 43 px rectangle.Channel art can be commissioned from a variety of sources including oDesk and Elance. If you can, create a basic banner to get by for a while, and then use your first ad earnings to invest in commissioned art.
 Use this space to give a brief overview of your channel and to link viewers to your other webpages and social networking sites. The description of your channel appears in searches, but doesn't have to be incredibly in-depth.


Make sure to link to your company website, blog, Facebook page, Twitter account, and any other place on the web you have a presence.
 The difference between a built-in webcam and a high-quality camera is night-and-day. Even if it's just you talking into a camera, the audio and visual quality you get from a high-end camera will make your videos stand out.


The equipment isn't necessarily expensive. A stand-alone webcam will work better than virtually any built-in webcam, and will only set you back a few meals out.
If you're filming actors or anything other than yourself, you'll want a decent camcorder. Taking videos with your phone is convenient, but if you want to keep an audience you'll need better production values than that.
If you're going to be recording your screen, find a good screen recording program such as Camtasia or the free OpenBroadcastingSoftware(which can also do live streams). Filming your computer screen with a camera while you use it will make it nearly impossible to see what's going on.
 Unless you're doing improv or filming something you don't have control over, you should prepare a script and rehearse it. This will lead to less awkward pauses and will improve the flow of your videos.


Youtube doesn't allow videos longer than 15 minutes unless you meet specific guidelines. Keep this in mind when writing your script, and break up long videos into a series.
See this guide for detailed instructions on writing your first script.
 Do a dry run of your script a few times before you turn on the camera. This will help you iron out any kinks and solidify your talking points before you begin filming. You don't want to be reading directly from your script while filming, so practice is important.
 Before you start filming, gather everything you're going to need for the video. For example, if you're recording a tutorial on your computer, make sure all of the windows you need are open and your important files are easy to access. If you're filming a scene, make sure that all of your props are in order.


While preparing to shoot, make sure that the lighting is good enough so that everything can be seen. Do a test shoot with the camera to check the lighting.
 Once you've got everything ready, it's time to start rolling! Shoot your video, and don't be afraid to do multiple takes. You can splice and edit in your different takes during the editing process.


Remember, don't read off your script! You want your talking to feel natural, and people will be able to tell when you're reading off a page.
If you're directing other actors, check out this guide on good movie directing techniques.
 Before you start editing, take a few minutes to watch everything you recorded. If you aren't happy with any part of it, reshoot that part now while everything is still set up. This will save you a lot of time in the editing process.
 Use your favorite editing program to build your video using all of your footage. You can cut and paste clips so that takes you shot later on can be placed anywhere in the video. There's a lot to keep in mind when editing, but you want to focus mainly on making sure the video flows smoothly from topic to topic, and that there aren't any errors.


Use transitions to hide cuts between takes and to take the viewer from one scene to the next.
Continuously review your video as you are editing it. Make adjustments to the timing of scenes so that you don't linger too long on one or leave another too soon.
There are a variety of guides on wikiHow for using different video editing programs, including Windows Movie Maker, Avidemux, Adobe Premiere, and more.
There are also guides on general editing practices that can help you with the basics of editing.
 The introduction is an important but brief part of your video. Most introductions should be no longer than 5-10 seconds, and should quickly inform the viewer what channel they are watching and what the content of the video will be. Your introduction will help viewers identify you video when they see it elsewhere on the web, and will help keep them watching your video for the content.


If your intro is too long, it will drive away a large portion of your potential viewers.
If you have a log or other Channel art, make sure to include it in the introduction.
You can use Adobe Premiere or Sony Vegas to add professional effects and transitions to your videos.
 When you upload your video, you can set the thumbnail. This is the image that appears for the video when it turns up in search results or is listed in your Channel.


If your account is not verified, you will only be able to choose from a few preset thumbnail options. Make sure you verify your account by submitting your phone number.
Custom thumbnails allow you to create a "Title Screen". This can have text on it, your logo, a screenshot from the video, or anything else to help draw the viewer in. A popular strategy is to include the title of the video as well as some custom graphics.
See this guide for details on adding thumbnails to uploaded videos or videos you've added in the past.
 Good tagging will help ensure that your video appears in viewers' searches. Tags can be single words or small phrases. For example, if you are making a video about your cat, your tags could include "cat", "funny", "funny animals", "cute cats", kitten, etc.


Make sure that your tags are accurate, or you will draw in viewers that don't want to see your content. This will end up driving more people away.
 You should aim to be uploading new content on at least a weekly basis. While you don't want to drown your viewers in videos, a steady flow of releases will keep them glued to your Channel. If you can't produce major releases that often, fill in the gaps with smaller videos to keep your viewers content until the next big video drops.


Try to release videos during prime time for your main audience. This is usually around lunchtime or after dinner for whatever timezone you are most popular in. Releasing at a good time of the day will help ensure that the most people see it.
 The best way to get people to subscribe to your channel is to simply ask them to. End each of your videos with an annotation that will allow them to subscribe to your channel with one click. If the viewer liked your video, there is a very good chance that they will click the link to receive updates when your new videos get uploaded.


You can use annotations to link to other videos on your channel as well. This can be useful for people that arrive at your video without visiting your channel, or to draw attention to an old video that is still relevant. Just make sure that your video isn't constantly obscured by annotations.
 Playlists are collections of videos that the playlist creator feels are related. If you have a lot of related videos on your channel, or you are creating a series, a playlist is a great way to get more views for all of the videos included. Playlists also show up separately on searches, giving you double exposure for your videos.
 YouTube is a community of creators, and you need to take advantage of that. reach out to other content creators in your niche and work out some cross-promotional material. Guest appearances are very popular, and can help you catch the attention of the other user's viewers.


When making a video with a guest appearance, it will help if you can be in the same room as the other person, but you can record clips remotely and splice them together to great effect.
Reach out to as many people in your niche as possible, but don't neglect creating your own content. You aren't likely to get positive responses from other creators until you have a decent amount of your own content.
 It's not enough to just have a YouTube Channel. If you want to bring in new viewers, you'll need to be pushing updates through other forms of social media. You automatically get a Google+ page when you create a channel, but you'll also want a Facebook page, a Twitter account, a blog, and even an online store.
 Every time you release something on your Channel, you should link to it in a tweet. Many people rely on Twitter to stay connected to their favorite content, and timely tweets will keep them informed.
 Your Comments section is a great way to stay in contact with your loyal viewers, but can also be a cesspit of trolling. Do what you can to respond to genuine viewers and moderate the Comments section to the best of your abilities to keep the community friendly.


Twitter is another way to stay connected with your audience. Beyond tweeting new releases, you should be interacting with your more loyal viewers and other content creators. Retweet good videos that you find, and respond to inquiries from your fans.
Behind-the-scenes looks at your process are a great way to let viewers feel more involved.
 Every new video you create should be posted on Facebook as soon as it is uploaded. As the video gains Likes on Facebook, it will become more visible, and can draw people to your Channel. Make sure to include a link to your Channel page in the post.
 You can embed your videos in your blog so that your readers who might not visit YouTube can see them. Your blog can act as an inside look into your process, or a way to expand on topics covered in videos. Make sure that your blog is linked in your Channel's About tab.


You can add a YouTube widget to your blog that will allow readers to quickly subscribe to your YouTube channel without having to search for it. The Google Developers site has detailed instructions on embedding the widget on any website.
 If you're having difficulties getting your channel kickstarted, you can try purchasing views. These typically come by the thousands, and there are a variety of services online that offer views for sale.


Many music labels purchase views to ensure that new songs start off with high amounts of views. Videos that have lots of views are more likely to be viewed by real viewers, as the number of views acts as a sort of validation about how good the video is.Make sure that the service you choose offers real views, where each view stays and watches the entire video.
YouTube frowns upon the purchasing of views.
 Looking at what other popular YouTubers are doing is a great way to learn some tactics for increasing your viewership. Look at all of the pieces that make up their YouTube presence: Channel identity, video quality and techniques, social media outreach, and interaction with the community and other content creators. The following steps will give you some starting places for your genre of choice.
 How-To and tutorial videos are a very popular genre on YouTube. These can range from tying a tie to using an image editing program. A good how-to video will clearly lay out the steps and provide good visual examples. Popular How-To channels include:


Howcast
Make Magazine
Houdini
Khan Academy

, Gaming videos have quickly become one of the most popular genres on YouTube, with hundreds of different channels all talking about and showing games. Gaming channels can range from talk shows about the gaming community to in-depth reviews and gameplay videos. Some of the most popular gaming channels include:


PewDiePie
Rooster Teeth
Total Biscuit
CaptainSparklez
Angry Joe

, YouTube is a bustling hub of up-to-the-minute fashion news and trends. Many of the more popular fashion channels are focused more on what the personality is wearing than any specific tips. If you have an eye for fashion, check out some of these popular fashion channels for ideas on making your own:


Weylie
Zoe Sugg
Patricia Bright
Cute Girls Hairstyles

, If your goal is to make people laugh, you're in the right place. YouTube is home to countless comedians, and many got their professional start on YouTube. Check out some of the more popular ones to see how they did it:


Jash
Nerdist
JennaMarbles
Just For Laughs Gags
CollegeHumor
HolaSoyGerman
Prank vs Prank
Shane (Or Shane Dawson TV)

, YouTube and technology go hand in hand, and there are plenty of popular tech-oriented channels on YouTube. These channels talk about the latest gadgets and have a finger directly on the nerd pulse. Check out a few of these popular channels to see what makes them stand out:


The Slow Mo Guys
Android Authority
Household Hacker
DigitalRev TV
Pocketnow

