 The sun strips your face of its natural moisture so always rehydrate it after exposing your skin to the sun or to help it recover from sun damage.A water based moisturizer will list water as its first ingredient and absorb into your skin faster than oil based moisturizers.Moisturizing your skin on a daily basis also helps to prevent the development of wrinkles and fine lines, as well as dull looking skin.You can also use aloe vera to soothe sunburned skin and promote healing in sun damaged skin.;
, Look for products with a 5-8% concentration of glycolic acid, like BeautyRx Daily Exfoliating Therapy Serum, which you can find at most drugstores.


The active ingredient of glycolic acid helps to remove the extra layers of dead cells that are holding all of the brown pigment that has clumped and accumulated over the years in your skin.
 Look for products that contain green tea, copper, and Vitamin C, such as topical Vitamin C cream from your dermatologist. These antioxidants will reduce any skin inflammation, decrease redness, and promote healing.You can also make your own antioxidant salve by steeping a pot of black or green tea and letting it cool in the refrigerator before applying it to your skin with a compress, in a spray bottle, or by pressing the tea bag directly on your skin. The tannic acids that occur naturally in tea are a great remedy for sun damaged skin.According to the American Academy of Dermatologists, topical green tea can inhibit the growth of cancerous cells on the skin., Over-the-counter products that contain Retinol A can help to normalize sun damaged cells. They also plump up your skin’s topmost layer, revive the collagen and elastin in your skin, increase blood flow to the skin, and help to slough off any dull or dead skin cells.


As the retinol in these products gradually convert into retinoic acid, which is the active ingredient in prescription creams, they are less potent and have more subtle results than other options. Expect to wait 12 weeks to see any visible results or improvements.Your dermatologist can also prescribe products that contain Retinol A, such as tretinoin (brands include Atralin, Avita, Retin-A, Retin-A Micro, Renova), tazarotene (Avage, Tazorac), and adapalene (Differin).
 The buildup of dead skin can make your skin look blotchy and uneven, especially if it has sun damage. The remnants of self-tanning products can also collect in typically dry areas, like the elbows and knees, causing your skin to lose its natural luster. So it’s important to remove these dead skin cells.To create a homemade remedy, mix 2-3 cups of oats into your bath to soothe sunburned or sun damaged skin. You can also dissolve ¾ cup of baking soda into a warm bath to cool your skin and keep it from drying out.You can also apply a paste of turmeric powder and milk to your skin to counter the more visible signs of sun damage. Mix together three parts milk with one part turmeric powder to create a paste and apply it all over your face and body. Let it dry and rub it off in circular motions before rinsing away the residue., Don’t use a product with benzoyl peroxide or any kind of acid on your face, even to treat acne. Many companies make products for sensitive skin, so look for sensitive skin or mild products to treat sun damage.
 The dermatologist can prescribe several topical remedies and also screen you for skin cancer.


Frequent checks are a great way to detect skin cancer early so it can be properly removed and treated.Always get any moles that take on “A,B,C,D” symptoms with your dermatologist. “A,B,C,D” symptoms mean the mole is asymmetry, has border irregularity, has changed color or has a diameter greater than five millimeters. These are all warning signs of a possibly cancerous lesion., Microdermabrasion uses exfoliation to help slough away the top layer of your skin to give it a healthier glow and increase cell turnover. You can get microdermabrasion done at your dermatologist office, but an at-home kit or product that uses micro beads to exfoliate your skin, can also work as well, for a quarter of the price.


Look for kits with serums or creams that are still gentle or soothing on your skin., In this procedure, a chemical solution is applied to your skin, which makes it blister and eventually peel off. The newly exfoliated skin will be smoother, less wrinkled, and have lightened brown spots. It will also appear firmer as the peel stimulates collagen production in the skin.


A chemical peel will use the mildest form of alpha hydroxy acid (AHA), retinoic acid, trichloroacetic acid (TCA), or for the deepest peel, phenol.
Chemical peels rarely result in any serious complications, but there can be side effects like scarring, infection, swelling, stinging, changes in skin tone, and cold sore outbreaks.
The deeper the peel, the more redness, crusting, and peeling will appear on your skin, and the longer your recovery will be, possibly up to a couple of weeks.
You will need to avoid any exposure to the sun for several months after the peel as the new skin will be fragile.
 Sculptra is a biodegradable diluted mixture of polylactic acid and sterile water that is injected into the skin. It triggers your body to produce collagen and is often used to help restructure and add volume to hollow, fat-deficient areas of the face caused by too much sun.


The results of Sculptra can last up to two years.
Sculptra requires a series of treatments and improvements to your skin will be gradual and subtle, so this option requires patience and can be expensive.
Keep in mind that other injections like Botox do nothing to counter sun damage.
 Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) are electronic light sources, and some home units are available. Begin with a low energy LED called the Tanda, which can help promote collagen production, reduce fine lines and wrinkles, and improve acne.
 Professional laser treatments can improve everything from blotchiness and discoloration to wrinkles.Photodynamic therapy - laser or intense pulsed light (IPL), used in combination with a topical solution known as Levulan (aminolevulinic acid) - can remove scaly patches of actinic keratosis from your skin.
 Skin lighteners contain an active ingredient or combination of ingredients that reduce the amount of melanin in your skin. Skin bleaching is a cosmetic treatment that reduces skin discoloration and evens out your skin tone. Both products can be purchased over-the-counter or by prescription, but lightening and bleaching your skin with these products can lead to mercury poisoning, as they both contain mercury.The most widely used ingredient in skin lighteners sold in the U.S. is hydroquinone, which is regulated for use by the FDA. Over-the-counter skin lighteners can contain up to 2% hydroquinone and your dermatologist can write you a prescription for a lightener that contains 4-6% hydroquinone.
Always check with your doctor before using products with hydroquinone or any skin lighteners or bleachers.
Prolonged use of skin lighteners and bleachers can lead to premature aging of your skin, a higher risk of skin cancer, skin infections, allergic reactions, and an untreatable skin discoloration called ochronosis.
 Look for a non-greasy, non-comedogenic (won't clog pores) moisturizer with SPF.


Use a sunscreen with substantial SPF (30 and higher), as lower SPF levels will not provide enough protection from UVA/UVB rays.
 Suggested reapplying times can usually be found on the product you are using however most dermatologists stress the importance of reapplying sunscreen every 30-40 minutes.


Obviously, your skin type will affect how often you need to reapply, as fairer skinned people need to reapply quite often.
 The sun's rays dry out your skin, leaving it deprived of the vital nutrients needed for cell repair.


Aloe vera is a good moisturizing option, as it soothes and heals sun burns, as well as products that contain Vitamin E.
You can also use home remedies like a cucumber and milk paste, or yoghurt. Applying either product will help to minimize the flaking that happens as a result of a sunburn or sun damage., If you are sunburned, you should not be in the sun for prolonged periods of time until your skin is fully healed. If you must go out, be sure to use a high SPF sunscreen.
 Even if they have SPF, it will likely be too low to be of any help to your skin. Also, most of these products speed up burning, rather than tanning, and will not improve your sun damaged skin.

