 If they move, this is a sign that your dog has a skin parasite called Cheyletiella, also called “Walking dandruff”.Cheyletiella is a surface dwelling mite that chomps away on dead skin cells. They will appear as the same size as flakes of dandruff, so it’s easy to mistake this parasite for dandruff.;
, Use a magnifying glass or the zoom option on your cellphone to see if any of the dandruff moves. If the white flakes walk, your dog likely has a cheyletiella infestation.If your dog has this parasite, he will also likely be very itchy, as dandruff does not normally cause skin irritation but this parasite does.
 The steps to treat walking dandruff are different than treating normal dandruff. Use the spray formula of Frontline or Effipro and follow the manufacturer's directions to spray your dog's coat.Repeat the treatment again at two week intervals for three treatments.
In addition, wash your dog's bedding so he doesn't get infected again, and spray household soft furnishings with a spray designed to kill flea eggs and larvae, such as Nuvan Staykill or RIP Fleas.
 If your dog is suffering from a skin disorder, this can cause excessive dandruff. Anti-dandruff shampoo helps to gently lift the top layers of flaky skin away.Repeat this treatment regularly. Exactly how often depends on how scruffy your dog is, but anywhere from weekly to monthly is appropriate.
Always follow the directions specified on the shampoo. Some shampoos advise leaving the product in contact with the skin for 10 minutes, before rinsing, for maximum effectiveness.
 These are too harsh for delicate canine skin.
 You can also use this spray to treat dry skin caused by central heating.You can purchase a spray called Humilac by Virbac. It is widely available without a prescription and is an oil-free moisturizing spray.
Avoid using human moisturizing sprays or products. These often contain perfumes which irritate canine skin and cause allergic reactions resulting in redness and itchiness.
 You can also add two capfuls of Humilac to water and rinse it into your dog’s coat after you have used anti-dandruff shampoo on him.Humilac can be used daily, depending on the severity of your dog’s dandruff, but applying to your dog’s coat twice a week should be sufficient.
Use one pump of spray at a time, and move onto a different patch of his coat for the next application.
Avoid over-wetting your dog’s coat with the spray. Applying an excessive amount of the spray is not harmful but may give your dog’s coat a slightly greasy feel.
 Dogs with dry skin often lack a "greasy" feel to their coat, making it appear harsh and dull. If this is the case try weekly shampooing with a moisturizing oatmeal shampoo.Moisturizing shampoos are widely available from pet stores without a prescription and are used like any other standard pet shampoo.
 This will encourage good blood supply and circulation to his skin.Commit to a consistent, daily schedule of brushing to increase your dog's skin health and prevent the development of dandruff.
The stiffness of the brush used will depend on your dog’s coat. A short haired breed such as a Staffordshire bull terrier needs a softer brush than a coarse coated breed such as a Cairn terrier.
 Pay particular attention to his flanks and back.
 This will facilitate good air circulation on your dog’s skin and make your daily coat brushing more effective., This is as long as it takes for healthier skin germ cells to travel from the basal layers up to the surface of your dog’s skin.Keep in mind the scruff may actually get worse before it gets better as you loosen up the top layers of dry skin on your dog’s coat.
 A knotted, matted, and dirty coat holds bacteria against the surface of the skin, weakens the skin's immunity and predisposes dogs to dandruff. The groomer will be able to trim and clip your dog’s coat without damaging his skin.If your dog’s coat is only slightly tangled, you can clip the knots away with scissors. But be careful not to snip your dog’s skin.
 You can use products such as unscented baby shampoo to clean the surface of your dog’s skin, and improve its health.Be sure to use warm water as it will be more comfortable for your dog and he will be more likely to co-operate with his bath.
To shampoo your dog, work the shampoo in well and then rinse it out with clean water until the water runs clear and all the shampoo has been washed out of his coat.
 The intense heat along with the moving air can easily dry out the surface of his skin and cause dandruff.


If it is necessary to use a dryer to dry your dog after a shampoo or cleaning, keep the dryer setting on cool, and use a low blow setting.
 Dogs have a coat to protect them from the extremes of cold weather. But if your dog spends a lot of time indoors, especially in a centrally heated room, the natural oils in his coat may dry out, leading to flakes of dry skin and dandruff.


Reduce the room temperature so your dog doesn't get overheated. A comfortable temperature for a dog is around 18 degrees Celsius or 65 degrees Fahrenheit.
Avoid taking your dog out for walks in the cold when the room becomes too hot, as this will only make the difference in temperature worse and make him hotter when he goes back inside.
 Most dogs groom themselves, which helps to condition their coat by increasing blood supply to their skin and spreading the natural oils. But a large tummy area or significant weight gain can prevent him from being able to physically bend and groom hard to reach places on his coat.
 This should be a part of any treatment for his dandruff if he is overweight.
 The key to preventing dandruff and controlling it in the long term is to condition the baby skin cells at the bottom layers of your dog’s skin. Essential fatty acids, such as those found in evening primrose supplements, are vital to keeping your dog’s skin hydrated and healthy.The dose of evening primrose is based on weight, so use 250 mg for a 30 kg dog, once daily.
 The optimum balance for your dog's skin health is a ratio of 5:1 of omega 6 to omega 3 fatty acids. Achieve this balance by giving your dog supplements designed to nourish his skin from the inside out, such as Complederm (Virbac) which is available without a prescription.


Add Complederm to your dog’s food by the capful, according to the manufacturer’s instructions.