 A midwife or doctor might recommend breaking your water manually if labor is slow. It is unlikely your water would be broken during the early stages of labor, as this increases the risk of infection. If things have slowed during active labor, however, breaking your water might get the process moving.You will move your bottom to the edge of the hospital bed. Your doctor will examine you using a gloved hand. If necessary, she will use medical instruments to scratch the membrane around your baby until water flows out.The procedure is not painful but can be uncomfortable. Contractions will become much stronger and quicker after your water is broken., A hormone drip can encourage your contractions to speed up and become more effective. This will push you from latent labor to active labor.


Pitocin, an artificial form of natural hormones released during labor, will be used in your hormone drip.Your baby must be monitored more closely during this process as pitocin can cause very strong, very frequent contractions that can distress the baby.An epidural may be administered before the hormone drip is put in place. You may need pain medication due to the increased intensity of labor, although plenty of women also give natural childbirth using pitocin., The cervix can be widened in one of two ways. This speeds up the process of labor and increase the rate of contractions.


Synthetic hormones that stimulate cervix dilation can be taken orally or placed inside the vagina.The cervix can be dilated manually with balloon-shaped medical catheters, which is why this is sometimes referred to as the "balloon method."As with most methods of medical induction, your baby's heart rate and vital signs will be monitored more closely afterwards to assure there are no complications., Inducing labor is usually done at the recommendation of your doctor or healthcare provider. While a wait-and-see approach is usually preferable, a doctor might want to induce labor for one of the following reasons. She will discuss her reasons with you to help you make the best choice.


If you're two weeks past your due date, the doctor might be concerned about the baby getting bigger. This makes delivery more difficult and increases the risk of complications.The risk of stillbirth also doubles when you are two weeks or more past the due date.If your water breaks but contractions don't follow, your doctor may want to induce to minimize risk of infection for you and your baby.Medical conditions, such as high blood pressure and diabetes, put you and your baby at risk for health issues. Your doctor might want to induce.Any sort of infection is grounds to induce labor.In rare cases, the placenta comes undone from the wall of the uterus. This can cause complications and if it occurs your doctor will probably want to induce.Purely elective inductions should not be performed prior to 39 weeks gestation, as there can be complications to the baby.

