 A lot of things that are considered too rude to be said are often communicated using eyes. In fact, some of our emotions are written in the size of our pupils, something humans can't control. If someone is frustrated by having to talk to you, you can often find out by watching their eyes.


Looking up and to the right is a sign of boredom.
Pupils dilate (get bigger) when a person is interested, and will often decrease in size when someone becomes bored.Avoiding eye contact probably means they’re hiding something from you, that they don’t trust you, or are scared of you.;
, Any extreme emotion can be a sign that something is wrong with your relationship. However, you should pay attention to extremes as compared to how this person usually behaves, not what you consider normal for yourself or your friends. Pay attention to:


Tension and stiffness, especially in the shoulders
Boredom and disinterest
Being over the top or melodramatic
The tone of their voice
How quickly or slowly they respond , People behave differently depending on how they feel about what they are saying or doing, and there are many subtle (and often subconscious) cues that can help differentiate how people feel about something they’re unwilling to discuss or will lie about. The basic idea of a polygraph test, also known as a lie detector, is in finding the tiny differences in how someone responds when they’re telling the truth as compared to when they’re lying.Even if you can't use a machine to monitor the differences in someone's behavior, some easy cues that can help you tell if they hate you are:


Anything that might suggest that they are lying or trying to mislead you. Look out for any sign of them trying to hide an emotion, as people often get emotional when they lie, and try to hide it.How this person communicates with you vs. how they communicate with other people.
How they act when you’re talking about something they need to pay attention to (for example work, if they are a co-worker) and when you bring up things that they don’t need to talk about with you.
How they act when you have something they want vs. how they act the rest of the time. For example, if you are a good student in school, are they nice to you when they want help and mean the rest of the time? If this is the case, they probably don't like you.
How they behave in different situations. If someone hates you, they will probably behave similarly towards you in most situations, unless there is another factor that forces them to pretend to like you. If they behave differently in different situations, perhaps there is another contributing factor, and their behavior has nothing to do with how they feel about you.
 It can sometimes be hard to tell the difference between things like jealousy, shyness, fear and hatred. Some things to consider when deciding this are:


Is the person quiet or shy in general?
Do you have a position or possession they might want and be jealous of?
Do you sometimes act pushy or demanding? Could they be scared of you or your reaction?

, While everyone is different regarding how much about their personal life they share in various circumstances, if someone regularly withholds information from you that has to do with what you are doing together, then there is probably some issue between you.It might not be hatred, and it might be as simple as forgetfulness on their part, but it is probably worth investigating why they aren’t being more forthright. Some things that should probably be shared are:


Anything regarding a project you are working on together
Information that clearly would help you do your job, or be happier
Messages that someone else asked them to pass on to you

