 In a way, the geek chic style celebrates your inner 5 year old that doesn’t care what others think. Don’t be afraid to mix bold patterns and colors. Embrace your geekiness by allowing your outfit combos to be a little quirky.Try wearing a bright T-shirt under a patterned dress, or wearing a striped sweater over a traditional button-up shirt.
The geek chic style can be colorful, but it doesn’t have to be. For a more traditionally geeky look, opt for dark, basic colors.;
, You don’t necessarily need to buy new clothes. Instead, experiment with layering patterned sweaters, shirts, and dresses that you already own.Thrift shopping is another way to get a good bargain on geek chic items!

, High-waisted shorts, pants, and skirts are both geeky and stylish. There are tons of different options, so pick the ones you like best., Plaid and pleated skirts, inspired by traditional school uniforms, are cute and a little geeky at the same time. Pick a pleated skirt, a plaid skirt, or one that’s both!You can even use an old school uniform skirt, if you have one.
 Invest in a few graphic T-shirts with fun, geeky designs--think comic book characters, Star Wars, anime, and cute animals! Graphic tees are super versatile, and pair well with your high-waisted jeans or pleated skirt., Shirts with collars and buttons scream geek chic. Button your shirt all the way up for an extra geeky but fashionable look.Button-up or collared shirts look great when paired with a pleated or plaid skirt. Tuck it in for a streamlined look.
 If you need some geek chic-approved outwear, try a blazer. Classic black matches with anything, but other colors are fun, too. Go for an oversized blazer to make your look even more geek chic.Pair your blazer with a graphic T-shirt for a more casual look, and a button-up for a more polished look. High-waisted pants or skirts pair well, too.
 Oxfords are stereotypically bookish shoes that can help help you channel the geek chic style. Now that geek chic is becoming more popular, there are tons of different styles of Oxfords available.For a subtler look, try Oxford-inspired flats or heels.
Penny loafers and Mary Janes are other cute and nerdy options., Glasses are the hallmark of the geek chic style. Mid-size lenses are classically geeky, but you can go for any size you want! Try on different styles to see what works best with your face shape.If you already wear glasses, consider buying a second pair to geek up your style. If you have perfect vision or wear contacts, buy a pair with fake lenses.Mix it up with different frame colors and patterns, or go for classic black. It’s up to you!

, Suspenders and ties are other classically geeky accessories. Wear your suspenders with your pleated skirt or your high-waisted pants, and pair your tie with a collared button-up shirt.Suspenders and ties come in tons of different colors and styles. Again, feel free to combine bold patterns and colors!

, A side satchel is a bag with a long strap that you carry over one shoulder. If you want a more classic look, go for a leather or faux-leather satchel. Otherwise, pick whatever color or pattern you like--there are tons to choose from., Simply adding fun socks can transform a plain outfit into a geek chic ensemble. Choose ankle length socks or knee socks, and have fun combining different colors, patterns, and styles!Try wearing knee socks with your Oxford shoes for a cute yet academic look.
Pairing ankle socks with a Mary Jane-style heel is another great geek chic option.
 Your entire outfit doesn’t have to be comprised of geek chic-inspired items. In fact, trying to cram too many geek chic items into one outfit can be overwhelming. Instead, try incorporating a few geek chic accessories and clothing items into your usual style.

For example, wearing glasses and oversized blazer with your usual ensemble creates an effortless geek chic look.
 You don’t have to wear makeup, but if you do, be sure to apply makeup that works with your glasses. If your glasses have thin frames, opt for thinner eyeliner. Apply thicker liner to balance out thick frames.Try cat-eye style eyeliner to compliment cat-eye style glasses.
 The geek chic look is best paired with a fresh face. Use concealer to brighten up the area under your eyes, and dab a little blush on your cheeks for a healthy glow., Complicated hairstyles can appear trendy, which might clash with your geek chic look. Instead, opt for simple and casual hairstyles, such as ponytails and messy buns. Curled or straightened hair works, too.


Try wearing your hair with a center part, and tuck it behind your ears.
Or, sweep your hair into a messy bun, leaving out your bangs and some flyaways to frame your face.
 Schoolgirl-style headbands and oversized bows will complete your geek chic hairstyle.Use a thick ribbon to tie your hair back in a ponytail or bun.
If you want to wear your hair down, a simple fabric headband is the perfect compliment.

