 It's also a good idea to buy (or borrow) a travel guide on the area, such as Lonely Planet or Rough Guide. By looking through websites, blogs and travel guides, you'll find out the recommended places to visit, the places to stay and things to do. Travel guides will help you to budget, as they usually offer budget, medium and high cost alternatives for accommodations and activities to do.


Check out blogs of people who have traveled through Great Britain. These are the perfect place to find non-mainstream things to do.
Find out what the locals do. This is always a good key to finding the cheaper entertainment and even free things. For example, having fish and chips on a jetty by the sea, or visiting a local gypsy fair.
You don't have to buy travel guides; many libraries carry them and borrowing them lets you view many of them rather than sticking to just one.;
, Great Britain consists of England, Scotland and Wales.That gives you a huge range of different places to visit, along with lots of different possible cultural activities to be a part of. For starters, there are three capital cities, London, Edinburgh and Cardiff, plus many major cities. Then there are many smaller cities, towns and villages, as well as the countryside. It's unlikely you have the time to visit everywhere, so you'll need to refine your visits to what is doable.


Remember that the capital cities are big, especially London, and can definitely make a visit in their own right.
Map out your visit using an online or a paper map. Check the distances and suggested traveling times. Make sure you have up-to-date traveling times, as these change in time, given traffic congestion, new roads, etc.
 Some people have really defined notions of what they're keen on seeing and this can make organizing the trip more interesting. If you have a "theme" or particular interest, it can make your visit really enjoyable, as you can pick particular places and check them off one by one. Everything else will become a supporting act to each main feature you're wanting to see. A themed trip can be as mainstream or as unique as you'd like to make it; there is no right or wrong about following your interests.


For example, you could pick themes such as: Stonehenge and other ancient spiritual places, Roman ruins, the homes of Victorian writers, Shakespeare's country, great castles of Great Britain, famous royal places, green buildings, fun things such as the London Eye, great cathedrals, wildlife or bird life of Britain, posh places to stay, transportation museums, etc. The opportunities are endless!

, With the emphasis on "enjoying" your visit, you'll need to choose the transportation means that you love most. There are lots of possibilities, some more pricey than others. For example, you could hire a car, giving you lots of freedom of going everywhere but beware that gas (petrol) may be a lot costlier than what you're used to in the United States, Canada or Australia. Also, there is a lot of traffic and even though the distances may seem small, you can get caught up in traffic snarls easily, especially coming into large cities such as London. Other options include trains (also expensive), cycling (in some areas), canal boating (in some areas), walking (in cities and parts of the countryside), buses and flights. The drawback with flights is that you miss whatever passes between you and the place you've just left but it will speed up your visits to different places. Do check the difference between airfares and train fares though; you may find the flights work out cheaper.
 Try to book things such as tickets, travel deals, hotels and the like online, before you arrive. That said, don't overbook; you don't want to remove the spontaneity of travel, giving yourself the flexibility to make changes or to follow new leads. It all depends on how certain you need to feel before you leave.
 Britain's climate is temperate, often rainy, frequently overcast and often unpredictable. For example, you will often need a raincoat or umbrella during the fall and spring. Pack heavy jackets and articles of clothes that you would wear in the snow if you are touring in the winter.


London can be quite humid during summer and even during spring and autumn, due to its own heat generation from being such a large city. As such, layering of clothing is a good way to cope if you're walking around the city a great deal; this will help prevent you from overheating.
 Taking pictures will make your experience more memorable. If you are on a family trip and you are taking a family picture, take a silly one now and then, just for fun. It may seem like a waste of time if you hate pictures, but when you are older, you will reflect on the pictures and see how much fun you had.


For a great silly picture, stand next to a Beefeater in London and try to make the Beefeater laugh. They are not allowed to flinch, let along acknowledge your presence, so the photo can be quite entertaining.
 Don't keep to yourself! Get immersed in the culture by starting up a conversation with people. The pub is a great place to do this, but you can be bold and talk to people in many places, such as the tourist office, local shops, in the park, etc. The locals are the "real deal" and if they thing you're a good egg, they might just even let you into some local secrets about gems to visit or great things to try.


Some places are inappropriate for striking up a conversation. For example, on the London Tube. Don't even try cracking a smile there. It is just not the done thing.
 All you will remember was that you were text messaging your friends and listening to your iPod the whole time if you feel overly attached to your gizmos, and you will not have as much fun. Keep texting and emailing for the hotel room at night, just before bed.
 Nothing ruins a good trip more than losing your stuff or having things stolen. Try to shore yourself up against this happening. As with traveling anywhere you are not familiar with, it pays to be sensible.


Keep a copy of your ID papers somewhere other than on you, maybe online, saved in an email to yourself. If you end up losing them, to have at least a copy to prove who you are.
Don't keep all your money in the same place; have some spare money hidden in various bags, pockets in case. Traveler's checks are still a good standby, as if they're lost or stolen, they can be canceled and reissued.
Don't keep too much cash on you, better use debit cards with limited amounts so if they get lost, you have possibility to instantly block them.
 Expect to have a good time, to learn new things about the countries you're visiting and to have your mind opened by new experiences. Just because things are not done or thought about in the same way as back at home, doesn't mean they're wrong, odd or confronting. Be open to what you can learn and take home; you may even discover better ways of doing or thinking about some things!

, Understanding local words and dialects can help you to become more deeply immersed in someone the local culture.

