 Open an Internet browser, type https://app.box.com/ in the address bar, and hit Enter.;
, Input your Box account username and password in the fields provided. Click the “Log in” button to continue.
 From the main page, notice the header menu at the top. Locate the third icon from the left with the folder icon. Click on this to go to the All Files page.


This is your main page for all your Box folders and files.
 Create a new personal folder on your main page for easy access.


Click on the “New” button found on the All Files page header menu and select “New Folder” from the pop up.
 In the Create New Folder window, type in the folder name in the appropriate field. Use something like “Email Attachments.” Click on the “Okay” button when done.


Your new folder will be created on the All Files page.
 Go back to the All Files page to see the new folder you’ve just created. This folder will be used to store all your email attachments.
 Go back to the All Files page to see the Email Attachments folder. Click on it to open it.
 At the top part of the folder’s page, there are some header buttons. Click on the “More” button, and navigate to “Properties” then “Email Options.” The Folder Properties window will appear.
 The first option you’ll see is “Allow uploads to this folder via email.” Enable this by ticking on the box.
 After ticking the option, a box will appear with the folder’s unique email address. Copy this email address and save it to your email’s address book.


This is the email address you’ll be using to send file attachments to this folder.
 Click on the “Save” button to save your settings for the Email Attachments folder.
 Go to your email client, whether it be Yahoo! Mail, Gmail, Hotmail, etc., and log in accordingly.
 Browse through your inbox to find an email with a file attachment you’d like to move to Box.


The email can have more than one file attachment, as long as the combined size doesn’t exceed 80 MB.
 Once you’ve found the email, forward it to the folder’s email address.


Only the file attachments will be saved in your Box folder. The body of the email will not be uploaded.
 Return to the Box website.


Log in again if you were logged out for some reason.
 Go to the All Files page to see the Email Attachments folder. Click on the folder to open it.
 You can now see all the file attachments you’ve forwarded to this folder. From here, you can do whatever you want with the files, similar to how you manage your other files on Box.