


Do you have the time to take a couple of weeks to assemble a cabin kit?
When fully assembled log cabins are very competitively priced with the kit packages you can purchase, and often times priced even better. Did you know the average cost in America to build a Log cabin ranges from a conservative estimate of $100 per square foot to an unbelievable $240 per square foot. The cost per square foot for a fully assembled unit averages out at about $65 per square foot. Take a minute and do a “Google” search for “cost of a log home”, and see for yourself the cost to build a log home.
Many times you don’t have the necessary extra set 3-4 sets of hands necessary to assemble portions of the kit.
If your building site isn’t precisely level, the precut lumber doesn’t fit, or if you place one piece wrong you fight everything the rest of the way, and sometimes a piece will be cut wrong at the factory, a mistake that wasn’t even yours. Couple that with the fact that very few people have ever assembled a kit, and have yet to face the frustrations of doing it themselves or finding someone to do it for them. You've probably assembled things with missing pieces, and had things that just would not go together, and the box always reads easy assembly, but really, is there anything more frustrating?;
, Most kits are only exterior walls, do not include a foundation, floor system, electric, insulation, plumbing, or any finish on the interior. Those supplies will cost you significantly and also add to the overall length of your project. Make sure you know exactly what is coming with your kit, and calculate additional costs you will have in assembling the structure.
 Keep in mind that a driver will not risk running his truck and trailer into a job site that could damage his equipment, or get him stuck.
 Many people think that because the kit was sent from a factory that the kit is correct, and they are doing something wrong, but kit builders make mistakes, only they are not there to help fix them. If you set one piece wrong, or something doesn't go together quite right, you can fight everything the rest of the building and nothing will be smooth, or correct.
 You need to have a forklift onsite to unload the kit from the truck. Many kits require a crane to set pieces of the roof in place. Make sure you get a list of all the tools that you need in order to put you kit together, and find out where you can buy, borrow, or rent them. Kits do not come stained, and that is something you will need to do, or pay to have done. Some kit suppliers will offer you their services in this area, but you will pay dearly for it. Many stains also have toxic fumes which you need to be careful around. You are limited in the custom design. They take a long time to assemble.
 A very small 12X24 kit may take you approx. 6-7 weekends, or 12-14 days, and is a lot of work. If you plan to run electric, you will need to drill through the center of each log the whole way up your wall. These things can take a great deal of time, slow the overall process down. The only time a kit would recommend is if you are looking to put a building in a very remote location that is inaccessible. Keep in mind though that you still need to find a way to get all your pieces back to the site.

