 Test the item's weight by picking up one corner of the item, or push it with your foot to gauge if you need another person, dolly or other form of equipment to pick up the object. Will it be too heavy for you to lift without help?






Take some time to examine boxes you might be moving for holes or other weak spots that might fall out while you're carrying. Is there anything that might shift, causing an imbalance?
Is the object slippery, or difficult to get a grip on? You might consider using some tacky-grip moving gloves to help make the move safely, with a secure grip on the object.;
, If you're carrying the item somewhere, make sure there's nothing in your way. Remove any obstacles, toys or other objects you may trip over on the route to your destination. Be aware of stairs or uneven floors, as well.

Even if you're not having someone help you carry the object itself, it's helpful to have a spotter, who can tell you when you're getting close to doorways or other obstacles, especially if the object obscures your vision in any way.
 With your feet placed shoulder-width apart, tighten your abdominal muscles and bend your knees and hips to get into a squatting position. Look straight ahead, keeping your head back to complete the proper lifting form.





Arrange or gather the object so that it will not slip, move, or change its balance when you lift it. Grip the object while in squatting position.
 When you've got a hold of the object, keep it close to your body, and push up, straightening your knees into a standing position, maintaining a straight back.





It's very important to keep your back straight and to drive up from your heels, not from your toes or the balls of your feet, which can cause you to lose your balance, as well as putting strain on your knees.
Look up while lifting. By looking up, you will position your spine in a way that reduces the opportunity for injury.
Never jerk upright, or yank on the object to lift it. Go slowly. You can seriously injure your back, knees, or arms by trying to go too fast.
 Depending on the situation, you may need to carry the object to a new location or hold it in one position for a length of time.





Bend your knees slightly as you carry the item. Take small steps and change direction by pivoting your feet. If you're standing, keep your knees bent and control your breathing with deep, rhythmic breaths so you don't get dizzy.
 Return to the squatting position using your leg muscles, not your back muscles. Keep your back straight.





Make sure to continue holding the item close to your body as you lower it in its place. You can strain your arm muscles and lose your balance, or drop the object, if you start letting it shift around as you prepare to set it down. Set it down gently.

