, You will need a certain type of talisman for the type of runes you are making. For example, if you wanted to make air runes, you would need an air talisman. Finding talismans are normally not that hard. Talisman are only useful if you don't know where the altar is, but you can easily search online for it. You can get them by:

Buying them in the Grand Exchange (easiest way, but takes a long time for the transaction to go through).
Finding them off the ground.
Killing Air, Water, Earth, or Fire Wizards, and other monsters who also drop talismans.
Completing the Rune Mysteries quest. (But you can only get an air talisman.)
You can also buy a tiara. This saves one inventory slot and costs much cheaper in the Grand Exchange.
 Get all of the rune essence you will need. You will need some because the rune essence will be made into the runes. You can get some by:

Mining it (Rune Mysteries prerequisite).
Buying it in the Grand Exchange. Rune essence prices fluctuate due to market trends.
 To make your runes, go to the altar that can make the runes you need. For example, if you want to make air runes, go to the Air Altar. If you do not know where it is, right click the talisman you are using and click "locate." When you arrive there it will only look like a big rock. The game calls it the "Mysterious Ruins.", This is how you teleport to the alter when you are rune crafting. If this did not work, you used the wrong talisman or you didn't go to the right temple.

If you have a tiara, you have an added advantage because you can simply left-click on the large rock to enter the ruins.
 To do this, use your essence on the altar, which is near the middle of the area you were teleported to., Just use the portal and you will be back to where the altar was., If you want to go between altars and banks with ease, use the Varrock Teleport, Falador Teleport etc. as well as teleportation tablets. Teleportation tablets are obtainable in the Great Orb Project minigame (which needs level 50 Runecrafting) and cost between 15 to 100 Runecrafting tokens (depending on the type of tablet you want). The great part is that they are stackable!