 If you're really serious about toning up the look of your jawline, there are actually programs available you can purchase that will run you through a wide variety of exercises and face-improving motions. Compared to most other fitness programs, they're relatively cheap and quite convenient to follow up on., Smiling comes more naturally to some people than others, but the fact remains that it has a laundry list of benefits to the muscles in your face. As it goes with the rest of your body, the more you exercise your face, the better and tighter it'll look. Smiling is a great exercise because it is psychologically tied in with the experience of being happy, so it's not uncommon to notice an improvement in your mood if you make a regular habit of smiling on impulse., Getting a better jawline is correlative to working the jaw itself. To do this, try clenching your jaw for 10 seconds before releasing it. This should come with a sense of mild discomfort as well as a subtle burn. Try doing this as many times as you want-- between 10 and 15 should be a good place to start in terms of reps.As time goes on, you should increase the amount of time you're clenching your jaw. This will encourage your jaw to continue toning.
Jaw clenching is generally quite easy to fit into a daily routine. Due to the fact that it doesn't look as apparent and silly as many other facial exercises, it's even something you can do at work or on the train.
 Tilt your head upwards and keep your eyes fixed on the ceiling. Next, strain your lips, as if you were trying to kiss something an inch above you. Maintain the strain for 5 seconds per rep, after which you should relax and give your lips a few seconds to recuperate. You can repeat this exercise as many times as you'd like, although 10 is a good place. This exercise is a great way to improve facial tightness, as the direction and strain work out a wide variety of facial muscles., Massaging your temples and unfurling your brow is a good way to encourage blood flow and circulation throughout your face. Take two fingers from each hand and rub your temples in small, circular motions. Continue this for 30 seconds per session.


Massaging temples is best known as a way to combat migraine headaches.
 Making a 'fish face' is a great exercise for toning up your cheeks and jaw. Suck in your cheeks from inside your mouth and try smiling. Hold the form for at least 5 seconds per rep. It should feel mildly uncomfortable, and by the end of each rep, you should feel a light burn. This is a good thing, as it demonstrates your muscles have been strained by the activity. Repeat this 10 times for a good starting exercise, and feel free to increase the number of reps as it suits you.Exercises like the fish face are very easy to work into your daily routine, so long as you remember to do them. You can do them in the shower or before going to sleep.

