 You will want to follow the “inch-per-gallon” rule when deciding on an aquarium size. This means that for every inch of fish in your tank, you will need a full gallon of water. So, a five-inch fish requires at least a five-gallon tank. Keep in mind that if you get a school of fish, you will need even more room.It is a good idea to get a tank that is at least 20 gallons. This is a manageable size for a beginner fish-keeper. This also means that the tiny bowls sold in fish stores are too small to ensure the long-term health of your fish.The inch a gallon rule is general. Keep in mind some fish (like goldfish) create a lot of waste, or need more space.;
, Get a fish that can be replaced rather easily and cheaply, just in case something goes wrong. Saltwater fish are more expensive and require much more equipment than freshwater. In contrast, a corydora catfish is readily available and won’t break the bank.Tetras, Cory Cats, and Black Mollies are inexpensive options as well. You can also compare prices to find the best deal.
 You want a fish that isn’t easy to kill. One that can survive small mistakes in cleaning or care. For example, overfeeding is a common problem that can kill many fish breeds rather easily. With this in mind, Paradise fish are a hardy, beautiful option.Siamese fighting fish are cousins of goldfish and make excellent first-time pets. They prefer a good amount of aquarium décor and are often found lounging amongst the plants, making for great viewing., Some fish require the socialization of schools whereas others just prefer to be left alone. The Ember tetra is a great beginner fish, but it does best when included in a group of six or more. Try to find out about the best environment for the fish before buying., Your child may want a bright, colorful fish that they can track throughout the tank. A tetra is always a good option if this is the case. Or, your child may be more interested in a fish that has a unique shape with unusual fins, such as a Paradise fish.
 This is usually the first fish that jumps to mind for a child’s pet. However, they can live for a long time and they can actually grow to quite a large size, if given the proper space and conditions. So, keeping a goldfish in a small tank actually limits the growth and well-being of the fish itself.A healthy goldfish in a large environment can grow upwards of eight inches long.
 Pet stores carry a wide variety of fish that you can walk in and purchase directly. The benefit here is that you’ll get to see your fish face-to-face prior to making a purchase. Online fish dealers, in contrast, offer a wider variety of fish, but you’ll have to wait a bit for your fish to arrive. You also won’t get to pick a particular fish.
 Regardless of who you buy from, make sure to do some consumer research prior to purchasing. Check with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) to see if the business has any current consumer complaints. Look online for reviews on a site such as Yelp.It is doubly important to do your research when buying from an online dealer. They may or may not offer a refund if you receive a sickly fish.
 If you visit an aquarium or pet store, you should approach one of the employees and ask them about how to care for your fish. Talk to them about the pH level needs of each type of fish. Ask if they have any care tips or ideas about what food each fish prefers. If the employee is not that knowledgeable or helpful, you may want to go elsewhere.
 As you walk in front of the tanks, take a good look at each of them. See if you notice a good amount of debris in the water or algae on the tanks. Take a quick smell and notice if there is a fishy or stinky odor present. Look to see if the heaters and filters are all installed correctly and functioning., Not all fish are the same. You want a fish that is swimming actively, but not frantically. You want a fish with a consistent, bright color and a body without any lumps or unusual spots. The fish should have all of its scales and show no signs of outward flesh damage. The stomach should be smooth and in line with the rest of the body., From the first step onward, ask your child about their preferences and see if you can accommodate them. For example, if they prefer to choose a fish in person, then visit an aquarium store. Keeping your child interested in the process will also make them more likely to take care of the fish in the long term., Prior to the fish arriving home, you’ll want to install your heater, light, and filtration system in your tank. You’ll also want to add any decorations or substrate. At least 24 hours before your fish arrives, treat the water in your tank with a conditioning chemical and let it sit. This will ensure that the water is safe for your fish., Before you add the fish to the tank, cycle the fish tank. Cycling the tank ensures that there is the proper amount of bacteria in the water for the fish to thrive. Some bacteria is good for fish, and it will help break down their waste product. It will take a month to cycle the water.

One common way to cycle the aquarium without any fish is to heat the water to 80 °F (27 °C) before adding fish food. The food will decay over a few days, releasing ammonia into the water. As soon as the ammonia levels drop down to 0 ppm, you can add the fish.
There are some species of fish that do not require you to fully cycle the water before you put them in the tank. Always consider the type of fish that you are purchasing before setting up the tank.
 When you transfer your fish make sure to float the bag in the tank for at least 10 to 15 minutes. This will allow your fish to get accustomed to the new water temperature and environment. Then, open the bag at the top and gently scoop the fish out and into the tank water. Dispose of the bag.Try to avoid letting any of the bag water into the tank. The bag could contain infections from the store that you do not want loose in your tank.
 You will want to talk with your child about the importance of feeding a fish very slowly and cautiously. If you or your child overfeeds your fish, essentially giving it more than it can eat in a single meal, take the net and skim the remaining food from the top of the tank., You will want to do a partial water change of your tank at least every two weeks. Make this part of a regular cleaning routine and get your child involved by asking them to hold the drain hose or scrub off any dirty decorations.Make sure to also test the water regularly to ensure that the pH, ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate levels are in the proper range for your type of fish.
 This can be a simple chart that shows feedings and cleanings by the week. As your child completes each task, give them a sticker to place on top of the completed chore on the chart. This will keep them engaged in the upkeep and care of the fish, while making fish-related chores fun as well.