 Not getting enough sleep can increase the production of stress hormones, which can trigger acid reflux, put you at higher risk for chronic diseases, and lower life expectancy. If you suffer from sleep apnea or insomnia, talk to your doctor for possible treatments.


Strategies for getting enough sleep include a quiet, dark, cool environment and avoiding caffeine, alcohol, and sugary foods for 4-6 hours before bed. You should also avoid eating 2-3 hours before bed and work or exercise 3-4 hours before bed.For more info on getting enough sleep, check: How to Sleep Better


, Sleeping on your stomach or lying flat on your back right after a meal can promote stomach acids, causing indigestion and heartburn. Try sleeping on your left side with a firm pillow between your knees to prevent stress on your spine, hips, and lower back.Some studies show that sleeping on the left side limits the flow of stomach acid into the esophagus by supporting the body’s natural curves.Pull your knees up slightly toward your chest. The pillow for your head should keep your spine straight. A rolled towel or small pillow under your waist may also help support your spine.If you have a respiratory condition or cold, try to prop your head up on a pillow to improve airflow. The pillow for your head should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable.A pillow that's too high can put your neck into a position that causes muscle strain on your back, neck, and shoulders. This can increase stress, cause headaches and trigger acid reflux. Choose a pillow that will keep the neck aligned with the chest and lower back.
 The type of clothing you wear can affect your acid reflux, especially if you’re overweight. Tight clothing can increase pressure in your abdominal area, which can force the contents of your stomach back up into your esophagus. Be sure to wear comfortable, loose fitting clothing., In general, you should avoid exercising for at least 2–4 hours after eating. If you frequently have acid reflux or heartburn, even slight bending, stretching or climbing stairs can promote stomach acids. Gently paced walking, in contrast, helps reduce stomach acids and aids digestion., Chewing your food thoroughly makes it easier to swallow and digest, thus reducing or preventing symptoms of heartburn. It also increases nutrient absorption by releasing food enzymes and may help promote weight loss by reducing appetite.If you have dental issues that make it difficult to chew, ask your dentist about how to chew properly while taking care of your oral health.
 Studies suggest that smoking increases acid secretion, impairs muscle reflexes in the throat, and damages protective mucus membranes. Smoking reduces salivation, and saliva helps neutralize acid.It is unknown whether the smoke, nicotine, or both trigger GERD. Some people who use nicotine patches to quit smoking, for example, have heartburn, but it is not clear whether the nicotine or stress produces the acid backup.
In addition, smoking can lead to emphysema, a condition in which the air sacs of the lungs are damaged and enlarged, causing breathlessness.

