 What comes from an artist's mind is their own. The artist holds legal rights to their own expression of art, techniques, imaginative characters, images photographed, patterns, and written instructions. This goes for original art on display in a gallery, books and on-line.;
, The character may be fun to draw, but the idea is not yours. Parents and teachers should remind children that drawing someone's cartoon character is a form of plagiarism. If the character did not originate with the student it should not be copied. You may take a small element of the character and use them in your own drawings, (ears, feet, smile, etc.) but it is not correct to reproduce it.
 The Disney Company(R) has a reputation for defending their licensed characters. It has been suggested if they find out you are using their designs, in a public space, you could receive a written letter to remove them or face legal actions.
 Businesses have legal departments and have copyright, trademarks and patents registered for security within the company. In some cases, only the business owner, or the chief designer knows all the details and this is held secret.
 Although we may think of the art world as being free and unlimited, the ideas of an artist belong to them, just like the business has rights.
 If you would like to make it, always be careful and look for a statement that the artist is giving permission to reproduce it. If it is in a craft magazine, it is usually okay because that is how they sell the magazine, but you should not make the same assumption about art work where the artist's name appears.
 Some artists require that you ask for their written permission to reproduce art in a certain style. The artist may request that you give written credit including name, title and date. Teachers can usually use it for educational purposes only. The uses and words "not for profit" are key.
 If you take a class, and pay for the teacher's patterns, you are  generally free to use the pattern as you wish, but if you plan to make them to sell, you should ask the artist/instructor their opinion on this. Here is an example:  Someone takes a class for $20.00 to learn how to make a bracelet. They turn around and make 50 bracelets and sell them for $20.00.  Do you see how this could be a problem for the instructor?

, Many artists are willing to share their knowledge, but this has come from years of study, experience, trial and error, and talent. Even simple things may have taken a long time to perfect. If in doubt, don't copy and assume it is fine.  Many people know the rules even if you do not.
 Displaying your art on a website, blog or other form is easily seen by many and you can become a victim of people claiming it is theirs. Learn the technology to use a watermark with the title and date if your art.
 Should you want to have a postcard or flyer made of your art work, discuss the ownership with the printer. Most people are honest, but you may need a written agreement. You don't want your art appearing as a logo or poster for a third party.
 Make art a memorable experience.

