 There are a broad range of clubs, sports, and other kinds of activities that you can try out. Extracurriculars are a great way to have fun, make new friends, learn about yourself, and even open the door to future career possibilities as you learn about your skills and interests.At the beginning of the year, if you’re unsure of what your interests are, try out a variety of different activities. You’ll quickly find out what you like and can drop the ones you don’t early on.
For example, schools tend to offer many different kinds of sports. In addition to the standard football, soccer, and running teams, more schools are beginning to offer dance and other forms of physical activity. If any of these appeal to you, join them at your school. If your school doesn't offer one that you want, you can always join a rec league in the community.
If you are already passionate about a few different things, pursue them! Join that cooking club or soccer team. You’ll be sure to meet new friends as you’ll already know that you have some common ground.
Don’t be shy. Life is too short to not try out new things. Regardless of the outcome, you’re far more likely to regret not having done something than having done it.;
, If you have a hobby and your school doesn’t offer any classes or clubs that focus on that, start your own club! Not only will it be great experience (and make you stand out in your college applications) but starting a new project/organization can be extremely satisfying and also make you broaden your social circle to find new people who share your interest.


For example, if you love poetry, reach out to your English or Creative Writing teacher to ask about creating a literary journal.
 Doing so will not only broaden your horizons by putting you in contact with people outside of your high school, but you may find something more suited to as your specific interest. Also, having a change of scenery can do wonders for your mental health.


Students can really shine outside of school in many different roles such as volunteers, interns, or community members.If you’re an animal lover, look into animal welfare organizations to volunteer or secure an internship with them. Or, if you care about preserving natural landscapes, you can go online or ask around about community efforts to preserve the wild areas around you.
 It takes time and effort to get close to people, but having even just one or two best friends can make all the difference in how much you enjoy high school. When meeting people, bear in mind that the other students are likely just as uncertain of themselves as you may feel.Just be patient and open to whoever comes along and eventually you’ll meet those people that you click with and grow a strong friendship with.


The key to making friends is to be an open, kind person and a good conversationalist. When meeting people, ask them about their lives and interests and show them that you are really listening. Try to maintain a natural flow of conversation and find traits or interests that you share.
Don’t try to think of friend groups as “cliques” and don’t try to force yourself into an already formed friend group unless they are all open and friendly to you. Since high school is a time when many people are still forming their identities, many react by forming exclusive groups. However, instead of falling into that hierarchical mindset, treat people like human beings and try to connect with them on a deeper level. This may take more time and effort than just falling into a specific stereotypical “clique” but the friendships you do form will be more honest and rewarding in the long run.
 Make sure to schedule time outside of school with your friends. There are a wide variety of activities you can do with your friends depending on your interests. What’s important is that you maintain regular contact with them as you guys will not only have fun with each other but you’ll also strengthen the bond of friendship.


Going swimming, playing video games, having sleepovers, or crafting are just a few ideas of fun activities you can do with friends.
Just make sure that your socializing doesn’t get in the way of your academic work.
Be sure to ask your parents for permission, particularly if they have to pick you up or if you are having friends over at your house. Being considerate of your parents beforehand will demonstrate your maturity to them and they will likely be more willing to support your efforts to have a healthy social life.
 Don’t turn down invitations to parties, dances, movie showings unless you have a good reason. High schoolers tend to do more group activities so saying “yes” to these activities will not only give you an opportunity to have a good time, but you’re also likely to meet and make new friends.


When hanging out at parties where other people are engaging in dangerous activities, like drinking or doing illegal drugs, stick to your values and don’t partake just because everyone around you is doing it. It can feel awkward to say no but you will have much more fun and feel better about yourself if you don’t cave to peer pressure. If people around you give you a hard time, come up with a simple excuse like “I have a bad reaction to substances” or “I could get randomly tested for my job/sport/internship.”Never let anyone pressure you into engaging in any sexual acts that you are not comfortable with. If someone starts to make fun of you or otherwise try to “convince” you to have sex with them, that is coercion and sexual assault. Remember, you always have the right to say no.
 Whether you are targeted by a bully or see others around you being targeted, do what you can to minimize the harmful effects of bullying. Bullying is unfortunately very common in high school but can be traumatizing for the individual and also contribute to a negative and unhealthy atmosphere within the school.


If you are being bullied, don’t blame yourself and stay resilient by remembering that bullies often hurt others because they themselves are hurting.Get help. Whether you are being bullied or witness to someone else being bullied, seek a trusted adult and let them know what’s happening especially if yours or someone else’s safety is at stake.
Don’t be a bully yourself. Always treat others with respect and kindness and you will find that most people will reciprocate. If people have a good perception of you, then they’ll be more likely to support and befriend you. This will also decrease the chances of other bullies picking on you., That means eating a nutritious breakfast, getting enough sleep, staying hydrated, and developing healthy habits. Basically, you should follow the advice of your parents and other adults in these areas as doing so really can make a difference in how you feel. Though these habits may not seem “fun” they will contribute to your overall feeling of happiness and wellbeing.


People function best when they feel good physically, are well rested, and have calm, focused energy. They learn and work better and have a better memory. Therefore, taking care of yourself will help make schoolwork easier, leading to you having more time for other fun activities, which will improve your mental wellbeing and make it easier to continue taking care of yourself. Doesn’t that sound like an enticing cycle?

, Aim to sleep about 8-10 hours a night if possible. Teenagers especially need a lot of sleep as they are undergoing many physiological changes.It can be tough to get enough sleep when school starts early in the morning.


If you think you are sleep deprived, try taking a short nap after school (but be sure to set an alarm!) and use the weekends to catch up on sleep.
Don't stay up late on school nights, even if it's to cram for an exam or catch up on homework. Many students don't realize just how much more difficult it is to function and perform well without adequate sleep., Though soda and other sugary drinks are popular in high school, they also are very dehydrating. If you do drink sugary drinks or caffeine, be sure that you are getting enough water to replace the lost liquid. Our bodies and brains depend a great deal on water to function properly and so when we deprive ourselves of it, we are more sluggish and irritable., For many, high school is a time to try new things and for some, this means dating and sometimes illicit activities, such as drugs or having sex. Take some time to reflect on your values and then stick to them.


Research has shown that most high schoolers overestimate the prevalence of sexual activity and drug use.That means that just because it may seem like everyone around you is doing drugs or drinking, that doesn’t mean it’s actually true. A lot of high schoolers like to exaggerate their rebellious behaviors to seem cool so keep that in mind when you are offered drugs or alcohol or asked about your own behaviors.
Don’t engage in sexual acts until you know you are ready. Many high schoolers may pretend that casual sex is not a big deal, but the fact is that sex can have long term consequences, especially if you don’t use protection. If you begin dating someone in high school, don’t let them pressure you into doing anything you aren’t comfortable with.
 High school doesn’t last forever so take the time to enjoy it! It goes by faster than you might think. This doesn't mean slack off, it just means don't overdo it. A healthy work ethic is important, but also take time to unwind. Find the balance between the things you have to do (such as homework and chores) and the things you enjoy doing (such as extracurriculars and seeing your friends). Whether it’s reading a book, writing a poem, shooting hoops, or even vegging out in front of the TV, do what you need to do to calm down. High school can be a very challenging time and is often a juggling act of schoolwork, extracurriculars, family obligations, and more so make sure to know when you just need a break from it all and take that time to yourself.
 You’re in school to learn so you may as well make the most of your time in class. Taking an active interest will not only keep up your grades, but you may find that you genuinely enjoy certain subjects. You’ll learn what your passions and strengths are and also get to appreciate the rewarding feeling of overcoming difficulties in the subjects you struggle in.


Stay engaged. Don’t be afraid to ask questions until you understand the material. If you daydream during class or don’t keep up with assignments, you will quickly be overwhelmed and stressed out which is no fun at all. Do your best to not only excel academically but appreciate the process.
If your school allows you to choose certain electives, pick ones that you think will genuinely enjoy. Have you always wanted to learn how to draw? Take an art class. Dream about living in Paris one day? It’s always better to start learning a new language sooner rather than later and once you’re out of school, you’ll have to pay for any classes. Try to see your coursework as opportunities to learn and grow rather than as a chore.
If you're still struggling to manage your workload or keep up in certain classes, talk to your teachers and meet with a counselor to get help with time management and ways to succeed in your classes.
 Not only are you getting some laughs in while doing work, but you can help each other out with different subjects. For example, if you are a math whiz while your best friend is more an arts/lit minded person, you can informally tutor each other., The school day can seem to drag on but if you are intentional about how you use your time, you’ll not only have more fun in school but you may have more time left over when school ends to socialize.


If you have any free periods or long lunches, try alternating between socializing and studying or doing homework on different days. If you establish such a routine, you can look forward to the days you spend with your friends and use the other days to get work done. That way, you’ll stay on top of your classes and you’ll free up more of your time outside of school to pursue your own hobbies.
Try to get a head start on the assignments in classes you struggle with. For example, if you find geometry to be difficult, working on the homework during a lunch break is a great idea as you’ll not only be more alert than in the evening but you can also seek out your teacher that same day if you get stuck on a problem. They’ll be impressed by your initiative and you’ll likely get the most challenging work done with first which will make your evenings more enjoyable.

