 This will launch the app.;
, Type in “Carousel” on the search field, and tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.
 Locate the correct app, and select it. Tap the “Install” button beside the app to download it.


The app is free.
 Locate the app on your iPhone, and tap on it to launch it.
 Both Carousel and Dropbox use the same Dropbox account. If you already have a Dropbox account, you don’t have to sign up for a Carousel account.


Tap the “Sign into My Dropbox” button. Enter your email and password in the Sign In screen then tap the “Sign In” button.
 The main screen of Carousel is very user friendly. All the photos and videos from your Dropbox account is displayed in large thumbnails. Navigate through your photos and videos by swiping up and down.
 Do this by tapping on any photo or video to view it in full screen.
 All your photos and videos are sorted and categorized by time. There’s a timeline bar on the bottom of the screen. Swiping left and right on it will scroll the photos by timeline, in year and month.
 If you don’t have any specific photos or videos to look at, you can let Carousel randomly select photos for you to view. Go to the bottom of the screen, or the latest date, and swipe up. “Take Me Somewhere” will appear, and Carousel will pick a date for you, then bring you to the set of photos under that date., Each photo and video has a checkmark. Tap on the checkmarks on the photos and videos you want to select. The selected items will have blue-colored checkmarks.
 Tap the trash can icon on the header toolbar then tap “Delete” to confirm. The selected photos and videos will be removed from your Carousel and Dropbox., Each photo and video has a checkmark. Tap on the checkmarks on the photos and videos you want to select. The selected items will have blue-colored checkmarks.
 Tap the box with an arrow pointing out icon on the header toolbar. A menu of sharing options will come out.



Share via Carousel. Tap the Carousel logo to share the selected photos and videos within your friends on Carousel. A small window will appear where you can type in the names, emails, or phone numbers of the people you want to share the selected items with. Type them in and tap the “Send” button.

Share via Messages. Tap the Messages logo to share the selected photos and videos via instant message using the Messages app on the iPhone. A new window will appear where you can type in the names of your friends you want to share the selected items with. Type them in and tap the “Send” button.

Share via Email. Tap the Email logo to share the selected photos and videos via email using the default email client set on the iPhone. A new window will appear where you can compose your email and type in the names of your friends you want to share the selected items with. Complete your email and tap the “Send” button.

Share via links. Tap the “Copy Link” button to generate a public link for the selected photos and videos. The link will be copied to your clipboard, and you can paste it wherever you want. You can paste the link on Facebook or Twitter and share it with your network. Anyone who has access to the link can view your selected items.

