 If you are making new friends, you have the choice about whether or not to tell them about your eating disorder. You have to decide what you are most comfortable with. You may choose to be honest and candid about your experience, or you can choose to keep it private. If you are recovering from the ED, you may also choose to leave that in the past and move forward with the friendship.If you are pursuing friendships you had before the ED, you can also choose how much to share with the friend. They will more than likely know you have the eating disorder, but that doesn’t mean you have to tell them details about it or discuss your ED. You control what information people know about your disorder.
 When you suffer from an eating disorder, you may not feel comfortable with the way you look. Because of this, you may feel like you need to change yourself or the way you look to be accepted or liked by others. Remember, you do not have to change anything about yourself, especially your appearance, for people to be friends with you.An outpatient treatment provider (counselor) can give you feedback and help you determine if you are being your authentic self as you develop these new relationships.
Notice if meeting new people and trying to form friendships trigger any unhealthy weight changes or eating habits, or thoughts like, “If I was thinner/more attractive, this person would like me.” If this happens, you'll want to talk with your counselor about these thoughts or impulses and how to counter them. A mantra like "I'm worthy of friendship just as I am," might help.
 The self-esteem problems associated with ED may lead to unhealthy connections to new friends. You may swing from avoiding everyone to needing to be around your friends all the time. You may be needy or clingy, and get too close to the person too quickly. Try to approach the friendship in a light, casual way. Let it develop naturally.Remember that just because your friend has other friends, doesn’t see you every week, or may not be able to hang, that doesn’t mean they don’t like you. That has nothing to do with you.
Making multiple friends can help you from getting too attached to one person.
 After you make the initial connection with a person and start a friendship, you start to get to know the person. During this time, you can decide if the person is someone you want to continue being friends with or if they are a person you don’t want in your life. This is why it’s important to develop friendships slowly and naturally.For example, you may want to give your new friend small bits about your life and see how they react. Are they positive and supportive, or do they get angry or offended? Do they tell other people your business?
Does your new friend listen when you talk? Do they ask questions and seem interested in you?
Does your friend seem self-centered and not care about you? Do they engage in unhealthy behaviors?
You may be able to address some of these behaviors if you want to pursue a friendship with the person. For example, if the person tells people your business, you may want to say, “When I tell you things about myself, I am trusting you. But when you tell others what I tell you, it makes me not want to trust you. Can we do something to work on this?”

