 The hygiene hypothesis states that exposure to germs of all kinds actually teaches the immune system to respond to infectious organisms with a balanced and effective response. The thought is that by over-cleaning and over-sterilizing our environment, we are actually inhibiting an appropriate immune response and changing the gut microbiome, which is essential for teaching the immune system and maintaining health. We also are increasing the risk of disorders such as asthma, eczema, allergies, autoimmune disorders, and chronic inflammatory disorders.


Many diseases that are reaching epidemic proportions are chronic inflammatory disorders. These include diabetes, obesity, heart disease, arthritis, digestive disorders such as Inflammatory Bowel Disease, neurological disorders, lung diseases, cancer, and others., One of the earliest studies providing support for the Hygiene Hypothesis followed over 17,000 children born in 1958.The study found that the more older siblings a child had, the less the chance was that they would have hay fever. Other studies found that children in rural areas, exposed to dirt, germs, farm animals, manure, and an overall more natural environment were less likely to develop asthma, eczema and allergic disorders.A recent study showed that newborns that are exposed to dirt and germs have a lower risk of allergy and asthma., The question of whether dirt and germs lower risk of diseases is actually a very, very complicated question. A number of factors could be playing into the association between exposure to dirt and germs and the decrease in the risk for a number of different diseases. Some of these factors are changes in diet, environmental pollution, and breastfeeding practices. Another factor may be the rise in the use of antibiotics, especially in childhood and for virally caused diseases.


What does appear to be true is that the more people have become concerned with clean surfaces and sterilizing their lives, the more the population as a whole, particularly children, have been experiencing allergies, asthma, and eczema in their youth and a variety of chronic inflammatory disease in both youth and adults., Some germs are good and essential for living. One example is the populations of bacteria living in our guts. The gut microbiome is vital for overall health and not only help educate the immune system, but provide us with vitamins and other nutrients, help support digestion, and help bowel regularity. You also have good bacteria in your nose which helps fight other infectious bacteria. These are considered “good” bacteria.Other germs are obviously not good. They causes various diseases and infections.

