 There is no way of targeting your weight loss so that you only lose weight in specific sections of your body, such as your cheeks. To actually slim those cheeks down, you must lose overall bodily weight. Talk to your health care provider prior to dieting or exercising and let them know of what you are trying to accomplish. If you have chronic conditions, are overweight or even if you are weight appropriate, you may need to take on a tailored exercise regiment under advisement from your provider to avoid injury or health issues.Let your health care provider know of the diet or exercise methods you are interested in to see if they're a good fit for you.
 Eating healthier is one of the most effective ways of cutting down on weight. Note that your face is often one of the last areas to slim out when losing weight.



Count calories. Keep track of how many calories you've consumed versus your targeted goal. Apps are available to help you determine how many calories are featured in common foods.
Keep a lot of tempting foods, such as those high in sugars or carbs, out of the house. You're less likely to eat unhealthy foods if they are not easily accessible.
Eat plenty of vegetables. Vegetables help you feel full throughout the day, in addition to housing plenty of important vitamins and nutrients.Drink plenty of water. Like eating vegetables, water helps you feel full and keeps your hunger in check.
Keep a food journal. Writing down what you eat can help you keep your healthy eating habits on track and help you understand your eating habits as a whole.Food journals also help identify which foods are particularly high in calories.
Avoid fad diets and supplements. Fad diets are ineffective and lack scientific evidence to back up their claims. At worst, they can cause you to alter your diet in a negative fashion by cutting out essential food groups., Burning 500 more calories than you eat every day will prevent weight gain and slowly burn the pounds. If you want to lose weight faster, you will have to make space in your schedule for more regular exercise.


Aim for cardio and strength training. Cardio, such as jogging, biking or swimming, burns the most calories. Supplement with strength training, such as weights to keep your body healthy.