 Although this may seem a bit too brave to do at the start of your awesome Christmas Break. It will definitely make you happy that you don't have to be reminded mentally that you have homework.;
, Think about what you will do over Christmas Break. Will you go play in the snow with your friends? Will you also play video games? And many more.
 Many youth groups or churches hold a Christmas Party, if you don't go to church than bring your friends or make friends when you arrive. You can also see a concert, go to a sleepover.
 Everyone knows life is more enjoyable when we have money, but as a kid, you probably don't have a job, so do anything from begging your parents to snow shoveling people's drive ways for $5 bucks.
 For Pete's sake, how obvious is this one. Go to the movies, cause some trouble (I mean like ding dong ditching not beating up people trouble). You're a boy, go play video games with them, host or attend a perfect sleepover, and most of all, go play in the snow. If you don't have any friends try to make some with people you are comfortable around, of course this step is optional if you are too shy to make friends.
 Go make an igloo, or even an old-fashioned Snow Man. Get help from a friend if you wish, or do it alone. If your snow is deep enough, make tunnels. If you unfortunately don't have snow, have a pine-cone fight, they are quite fun. Last but not least, go sledding/skiing/snowboarding down some hills.
 They love you, and they want a great Christmas as much as you do, so remember to obey them.
 These steps are only a little bit of all you can get out of Christmas Break, there is millions more possibilities, so brainstorm and write down any other great ideas you have for Christmas Break.
, Jesus was born 2000 years ago, and he is the reason of this joy, and this is proof that the Lord is joy. Doing something as simple as making a fine prayer thanking God for being born, or whatever will surely put a smile on God's face. Listen to Flyleaf's Christmas Song, it will remind you what Christmas is all about.
 If your parent's won't allow you to, than simply sneak staying up. But the point is to stay up on Christmas Eve.

