 A vital step to increasing your overall willpower is to take some personal accountability. Do so for both your successes and obstacles as you work towards your goals.


Talking or writing out loud about your actions can help. State what you did, why you did it, and how it made you feel. For example, ""I was feeling stressed about getting my paper done, so I decided to distract myself and watch television instead. I will work on managing my stress better so I can complete my paper so I can get things done instead of feeling lazy and bad about myself." Conversely, something like, "I wrote two pages of my term paper today because I wanted to stay on task and this makes me feel productive and positive about myself."Laying responsibility solely on yourself requires tremendous honesty. It also increases your ability to manage impulses and "look before you leap," and your sense of responsibility as you cease blaming external factors on your circumstances. This can help your willpower as you'll embrace the fact change is within your power., Negative thoughts will inevitably pop up during your journey. You may take one setback to mean you can never change, or you may simply have a voice in your head, chattering away that you won't succeed, putting you down. If you want to increase willpower, negativity does not help as it makes you feel defeated and hopeless. While it's impossible to stop negative thoughts completely, you can change how you react and deal with them.


Keep a record of your negative thoughts. Journaling is beneficial in many ways, and one thing you can do is log the negative thoughts that occur throughout the day.Soon you will be able to identify any patterns in the negative messages and begin to explore their origins.
When you identify a negative thought, such as "I am not capable of achieving my goals," question whether or not it is really true. Do this by looking at actual evidence, not just what your negative voice tells you. You can make two columns in your journal, one with evidence "for" the belief, one "against." In the "For" column, you might write: "I tried to go a month without eating sugar and I couldn't do it. I feel like I'm not strong enough to change my habit." In the "Against" column, you might write "When I set smaller, more attainable goals, I can accomplish them. When I take things day-by-day or week-by-week, I have a lot of success. In the past I've met goals to finish school, get a raise at work, and quit smoking. It was probably unreasonable to quit sugar cold turkey when I love it so much. I need to try again, maybe using a different method."
For a more in depth look at negative thoughts and how manage them, check out the article How to Deal with Negative Thoughts.
 This means knowing your limits and setting appropriate goals. If you are trying to quit smoking, for instance, it would of course be great if you could just quit all at once and be done with it. But maybe that's not you — maybe you still really enjoy smoking and you've been doing it for years. Instead of holding yourself to an ideal, i.e. someone who can just drop an addictive habit, maybe you need to slowly taper off instead. In this way you are being true to yourself while also setting yourself up for success by setting goals based on your knowledge of yourself.
 It's important to stay on task and take responsibility for your actions. However, it's also important to know how to reward yourself for good behavior. No one's willpower is strong enough to keep going without a treat now and then.


Build up a system of rewards for yourself. If you're trying to lose weight, for example, promise yourself you can buy one new item of clothing for every week you follow your diet and workout schedule.Everyone has their own system that works for them. Find something you enjoy and find a way to treat yourself to it now and then. Working in occasional rewards means you can keep going on your path to your goal longer, resulting in sustained willpower.