 Household pain relievers like ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin), naproxen (Aleve), and aspirin can all help reduce inflammation and bring some relief to your foot. Choose either pill or cream form. If you choose to take a pill, make sure to eat something beforehand. If using a cream, simply cover the affected area and allow it to soak in.
 Before turning to surgery to relieve the symptoms of your plantar fasciitis, consult a physical therapist to determine whether or not your condition can be treated with a guided stretching and rehabilitation program. A physical therapist appointment should be scheduled after exhausting all of the non-medical treatments listed above and before resorting to invasive medical procedures like surgery.
 Corticosteroid shots can ease the symptoms of plantar fasciitis by temporarily relieving pain. However, these shots are not a long-term solution to curing the problem. Be aware that while much less invasive than surgery, the shots can still be painful. Over-administration of shots may also lead to damage of the heel.
 This procedure sends sound waves to the painful area to relax the muscles in your foot. Shock wave therapy is usually prescribed for people who have not seen any results from home treatments for more than six to twelve months. Side effects include bruising, swelling, pain, and numbness. While less invasive than surgery, it has also proven less effective., If none of the above methods have helped relieve your symptoms over a year-long period of time, plantar fascia release surgery may be necessary to cure your symptoms. This surgical process ultimately releases tension and inflammation in the plantar fascia ligament by snipping part of the ligament itself.


Be patient with non-surgical treatments before opting for surgery. Allow yourself at least six to 12 months of trying non-invasive treatments before choosing to go ahead with surgery.
There are several risks associated with plantar fascia release surgery. These include: nerve entrapment or tarsal tunnel syndrome, development of a neuroma, constant heel pain and swelling, infection, long recovery time, and delayed ability to heal the wound.