 To start, empty out the lint screen the same way you would after doing laundry. You should do this each time you do laundry. When cleaning the vent, check the lint screen first and remove any small amounts of lint. It's always good to start with a clean lint screen when cleaning your dryer., Never start cleaning a dryer vent while the dryer is still plugged in. This can be very dangerous. Find where your dryer's cord is plugged into the wall. Disconnect the plug., The dryer vent is found behind the dryer. You will need to pull your dryer away from the wall to clean your vent. Sometimes, very heavy dryers cannot be moved. It may also be hard to move a dryer if you have limited space in your laundry room. In these cases, you may need to hire professional cleaners.If your dryer is very heavy, find someone to help you.
 The dryer vent is a hole that runs through your wall. There will be a tube connecting the dryer to the vent, attached to the wall with screws. Use a screwdriver to remove the screws. Then, remove the tube from the wall so you can access the vent.The type of screwdriver you need varies. Examine the screws to see if you need a Phillips or flathead screw driver.
Keep the screws in the same place. You will need them later to reattach the tube.
 Take your vacuum cleaner's nozzle attachment. Vacuum out the vent that runs into the wall, sticking the nozzle into the vent as far as it will reach. Then, vacuum out the tube running into the dryer, again vacuum the tube as far as the nozzle reaches. You should remove a great deal of lint this way.If you do not have a vacuum cleaner, use a flexible dust brush with an extendable handle. You can also use compressed air to blow lint out of the dryer vent.
 Reattach the nozzle running from the dryer in the wall by placing the screws back in place. Then, slide the dryer back into place. Plug the dryer back in. Your dryer should be ready to use now and, as the vent is clean, you should see a noticeable improvement in drying times.