 Healthy boundaries are a way to protect yourself, giving yourself freedom to conduct your life in a way that helps you flourish. People model boundaries based on what they’ve learned in previous relationships – with their parents, siblings, friends, and romantic partners., Before you can establish healthy boundaries, you need to recognize what unhealthy boundaries look like. Some unhealthy boundaries include:Needing to always be together with your partner.
Manipulating your partner.
Inability to have friendships with other people.
Using alcohol and drugs to make yourself feel more comfortable in your relationship.
Wanting the relationship to never change.
Jealousy or lack of commitment.
 Healthy emotional boundaries mean that you are able to voice your desires and preferences. Your emotional boundaries separate your emotions from those of another. They protect your self-esteem. These “include beliefs, behaviors, choices, sense of responsibility, and your ability to be intimate with others.” Some examples of healthy emotional boundaries are:Your own health and well-being are important, and you will not be forced to neglect your own needs.
You have a right to be treated with respect.
You will not be manipulated or forced to do things you don’t want to do, even if the other person is attempting to make you feel guilty.
You won’t allow others to yell at you, make you feel bad about who you are or what you are doing, or call you names.
You don’t blame others for things that are your responsibility, and you don’t allow others to blame you for things that are not your responsibility.
You keep your emotions separate from other people’s emotions, although you empathize with the people you care about.
You convey your own needs assertively, and work towards cooperation if possible. This helps maintain mutual respect.
 Another aspect of physical boundaries is the physical distance between us and another person. People who are good friends or family members have less physical distance between them in their interactions.


When someone intrudes on our physical space, we feel it internally. It feels awkward and unnatural.
When you are in a relationship, make sure you are comfortable with how you express yourself physically with the other person. Have a conversation about what will make you feel safe and loved.Northern Europeans and North Americans observe the largest personal space distance.People in Middle Eastern countries, South America, and southern Europe have the smallest personal space distance,and touching is common.
Eastern cultures consider touching or patting on the back as taboo and offensive.
 Physical boundaries are often described as personal space. Personal space includes physical possessions such as your home, your bedroom, your belongings, your car, etc. It is well within your rights to establish boundaries with others about respect for your privacy and your possessions.


It is a violation of physical boundaries to go through another person’s belongings without their permission. Even if you are concerned for their safety or suspect that there is a problem, the healthy and respectful route is to approach the person and speak to them. Make sure the other person knows that this has crossed a boundary and is not respectful behavior.
 When you learn how to be a gatekeeper of your emotional boundaries, you can achieve certain results that give you a better sense of who you are.These include:


Having a healthy sense of who you are, independent from any other person.
Knowing that you have the choice in how you want to feel and your ability to act on it.
Being able to monitor how much you share about yourself so that you respect yourself.
Being able to say “no” at times when you need to be assertive and true to yourself.

