 There are a number of nonprofit and government organizations that collect and publish hospital reviews and ratings. You can look up reviews of specific hospitals through groups like Consumer Reports and Hospital Compare. Try to find facilities that received good reviews and have a high success rate for the procedure you need.Many states and consumer groups give health care facilities report cards that highlight their strengths and weaknesses.
Try checking out http://www.leapfroggroup.org/ for data on quality and safety of procedures in hospitals throughout the U.S.
 When you are reviewing hospital information, be sure to look at data about infection rates, readmission, and death. Avoid hospitals where there are high rates of infection or where patients are readmitted soon after the are discharged. In addition, you should check the mortality rate of each hospital. These numbers are good indicators of the quality of care that you might expect in that facility.Look for the “outcome studies” published by the different facilities. These studies will let you know how well patients do after having certain types of procedures. You can often find these published by nonprofit or government groups.
 Take some time to visit each facility that you are considering. Check out the hospital and make sure that it looks and smells clean. If a hospital seems run down, you might want to look into other facilities.It’s also important for the staff to be friendly and approachable. Pay attention to how hospital employees respond to you when you visit.
Many facilities allow you to schedule a tour. To save some time, you should schedule a tour after your surgical consults.
 Depending on where you live, you might need to travel for your surgery. This could be because where you live does not have the facilities or the staff to perform your procedure. You might also travel in order to have your surgery done by a renowned surgeon at a particular facility. However, you might also choose to stay local in order to have your family and friends near. Think about what your expectations are for the surgery and whether or not you are willing to travel for it.