 The throat has a protective layer that is broken down when you scream. Whenever you drink those drinks before or after it could cause serious and permanent damage to your throat and vocal chords. lukewarm water and some warm tea help to loosen up and coat the throat.;
, Say the ABC's a few times, starting at a whisper on 'A' and ending in a loud yell on 'Z'. These two exercises stretch the vocal chords and prepare them for screams, yells, gutturals, etc.
 Now Exhale deeply and sigh to achieve the same kind of "rasp" to your voice (think of this like your mom just told you to take out the garbage and you reply with "UGH!"; it sounds stupid but it works). Repeat both the inhaling and the exhaling exercises and determine which sound is more easily produced. If you can create the "raspy" inhale, but not the "raspy" exhale, you should perform inhaled gutturals only (Step 4). If you can create the "raspy" exhale, but not the "raspy" inhale, you should perform exhaled gutturals only (Step 5). If you can create both the "raspy" inhale and exhale, you should perform either, or the one that is the most comfortable and easy (Step 4 or 5).
 Start the guttural by saying the word "or" out-loud. Hold your mouth in the same position you used to say "or" and simply inhale the same way that you have been practicing. At first, the sound will be stupid and undeveloped, but keep inhaling the word "or" until it can be vividly pronounced. Continue practicing until you can say the words "or", "oh", "are", and "hour" at your regular, talking volume (time required for this varies from person to person). When you are capable of saying the previous words, experiment with new words and practice the "ee" sound.
 While exhaling, blow slightly to gain a hollow effect to your voice. This should produce the basic exhaled vocal sound used in deathcore and modern death metal (known as a growl). Practice the exhale until you can loudly pronounce the "Oh" sound. When you can pronounce "Oh" easily, practice other words such as "are", "hour", and "or". From there, try pronouncing other, everyday words in the exhaled voice, or try holding a conversation using growled vocals.
 With effort, your voice will hit a low point, which should be the lowest note you can reach with your chest voice. At this point, force your voice slightly harder while closing your mouth. If performed correctly, you will break through your chest voice and gain access to your low voice (which is produced in your diaphragm), which is where the guttural is produced.
 Words said in an exhale/inhale in your low voice should come out as a gurgle-like, indecipherable mess.
 Get some CD's of your favorite vocalists using gutturals and try to match their pitch with your own gutturals.

