 Before you begin writing, take some time to think about what you’ll need in each part of your paper for your audience. This will help you think about what you need to address absolutely first for your readers.


Do you need to let them know upfront that the task will take all day? That it requires a very specific set of tools? What do new readers need to know first to wrap their mind around the task?
For the sake of this article, let’s say you’re writing a how-to article, telling the reader how to make pasta Bolognese. For most audiences, you won't want to discuss the nuances of herbs in the sauce – you'll need to back up and talk about needing a colander, knowing when pasta is done, etc. Once you cover the basics, you can move onto the advanced stuff.;
, What are your readers going to need to complete this project? Will they need anything at all? If they do, make a complete list of materials needed. As you go through your task, if you come across an item you neglected in your list, go back to it and write it down.


For our pasta example, this includes tools such as a large pot, a saucepan, a spoon for the sauce, and a pasta spoon. And don't forget the actual ingredients for the pasta dish (ground beef, Italian seasoning, etc.). Sometimes it's surprisingly easy to neglect a category of items if it's almost too obvious.
 Maybe you need to actually go through the task yourself so that you know exactly what happens, writing the steps down as you go. It's easy to neglect a step or two when you're just going over it in your mind. However, if you feel you can go through it in detail in your head, that can suffice.


Remember that you can make it easier on your audience, too. Instead of just, "Boil water," or "Add in your pasta," you can add helpful tips and tricks like, "Pre-measure your ingredients," which are sometimes steps that can be forgotten if you don't actually do the task yourself.
 If it’s not possible, make a good estimation of how long the process takes. Most people want to know how long the process will take to determine whether or not they're going to do it.


If you're writing your process essay on a topic that is particularly difficult that you're a whiz at, you may wish to add more time to your estimate. People that are less familiar with the task will likely take longer.
 Don't just launch into the process – ease your readers in with a short but sweet introduction. This is a good platform to let them know what they're getting into and to help them decide that this is actually something they want to do.


In the case of the pasta Bolognese, you might begin by giving the reader a short history of the dish and the region it originated from. Give them a little background in the beginning to motivate them further.
Alternatively, you could begin by telling the readers why it’s a good idea to cook the dish, such as it’s a way to get their families to eat vegetables or it’s a hearty, quick meal suitable for a weeknight.
 Let your reader know how long it will take to complete the task, whether it's 30 minutes or a week. Include a list of what the reader will need in this section, too. Don’t forget the small things!


In other words, your readers need to have everything at their disposal to launch into the task. The introduction and list of equipment and ingredients makes the actual essay easy to follow and helps the reader feel prepared.
 A transitional sentence spurs the reader on to read more and cues them to action. They'll know exactly when the introduction is up and when it's time to get started.


For instance, if you write, “This dish will take about 30 minutes to make” near the end of the introduction, your next sentence could be, “Follow the steps below to get started.”

, Remember not to skip over steps. Your body section will include enough steps to tell your reader about the whole process; the number of steps you need to use depends on the process.


For instance, it will take more steps to tell someone how to cook something complicated, like beef Wellington, than it will to make something simple, like a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
Do not unnecessarily add steps just to make it look more complete. Sometimes simple is better.
 Group your steps in paragraphs by ideas or time. This differentiation will make it clear to the writer what to expect within each topic and not have them going back and forth between topics needlessly. If by idea doesn't work, try grouping the steps chronologically.


For instance, when making pasta, consider writing a paragraph on how to boil pasta and another paragraph on how to make the sauce. This separates the ideas for easy clarification.
Alternatively, you could group the essay by beginning steps (boil the water; heat the oil in the pan; begin frying the onion), middle steps (brown the meat, add the pasta to the water, add the tomato sauce to the meat), and end steps (let the sauce simmer, remove the pasta from the water).
How many steps you use in each paragraph will depend on how long it takes you to write about each step. Just keep in mind 100 words is a good paragraph size, though that is not a hard and fast rule. Don’t overwhelm your reader with too many words at once to keep them motivated.
 Transition from one step to the next; don’t just list each one. In fact, as you introduce each step, consider using transition words. As you go along, you can transition from one thing to the next with words like “next,” “now,” or “then.”


At the beginning of this section, you could introduce it by saying something to the effect of “To begin making pasta Bolognese, retrieve a large pot from the cupboard.” With a phrase like, “To begin…,” you are cluing your reader into the fact that the process is actually beginning.
For instance, you can also say something like, “Next, place the pot on the stove.” However, don’t overuse transition words, as the writing can come across as stilted.
 The extra details help your reader follow the process more easily. When everything is crystal clear, they know exactly what their job is. However, be sure not to get off on a tangent. Stay true to the course to keep the reader on track.


For instance, you could just tell your reader to, “Boil water for the pasta.” However, someone who hasn’t cooked much may not know at what stage to add the pasta. Therefore, give a more detailed description of the step. Instead of "Boil water," consider the following:

Fill the pot up ¾ of the way with water.
Turn the burner on high heat, and set the pot on the stove. Add about 1-2 tablespoons of salt to the water.
Drop the pasta gently into the pot when the water reaches a rolling boil. A rolling boil is when the surface of the water is creating small waves, and you can stir the water without disturbing the boil.”



, Be sure to give your readers an idea of what they should end up with by the time they are finished. Help them visualize the final product, and offer them ideas for the next steps. Just because they've completed the process doesn't mean they know what to do with the end result!


In the case of the recipe, you could write something like, “You now have a bowl of boiled pasta and finished Bolognese sauce. Serve up plates of pasta and sauce to your family, topping them with parmesan, if desired. You can serve garlic bread or a side salad with this dish, too.”

, Reiterate why this task is important or why your reader may want to do it. Remember, in a conclusion, you are summarizing what has been said, not repeating it word for word.


A simple example for our newly-made dinner might be, "And there you have it! A delicious yet quick meal fit for the entire family that you can make over and over again without complaint. Next time, experiment with different herbs and spices to find your own spin on this classic dish."

, As a process essay guides your reader through a task, always keep in mind that your readers may be beginners. Be sure to give details, but try to say it as plainly as possible. With this type of essay, there's little room for flowery language.


Look at your number of steps. If there aren't many, is that because the process is simple or because you overlooked something that could be broken up? If there are too many, where are you getting too specific and demotivating the reader? If the amount of steps doesn't seem right, go through it and make modifications as necessary.
Don’t try to use big words to impress your readers. Rather, the best writers know when to use simple language, and a process essay is one of those places. Your readers are looking for clear directions on how to do something, like cooking pasta Bolognese; they don’t want to spend time looking up words in a dictionary.
 Since you know the process like the back of your hand, you following the essay yourself might not do any good. Instead, get a friend to test out your essay, actually doing the task. If any problems arise, they'll be able to point out holes in your essay that you can easily fill.


Often this will be a tiny detail or two that you overlooked for a specific situation. For example, let's say you wrote your recipe to serve 4. When someone making it for 2 doesn't know what to do with their leftover ground beef, they're left guessing. It's seeing little details like this that an extra pair of eyes (and hands) can make much easier.

