 These are the Big Bang, the solar system, and the theory of relativity. They form the bedrock of space knowledge. Having even a basic grasp on these topics will give you a great jumping-off point for learning more.


Visit your local library to find books about space and consult online encyclopedias.
Libraries and civic center often have lectures and presentations on educational topics, including space.
Take an introductory class on astronomy at your school.;
, There have been very entertaining and informative shows produced about space. Check out the Cosmos series, the older episodes hosted by famed cosmologist Carl Sagan, as well as the most recent version with physicist Neil deGrasse Tyson. Another great option is The Universe, on the History Channel.
 Popular culture is full of science fiction themed shows and literature that deal with space. While these are works of fiction, they can be based on science and quite educational. It's a great starting point, especially if you find traditional learning to be boring.


Start with shows like Star Trek, Firefly, and Lost in Space.

There is a wealth of classic literature about space travel. Perhaps the best and most well known novel is 2001: A Space Odyssey by Arthur C. Clarke. Other writers include Philip K. Dick, Isaac Asimov, and Robert Heinlein.
 Distances in spaces are enormous and hard for the human brain to understand. Check out this interactive visualization to help put things in perspective http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/ap120312.html.
 The International Space Station, the Juno mission to Jupiter, and Curiosity Mars Rover are happening right now. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) is the world leader in space exploration. As a large, government funded organization, it is always conducting research and planning for future missions.


Also check out educational videos about the current projects happening at NASA https://www.dvidshub.net/unit/NASA.
 There are locations throughout the country including the Space Center in Houston, the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, and the Jet Propulsion Lab in California, among others. The complete list of facilities is here http://www.visitnasa.com/nasa-visitor-centers.

