 Depression is a common symptom of multiple sclerosis.Your primary care provider is a great resource for treating your depression while managing your MS for several reasons. For example, they already know your medical history and may be able to offer treatment options that are tailored to your specific needs and condition.


Call or email your primary care provider when you notice you’re showing signs of major depression, like lack of interest, withdrawing from normal activities, changes in your sleeping habits, or changes in eating.
You might say, “I’d like to come in and to talk with you about some signs of major depression that I think I’m having.”
In the weeks leading up to your appointment, try keeping track of your symptoms every day and bring this log to your appointment.
Your physician may be able to provide treatment options themselves or they may recommend you to a therapist, psychologist, or psychiatrist, who can prescribe and manage medication.;
, Therapists, psychiatrists, and other mental health professionals have the experience and training needed to help you treat major depression while you're battling MS. They can offer you specific treatments that can help you manage your depression without interfering with your MS treatment.They can also work with your physician to develop a treatment plan that addresses both the depression and the MS.


You can ask your physician, human resources representative, school counselor, or someone else you trust for some effective mental health professionals in your area.
When you meet with the mental health professional, let them know that you also have MS. For example, you might say, “I’m contacting you because I have major depression and I also have multiple sclerosis.”
Make sure they are willing to work with your primary care physician. This may mean sending them updates or progress notes and discussing medications.
 Your primary care provider may recommend therapy to help you treat your major depression or you may decide to explore it on your own. There are several forms of therapy that have been found effective in treating depression. Therapy may be a treatment option used on its own if medication isn’t an option, or used as a compliment to medication management.Ask your doctor or psychiatrist which form of therapy might be most effective for you.
Be willing to explore cognitive- behavioral therapy (CBT), interpersonal therapy (IPT), group therapy, or other forms of therapy they suggest.
 There are several different effective treatments available for major depression including medications.A number of treatment options like psychotherapy and medication management are used in combination so that your major depression can be managed most effectively. Talk with your healthcare provider about which options are realistic, available, and may be effective for you given that you have MS.


For instance, you might say, “Are there medications that I can take to manage my depression that won’t interfere with my multiple sclerosis?”
Include your mental health professional in decisions about medication to manage your depression.
 Once you’ve consulted with your physician, and possibly a mental health professional, you can develop a regular treatment plan that can help you manage both your depression and your multiple sclerosis.


If you are using medication management, keep in mind that most antidepressant medications take a few weeks before they begin to show their effectiveness.
You may also experience side effects from your medication, especially within the first few weeks. Most side effects are manageable and will subside, so give it time. But if you feel remarkably worse when taking them, notify your doctor right away.
Tell your treatment team if you feel your treatment plan isn’t working. For example, you might say, “I’d like to talk about my depression and MS treatment plan. I don’t think it’s working so well right now.”

