 Self-acceptance is an important piece of being able to love yourself and keep yourself happy.Accept yourself for who you currently are instead of focusing too much on trying to change yourself.
Use positive self-talk by thinking or telling yourself things like, “I love who I am. I accept everything about myself right now — even things I want to change. How I am right at this moment is completely fine.”;
, Acknowledging the wonderful things about yourself can help you develop happiness about who you are. Reminding yourself about these qualities when things get tough can help you maintain a sense of well-being about your identity. You are unique and special.


Make a mental or actual list of everything that you like about yourself. Read this list or remind yourself of it the next time you feel down on yourself. Some examples include liking your: personality, hair, passion, eyes, sense of style, compassion, and adventurous attitude.
Kindness is a great quality to have. Count the times that you were kind to someone this week. You can write them down in a journal or Word document. Paying attention to the times you were kind can actually increase your level of happiness., We all have things we’d like to improve upon, and that is okay. However, don’t dwell on your personal flaws – look at them as opportunities for personal growth.


Being open to new experiences can help you focus on your personal growth. Try new things like: different forms of art (painting, sculpting), traveling to new places, and trying things that scare you (i.e. public speaking).
Notice and reward accomplishments and changes over time. This can help you focus on the positive changes you have made and encourage you to further your personal growth.
 Instead of thinking too much about the negative, focus on the positive aspects of your personal history.


Make a list of every positive accomplishment you have made. Some examples may be: graduating from school, passing a test, finishing a project, or completing an art piece.
Forgive yourself for past mistakes. Look at them as ways to learn and grow. Your mistakes do not define you. You can decide to grow and do better today.

