 You can only get tickets to the inauguration to your congressional representative or senator. You need to find what member of Congress represents your district or contact one of the senators in your state. How you contact your senator will vary by state.You can find a list online from the US government's website where you type in your zip code to find the representative of your district. You can also find one of the senators for your state to contact to get tickets.Once you have found the correct people to contact, try going to website to see how they prefer to be contacted. Some may have a phone number while others will prefer email.;
, Different senators and congressmen and women will have different ways to request tickets. You may simply call in or request or request them through a website.


Some senators and congresspeople have outlets on their websites where you can request tickets. You usually have to prove you reside in their state or district while making the request.Make sure you know where to pick up your tickets. You may be able to pick them up at your senator or congressperson's local office. However, in some cases, you have to wait until you arrive in Washington D.C. to pick up your tickets.
 Tickets for the inauguration are free. The only want to get one is through a senator or congressperson. No one should be selling you tickets to the inauguration.In some cases, however, individuals who got tickets in advance and can't make the inauguration, or choose not to go, sell their tickets. If you can find an individual selling their tickets, ask them for specifics of how they obtained their tickets. You want to make sure the tickets were obtained legally so they will be valid when you attend the inauguration., Once you've obtained your tickets, make travel arrangements quickly. Unless you live in Washington D.C., you will have to find somewhere to stay in the city. Places will book up fast, so act quickly.While D.C. can be expensive, there are affordable hotels. You may have to stay somewhat far away from the White House, but D.C. has lots of public transportation. Just make sure to check transportation routes ahead of time when booking a hotel. Some metro and bus routes may be different during the inauguration.
An AirBnB can be a great, affordable option for the inauguration. Many local residents of D.C. may want to escape the commotion of the inauguration and be willing to provide AirBnB services.
 If you can't find anything in your price range in the city, look outside the city. There are many affordable hotels found just outside the city. Metro and bus lines in D.C. can easily transport you to the city for the inauguration.Make sure to check that metro lines and bus routes are still running as usual around the inauguration before booking anything outside the city.
 While getting tickets provides a better view, you can watch the inauguration through large television screens at the National Mall. While it's not the same as watching the inauguration in person, you can share the excitement with other Americans. Unfortunately, there are only so many tickets to the inauguration. Even if you act quickly, you may be unable to obtain a ticket.