 Your gerbil should not be in his cage during cleaning as the chemicals can be harmful to his skin and fur. Before cleaning the cage, gently take your gerbil out of their cage and put him in a safe place where he cannot escape.


Find a secure area where your gerbil will not get hurt. Keep him away from other animals, especially cats and dogs as they might be predatory towards gerbils.A bucket is a good choice, as the gerbil will not be able to jump or climb out. You might also consider purchasing a running ball for your gerbil, which can be found at most pet and department stores, so your gerbil can ran and play while you clean his cage.If your gerbil seems nervous, move something from his cage, such as a toy or a piece of bedding, to the new location. That way, he'll have something familiar as comfort.;
, Any equipment in the gerbil's cage, especially items he eats or drinks from, should be removed before you begin the cleaning process.


Litter should be periodically cleaned, but when you do a thorough cage cleaning you should remove all litter and replace it with fresh litter when you're done. Remove the litter before you begin the cleaning process.Soap suds in a food bowl or water bottle can easily harm your gerbil and cause stomach issues and general discomfort. While you should clean these items, they should be cleaned separately as you'll be using less soap then you would on the cage in general., Make sure you have cleaning supplies ready before you begin the cleaning process. Being in the cage can be stressful for your gerbil and you do not want to prolong the cleaning process.


All you need to clean a gerbil's cage is mild soap and water. No special cleaners are necessary and might actually be harmful to your pet.Never used ammonia-based products. These can be harmful to your gerbil, even when rinsed off thoroughly., Your gerbil's cage should be washed once a week. It is not necessary to wash the cage more than this. Using your mild soap, clean the cage using lukewarm water.


Use a soft cloth to clean the cage. Wipe it down with soap and water, until all odors are removed and any stains are gone.When you rinse, make sure all soap suds are gone. Make sure to check that the sides or bars of a cage are free of suds, as gerbils may chew or lick.Pat the cage dry with paper towels when done and let any excess water air dry., When you clean the gerbil's cage, use this as an opportunity to clean the food and water bowl.


Gerbils, being desert animals, do not drink often. However, they do need clean, fresh water every day. Make sure you rinse out the water bottle and clean it with a mild soap if it seems particularly dirty. Be very vigilant about cleaning out soap suds afterwards, as ingesting even trace amounts of soap can cause digestive issues.Give the water bowl a wash, once again using mild soap and rinsing thoroughly., Gerbil bedding gets dirty fairly easily and should be swapped out once a week when you clean your gerbil's cage.


Bedding options for gerbils vary. Aspen bedding made from recycled newspaper can be bought at most pet stores. You can also mix a variety of bedding types for your gerbil.Do not use cedar chips. These contain certain chemicals that may be harmful to your gerbil., Line the bottom of the cage with newspaper and reinstall the materials. Return toys, water bottles, and dishes to the proper spot. Add new litter and bedding. You can now put your gerbil back in his cage.
 In between cleanings, check on the bedding and litter to make sure it's dry. Droppings, spilled food, and spilled water should be removed.


You do not have to clean the entire cage or remove all the bedding when this occurs. Simply do a spot check once a day. Using a kitty littler scoop or spoon, remove any droppings, spilled food, or water., It is rare that your gerbil would become infected with fleas, but if there's a heavy infestation in the house you should take precautions.


If other pets, such as dogs and cats, bring in fleas they could further infect your home. They may bite your gerbil or infest his bedding and cage.If you find you have a flea infestation, ask your vet about flea powder. This can be placed in your gerbil's bedding, eventually making its way to his fur to protect him from bites., When cleaning your gerbils cage, check to see if he needs any basic grooming.


Gerbils do not usually need their nails trimmed. However, if you notice his nails are curling under or that he's scratching himself during grooming, schedule an appointment with an exotic animal groomer. Do not attempt to groom your gerbil's nails yourself as they are very small and you can easily slip up and cause your gerbil physical harm.Gerbil teeth do not stop growing, which is why your gerbil needs wood blocks and toys to chew on to prevent overgrowth. If his teeth look overgrown, schedule a visit with an exotic groomer. Once again, do not attempt to file down the teeth on your own. This could cause your gerbil harm if you're inexperienced. It's best to hire a professional.