 Probably the most straight-forward way to see Antarctica is from above. You can book yourself on a sightseeing flight over Antarctica which enables you to see its great white landscape from the comfort of a plane. Taking a sightseeing flight is a good option for day-trippers who want to spend a few hours over Antarctica and get back the same day. You can enjoy the views while Antarctica experts give talks on the plane and you are served food and drink.Australia is now the only place you can take these flights from.You need to plan ahead if you want to do this and book early.
If you want to get up and close and see the wildlife this is not the choice for you.
Depending on your seats, tickets will cost anything from $1,000 to $8,000., If you want to touch down on Antarctica, there are a number of companies that offer this service, leaving from a variety of places. Where you choose to go from will depend on the rest of your trip, so think about whether it would be better to travel from Australia, Chile, South Africa or Argentina and fully investigate the schedules from each place. Bear in mind that flights to Antarctica are much less frequent and less predictable than ordinary flights.Some adventure holiday companies have deals which involve landing on Antarctica and skiing, camping and climbing.You can fly to King George Island from Punta Arenas in Chile and stay overnight at a camp there for tourists., Another option is a fly-cruise package, which cuts down the time spent on a ship (avoiding the notoriously rough Drake Passage), but still enables you to get a close-up view of the landscape and wildlife. You can fly to King George Island, and then get aboard a ship which will take you around the area..


This could be a good option if you want to see the ice and wildlife up close, but don’t want to spend so much time travelling on board a cruise ship. But it won’t be any cheaper.
Expect to pay something in the region of $10,000 to $14,000 for a two-week trip., Be aware that flights are subject to cancellations due to weather and other safety issues. This is true for any flight, but the extreme conditions on the bottom of the world make this a more frequent occurrence. The best approach to assessing flight options is to read guidebooks written specifically for Antarctica, or check specialist websites, as the details change yearly depending on availability and interest.

