 Probiotics have a significant positive impact on chronic gastrointestinal conditions such as IBS. Probiotics are living microorganisms which offer vast health benefits. These friendly microorganisms aid the production of organic acids and reduce the pH level of the stomach.


Probiotics alleviate intestinal symptoms which are caused by the disruption of gastrointestinal flora and poor eating habits. Also, lactobacillus (the healthy bacteria found in probiotics) aids in the breakdown of food and easy absorption of nutrients.
Some yogurt products contain probiotics and are readily available at the grocery store. Alternatively, you can take a probiotic capsule. The strength of probiotics is indicated according to the number of live organisms in a single capsule.
The recommended dose ranges from one to ten billion living organisms given in 3 to 4 divided doses.
 Fresh ginger root has been used as a traditional Chinese medicine for more than two centuries. The ginger root tea treats various digestive disorders, nausea, vomiting and respiratory symptoms like colds and coughing.


The serotonin antagonist property of ginger enhances gastric mobility and also provides antispasmodic effects which relieve the intestinal muscles during an IBS attack.
Drinking a cup of fresh ginger root tea can relieve gas, bloating, diarrhea and improve overall stomach function.
 The anti-spasmodic and carminative (gas preventing) properties of fennel hinder gas accumulation in the GI tract. Likewise, they help stimulate the production of gastric juices.


Other beneficial effects of fennel include the regulation of small intestine contraction, indigestion, colic and heartburn. To make fennel tea, dd a half teaspoon of fennel seeds to a cup of boiling water.
Otherwise, you may sprinkle the seeds over salads and meals. Also, fennel seeds make a great snack when roasted.
 Peppermint contains menthol and methyl salicylate which both have anti-spasmodic properties, which helps to relax the stomach muscles and the intestinal tract.


Peppermint also has analgesic properties which help to relieve pain by activating the kappa-opiod receptors which blocks the nerve signals responsible for pain perception in the brain.
Add a heaping teaspoon of dried peppermint to a saucepan of water and bring to the boil. Strain the leaves, then enjoy a cup of peppermint tea.

