 Without the information, you only have bland design pages. This information includes:


Who plays what character
Who needs to be thanked
Who the play is directed by
Who wrote the play
(If it applies) Who wrote the music
(If it applies) Who directed the orchestra
When and where the performances are
Who is presenting (performing) the play;
, All plays have themes. Whether it's cowboys, detectives, hippies, or stars, it'll be the base of the designing process. (I will be using examples from my own designs throughout this how-to.)

, For most off-Broadway plays, a simple playbill can be designed. This is usually 4 pages of design fitted onto 1 piece of paper. The front and back covers on one side, which will be the outside of the playbill, and the thank you's and cast page on the other side, which will be the inside of the playbill. This is usually the best option if you have a low budget. If you have a bigger budget and have a lot of things to cover, you can add more pages as you see fit. (We will cover the simpler design for now.)

, The beginning is sometimes the easiest if you have a lot of ideas, but you want to start out with the simplest and easiest of pages to get you into the mood. This page is the Back Cover, or the Autographs Page.


Open up your graphics design program (ex: GIMP, Photoshop, PaintShop, etc.) and start a new page with the dimensions: 612(width) x 792(height). This is the standard size of printing paper converted into pixels. Be sure that the background is white.
You want to use a simple, small, space-saving design to put along the bottom of the page. Open up a new layer, and set it to 'transparent'. This saves you the hassle if you need to update anything between now and the performance.
Choose your design. Any colour can be used, but if it's a very bold design, you might want to set it to 70% opacity. This makes it less of an eye-sore and more viewer-friendly.
The text. You want to use a fancier font than Arial, but you want it to remain subtle and readable. See tips for a free text download website (completely safe). Your program should automatically bring up a new layer for the text, but if it doesn't create a new layer before adding the text. The text should be a large size, but be sure to keep it at the top of the page and space-saving. The autographs page is made so that audience members can get the cast to sign it for them. That means you need a lot of room. If need be, increase the space between letters until the word "Autographs" fully covers the span of the top without you having the increase the size. (By increasing the spacing between letters, you can make the word grow width-wise without growing length-wise. A very useful feature.)
If you want, you can add in smaller words at the bottom "Designed by: Your name", but some designers, like myself, choose not to for the humble aspect.
Save the image in the format of your program. . Be sure to save it in your program's format so that you can edit it later if needed.
Save the image again, this time in your desired format (.jpg, .gif, .png, etc.).
You're done the first page!

, This is by far the most complicated page. It seems easy enough at first, sure, but it is deceitful. You forget names, characters, misspell names. Some people like their name spelled a certain way, and sometimes people drop out. The extras are constantly changing all while you're trying to make more room on the page! Tread carefully, my friend, for you tread on a minefield.


Get the list of names. You can ask the director, co-director, or anyone in charge for this. It'd be wisest to ask if they have a list of who plays who. Be sure to confirm this list with multiple persons. (It ends up wrong most of the time.)
Open up your graphics program. Create a new image with the dimensions: 612 x 792. Be sure that the background is white. Create a new transparent layer.
Start with the background design. It doesn't have to be very flashy, or even there if you wish, because the cast page is all about the cast and that pretty much covers the entire page. However, if you do choose to make a background, lower the opacity as you see fit so that it doesn't out flash the words in front of it. As I am doing a detective play with a smaller cast (18 people), I made it look as if the cast page was part of a newspaper and at the bottom I had a bit of the newspaper "ripped off" to give it an authentic feel. When you have a smaller cast, you usually have a space at the bottom. You can fill this with a design.
The title. At the top of the page, over to the left side, add the text. This can be as simple and straight forward as "The Cast" or, if you're very creative and the opportunity arises, adjust it to the theme of the play. Examples: The Suspects (detective), The Groovy Gang (hippies), The Riders (cowboys), The Stars (Hollywood). This text can be the same size and font as that of the autographs and thank you titles, as this gives it a nice consistency, but it doesn't have to be. (NOTE: You will most likely not be playing with the letter spacing, as we want this text to reach a little more than halfway across the page. If it doesn't with the spacing at normal, adjust it. Do not let the text reach all the way across the page! It is very important, as if you do this, it'll look very awkward.)
Start another text layer underneath the title. It usually starts at about halfway down the title text, or at about the quarter way point on the page, but this can be adjusted to the text length and what you find most appealing. This text will be smaller than the title text, and perhaps a lighter version of the title colour. It can be a different font if you want. It will usually read "(in order of appearance)", "(in order of speaking)", or "(in alphabetical order)", but you'll adjust it to the order. See tips for additional information about the cast page's text.
Now it is time to add the cast. On the left side of the page, a little down from the bottom of the text at the top, begin a text layer. Write down all the names of the characters in the play, starting a new line as you finish each. Now, if you'll be adding the ...'s leading from the character name to the actor's name, you'll only be adding one text layer. Be sure to balance out the text so that all the names line up on either end (this can be done by adding an extra '.' or taking away an extra '.') but if it just doesn't line up exactly, switch it so that it aligns not left but center.
If you are not doing the ...'s leading to each name, you will have to start a new layer after you finish typing the characters. This layer has to start directly across from where you started the last layer. Be sure to start it near the middle so that you have room to type longer names. Edit it so that it aligns not left but right. Then type out the names of the actors who play the character directly across from their name.
Check this over. Read it through to check for errors in spelling, and then read it again, comparing it word for word against the list you acquired. Check again that all the characters are there, and check another time that all the cast is there. Compare the cast page you have to the cast page in the script, and then compare the cast page in the script to the characters on your image. This seems excessive, but it must be done. I checked my cast page over again and again, and I thought it was good. Turns out I completely forgot a character.
Save this page with the extension of your program (For example, GIMP is: .xcf).
Save this page again with the extension you wish to use (.jpg, .gif, .png, etc.).
Print out the cast page and show it to a few people in charge. After this, get the entire cast to check it over. The cast will have the best eye, as they are the ones on the page and they'll notice if their name or character is misspelled or missing.
If it all passes approval, you are done the cast page!

, You are halfway finished designing your playbill. Now it's time to complete the inside by working on the Thank You's.


First find out who you have to thank. Usually, you thank the actors, choreographers, technical crew, the director and co-director, the place which you are performing in, the place you practiced in (which sometimes is the same place you perform), and, finally, the audience. Most likely your thank yous will be slightly different. You have to thank the actors and (if it applies) the people who drove them. You must thank people who handled the technical aspects and those who designed the set. The director, of course, and anyone else who worked with them (Co-director, stage director, etc.). The place you practiced at and performed, as well as where you got your costumes. If it applies, who choreographed the play and who wrote the music. Finally, your audience, because really, what is a play without the audience?
Open your graphics program, and create a new image. Make the background white, then create a new transparent layer.
Make the text layer. If you want consistency, you'll have the same font and size as you had on the cast and autographs page, but it doesn't have to be this way if you don't want it to be. Start the layer at the top of the page. What you type is up to you, but make it similar to "Thank you", "We'd like to thank..", or "A thank you to..". Adjust the letter spacing until it reaches across the span of the page.
Add the Thank You's. You should keep a simple, readable text at a reasonable size for this. Be sure that if your program does not start a new layer when you add text, that you add a new layer before adding more text.
Create a new transparent layer. There will most likely be a space underneath the thank you's. If this is the case, you're step will be easy. Create the design underneath the text. Lower opacity to 70% so that it is viewer-friendly.
However, if there isn't a space underneath, you have to go back to the layer you first added in the beginning. (No, it wasn't a mistake formed by the habit of typing 'add new transparent layer'. There was a point to it.) Getting back to that layer might vary from program to program, but trusting that you know your program well, go back to that layer. If your program is like GIMP, you will go to the bottom layer then go up a layer. You can design from here without covering the text you have just typed.
Create your design. It should be related to the theme of the play. Clowns do not belong on a playbill relating to pirates. Lower the opacity to your taste. Remember, you want the text to pop out from the design.
Save this page .
Save this page again
You're finished the thank-you page!

, Possibly the hardest part in the designing process is the front cover. The Cast Page is complicated, but can be conquered with lots of review and checking. The Front Cover requires creativity, and it's likely to stump you.


Consider your theme again. What can relate to this theme? For example, I have a detective theme. What related to it? I might write cities, cases, cops, Polaroid’s, fedoras, newspapers. Do you think I might write cows? Absolutely not. The Front Cover has to reflect the play, and a cow will not say 'detective' to the audience.
Open your graphics program. Create a new image with the dimensions: 612 x 792. Make the background white and create a new transparent layer.
Design. So long as you stick to the theme, you can create anything on the front cover. Don't hold back. Bold and beautiful are the designs of the cover. Make it so eye-catching it's breath-taking! You really have to rely on your creativity here. I cannot teach you how to do this. If needed, get the opinion of a friend, preferably someone artistic. Just remember to leave some white space for the information.
Create a new text layer. It's time for the title text. This can go anywhere on the front cover, so long as it stands out, as unlike the titles of the previous pages, it doesn't have to always be at the top. Make sure the text is big, bold, and eye-catching. It's the title of the play! It has to be the most eye-catching words on the playbill.
Create another new text layer. Add the other basic information. This should be a plainer, simpler font, which will be smaller than the title. Information such as "Directed by ~", "Written by ~", and "Performed by ~" will go here.
You might have to put the performance information on here as well. Such things like the performance dates, times, and where it is at. You can probably discuss this with someone in charge if you feel it'd be best if this wasn't on it. Seeing as it is a playbill, it shouldn't be necessary.
Save this page with the extension of your program (For example, GIMP is: .xcf).
Save this page again with the extension you wish to use (.jpg, .gif, .png, etc.).
You're done the Front Cover!

, You are done your playbill. Email the designs to whoever needs them (Whoever is checking them, printing them, etc.).
 Inside - Thank you's on the left, Cast page on the right when looking directly at it. It looks best if you print it in Full Bleed. Take note that normal printer paper won't usually handle the playbill, as it will show through the other side. Fold it in half to complete the playbill.
