 Yellow finches are shy birds and prefer creating nests towards the top of thick shrubs that are near open fields or rivers, and generally not deep in the forest.Locate a large, secluded space in your yard suitable for planting, preferably near an open grassy field or stream, and in a location with lots of sun. Plant it in an area where cats or other predator animals can't reach the yellow finches.
Plant a mix of deciduous trees and shrubs, such as oak or elm, and evergreens, such as pine, that grow between four and 30 feet (1.2 to 9.1 m) high. These trees will attract the yellow finches for food and shelter.
Space trees and shrubs so that the finches can be easily seen and won’t feel overcrowded.;
, Yellow finches are attracted to wildflowers and thistles for food, but they also use woody material and fluffy down from thistles, milkweed, cattails, and other grasses to create their nests.
 Yellow finches prefer nesting near a water source for drinking and bathing.


Install an attractive birdbath or fountain. You may wish to use one with circulating water to keep water fresh and inviting to the finches.
Create your yellow finch habitat near a stream or river if possible.
 Finches are classified as “cling and peck” feeders, meaning that they prefer clinging to the end of flowers or grass stocks to eat in the wild. So, choose a feeder that allows them to hang or cling on the side at varying angles and avoid feeders with perches.


Use a mesh sock feeder. Sock feeders can be purchased from most pet supply shops, home improvement stores and online, or can be created at home using discarded mesh fabric or pantyhose that have been sewn or tied at the end.
Select a plastic tube feeder. A wide range of plastic tube feeders specifically designed for finches can be found at pet stores or online.



Add niger thistle seeds, a favorite with yellow finches.Include seeds from maximillian sunflowers, dandelions, millet, flax and goldenrod as well.



Protect yellow finches from predators and other animals that might eat their food or them, by hanging your feeder from a tree or pole between six and eight feet from the ground.
Hang your yellow finch feeder away from feeders for different types of birds as yellow finches are shy eaters.
Place your feeder in a location that is visible for you to watch the yellow finches from a distance without disturbing them.

