 If your hair color ended up too dark after dyeing it, wash it immediately with a clarifying shampoo or one meant for dandruff control. Repeat washes frequently to start seeing less color.


Make sure you use a good, rich conditioner after every wash with a clarifying or dandruff shampoo, as these can be drying and strip good oils from your scalp and hair., Purchase a color reducer from many of the same brands that carry hair dye to help get rid of some of your dye color.


Note that there may be some difference between a color remover and a color reducer. A remover may contain bleaches that are harsher on your hair and could affect your natural color, not just the dye color. Reducers are more gentle at helping strip just the dye, so these should be favored.Be sure to follow the directions that come with the product carefully just as you would with hair dye instructions.
 Add a small amount of mild dish soap or laundry detergent to regular shampoo to help strip color out.


Note that this method is very drying, and you should condition hair well to help replace oils lost.
 Work this through all of your hair, cover it, and leave it on for 20-60 minutes to help lighten the color.Note that vitamin C can be too harsh or irritating on some scalps, so you should remove it right away if it’s bothering you.
 Try a natural treatment of fresh lemon juice and baking soda to pull some color out. Mix equal amounts of each together and let it sit in your hair for just a few minutes before rinsing it out.


Be careful not to leave this treatment in too long, as it is very drying and potentially damaging if left in.
Use this treatment to remove dye stains from skin, too., Apply hot oil to your hair and cover it for an hour to help pull out dye color.


Use this treatment if you don’t want to dry out your hair, or have already dried it out using other removal methods and want to regain some moisture. This method will actually nourish hair in the process.
 If your color is not coming out or looking how you want it too, try another shade in a few days or weeks. However, avoid re-treating your hair multiple times with home dye if you’re not getting it right. See a professional to fix it correctly.The more you dye your hair, the more damage you do to it and the harder it is for a professional to fix it. Save the money you’d spend on multiple hair dye kits and go to the salon instead.
Ask a colorist to do a very mild lightening bath on your hair, which uses a small amount of bleach and water, and careful monitoring. This is much gentler and less expensive than other extensive color removal processes.