 If every room in your house has a lot of decorative items sitting around, it will be a lot harder to reduce your dust. Go through your house and do a sweep for dust-collecting items that you don't really need. This will leave your surfaces much easier to clean.


For those items you really want to keep, consider moving some of them to a room that isn't used as frequently by your family. That way, the main rooms in your house won't be as likely to accumulate dust.
 As these items degrade over time, they produce a lot of dust. Having piles of them around the house is a sure way to create a dusty atmosphere. Place your books on bookshelves, and regularly recycle magazines and other paper items. Store paper items you want to keep in plastic bags so they won't make your house dusty.
 If you can pare down your linen and cloth items, you'll see a reduction in the amount of dust flying around the house.


Instead of buying cloth furniture, go for leather or wood. It may be that one piece of older furniture is disintegrating and producing dust. If so, get rid of it.
Wash your blankets and pillows frequently.
 Every time you open the door to your closet, tiny changes in air pressure cause flakes of fiber to shed from clothing and fabrics, and these flakes of dust accumulate on the ground. If your closet is messy, you are less likely to clean the closet floor during your cleaning routines. When the closet floor is clear, cleaning is simple and prevents the dust from leaving the closet and floating elsewhere.


Hang up your clothes neatly instead of keeping them in piles or stacks.
Have a place for your shoes to go, rather than throwing them all in a bin.
Regularly vacuum the floor of your closet to reduce the amount of dust in there.
 Out-of-season clothing should be stored away rather than left out until next year. When clothing and fabrics are kept within closed containers, they are less likely to be disturbed, resulting in fewer pieces of dust.


It is recommended that you store within transparent containers and bags so you can just look to see which items are where.
When dust accumulates on the containers themselves, you can easily wipe them down.
 Mud and dirt that gets tracked into the house will eventually contribute to your household dust as it dries out. On rainy days and during the winter months, you might consider asking people to take off their shoes at the door. That way, you can keep the dust produced by these items contained to one area, which you can clean frequently.
 Dogs and cats contribute fur and dander to the household dust count. Brushing them regularly is a big help. Groom your pets in the bathroom or laundry room rather than on the living room couch or in the bedroom, since these areas are harder to keep clean. Also wash your pets' bedding frequently.

