 Cutting down on your shampoo routine to two to three times a week will allow the oils in your scalp to penetrate your hair. Your hair can then hydrate and repair itself./images/thumb/e/e2/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-5-Version-3.jpg/v4-550px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-5-Version-3.jpg
/images/thumb/e/e2/Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-5-Version-3.jpg/v4-300px-Grow-Your-Hair-in-a-Week-Step-5-Version-3.jpg









If you notice your scalp gets very oily or itchy after shampooing for only two to three times a week, you may want to increase the amount of times you shampoo every week. To properly shampoo your hair, only rub it into your scalp, massaging your scalp as you do this, and then let the shampoo run down the strands of your hair as you wash out the shampoo.
Unlike shampoo, it’s important that you always condition your hair when you get it wet in the shower. Conditioner can help to replace the lipids and proteins in your hair shafts and allow your hair to grow longer and healthier.
 Rinsing your hair with cool water at the end of a hot shower can help to seal the cuticle and give your hair more durability when you style it.You should consider turning down the water temperature of your shower water when you are washing your hair with shampoo and conditioner as well so you do not overheat your hair with very hot and steamy water.
 Though you may be in the habit of wrapping and twisting your hair in a towel once you get out of the shower, doing this can cause breakage and put stress on the strands of your hair. Wet hair is particularly fragile so substitute the post shower towel wrap with a gentle pat down using a dry towel.If you like to wrap your hair in a towel, you can try using thin towels and soft microfiber towels. These towels are made of material that is gentle on your hair and dries it well without breakage.
 Over brushing your hair every day can actually be bad for your hair and lead to poor growth. Instead, use a boar bristle brush a few times through your hair before bed. This will help to distribute the oils in your scalp onto your hair so it stays moisturized, naturally.Start at your scalp and use even strokes to go through each section of your hair at least once. Brushing once a day before bed can also increase circulation on your scalp, which can improve its health and encourage hair growth. Though brushing your hair is not scientifically proven to lead to faster hair growth, it can help to improve the overall health of your hair.
 One of the most common ways you can damage your hair and hinder its ability to grow is to use hot styling tools like hair dryers, hair straighteners, and hair curlers. Try to cut back on your use of them or cut them out of your hair care routine completely. Go for more natural looking locks so you do not get in the way of healthy hair growth.If you do use hot styling tools, you should use them on a low heat setting and use a heat protectant gel or cream to avoid damaging your hair.
 While it may seem counterintuitive to get your hair trimmed in order to encourage rapid hair growth, getting your hair stylist to trim your hair can actually help you hair to grow faster and healthier. Trimming your hair regularly will prevent split ends from working their way up the strands of your hair, which will reduce the need to get your hair cut. Split ends can cause your hair to break off high up on the strand, leading to shorter hair and more trips to your stylist.Your hairdresser should trim ⅛ of an inch off your hair every 10 to 12 weeks to prevent the development of damaging split ends. Try to schedule consistent appointments with your hairdresser so your hair stays healthy and free of split ends.

