 Exfoliating your skin using a dry brush improves your circulation and keeps your skin healthy. Its recommended as a way to reduce the appearance of stretch marks that have already formed, but dry brushing can also be used as a preventative technique.


Use a dry brush made from natural fibers. The bristles should be stiff, but not too tough.
Start from the bottom of your legs and brush your skin upward toward your heart. Focus on areas where stretch marks might become a problem, like your buttocks and abdomen. When you're finished brushing, take a shower to wash away the dead skin cells.
Don't use a dry brush on your breasts, since the skin there is more sensitive and could be damaged by brushing.
 Many commercial body washes contain sulfates, which can dry out your skin and reduce its elasticity over time. Choose a cleanser made with natural oils that will hydrate your skin, rather than making it lose too much moisture.


Coconut oil can act as a healthy skin cleanser. Rub it over your skin, rinse with warm water, and pat your skin dry with a soft towel.
It may not be necessary to use a cleanser on your skin, especially if it's prone to becoming dry. Wash your skin with lukewarm water and pat it dry.
 Its important to use a moisturizer to hydrate the skin on your belly, sides, lower back, thighs, legs, and anywhere else you might get stretch marks. Regular lotion won't penetrate the skin deeply enough to keep it hydrated, so use a product specifically made for pregnant women, or choose a natural oil.


Cocoa butter, kokum butter, almond oil, egg oil, shea butter, and wheatgerm oil are popular and effective choices for moisturizing skin during pregnancy. Pure lanolin, which is made from the oils produced by sheep to keep their wool supple, also works very well. Other popular oils include tamanu oil, rosehip oil and baobab oil. These oils are rich in anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties. They support the regeneration of new tissues and accelerate the formation of healthy skin.
Moisturize your skin in the morning after bathing and again at night. If you notice itching where your skin is being stretched, that is a sign to add more moisturizer in that area.
 If you go swimming or spend some time in the sun, make sure you use plenty of sunscreen on your belly, sides, chest and other areas where stretch marks might occur. The sun's rays are tough on skin, so its especially important to protect yourself during pregnancy.

