 First, get the Outrageous Sword, then find the grey character (if you have VIP, he's in your closet), and slash and hack with the sword for 10-30 seconds. Do not go over or else you cannot control your self. You will find that you are now extremely fast.;
, Some of the best melee weapons are the Darksteel Katana, Dual Katanas, Darkheart, Outrageous Board With a Nail In It, Tormentor's Axe, and Ghostwalker.


If desperate, get orbital flute and gear cloner and clone your orbital flute. This may also be used in combo with invisibility items to cloak the projectile. First when you spawn in your spawn box get the items specified. Next use gear cloner to clone your orbital flute pick your orbital flute up; you are doing this because orbital flute takes a while to recharge so by having two you can pass the time with the other orbital flute. Next use the orbital flute steering with your mouse. If you do not want your enemies to know who their murderer is use one of the invisibility items once you have activated orbital flute. This will cloak the flute and the only thing the enemies will see if they do look up (highly unlikely) is a trail of fire. The bloxed by feature will still work but your enemies will not see you because of the invisibility item used.
 The best rocket for that is the Exponential Rocket.
 Some suggestions are the Phoenix/Icy Arctic Fowl, Korblox Flying Oblivion Horn, Orinthian Falcon, Bald Eagle, and Ghost Minion. One tactic to win (it might not be as fun, but it works) is to just get all of these and use all of them at once.
 You should get the M1 Garand with infinite ammo, 8 bullets in a clip (for some reason, you can't manually reload) and 30 damage. Performing a headshot is an instant kill. If you are more worried about killing a certain person, use the potato cannon. It won't give you a KO, but it's a very good long ranged weapon.
 A good close range weapon is the Scatter Blaster and the Trench Warfare. The Trench Warfare is a powerful shotgun. If you are close enough, it's a two hit KO. A Scatterblaster is also deadly, but you can get hit by your own bullets since you are fast

, A good medium range weapon is the Sten gun, It's like a SMG, but it's much stronger. It wouldn't hurt to use the Luger Pistol too.
 Make sure you have some flying gear, in case you fall. Pompous, Santa's Sleigh, Artemis Bow, Sinister Flying Carpet, and Golden Fleece are some good choices. Also, you can use the hover glitch (it's kind of a cheat, so you shouldn't use it)


Get the Green Epic Sauce. Search 'green' and click the green bottle.
Get the Moonwalk Potion. Search for 'moonwalk'
Get out the Green Epic Sauce
Drink it and then quickly drink the Moonwalk Potion.
You are now temporarily hovering.
 If you ever get damaged, make sure you have a quick slight healing source and a healing potion. If you have VIP, regenerating a healing potion is very easy as it's on the top bar. Your quick healing source can be Beans or Bloxy Cola. You can also use the health glitch (it's kind of a cheat, so you shouldn't use it). There are a few ways to do it, but here is one:


Get the Knights of the Splintered Skies Wing Potion. Search 'knights' and click the blue potion.
Get the Dragonshead. Search for 'drag.'
Get out your potion.
Drink it and then quickly switch to the Dragonshead.
You are now invincible to any melee weapon and most other weapons.
 Once the enemy tries to get inside your base, try to explode them at the right moment.
 This is not needed, but let's say you're lazy. Find a good hiding spot or a safe spot, then summon a RC Tank. That thing is pretty resistant, but explosives are it's weakness.
 (you have to buy it) Don't be afraid to use the Force Field potion when you really need to!

, They are as follows: Epicsauce, Merely's Sparkle Time Hoverboard, Bear Mine Gun, Snake Sniper, Seranok Golden Chalice of Fame, Conjurer's Fist, Zeus's Lightning Bolt, Freeze Ray, Astral Cloak of Transportation, Dual Plungers, Medusa Head, Arachnix Drone, Finger Laser, Fist of Schoolage, Gravity Gun, Forbidden Box, Tornado Staff, Wraith's Screech, and Orbital Piano.


Get an invisibility item. This will make assassinating people so easy. It is advised you also use some sort of item to immobilize your enemy such as the Earth Orb, as it causes your enemy to sit down each time they are shocked preventing them from running away (too quickly) or the Heartbreaker Sword which cuts their arms off stopping them from using weapons.

