 Before you make a trip all the way to Cape Cod or Australia, make sure the beaches you hope to visit are open and shark-free. Typically, areas that experience a rise in shark sightings or attacks will close beaches nearby. If beaches are closed, avoid them. Check in with the board of tourism in the state with the beaches you hope to visit to find out about shark incidents and beach closings.
 Sharks are crepuscular hunters, which means that they get hungry at dawn and at dusk. If you're in the water just as the sun comes up, or right as it goes down, that's shark time. It's best to avoid waters that you suspect might be busy with hungry sharks early in the morning and just before dark.
 When you're out swimming, keep yourself focused on the shark at all times, whether you're just paddling around or underwater scuba diving. Stay calm and focused, and avoid making sudden jerks or movements, which will attract the shark in to your struggle.


If you're between the shark and open water, clear a space by moving out of the way. Most sharks don't want anything to do with you. Your best option, when you spot a shark, is to slowly start making your way toward the boat or the shore, whichever is closer. Make long, smooth strokes and keep your eyes on the shark.
If you can, look for some cover. Backing up against a rock ledge, coral reef, or some other outcropping with take away certain angles of attack. Keep yourself in a defensive position.
 A good quality stainless steel knife comes in handy if you're facing the prospect of a shark attack, but most of us don't carry around Bowie knives on our wetsuits. If not, you'll have to improvise. You can attempt to gouge out the shark's eyes, or punch it in the nose repeatedly. Something heavy can also help you stun the shark, if you use it in the right spots. Good improvised weapons might include:


A shoe
A rock
Cameras
Goggles or masks
Other scuba gear

, Though they make look scary, sharks have just as many vulnerabilities as any human. A properly timed and placed hit with the right pressure on one of those spots will send the shark away quickly, without having to kill it. Make short, quick jabs at the eyes and the gills of the shark to cause the most damage and make yourself seem less desirable as a snack.


The underside of the shark's jaw can also be a sensitive spot, and some trainers can even manipulate the shark to zonk it out by tickling the shark's "chin."
The very tip of the shark's nose is another sensitive spot. Throw a couple of hard, sharp jabs straight at it and don't stop hitting until it leaves you alone.
 Go to the water's surface and look around for a boat or shore. If you see a boat, call to it calmly. If you see shore, slowly swim there. The shark might come back, so swim quickly, but not too quickly as to alarm the shark. If you've been injured, seek medical attention immediately.

