 Before you can attend an anime convention or "con", you will need to find one that fits your interests and your budget. There are many anime conventions throughout the world and in North America. Some cons are massive events with thousands of people in attendance for several days of fun. Others are smaller events where you have a smaller crowd and can experience the con in a few hours. You should consider how much you can afford to spend on travel for the con and how much you want to take in at the con.Bigger conventions have a longer list of things to do but they can be overwhelming for first time attendees. You may want to go to a specific anime convention to see an anime celebrity or to experience a particular sub genre of anime with other attendees.
You can research different anime conventions at Animecons.com, which lists almost every anime convention in the world by region, country, and state. You can also look at the ten largest anime conventions in North America on Animecons.com.
Some of the largest anime conventions include the Anime Expo in Los Angeles, California, the Anime North in Toronto, Ontario, and Anime Central in Rosemont, Illinois.;
, You should determine how much money you, and any companions coming with you, can afford to spend on the anime convention. At the minimum, you will need to budget for the anime convention badge, buying food, purchasing anime merchandise, and preparing your cosplay, if you are doing one. If you decide to travel for an anime convention, you will need to budget for transportation to and from the con as well as accommodations.Smaller anime conventions usually cost around $30 for a pre-registered badge. Larger conventions can cost $50-$60 for a badge. You may also need to factor renting a hotel room or a home stay, as well as transportation, such as airplane tickets or parking and gas for a car.
You may decide to go with friends or a partner to cut down on the costs of the anime convention, especially if you are on a tight budget.
 You should always try to pre-register for anime cons, as it will cost you less to attend and you will get to wait in a shorter line to pick up your badge. If you decide to pre-register, you should make sure you are able to attend as most anime con badges are non-refundable and non-transferable.You should also be sure that you are able to attend all three days of the anime convention, if you are going to a larger convention, before you pre-register. You may need to request days off at work or clear your schedule on the convention days so you have enough time to experience the convention.
If you do not pre-register for the anime convention, you can still pick up your pass at the door. But it will likely be more expensive and you will have to wait in a longer line.
 Once you have your anime convention badge, you should consider whether you will need to travel to get to the convention and if so, how you are going to get there. Will you have to fly or can you drive to the convention? Driving may be cheaper, but you should factor in the cost of parking and gas to ensure it is a budget friendly option. You may have to fly if the convention is far from where you live, as you may not want to spend too much of your free time commuting to the convention by car.You should check for flight deals online in the weeks or months leading up to the convention. You may want to give yourself a buffer of one day before the convention or arrive the night before so you can get settled in your accommodations before the convention starts.
You should consider other transportation options like taking the train or the bus, especially if you are on a tight budget. You should factor in the travel time that will be required if you take the train or the bus and make sure it is worth the effort.
 If you are traveling outside of your home area for the convention, you will need accommodations. You may go for a hotel or a motel, especially if you are traveling with companions and you can split the cost of the room. Or, you may see if you have friends you can stay with for a few nights during the convention to cut costs.You should check with the anime convention to see if they have reserved hotel rooms for attendees close to the convention center. Some larger anime cons offer discounted rates to attendees. These rooms tend to fill up fast so try to reserve them right after you buy your badge or as soon as they become available.
Most hotels require you to be at least 18-21 years of age to book a hotel room. You are usually allowed no more than four people per a room. If you are trying to save money, you may decide to split the hotel room four ways.
 A cosplay is a costume in the style of an anime character. You may buy a cosplay or make your own cosplay at home. You should start making your cosplay costume early so it is ready in time for the convention. Get friends or parents to help you put together your cosplay and have fun making your own version of a beloved anime character.Make sure your costume is appropriate for a potentially crowded con if you are going to a larger anime convention. Try to avoid long trailing pieces of clothing that could easily be stepped on or large accessories on your back that could hit people as you turn around. Your costume should allow you to move around easily and see reasonably well. If your costume does limit your vision, recruit a friend to escort you around the con and try to stay aware of your surroundings.
If you're cosplaying, practice poses in costume beforehand. That way you'll be ready to strut your stuff when people ask to photograph you - and they will if your cosplay is halfway decent!

, You should make sure you pack the essentials for the con, or a convention survival kit, so you are prepared. You should include several key items in your convention survival kit, including:


A sewing kit, duct tape, and markers to make emergency repairs on your cosplay. This way, if your cosplay gets damaged, you can fix it easily and quickly.
Loose cash to spend on food and souvenirs. You may want to set a budget so you do not spend too much money on clothing, posters, DVDs, books, and other merchandise at the con.
A camera and extra batteries or a plug in charger. You will likely be taking lots of pictures of other cosplays and anime celebrities, so make sure your camera is always charged and ready to go.
Photo ID with you as well as loose cash and a debit or credit card.
Water and snacks for when you get hungry between meals, as well as sunscreen. You may end up lining up outside to get into the venue and you do not want to get a sunburn in the process., Most anime cons have a schedule of events on their website a few weeks before the con starts. You should read the convention guide and highlight events or celebrities you would like to see. You may collaborate with your companions to make sure you all see who and what you want during the con.You should also make sure you have enough time throughout the day to see everything. You may block off your schedule and make a plan day by day. You can then adjust the schedule once you get to the con, if necessary.
You should look at the list of food options on the convention’s website or around the convention. This way, you know what to expect for food options and can budget accordingly. You may end up bringing food with you or eating at your accommodations to save money.
 If you are not cosplaying, you should make sure you are wearing comfortable clothes and walking shoes, as you will likely be on your feet most of the day. The convention may be hot once you are inside the venue, so you may want to dress in layers to stay comfortable.You should make sure your cellphone is fully charged and your camera is fully charged. If you are with friends, you should exchange numbers so you can find each other in the event you get separated or lost.
 You should plan to arrive at least 30 minutes to 1 hour before the anime convention opens so you can get in the line. This will also give you enough time to pick up your badge in the convention and experience all the events at the con.You should also be sure to arrive early for events that you know are going to be popular, such as a meet and greet with an anime celebrity. Lining up early will ensure you use your time at the convention well and increase your chances of getting into popular events.
 You and your friends may end up having different events or booths that you want to check out. You may end up splitting up and agree to meet back later at a particular spot in the convention center. Make sure you all have each other’s contact information and an agreed upon meeting spot and time. The con may be very crowded so this will prevent you all from losing each other.
 You may be going to the anime convention to look at other people’s cosplay and get merchandise of your favorite manga. Or you may go to the con to show off your cosplay and bond with other cosplaying attendees. Try to socialize with others at the con and be friendly with other attendees.You may get pictures with anime celebrities or request a picture of someone’s cosplay. Try to give cosplayers room when you are walking around the convention so their cosplay does not get damaged. Have fun and try to experience the con to the fullest.

