 Before you begin cleaning, make sure your Keurig is shut off and unplugged. You’ll be using a lot of water in and around the unit, so you’ll want to safeguard the electrical components. If there’s a K-cup pod in the brewing chamber, take it out and dispose of it.You can turn off your Keurig by flipping the on/off switch on the back of older models, or pressing and holding the power button on newer touch-screen models.Wait until the display and power light are completely off before proceeding.;
, Lift the reservoir tank straight off of its base, then pry off the lid and set it aside. Dump the old water out into the sink. Shake out as much excess moisture as you can.You should get in the habit of changing the water in your Keurig’s reservoir daily, even when it’s between cleanings.
 Once you’ve detached the reservoir itself, quickly spot-clean the area of the unit where it rests. There may be hard water stains or coffee grounds built up on the base. These will get worse with time if left untreated.While you’re at look, look for other parts of the machine that could use a wipe down, like the spout, mug tray or the area around the brewing chamber.You can clean most of the exterior of the Keurig by simply wiping it down with warm water.
 Add a small amount of a mild liquid detergent to a sink full of warm water and stir it by hand. Submerge the reservoir in the soap solution and gently go over the interior with a sponge or clean cloth. Concentrate on the small port and mesh screen at the bottom of the reservoir where the buildup is likely to be heaviest.For especially heavy stains or buildup, allow the reservoir to soak in the soap solution for 10-15 minutes before scrubbing.
Don’t forget to go over the underside of the lid as well.
 Run fresh, hot water over the reservoir inside and out. Direct the stream over the port and screen for several seconds to make sure they’re sufficiently clear. Completely drain the reservoir of water when you’re done rinsing.Be sure to rinse off any lingering traces of soap, or it could create a film on the plastic surface and affect the flavor of the coffee.
 A microfiber towel or absorbent chamois will provide the best results. You can also set the reservoir upside and leave it to air dry completely for a few hours. Once it’s dry, return the reservoir to its base, replace the lid and enjoy your next cup of coffee!Be sure to leave the lid off of the reservoir while it’s air drying to prevent moisture from becoming trapped inside.
Drying the reservoir with a paper towel or ordinary cloth could leave behind small fibers that can then find their way into your coffee.

