 A spy kit should be a compact, light container filled with supplies needed in order to act out your spy work. Basic supplies needed would be spare cash (about $25 is enough), a cell phone (bug-free), a scarf (for a quick disguise), a tape recorder (only if you do not have one on your phone), a digital camera along with additional batteries,a dust rag (clean off finger prints), and a notebook and pen. These supplies should be carried always even when not carrying out missions or attempting to sleuth. Also, this is not something you carry around, but is essential to have: To be a good spy, you must have a wealth of knowledge at your fingertips. Knowing a few languages is always helpful, so is being able to do semi-hard math in your head. You must be very, very smart, and have good common sense.
 Some suggestions for additional items are floss, string, tape, super glue, flour (for finding fingerprints),black construction paper (for fingerprints), Swiss army knife, flashlight, compass, safety pins, rope, and batteries (whatever type you use the most). Adjust this list and you will eventually know what type of kit you need for specific types of missions.
 This should be used to keep track of the details and inform confused team members of their purpose at that time. A Leader might also like to keep a stopwatch to keep track of time throughout the mission and a first aid kit in case of emergencies. ALWAYS LISTEN TO YOUR LEADER. YOU ELECTED THEM FOR A REASON, THEY KNOW BEST.
The Diverter should have multiple disguises at hand. Possible items used to disguise yourself include scarves, glasses, hats, wigs, costume make-up and large sunglasses. Be creative and try to establish a few strong disguises to turn to in an emergency. The Diverter might also need props such as Girl Scout cookies, dog photographs, etc. The Diverter is usually the most outgoing, the one who has all the connections, and knows everybody.
The Collector will collect all of the data and try to make sense of it. They will also collect the gadgets that you and your team are going to use.
The sneak-in will scout the place out, and know the shortest, safest route to the destination. They will also be the first to go into the room, and give a signal. The Sneak-In knows the town like the back of their hand, they know where to run to make the escape.



