 If you are doing an activity that could cause you to injure your knees, such as a sport that could make you fall, then you should protect them before that happens. Wear knee pads whenever you are doing an activity that may involve a fall or pressure on your knees.


For example, volleyball players should use knee pads to protect their knees when they fall or dive for the ball.Knee pads can be useful for activities beyond sports. For example, if you like to spend a lot of time in your yard weeding, wear knee pads or use a cushioned pad to kneel on when you are on your knees.;
, There are certain kinds of motions that can put a lot of pressure on your knees. Sudden movements or direct pressure on the front or back of the knee can strain and injure the knee. This is especially true if you have an existing injury or illness in the knee, such as osteoarthritis.This means that you should be careful when lifting heavy objects. Be careful that you do not rotate while lifting, as this uses your knee abnormally under extreme pressure.
Also avoid using your knees in a way makes them overextend. For example, be especially careful when exercising that you do not hyperextend your knees.
 Too much weight on knees can age them prematurely. Work on keeping your weight at an optimal level to ensure that your knees do not become painful and damaged.Losing weight helps to limit the stress placed on your knees. If you can limit that stress, your knees are likely to function much better over time.
 For optimum joint health, it is a good idea to eat an anti-inflammatory diet.This diet simply focuses on eating foods that reduce inflammation and avoiding foods that promote inflammation.Foods that reduce inflammation include: fish, green vegetables, olive oil, fruit, and nuts.
Foods that promote inflammation include: fried foods, soda, refined carbohydrates, fat, and processed meats.
 If your knees bother you or if you are concerned about developing problems with them in the future, then talk to your doctor. There are lots of different things that you can do to protect and promote your knee health, and to relieve pain as well. Some options include:Wearing a knee brace to keep your knee properly aligned.
Cortisone injections to reduce pain and inflammation in your knees.
Over-the-counter pain medications like acetaminophen or ibuprofen.
Knee surgery to correct severe or ongoing knee pain.

