 If you do not close your bra, the hooks will often catch on other items in the wash and may rip them, or the hooks may deform. Straps can sometimes tangle on other laundry items, which may put stress on them. If your bra does not have any closures (such as a sports bra), then do not worry about this.
 This will prevent the bra from getting tangled in other items. It will also protect it from rougher items, such as jeans. It can also be handy for sorting later. 







, Wash white bras with other white clothes. Be sure to wash light-colored bras (such as beige and pastels) with other light-colored clothes, and to wash dark-colored bras (such as navy and black) with other dark-colored clothes. Mixing colors can cause dyes to bleed, which results in faded and murky colors.
 Try to wash your bras with lighter-weight items, such as t-shirts, underwear, socks, and pajamas. Jeans and towels are much heavier than bras and could damage them.
 Do not use any strong detergents; strong detergents can eat away at the fibers and make the fabric weaker over time and can deteriorate the fabric.
 This is typically more needed for padded or shaping bras.


If the bra is soaking and dripping wet, do not wring or twist them; instead, put the bra between two towels, and press down on the towels to remove any excess moisture

, Avoid using a dryer, as the heat will cause the bra straps to stretch and lose their elasticity.You can air dry the bra by draping it across a drying rack or clothesline. You can also clip the band of the bra to a hanger, and hang it up to dry. Do not hang the bra by the straps; this will cause the bra straps to stretch too much. If you do not have any spare hangers, clotheslines, or drying racks, you can lay the bra out flat on a clean, dry towel.If you must use a dryer, ideally use the "no heat" setting. Be sure to keep the bra in its mesh bag to prevent any tangling.Putting a bra in a hot or warm dryer will not likely do immediate harm. If this does happen, there is usually no reason to panic. This is not ideal treatment, but rarely causes a bra to become unusable.

