 This way, the elephant will find it difficult to smell you and seek you out (elephants have a keen sense of smell). If you can hide downwind, you might be able to avoid any further encounter.If you do run, stay downwind to make following you more difficult.
 It does show the elephant that you're non-threatening and it removes the desire to chase you. However, you'll need to judge the suitability of this move by the size and aggressiveness of the elephant before you.
 It might be possible to shoo off the elephant by making loud noise if there is some distance between you and the charging elephant. Some think that this a very good option if you're inside a vehicle.On the other hand, if you're on foot trying to dodge the elephant when it's very close to you, others think that staying quiet is probably a much better option.However, according to biologist Michael Fahey, screaming and yelling is very effective (you can see him on video below, demonstrating scaring away a charging elephant). It is likely that this option should be used only where you see indications of a mock charge.You can also shake trees, rattle bags, make noise using whatever objects are to hand.
A loudly and repetitively shouted "No" is good if you can't think of anything else.
Note that Michael Fahey shoos away a small-ish mother elephant. You might not be so willing to shout at a bull elephant in must, a time during which the elephant will be exceptionally aggressive and more likely to charge with intent to harm., Do not turn or run! Running encourages chasing. (However, if you lose your nerve and do run, see steps on running below.) Biologist Michael Fahey says that "the probability of you getting killed is much lower if you stand your ground than if you run."

, Do a quick look around you to see if you can duck behind something larger than you or something that can act as a shield. For example, a vehicle, a building, a pile of rubble, a large tree, etc. In some cases, getting inside a tree might work if it's possible. This is something that Gabonese hunters do, sliding inside the stilt roots of swamp trees, which seems to be adequate to ward off a charging elephant.If you do hide somewhere, be aware that you must be absolutely still and quiet, for elephants have acute hearing.If there is a vehicle and you can maneuver it quickly enough, drive off. Be warned though, if the elephant is already close to the vehicle, it may charge the vehicle and you risk being tipped over and pounded.
 A charging elephant can run much faster than you but if you zig-zag, you might be able to confuse it. Elephants find it difficult to change directions due to their bulky size. And, of course, run as fast as you can––your life depends on it.


If you do run, the intent should be to place as much distance between yourself and the elephant. Elephants that are scared, upset or angered can run up to 35–40 km/h (21.7–24.9 mph) (the fastest human being clocks in at around 37kph for a short sprint).A wicked but true fact––the elephant will get the slowest runner. That's your bid for safety if you're in a group. Of course, few people want to see sparing their own life coming at the expense of another, so it's kinder to yell out instructions for sparing everyone's life if possible and to try to ensure everyone reaches safety.
 Elephants can't climb, obviously. And provided you find a sturdy enough tree of good height, it might be enough to put space between you and the marauding elephant.


Keep in mind that the elephant might rip the tree down, so be on the lookout for signs that it might try this next.
Be warned! It might not be wise to jump into water. Apart from the fact that the water might harbor other non-friendly wildlife, elephants are surprisingly good swimmers and it may decide to simply follow you.
 In some cases, people have evaded a charging elephant by dropping into a large ditch and staying low.Be warned that if the ditch isn't wide or deep enough, the elephant may find its way around and start going for you with its trunk.

