 A three-way switch allows you to control one appliance from two or more locations.


The switch may have either screw terminal connectors, which will be located along the side of the switch, or push-in connector holes, which will be located at the back of the switch.
 A three-way switch requires three wires: a hot wire, a neutral wire, and a traveler wire. The switch will also have a green or bare copper grounding wire. The box may contain one or two cables, or sets of wires.


Mark the wire connected to the colored screw terminal or to the hole on the same side as the colored screw terminal (it will typically be a dark color and will not be green) as the “common” wire.
Mark the two wires connected to the other two screw terminals as the “traveler” wires.
Mark the green or copper wire connected to the green screw terminal (on the other side of the switch) as the “grounding” wire.



If the wires are connected to screw terminals, turn each screw counter-clockwise with a screwdriver to loosen and slide the wire out with a pair of needle-nose pliers.
If the wires are connected to push-in connectors, the holes that the wires are pushed into will typically have a small slot beneath the hole. Insert a small screwdriver into the slot and push forward to release the wire.



Connect the black (common) wire to the common screw terminal, which you can identify because it will be a different color than the other two terminals (and not green).
If the box contains two cables or sets of wires, you will attach the traveler wires (typically black and red) to the remaining two screw terminals. Either: A) Use needle-nose pliers to wrap a little more than half of the bare wire clockwise around the screw and then tighten the screw clockwise to secure the wire. Or B) push the wire into the push-in hole on the same side of the switch as the colored screw.
If the box contains one cable or set of wires, you will attach the traveler wires (typically white and red) to the remaining two screw terminals. Either: A) Use needle-nose pliers to wrap a little more than half of the bare wire clockwise around the screw and then tighten the screw clockwise to secure the wire. Or B) push the wire into the push-in hole on the same side of the switch as the colored screw.
 You should see the word “top” written on the switch indicating the side of the switch that should be vertically oriented toward the top.
, Do not over tighten the switch plate, since it may crack under too much pressure.
 Go back to the new switch and flip it on and off several times to ensure it’s in working order.

