 If your child is dealing with pent-up emotions, one way to let it out is through physical activity. This activity should allow your child to blow off some steam, but in a way that doesn’t hurt others. You may find once they are able to let it out, their behavior improves.


Going outside and playing soccer or basketball may help them feel better. Even punching a pillow or pulling or pounding on clay or play-dough can help. Dancing or going for a walk with you may also fend off those feelings of hostility.;
, Sometimes, all we need is a compassionate ear to stop us from reaching our breaking points. Tell your child to come to you when he feels himself getting upset and tell you what is going on. You may be able to calm him down before he reaches his limit.


When your child reaches out to you, go to a quiet spot and have a seat. Tell them to take deep breaths and talk about what is going on and why it is so upsetting. Having this alone time with you builds trust and lets them know that they always have you to confide in. This feeling of security may be enough to stop an impending explosion., Your child may turn to destruction when they get upset. You will need to let them know, however, that this type of behavior isn’t acceptable. Set limits with them that allow them to express their feelings without taking it to an inappropriate level.


If they yell and begin to hit or break things, you could say, “I understand you are upset. However, I will not allow you to hit me or hurt others. You can be angry, but you can’t be destructive.” This gives them boundaries that allow them to express their emotions, but also makes them practice some self-restraint., Laughter really is the best medicine for just about anything, even anger. Teach your child to look at the humor in the situation. Learning to laugh instead of yell is a skill that can help them their entire life.


For instance, if your child is upset because they spilled a drink down the front of them, teach them to look at how funny it actually is. You may even have to spill the drink on yourself for them to see the humor in it, but eventually, they’ll likely see that even situations that seem dire can actually have a bright side.