 Before you tune your instrument, make sure that it is actually a Greek-style bouzouki and not an Irish-style bouzouki. The two versions are typically tuned to different patterns, so it's important to know which version you have.


The easiest difference to identify is the shape of the instrument. A Greek bouzouki has a bowl-shaped back, but the back of an Irish bouzouki is flat.
Scale length is another major difference. The Greek bouzouki has a longer scale measuring to 680 mm, while the Irish bouzouki has a scale length around 530 mm., The most traditional Greek bouzoukis have three string courses with two strings each, giving you a total of six strings. Other versions of the Greek bouzouki have four string courses with two strings each, or a total of eight strings.


Six-string bouzoukis are called trichordo models. Eight-string bouzoukis are called tetrachordo models.
Note that most Irish bouzoukis have eight strings, but it is also possible for an Irish version to have six strings.
The modern tetrachordo version is believed to date back to the 1950s, while the trichordo version dates back to ancient times., It should be easy to determine which tuning pegs adjust which string courses, but you should check the instrument before you begin to make the process as effective as possible.


Face the front of the bouzouki.

On the trichordo, the 2 knobs on the lower right adjust the highest-pitched strings. The 2 knobs on the lower left adjust the lowest-pitched strings, leaving the 2 end knobs on each side to adjust the middle strings.
On the tetrachordo, the 2 knobs on the lower right adjust the highest pitched strings, the 2 knobs on the upper right adjust the next lowest strings, the 2 knobs on the upper left adjust the next lowest strings, and the 2 knobs on the lower left adjust the lowest pitched strings.


Each string of a course is attached to it's own tuning peg. You will adjust both strings of a course to the same pitch (or octaves, as is often the case for the lower pitched course or courses).
 Trichordo bouzoukis are usually tuned to the pattern of D-A-D. Tetrachordo bouzoukis are traditionally tuned to the pattern of C-F-A-D.Individual players may choose to use an adapted tuning for a specific tune when playing on a trichordo bouzouki, but doing so is fairly uncommon and only done by experienced players.
Many contemporary players choose to follow a D-G-B-E pattern for tetrachordo bouzoukis due, in part, to the similarity between this pattern and the pattern used for tuning a guitar.
When playing Irish music on either an Irish or Greek tetrachordo bouzouki, a pattern of G-D-A-D or A-D-A-D is typically used. These tunings make the instrument easy to play in the key of D.
If you have a short-scale instrument or large hands, it might be easiest to tune a tetrachordo bouzouki to a mandolin-style pattern of G-D-A-E. This tuning should be one octave lower than that used for an actual mandolin, however.

