 This is simply done via a sample drawn from the bitch and sent to the lab. Low levels indicate she is not cycling, medium levels show she is in heat, and high levels indicate she is pregnant.


The alternative is a test used in research establishments. It measures the level of Luteinizing hormone (LH) in the bloodstream, which rises prior to ovulation. However, this is not commercially available as a test kit.
 It is quick and easy to do.The veterinarian rolls a clean cotton tip over the moist lining of the vulva and then rolls the cotton tip over a glass microscope slide. Once the smear is dry, it is stained and examined under the microscope.


A dog in heat has a typical pattern of large, cornified cells plus red blood cells that are typical of being in heat. This along with physical signs is enough to decide if the dog is in heat.
 This means it's important to use your common sense when wondering if the dog is in heat. If you are in any doubt, then take her to see your veterinarian. Is the dog due to be in heat? If yes, then heat is more likely than a health problem.
Was she recently in heat? If yes, then another heat is unlikely and there may be a health problem.
Is she in good spirits, eating and drinking normally, and normally active? If yes, heat is more likely.
Is she not quite herself, is her appetite is reduced, is she more thirsty than usual, or does she keep vomiting? If yes, a health problem is likely and urgent veterinary attention sought.
 There is a health condition, pyometra, that affects older dogs which, to the untrained eye, could mimic being in heat. The overlapping symptoms include a swollen vulva, with or without a vaginal discharge. A pyometra refers to a womb infection. In severe cases the womb fills with pus and the dog becomes toxic when toxins from the bacteria are absorbed into the bloodstream.


If you have an older dog, who has recently been in heat (4 - 8 weeks before) and she develops a discharge, seek veterinary attention because this is the peak risk period for a pyometra developing.
In the early stages the dog may be more thirsty or lack a good appetite. As the condition becomes more serious, the toxins causes kidney damage, and left untreated, can be fatal.
Each time the dog has a heat it weakens the lining of the womb slightly and makes a pyometra more likely. This condition mainly affects aging dogs (the more cycles she has, the more likely it is to happen) and no breed is exempt from being at risk.

