 If your dog isn’t interested in her usual food, try giving her something new and special. This might encourage her to eat. Just make sure to think about the underlying illness when choosing foods. Try giving your dog:


Canned pet food
Carrot sticks
Boiled chicken, hamburger meat, tuna, sandwich meat, or other mild meats
Meat-flavored or other flavored baby food
Peanut butter
Pet snacks or treats
Small amounts of cat foodRiceVegetables, like mashed pumpkin or sweet potato
No-salt added chicken brothCream of wheat or oatmeal;
, If your dog has diarrhea, nausea, or is vomiting, you need to feed her bland foods. Rich or fatty foods won’t be good for a dog with these symptoms. Instead, feed her vegetables, cream of wheat or oatmeal, boiled chicken, or no-salt-added chicken broth.Be aware that hamburger meat can be too greasy if your dog has stomach issues. Don't feed her greasy foods if she's dealing with these symptoms.
 When a dog refuses to eat, getting nutrients into her is important. Try feeding her smaller amounts, just one or two spoonfuls to start. Little and often is ideal, so offering a spoonful (depending on the size of the dog) every hour, rather than one big meal a day, can do the trick., Eating grass is an instinct for dogs when they’re feeling sick. The grass may stimulate her to be sick. This is nature's way of cleansing the system and purging it of toxins.If your dog vomits more than a couple times, or eats grass and vomits every time she goes outside, call the vet.
 Sometimes, a dog doesn't want to eat because she is old, has aches and pains, or can't smell the food. Scent plays a big part in encouraging a dog to eat, so offer something that is naturally smelly, such as fish. You can also try warming the food up slightly so that it gives off an odor., Sometimes, dry kibble is not appetising to a sick dog. Dry food can cause pain, irritate the dog’s throat, or hurt the teeth and gums. Switch to a moist food while your dog is sick. Wet food can be easier for her to digest.You can also mix in broth, beef bouillon, tomato soup, or tomato juice with the dry kibble to make it moist and easier to eat and digest.
 If your dog is only taking in small amounts of food, speak to your vet about special prescription diets that are energy dense. These foods are packed with nutrition for the dog and often contain four times the calories of an equivalent sized can of food. However, they may not be suitable for all dogs, depending on the nature of the dog’s underlying problem.