 If they feel ashamed of their bodies, they may start to hate them, and not want to take good care of them. A healthy relationship with one's body should not involve hatred or shame.;
, If you tell them that they are going to get diabetes, be incredibly sick, or die, you could end up with a terrified child. Living in constant fear of a horrible future isn't good for your child's emotional health.


You don't know what their health will be like in the future. Don't try to make predictions.
 Studies show that people who get fat shamed end up getting fatter, suggesting that this change involved depression, emotional eating, poor self-esteem, increased stress, and avoidance of exercise.Criticism won't make your child healthier.
 Instead, praise your child for the things they do: eating a healthy snack, going swimming with their sister, or spending lots of time playing outside. This encourages them to keep doing these healthy things.
 Placing value judgments on food can give children an unhealthy relationship with eating. Instead, emphasize balancing a diet, and controlling portions of fattier foods to a moderate amount.


To encourage healthy eating, explain how they benefit from a certain type of food, such as "fish are good for your brain" or "eating enough protein helps you grow tall and strong."

, If your obese child doesn't ever get dessert, while his naturally thinner sister can eat as many cookies as she wants, this is unfair to both children. Any health initiatives should be taken together, as a family, and should apply equally to everyone.


Avoid imposing too many rules too quickly. This can cause children to rebel. Instead, focus on introducing new changes one at a time, at a pace that feels relaxed and not like a punishment., Following trendy diets or hating on your body is unlikely to help you, and it can warp your child's ideas about healthy eating.Instead of signing up for the latest fad diet or complaining about the size of your thighs, try making small lifestyle adjustments, such as the ones in the next section.


It's okay for your child to see you enjoying a controlled portion of dessert.
Worry less about the size and shape of your body, and instead focus on treating it well through healthy eating and exercising habits.

