 When you’re curling with braids or buns, it’s best to start with wet hair. Wash your hair as you normally would, and then towel dry it slightly so it’s not dripping. If you don’t want to wash your hair, use a spray bottle with water to get your locks fairly damp before you start the curling process.If your hair doesn’t hold curls well, you may want to spray a texturizing spray on your wet hair before moving on. That added texture in your hair can help it curl more easily.
 Braids and buns are quick, easy hairstyles, but the way that they twist your hair also means that they can add curls and waves to your locks. For looser waves, pull your hair back into a single braid or tie it up in a single bun. However, if you want tighter, more defined curls, divide your hair into sections and create several braids or buns all over your head..









You can curl your hair with traditional, French, or fishtail braids. Use whatever style is your favorite or the easiest for you to do.
If you want the simplest style to create curls, divide your hair into two sections on either side of your head. Create one bun on each side and secure them in place with elastics for a Princess Leia-inspired look. You’ll get loose, natural curls all over your hair without much effort.
If you want an even easier way to create some curls or waves in your hair, gather it up as you would for a ponytail, twist it tightly, and use a shark clip to pin it to the back of your head. You’ll get looser, less defined curls, but your hair will still have some texture when it dries.
 In order for the curls to take hold, your hair must dry completely. That’s why you may prefer to braid your hair or put it in buns at night, so you can leave them in place overnight to ensure that they’re totally dry.You don’t necessarily have to start the process at night. Because braids and buns are hairstyles that you would wear out of the house, you can also go out while you’re waiting for your hair dry and curl.
If you need your curls in a hurry, you can help the drying process along by using a blowdryer on your hair.
 Once you’re sure that your hair has dried completely, being taking out the braids or buns. Your curls will be somewhat fragile, so don’t use a brush to help them in place. Instead, use your fingers to gently separate the curls and style them.








While using braids or buns to curl your hair is usually used to get a natural look, you may want to spray your locks with some hairspray to help them stay in place all day.

