 The first course of action when dealing with stiffness in dogs – no matter the time of day – should be to talk to your vet. Your vet might be able to recommend solutions or managements techniques specific to your pet based on its health history and species.Your dog might be able to prescribe medication for your dog to help it cope with the stiffness in its joints.
You should already have a vet for your older dog, but if you don’t, check online veterinary organization databases. The American Animal Hospital Association, for instance, has a searchable list of animal treatment centers at https://www.aaha.org/pet_owner/about_aaha/hospital_search/default.aspx.
 If your vet thinks it is appropriate, you might be able to improve your dog’s morning stiffness through surgery. Canine surgeons can provide added stability to joints and remove bits of bone that may have chipped off over time. Smaller dogs might benefit from having certain leg joints fused, or having the top portion of upper leg bones removed.Talk to your doctor to determine if your dog needs surgery.
 Dogs, like humans, can benefit tremendously from a good massage. Take your dog to a trained animal masseuse and explain that it experiences stiffness in the morning. Your dog might benefit from a good massage.Ask the masseuse for tips about how you might be able to provide a simple massage to your dog in the morning in order to reduce its stiffness. If possible, sit by and carefully watch the pet masseuse as they massage your doggie.
Massaging your dog yourself can not only save time and money, but provide a great opportunity to improve the bond between you.
 Acupuncture – the application of needles to various points on the body – isn’t just for people. This traditional Chinese health practice can make your dog more mobile and active in the morning, afternoon, or evening. Contact some traditional Chinese medical specialists and ask if they perform acupuncture on dogs. If they don’t, ask them if they know of another acupuncturist who does., Hydrotherapy is the application of assisted swimming in order to help dogs keep their muscles and joints active. Dogs can more easily move around in water than they can on land because in water, they float. While floating, stress on joints and muscles is reduced. A hydrotherapy session might use underwater treadmills or jet pools in order to help your dog improve use of its limbs and stay limber.Ask your vet for recommendations of doggie hydrotherapy centers near you.

