 Make male friends. Chat with guys just to make conversation. The more comfortable you are interacting with men, the more confident you will be. Talk to men in low-pressure situations to build your confidence. That way, you will feel more prepared for dates or other encounters where you may be more likely to be nervous.Joke with men or flirt with them, if you are comfortable.
Join a club or a sports league in order to make new guy friends.
Try making chitchat in casual settings: waiting for the copy machine at work, in line at the coffee shop, or at the gym.
 Men are great, and having male friends, colleagues, and lovers in your life can enrich it. But do not place so much weight on “having a man” that you neglect or devalue other aspects of your life.


Don’t attach romantic expectations to every man. Society often gives women the message that being in a romantic relationship with a man is the most important thing, but this can put a lot of pressure on women and, thus, can make them feel less confident around men.
Treat a man as a potential friend first, and as a potential romance only after you get to know him. It can be hard to break this pattern of thought after so many cultural messages that reinforce it.
Try telling yourself, “We are both human beings with the same feelings at our core. I would like to try to get to know this person better and be friends with them.”

, Studies show that being male or female has little impact on personality, cognition, or leadership ability. While you may feel that “men are from Mars,” the reality is that you may have more in common with them than you think.Researchers think that most of the differences between men and women are the result of gender norms and expectations, and the environment in which people were raised that influenced our behaviors.Our brains are a patchwork of “male” and “female” characteristics. Researchers examining both male and female brains found that most people had brains that were hybrids of male and female brain structure. For example, men typically have more connections front to back, which enhances perception and leads to taking action. Women typically have more connections going left and right across the two halves of the brain, which improves their ability to synthesize information and draw conclusions. The brains scientists studied all had wide varieties of these characteristics, regardless of whether the brain belonged to a man or a woman.