 Bring your dog to the chosen spot, making sure the floor is protected with newspaper. Have your assistant hold the dog in a standing position and elevate the tail when you are ready to administer the enema. Stand behind the dog so you have a clear view of his rear end.


If your dog has long fur or feathering around the rear end, then consider clipping away the long fur to reduce fecal soiling when the dog does go., Other types of enema equipment may use a pump or syringe that you will need to fill. Too fill the bulb, pump, or syringe, submerge the end of the tubing into the enema liquid. Then, compress the bulb to expel all of the air. Next, release the bulb so that the negative pressure pulls in liquid.


Make sure that the water is not too hot by testing it on the inside of your wrist. If the water is too hot, then cool it down by adding a little cold water.If you are using a syringe, attach the tubing to the hub of the syringe and suck back on the plunger in order to fill the syringe.
 The anus is the hole through which the dog passes feces. This is easy to identify in the male because it is the only hole. In the female dog the anus is immediately below the tail whilst the vulva is closer to the ground between her back legs.
 Wearing your protective clothing and gloves, squirt a small volume of liquid out of the end of the tubing to lubricate it or apply some petroleum jelly to the end.Then, take the end of the tubing and gently insert it into your dog’s rectum. Next, apply a bit of gentle pressure at the central part of the anus.


It may also help to apply a gentle twisting movement to the tubing as you advance it.
 The rectum lies parallel to the backbone. Aim to direct the tubing forward in a straight line parallel to the spine in order to follow the path of the rectum. Never apply pressure or force. If the tube refuses to advance, leave it where it is and try squirting in some liquid as it might be the tip is jammed against the fecal buildup.


Push the tubing about one to two inches into the anus.
 Once tubing is far enough into the anus, then slowly compress the syringe or squeeze the bulb in order to administer the enema. Go slow to ensure that your dog will not be uncomfortable and to prevent injury to the dog’s bowel wall.Once the full volume has been given, slowly remove the enema tubing.
 Take your dog to his usual potty spot and encourage him to go potty.It may help to take your dog for a nice slow, gentle walk to help the fluid mix with the feces and start the softening process.


If your dog does not pass feces on the first attempt, repeat the enema process 1 - 2 hours later.
Remember to give your dog plenty of opportunities to toilet in between enemas. When he is ready to go, he will need to go right away.
Never get angry at a dog that has had an enema and loses control. This is not his fault. To prevent your dog from having an accident on your carpet or furniture, you may want to keep him outside until he has gone.

