 The key to saving money is to never lose money on avoidable fees and interest charges. It is important to know what your budget is by adding up all of your reoccurring and miscellaneous bills. Then take your expenses total and subtract it from your net monthly income.  There are many good searchable articles online that offer helpful tips and techniques in creating and managing a proper budget.;
, Review all of your possible expenses for a given month and contact each merchant to find out if they accept credit card payments without charging any fees. Some bills such as rent are traditionally check only payments however some of the larger real estate management companies are now accepting credit card rent payments. Utility, cell phone, gym membership bills are just a few that will accept fee-less credit card payments. The key is to focus all your payments on one rewards credit card to maximize your earnings.
 It sounds simple enough however you always want to have your budget clearly define how you will pay each bill. Having this list will make the organization of your monthly payments quick and smooth.
 There are many rewards credit cards available so it is essential to research which credit card and rewards program best fits your needs and habits. Some give out points, cash back or both. Some cards are partnered with other merchants such as hotels, airlines, and online retailers.  A few cards will give you points for miles flown when the airfare is charged to the card. Also keep in mind that credit cards like American Express, Discover, and Diners Club are not as universally accepted as Visa and MasterCard.
 Most credit card companies have online and phone applications which most often give immediate answers of acceptance. If you are not accepted the credit card merchant will most often send a letter detailing why you were denied.
 Once you receive and activate the card register yourself at the cards official website. There you’ll be giving the opportunity to track and pay your balance and also view the number of points accumulated. Some reward systems have points that expire so monitoring your point balance is very important.
 Once you have received your new credit card use your merchants online account management service to make payment arrangements. There you can enroll your card for a one time or reoccurring automatic payments. If you are uncomfortable entering your credit card information online then call the merchant’s customer service to complete the process over the phone

,  Most often your credit card’s account management website will list deals with merchants that allow you to earn points much quicker. Below is a screenshot example of how making a purchase with the specified merchants will give you more points per dollar spent than the standard earnings. You may see that some reward specials will be through stores you will want to buy from thus taking advantage of the greater rewards opportunity.
 When you have accumulated enough points/cash contact the credit card company over the phone or go online to redeem your rewards.

