 Find your local Yellow Pages and create an entry for your business under the service you provide. Many different companies create Yellow Pages business directories in the paper or online, so be sure to find ones specific to your region. Your local city or community may also have a smaller business directory just for local businesses.


Join your local Chamber of Commerce or other regional business association. Actively participate in that organization if you have the time; studies show consumers think more highly of companies which do so.
Check each directory's terms of service before registering with it. Some may require you to be a legal adult, or limit the types of services you can list.;
, No matter which of the below methods you'll be using, you should make sure your potential clients have all the information they need to evaluate your business and contact you.


Include the best and fastest method of contacting you, or preferably more than one. Include both email and cell phone number if you have them and respond to messages quickly on both.
Besides your name or the name of your business, include a brief description of your service. Provide examples of specific tasks you could be hired for.
Consider including information on discounts for first-time customers, clients who refer you to other people, or anyone who hires you in a certain time period. A discount during a period of few customers can pay itself off by attracting a long-term client.
 The city government or local police station should be able to tell you which marketing methods are not allowed. In many places, you are not allowed to put flyers directly in mailboxes, and you should check before going door-to-door or attaching them to private property., Create a simple, attractive flyer to advertise your service. Always include your contact information and specific information on what types of jobs you can take on. Consider the best way to distribute them so you don't waste time and money making useless flyers. Follow the advice above to learn local laws, and think about where potential clients are most likely to see your flyer.


A house cleaning service or other service with broad appeal might have success distributing them to every house or business in a neighborhood.If canvassing without a permit is illegal in your area, consider folding the flyers in half and sending them through the mail without having to buy envelopes – but do not expect more than 5% of people to respond to this method.Many communities have public bulletin boards intended for advertising. These are likely to be more cost-effective if your business will only appeal to a small group of people, such as flute lessons.
Locally owned businesses often keep flyers for local events and services for their customers to take. Ask them politely to take a stack of yours rather than just dropping it off. Do not ask a business with a competing service to advertise for you.
 Find out which newspapers are printed locally and take out advertisements in the classified section. This can be a great way to spread the word and shouldn't cost you much money if the paper is truly local. Try to stand out from similar businesses by offering a limited time discount, or mention specific services your competitors do not.


If there are several local papers, take out ads for a short period with each of them. Ask new clients where they heard about you and continue advertising with the papers that give good results., Follow the link in the title of this step to learn how to make your own business cards, or find a service online to help you. Keep a stack of them in your wallet or in a protective case, and distribute them to friends, neighbors, or anyone you interact with in public.


Use thicker business card paper to print these out, and cut them out carefully with a paper cutter rather than sloppily with a pair of scissors.
Include several methods of contacting you, especially phone and email, your name, and a description of the type of service you provide.
 Word of mouth is an excellent tool for local services. Ask all your friends to pass on your contact information or business cards to anyone who might hire you. Consider offering a referral discount or even a one time free service for any client who convinces someone else to hire you as well.


When you start your business, consider sending out a newsletter email to everyone in your contact list that lives in your local area and is on friendly terms with you. Include a brief description of your service and consider offering a discount for your personal contacts the first time they hire you.Ask former or current clients who appreciate your work for permission to use them as referrals. You may want to put a complimentary quote from them on your next advertisement, especially if they or their business is well known in the community.
 Try to live up to your client's expectations. If you are going into your client's homes to provide lessons or tech support, you should appear well-dressed and responsible. On the other hand, if you are gardening or doing manual labor, potential clients might question why you are wearing nail polish and/or a suit.
 You'll get more referrals and repeat customers if you maintain a professional, positive attitude. Treat each client with respect. Don't interrupt your job to chat with a friend. Show up on time or a few minutes early, and let them know if you'll be delayed. Try to complete each job to the best of your abilities.
 These are three different methods of protecting your client in the case of accident or fraud. If someone knows you have paid for one or more of these protective measures, that person may be more comfortable hiring you. Here are descriptions of each process and advice on when to use them:


Insurance for businesses, in return for regular payments, will cover the cost of medical injury or other unexpected expenses as determined by the terms of your contract. Consider getting this if you or your employees are at risk of injury in a client's home, since otherwise the client's homeowner insurance may be billed for medical expenses — which will not make your client happy.Licenses are only requires for certain activities, as determined by your local, state, or national laws. If you're unsure whether your business requires a license, contact your city government for advice.
Create a bond if your business has many clients or employees. This gives control of a certain amount of money to the government, which uses the money to pay out claims against your company in case of damage to client property or other mishaps. Advertising your bond number also allows potential clients to look up a history of claims against your company.