 This document certifies that, although you were convicted of an offense, you have since become a productive member of society and should not be penalized any further for your past. There are strict standards for proving you are rehabilitated, and these standards differ from state to state. Generally you cannot have had any further brushes with the law and must be a responsible and law-abiding member of the community.
Not all convictions can be cleaned up with a Certificate of Rehabilitation. For example, in California those with convictions of certain felony sex offenses are not eligible. , You’ll want to include with your petition any documents that support your claim that you’ve been rehabilitated. For example, if you’ve been working for the same employer since you were released or have earned an Associate’s degree, documentation of these accomplishments should accompany your petition.
 Answer all questions on the form completely and honestly. Provide supporting documents to corroborate the statements you make.


Some states also require letters from witnesses testifying to your character and rehabilitation since your release. , Your petition for a Certificate of Rehabilitation should be filed at the court or parole board of the county where you live. In some states such as California you may be eligible for an appointed attorney if you can’t afford to hire one to represent you during this process. , You will have a hearing scheduled in front of a judge who will review your petition and ask you questions about your claim that you have been rehabilitated.


At the hearing, the judge will hear testimony from witnesses about your conduct while incarcerated and while on parole, as well as your subsequent rehabilitation. In some states such as California, if you are granted a Certificate of Rehabilitation, it is automatically transmitted to the governor’s office as an application for a pardon. Some states such as Ohio may revoke your certificate if you plead guilty or are convicted of a criminal offense after the certificate has been issued. 