 Re-section your hair according to the strands that have been bleached. The way you prepare the hair dye depends on the product you’re using. Sometimes you will mix the dye with a developer in a bowl. Or, you will squeeze the hair dye directly into a bowl.If you’re worried about getting the dye on other parts of your hair, you can use a streaking cap and pull your hair through the designated holes.
 Completely cover the strands of bleached hair with the dye from root to tip. You shouldn’t see any of the bleached hair color when all of the dye is applied to the strand. Repeat this process until all of the bleached strands have been covered in color. Make sure that you haven’t missed any hair before letting the color set.If you're using the aluminum foil method for separating large pieces of hair, replace the aluminum foil you used to bleach your hair with a fresh piece for dying it.
Follow any specific application directions that came on the dye.
 The amount of time you wait before washing the color out depends on the product you’re using. In most cases, you'll need to let the dye work for about 30 minutes to make sure the color sets. Look your hair after ten or fifteen minutes to check the progress, though.
 If you’re using aluminum foil, remove it from your hair. If not, you can begin rinsing your hair out. Submerge your hair fully under water until all of the dye has been washed out., The dyeing process can leave your hair dry, so make sure to condition your hair when you have rinsed the dye out of it. Any type of conditioner will work, but it is best to use a deep conditioner. Allow the deep conditioner to sit for five to ten minutes. Use the deep conditioner once a week to keep your hair soft., Once your hair is dry, the streaks should be very noticeable. Keep them looking bright by using shampoo designed to keep dyed hair fresh. If you want to keep the streaks for a long time, you'll need to bleach and dye the roots from time to time as your hair grows out.Most beauty supply stores and supermarkets will have shampoo and conditioner specifically for dyed hair. If you’re not sure what kind to buy, ask for the advice of an employee at the beauty supply shop.

