 Going too long without a haircut can make it difficult to style your hair in a neat, clean cut way. Hair doesn't grow evenly on your head, so it is necessary to get a trim to avoid awkward growth stages. Set up a hair appointment about once a month to keep your hair looking the best it can.
 Being healthy can go a long way towards improving your appearance. The best way stay fit is to exercise and eat right.


Watch your weight and diet. Follow a healthy balanced diet that works for you. Avoid too many carbs, sugars and unhealthy fats. Eat plenty of green vegetables, lean proteins and drink plenty of water.
Stay active. Set aside 30-60 minutes three or four days a week to do a small workout. Even if you are busy, you can develop a simple 10-minute daily workout consisting of burpees, lunges, or similar exercises each day using just your own body weight.
 If you carry a briefcase or purse, make sure your papers and materials are all in order. If you have crumpled papers, candy wrappers or old receipts falling out of your bags, you will look messy and disorganized.


Keep your bag looking neat outside as well as inside. If it's made of fabric, wash it every so often. If it's leather, keep it polished.
 A person with poor posture is perceived as unhealthy, tired, and possibly unable to function at work.Standing and sitting up straight will make you look better and feel better. It may seem unnatural at first, but it will come to be second nature. This is an excellent habit. It increases body circulation and helps you think more clearly, as well.


Focus on proper body alignment to improve your posture.Feet should be flat on the floor with toes forward. Line your hips vertically above your knees, the center of the rib cage aligned with your hips, shoulders aligned with the center your ribs, and your ears should be aligned with your shoulders. When sitting, you should stay forward on the chair so your spine supports your weight instead of the back of the chair.
 Smile and make yourself approachable.You will be amazed at the effect your smile can have on other. Smiling will make you feel better about yourself and can make you seem more approachable and trustworthy to others.


Avoid crossing your arms or making nervous gestures that can give a negative impression.
Make good eye contact when having a conversation. Show that you are focused and attentive.
 Don't pass gas, burp, bite your nails, or pick your nose. These actions will immediately ruin your chances at appearing like a neat, clean cut person.


If you accidentally burp or pass gas in front of others, excuse yourself and apologize to anyone you might have offended.

