 You can get your toddler to help you in the kitchen by getting ingredients for you. Send your toddler to the pantry to grab ingredients. You can also ask them to bring things from the refrigerator, or ask them to pull out a pan from the cabinet.For example, ask them to get you the bag of nuts, a can of vegetables, or a boxed mix from the pantry. Ask them to bring you zucchini, strawberries, or butter from the fridge.
 One good way to foster interest in healthy eating habits and cooking is to get your child involved in the menu planning stage. Choose a variety of different ingredients and place them on the counter. Let your child choose which foods you will make that day. This helps gives them a sense of independence and helps them be interested in the food.For example, you may set out multiple types of bread, three different kinds of fruit, five different vegetables, and different spreads. Let them choose one or two items from each category to make snacks or sandwiches for lunch.
 If your child is too small to work with the food, get them involved by letting them set the table. The child can carry one or two plates at a time to avoid dropping, or you can set all the dishes on the table and allow them to put them out into the correct places.If your toddler is going to be carrying dishes, you may consider using plastic just in case they drop them.
 If your toddler is too young to help you with the actual cooking, you can have them pretend to cook. While you are in the kitchen, give them some clean pots, pans, spoons, spatulas, and other safe cooking equipment. Let your child pretend to cook with you as you cook the real thing.You can even verbally walk your child through the preparation process. For example, you may say, “I’m putting the squash in the pot!” and have your child pretend to do the same thing with their empty pot.
You may also just encourage your child to make music on their pots and pans as your cook.
Your toddler might also find it fun to play with toy cookware along with you as you cook.
 Another way your toddler can help you cook is to help you with the cleanup. You can let your child put silverware, cups, or bowls into the dishwasher. You can also let your child put away ingredients or hand them a damp rag and let them wipe off a surface.You can also get them to help put trash into the garbage can.
 You may consider letting your child open up containers, boxes, or bags of ingredients for you as you cook dinner. This may include plastic containers of leftovers, bags of produce, or boxes of mixes. Avoid giving your child anything that could cut them or that needs scissors to open.


For example, you may let your toddler pull the top off the leftover chicken, pull the green beans from the produce bag, or open the box of cake mix.
 Cooking with your toddler should be a fun experience for both of you. That means you should stay positive and keep things fun and light. Your toddler will make mistakes and they will be messy. Don’t scold them if they do something wrong, drop something on the floor, or spill something. You want to encourage them to enjoy cooking, not be afraid of it.Make sure to thank your toddler and praise their efforts in the kitchen.
If your child drops an egg on the floor, don’t yell at them. Don’t get angry if they accidentally add too much milk or they knock over olive oil.

