 Make sure the board or tray is a moderate size, as it should be able to accommodate 12 small-ice-cream-scoop size treats. Set this aside for now, as you will later use it to place the treats in the fridge.;
, If you don't have sliced almonds, slice each in half with a knife and place in a medium size bowl. Then, chop the walnuts, taking care to not injure your hand. Make sure that pieces of the nuts don't go flying off the cutting board; if they do either discard or toss in the bowl if they seem clean.


Mix the nuts together with your fingers or a small spoon to finish it off.
 Pour the coconut oil into a small pot, then add chocolate chips. Turn the heat on the stove to medium and rapidly stir the chocolate and oil with a small spoon, making sure to get every area of the mixture. Wait until the chocolate has melted into a smooth glaze before taking the pot off the stove. Let it cool for a minute.
 Stir with a small spoon until the chocolate is fully incorporated into the nuts, and not a single almond or walnut hasn't been touched by the glaze. The chocolate should cool as you do this. Sample a small amount of the mixture to make sure it is just right., Using a small ice cream scooper, fill the scoop with the mixture and deposit onto the parchment paper. Repeat until all the possible chocolate coated nuts have been placed onto the paper. It is fine if chocolate glaze is left on the bowl, as long as all nuts have been used. This should make approximately 12 treats.


If you don't possess a scoop, use a small spoon. You can also use your fingers to shape the treats, but make sure they are fully washed and clean.
 Wait about two to three hours, checking in every hour to see how it is doing. You will know when the chocolate has fully hardened, because it won't rub off onto your fingers. If after 2-3 hours it still melts slightly in your hand, put it back for another hour- it should be ready by then.


Once you deem the treats ready, remove from the fridge and enjoy! To store, put the remaining treats in a jar and place them in the refrigerator.

