 Don’t make gym class worse than it is by dreading it all day. This is probably the only class where teachers aren’t telling you to sit still and be quiet, so make the most of it. Even if exercise isn’t your thing, focus on the parts that you do enjoy about it. These could be:Seeing particular friends who share the same class or gym period.
The chance to go outside and get some fresh air.
The physical benefits of exercise.
Not having to sit behind a desk for the next 40 minutes.;
, Maybe you’re not athletic at all, or maybe you’re not particularly great at one sport or activity. Whatever it may be that turns you off about phys ed, don’t let this stop you from taking part. Instead, get in there and just go for it!Refusing to take part will set you apart and will get negative attention from your teacher. You also miss out on bonding with other students.
Remember that you’re being graded for this. Your teacher doesn’t expect everyone to be a star player, but they do expect you to put yourself out there. Pay attention and listen to your teacher, and show them that you're trying your best.
 Remember: gym class isn’t a tryout for the school team. Don’t beat yourself up just because you can’t run a mile in five minutes or throw a 50-yard pass. Regardless of what game or activity the teacher has you do, just concentrate on improving.Keep your goals realistic. For some people, this might be, say, shaving a minute off their mile time. For others, it might simply be running a mile without having to stop, regardless of how long it takes.
Having fun is its own goal. If nothing else, just look forward to the opportunity to move around and shake yourself out. As long as you do that, then you’ve met a goal!

, Maybe you hate basketball, or feel tired, or would just rather be some place else. Put it out of your mind or, failing that, just keep it to yourself. Unless you have a valid complaint (like a real injury or illness), don’t whine about having to take part.Complaining out loud or to yourself won't make you feel any better. Try to focus on the positive aspects of gym class.
Staying positive might even help other students who are in the same boat. Mood can be infectious, and if you're encouraging and positive, gym class may be more for you and anyone else who is struggling.
Complaining make your teacher think that you’re not giving it your all or that you are disrespecting them, which could affect your grade.

