 Work to identify what that story concept is, and how it can be written in a brief synopsis. This is the tool that will be used in pitching your screenplay to producers.;
, This will include the Title, Logline, and Synopsis. The Treatment is what Producers will read to determine if your screenplay is a project they wish to read in full, and/or purchase. It is essentially your marketing tool, and perhaps the most important component in selling your screenplay.
 A great title triggers the imagination, and suggests what the movie is about. A clever twist on a familiar phrase, such as "Meet The Parents", is loaded with expectation. We understand the inherent drama, conflict or anticipation of meeting a fiance's parents, and our imagination starts delivering the possible scenarios. Very blunt or direct titles also work. "The Matrix", or "The Beach" are straight forward titles that make us want to know "what is that world or story about?". Screenplays that explore character studies, such as "Forrest Gump", are unique to their story and character. The reader and audience are willing to explore what its about.
 This is the short pitch. A one or two sentence description of the basic concept, and unique hook that your story has. This is what Producers will read and know if they have confidence to take the time and read the script, as well as being able to market the script to studios.
 Focus on the exploits of your main character, as well as defining the three main acts. Act 1 typically sets the unique circumstances that propel our story and character's agenda. Act 2 is split into two smaller acts (a, and b). 2a brings momentum to the challenges your main character faces, as the various plots are woven. 2b typically brings a surprise conflict or challenge that must be overcome. This is the "twist" that may put your character's agenda at risk, and complicate it to a point of being compelling and entertaining to watch. Act 3 brings resolution to your plot and character's agenda. Themes of redemption, revenge, confirmation of love, victory, or acceptance are all common themes.
 Before pitching your screenplay by marketing the treatment to producers or agents, be sure you have third party proof of creation for your story. You can visit online registries to obtain time stamped archival for your work. When marketing your project, keep records of exposure by saving any emails, faxes, or certified mailings to any third parties who request your material. Consider using online industry marketplaces who provide electronic record of review by carefully screened companies who review new screenplays and projects in a protected database.
 Research movie producers and companies who may produce movies within the same genre of your screenplay. Websites like The Internet Movie Database are great tools to cross reference companies and executives. Target those specific companies and make query requesting permission to submit your screenplay synopsis. You can even find people to help on Craigslist. Use all marketing tools to gain exposure to established companies. Industry scouting venues, such as The TV/Film Rights Marketplace are great tools for selling screenplays and movie ideas to leading players in the industry.
 Entering screenplay contests is a great way to gain exposure. Many producers pull new projects from the ranks of winners, and many contests offer deals with producers.
