 There are two major groups of these components. There are those that carry bad cholesterol, also known as low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and those that carry good cholesterol, also known as high-density lipoprotein (HDL). When a person consumes too much fat, LDL become elevated and can contribute to the development of cardiovascular disease. HDL has been shown to have remove of excess cholesterol from the body, which means HDL acts like a cholesterol hunter that seeks out the surplus of cholesterol in your blood and transports it to your liver to be destroyed., Too much fat in the blood, which is caused by too much bad cholesterol, is directly associated with a higher risk of stroke and heart attack. It leads to atherosclerosis, which results in narrowing and stiffening of the blood vessels. This results in elevated blood pressures. Increased pressures in the blood vessels can result in fatty plaques breaking off and blocking smaller, narrowed vessels downstream. Blocking blood flow can lead to tissue death, which causes a heart attack or a stroke.It can also lead to heart failure. Narrowing and stiffness of the vessels in the body forces the heart to pump harder to achieve appropriate blood flow. The muscle of the heart grows larger to compensate for this. Eventually, the work required of the heart may go beyond its capacity, leading to insufficient blood flow and fluid build-up, which is called heart failure., Unfortunately, the symptoms of the conditions caused by high cholesterol frequently do not develop until there is a stroke or heart attack, which means the damage to organs is already done. There are a variety of things that can contribute to your risk of developing high fat content in your blood. These include poor lifestyle habits such as not exercising regularly and poor diet that frequently lead to being overweight or obese.


It may also be caused by a family history of the high cholesterol.
High cholesterol may also be caused by diabetes, alcohol abuse, hypothyroidism, pregnancy, smoking, high blood pressure, and older age.
Your levels may also be increased if you take certain medications, such as beta blockers, estrogen replacement therapy, or steroids., You must visit your doctor and have blood tests to check your levels of cholesterol and triglycerides. Screening can begin at any age, especially if you think you might be at risk. Start no later than age 45. The blood tests are generally checked at least every five years, but there may be shorter intervals if you have abnormal levels. During these tests, blood will be drawn after a period of 12 to 14 hours of fasting.


There are several different cholesterol levels reported from these tests. These include total cholesterol, which is normal below 200 mg/dL. Your doctor will also test for LDL cholesterol, which needs to be below 130 mg/dL or lower if at risk of heart attacks or strokes, and HDL cholesterol, which need to be above 60 mg/dL. It also checks non-HDL cholesterol, which is normal below 160 mg/dL, and triglycerides, which are normal below 150 mg/dL.Any abnormality in these tests may be associated with higher risk of cardiovascular disease. Most frequently, an abnormally low level of HDL is also associated with elevated levels of LDL and triglycerides. Sometimes a person may have cholesterol and triglyceride levels that are all normal, except for an isolated low HDL. This is still associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. In contrast, studies have suggested that having high levels of this good type of cholesterol is associated with prolonged life and significantly reduced risk of heart disease. , Even if you are actively trying to lower your bad cholesterol and raise your good cholesterol, you may still suffer from a heart attack or stroke. Be aware of the the signs for a heart attack and stroke so that you can seek medical attention immediately when they arise. Heart attack symptoms include pain or a heavy feeling in your chest, nausea, vomiting, pain in your jaw, arms, stomach, or back, shortness of breath, sweating, lightheadedness, dizziness, and fatigue.Stroke symptoms include sudden numbness, tingling, weakness, or paralysis in your face or extremities. It also includes sudden vision changes, confusion, trouble understanding others, severe headache, and trouble speaking.