 Look for any kind of wooden crates, like those that hold wine, apples, eggs, or milk. The crates can be new or vintage, but you will need four of the same size. Stain or paint them as you like. Once they are dry, lay the crates on their sides and screw them together so that they form one large square.The sides of the crates will serve as the tabletop.
Use the parts originally meant to hold the wine, milk, or other items as storage or shelf space below the tabletop.
 Find a wooden pallet used for shipping, and four legs from an old piece of furniture or purchased new from a hardware store. Screw one leg into each corner of the bottom of the pallet. Paint or stain the whole table.Add a piece of plexiglass on top of the pallet for a smoother feel., Look for an old wooden door at a thrift store or flea market. Cut the door to about half its size (unless you want a very long coffee table). Attach four furniture legs (new or old) to the flat surface of the door, one to each of its corners. You can paint or stain the door if you like, but for extra vintage charm, leave it as-is.For a sturdier coffee table, you can screw the door to the top of an existing coffee table, or two small end tables of equal size, instead of just attaching legs to the door’s corners.
 Glass makes a nice surface for any coffee table, but the frame of an old window adds a chic touch. Attach furniture legs to the corners of the window, or simply screw the window on top of a basic end table to have a small but unique coffee table.If you have a wooden box approximately the same size as your window, you can attach the two pieces together at their edges with hinges. That way, the window will still serve as the coffee table top, but the box will provide added storage.
 For this project, all you have to do is drill a hole in each corner of the back of a vintage suitcase, with the front-facing portion now facing up. Then, drive screws through the holes and into the tops of four wooden or metal table legs. The closed suitcase serves as a coffee table, but opening it reveals a stylish storage space.For added strength, you can cut a piece of plywood to the size of the interior of the bottom of the suitcase. Place it in the bottom, and drive screws through it into the tops of the legs you are attaching.
 Many cities now have locations that offer reclaimed wood for sale. You can often find beautiful and unique pieces that are great for coffee tables. Find a slab that’s a good size for this purpose, and use a simple finish like varnish or polyurethane to preserve the natural look. Then, attach existing table legs to the bottom.Leave imperfections like knots in the wood for a touch of rustic charm.
You can also build your own legs by using 4x4 wood cut to your preferred length. .
Some reclaimed wood centers also sell stumps or thick slices from tree trunks. If you find one of these, you can also just place the glass top from an old round table on top of the chunk of wood for a simple coffee table., For a really simple project, you can take a coffee table you already have, and paint or restain it. Remove the glass, if it has any, and use paint/stain remover to strip the old finish off. Add a new paint or stain color that you prefer.Old coffee tables can usually be found at thrift stores, flea markets, and yard sales, just waiting for a makeover.

