 Your child may be exhibiting symptoms that hide a root cause. Ask her how she is feeling, how she feels about school, how she feels about her friends. If your child is exhibiting signs of self harm, ask about them. Show that you are always willing to talk about difficult things.


Use "I"-statements."You" statements, like "You need help," can sound judgmental and shut your teen down.Try focusing on how you are feeling and what you notice.
Try saying "I notice you've seemed down lately. Have you been feeling bad?" or "Are you feeling down? Would you be willing to talk about it with me?"
If your teenager isn't ready to talk, tell her you are there to talk when she is ready.;
, It can be extremely difficult to see your child in pain, and it can be especially hard to confront a problem your child has that you cannot personally solve. When and if your child confides in you about painful feelings or self-destructive behaviors, stay calm. Do not offer solutions. Instead, hear your child out without interruptions.If you offer too much advice or reassurance, your child may shut down. Listen without talking.
You can reassure your teen that you are listening and do not blame them. Say "I don't blame you for feeling that way.", Don't tell your teenager that there is something wrong with her. Do not say "you are crazy," "you need help" or "you need a therapist." Instead, tell your teenager you love her and that a doctor can help her get through a hard time. Treat your teenager's mental health issues as health issues, which they are.De-stigmatize therapy. Explain that it is an ordinary way of working through problems, that many people do it at some point in their lives.
Explain that therapy is not perpetual. It can go on for a long time if your child wants, but it can also take a few weeks or months and be targeted at specific goals.
De-stigmatize medication. Treat medications for mental health like medicine, a substance the doctor prescribes that can help balance your system.
Mention that more than one in ten US citizens take antidepressants, and countless others take anti-anxiety medication or other mood stabilizers., You might be tempted to immediately make an appointment with a therapist, but making a first visit to your child's doctor or pediatrician to discuss mental health could be less threatening for your child. Ask your child if she is willing to discuss depression, anxiety, or problems in school with a familiar doctor. Your child's doctor may be able to recommend an appropriate therapist, as well as help your child begin to understand what might be happening to her.For instance, your teenager's doctor might notice that your child is suffering from mood swings, and might wonder if bipolar disorder is emerging. In that case, the doctor might recommend you visit a psychiatrist, who can prescribe medication should the need arise.
 Do not surprise a teenager with an unannounced visit to a therapist or doctor. Cultivate a trusting collaboration on mental health care. Buy books for both of you to read about any issues your teenager is facing. Listen to her feedback when picking a therapist or a course of treatment.If you are driving to the appointment, let her drive you both.
 If your teenager initially refuses to visit a psychiatrist or other doctor, continue to discuss it with her. Your teenager may feel she has other ways of dealing with her bad feelings. Let her know that you support her efforts to live well, but that she should pursue them in combination with medical care. Research her possible conditions and bring her information, or leave it lying around the house.


If your teenager is in a crisis, persuasion may not be enough. In cases of psychosis or threatened or attempted suicide, bring your teenager to the emergency room, or call 911.