 Ensure that your oven will be at the right temperature when you’re ready to bake by preheating it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius).Next, check that the oven rack is the middle position so the brownies will bake evenly.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s reached the preheated temperature. In most cases, there will be a beep or a light will flash to let you know that it’s reached the proper temperature.;
, Find a 8-inch by 8-inch (approximately 20-cm by 20-cm) baking pan to bake your brownies in, and line the bottom with a sheet of parchment paper. Allow the paper to hang over two sides of the pan. That will make it easier to get the brownies out of the pan when they’re done baking.You can use a 9-inch by 9-inch (23-cm by 23-cm) pan for the brownies, but don’t go any larger than that. You’ll likely wind up with brownies that are thin and overcooked.
If you don’t have parchment paper, you can line the pan with foil instead.
 While the parchment paper will cover the bottom of the pan, you want to make sure that the brownies don’t stick to the sides. Use some softened butter to grease the sides of the pan that aren’t covered by the paper.You can use non-stick cooking spray instead of butter if you prefer.
If you don’t have parchment paper or foil on hand, you can also butter the entire baking pan, including the bottom and sides, to keep the brownies from sticking.
 Place 1 cup (170 grams) semisweet chocolate chips, 1 ½ sticks (170 grams) unsalted butter that’s been cut into pieces, and 4 ounces (113 grams) chopped unsweetened chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl. Heat the bowl at 20% power for 1 minute, and then remove the bowl to stir the ingredients. Repeat the process at 30 second intervals until the mixture is completely melted and smooth.Don’t try to melt the chocolate chips, butter, and chopped chocolate all at once. The mixture can easily scorch in the microwave. Make sure to work in intervals, testing at each break to see if the ingredients are fully melted.
 Once the chocolate and butter are completely melted, mix in ½ cup (150 grams) Nutella. Make sure to stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully combined and the mixture is smooth.You don’t necessarily have to use Nutella brand hazelnut spread. Any hazelnut cocoa spread will work for the brownies.
 In a separate bowl, use an electric mixer to combine 3 large eggs plus 1 egg yolk and 1 ¼ cups (245 grams) granulated sugar at medium-high speed. Mix the ingredients together for approximately 3 minutes or until they become thick and fluffy., Add 1 teaspoon (approximately 5 mL) vanilla extract to the egg and sugar mixture, and mix well. Next, use a spatula to gently fold the nutella and chocolate mixture in with the eggs, sugar, and vanilla.Make sure that the nutella and chocolate mixture is completely cooled before you fold it in. If it’s still hot, it may start to cook the eggs.
 Finish off the batter by adding ¾ cup (96 grams) all-purpose flour, ¼ cup (25 grams) unsweetened cocoa powder, and ¼ teaspoon (approximately 5 g) fine sea salt to the nutella mixture. Use your spatula to fold the dry ingredients in until just combined in a thick batter.The batter doesn’t have to be entirely smooth. It’s okay if there are a few lumps.
Consider mixing in 1 cup (125 g) of toasted and chopped hazelnuts or 1 tablespoon (approximately 15 mL) of hazelnut liqueur to the batter if you want to deepen the hazelnut flavor of the brownies.
 Once of all the ingredients are combined, use the spatula to transfer the batter into your prepared pan. It will be extremely thick and sticky, so work slowly to ensure that it’s evenly spread., Place the pan of brownies in the preheated oven, and let them bake for approximately 35 to 40 minutes. You’ll know that the brownies are done when you stick a tester into the center of the pan and it comes out with only a few moist crumbs. Any thin skewer can work as tester, but a toothpick is usually the easiest tool to use.The edges of the brownies should be set when they’re done, though the center will remain slightly moist.
It’s best to under bake your brownies rather than overbake them. Take them out of the oven if you’re not entirely sure whether they’re done or you may risk burning them.
If you don't have any toothpicks or other thin skewers at home, you can stick the tines of a fork into the center of the brownies instead.
 You’ll probably want to cut into your brownies right away, but it’s important to allow them to cool first. Leave them in the pan for approximately an hour before cutting them. Let them cool for another hour on a wire rack before serving.Allowing the brownies to set for a couple of hours not only means a cleaner cut when you slice them, but it gives the flavors time to deepen too.
