 To research court records, you must know the legal names of the parties to the case you want to find.The names you need to know will depend on the type of research you're doing. For example, if you want court records for everyone who has sued a particular company, you will need to know the correct legal name of the company.
You can find the full legal name of a company or corporate entity by searching the corporate registration or DBA records of any state in which the company does business. Most states have searchable online databases available at their Secretary of State's website.If you're looking for records involving a particular individual, make sure you're searching under his or her legal name, which may be different than the name they ordinarily use.
The names of the judges and attorneys involved in the case also can be helpful in making sure you've found the correct records for your research.;
, The U.S. court system is made up of state and federal courts, and each court keeps its own records.Typically it's easiest to start with the highest court and work down. For example, if you know a case went all the way to the U.S. Supreme Court, you can find the Supreme Court's opinion online and look in the heading for the court from which the case was appealed. The procedural history of the Supreme Court's opinion also will have information about the different courts that handled the case. The same is true for state appellate court decisions.
The type of case also may provide some clues as to which court heard the case. For example, bankruptcy cases are only heard in federal bankruptcy courts. Many states have separate courts for family law cases or juvenile cases.
You can go to the website for the state court system to learn more about how that state's courts are organized and the types of cases each court hears. This can help you figure out which court has the records you want to research.



If the case is open or pending, you may be able to find docket information online to help you narrow down the exact dates documents were filed. If the case is closed, you want to try to find the date the final order or decision was issued in that case.
The availability of court records for historical cases depends on the rules of the jurisdiction where the case was filed. Some courts archive cases using microfilm or microfiche, but in some states routine case files are destroyed after a number of years., Federal courts and many state courts have docket information online, which can give you other information necessary to retrieve records for that case.


The National Center for State Courts has a directory of online court records available at http://www.ncsc.org/topics/access-and-fairness/privacy-public-access-to-court-records/state-links.aspx. The list includes the types of searches available for each state, and whether the state charges fees to search or access its database.
A case's docket sheet can serve as an index or table of contents that lists all the filings in that case, the dates they were filed, and any hearings held.Once you find the case on the court's docket, you can get the case's file or docket number, which you will need when you ask staff at the clerk's office to pull the records for you.For example, if you're looking for federal court records, you can access docket information through the Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER) website.You must create a user account. There is no charge to create an account or conduct searches, although there typically is a small fee per page to retrieve detail of certain search results.Keep in mind that many online records databases only provide access to more recent court records. PACER only includes information for cases less than 15 years old.Some state databases only have electronic information available for open cases. If the case is closed, you must visit the clerk's office of the court where the case was heard.
If you can't find information sufficient to retrieve the court records you need, you might have to get creative with your research. For example, if the case was heavily publicized, you may be able to find information in news reports published while the trial was happening., Many courts use electronic filing, which ensures you can access documents filed in more recent cases through an online database.


The National Center for State Courts has a list of all state courts' websites available at http://www.ncsc.org/Information-and-Resources/Browse-by-State/State-Court-Websites.aspx.
Although typically you won't have access to the documents themselves online, you can check the court's docket to find out when particular documents were filed or when hearings were held.
Keep in mind you may have to pay a fee to access records online. For example, PACER charges 10 cents per page (with a $3 maximum per document) to access a file.Federal case files from pre-1999 cases exist online on paper and aren't included in the PACER database. These cases can be accessed at Federal Records Centers nationwide.You can locate the center you need by checking the FRC Locations map at http://www.archives.gov/frc/locations.html.
Many states have records related to civil and family law cases online. Some also list traffic violations or criminal records. What records are available online depends on the state where the case was filed., Physical records of recent court cases typically are housed in the courthouse where the case was heard.


The clerk will be able to tell you what records are stored on site, and whether any fees are charged for retrieving court records.
For example, if you're looking for court records from a case filed in the Orange County Superior Court in California, you can search all files from 1889 to the present. While current cases can be viewed online, or at computers located at the clerk's office, files for cases closed more than 10 years ago must be retrieved from an archival facility.Keep in mind that some jurisdictions charge a fee for retrieval of files, in addition to any copies you need made. Those fees typically must be paid when you request the documents.
 If the case you're looking for is an older one, the clerk will be able to tell you the procedure for pulling the records so you can look at them.


For example, if you're looking for federal court records for a case more than 15 years old, you probably need to go to the National Archives to locate those documents. The National Archives houses case files from federal district and circuit courts, courts of appeal, and the U.S. Supreme Court, including docket records, transcripts, and filed documents.You can use the map on the National Archives' website at https://www.archives.gov/locations/ to find the archives facility nearest you. However, keep in mind that the facility where the records you want are housed will depend on the location of the court where the case was initially filed. For example, if you're looking for a federal court case that was filed in an Alaska federal court in 1978, you would need to check with the archives facility in Seattle.The National Archives and Records Administration no longer allows members of the public to review court records on site at the various locations. If you want to look at the records themselves (rather than copies) in person, you must have them delivered to the appropriate federal courthouse. However, you'll need to know the facility at which the records are housed so you can request copies of the records for your research.You may have to contact the clerk of the highest state court to request archived state court records., Many courts have a form you must fill out to request court records. Staff in the clerk's office can get you the form you need, or you may be able to find a copy on the court's website that you can download and print.


For example, if you don't have the ability to visit a federal archives facility in person, you can order copies of closed records housed in the archives' federal records centers. You have the choice of filling out an online form and paying the associated fees for copying and retrieval, or you can print out the form for the type of case and mail it to the appropriate facility., The court's record request form will ask you information about the case for which you want records, and may ask for your name and contact information.


While some courts may allow you to request records anonymously, other courts such as the Orange County Superior Court in California require you to leave a photo identification with the clerk while you view paper court records.This identification requirement is mostly for security purposes to keep you from leaving the building with official court documents.
Keep in mind that if you're ordering records through the mail, you must provide a valid name and mailing address so the court can get the documents to you when they are retrieved and copied., Some courts will charge you a fee for staff to retrieve the records you've requested, especially if you need older records that are archived at an off-site location.


For example, if you need court records from a pre-1999 federal case, you must send your request to the applicable Federal Records Center and pay a $64 document retrieval fee., Once the clerk has fulfilled your order, you can study those records at the clerk's office or have copies made so you can read through them on your own.


If the records had to be retrieved from an off-site location, you may have to return to the courthouse days or weeks later to view them. The clerk's office will notify you when the documents are available for you.Typically you can review the records in the clerk's office for free, but if you need more time to research them, you'll have to pay the clerk to make copies.If you purchased copies of an archived case when you requested the records, the clerk may be willing to mail them to you when they arrive at the courthouse, provided you leave a self-addressed, stamped envelope for that purpose.