 Everyone has different preferences when it comes to body hair, and there’s no right or wrong way to groom yours. However, if you prefer certain parts of your body shaved, do so prior to getting naked. You can also use hair trimmers to gently trim sensitive areas.If you're shaving your pubic hair, do not use a conventional razor. The skin around this area is sensitive. Instead, trim your bikini line with a pair of small bikini trimmers. Apply a depilatory cream to remove newly grown hair, as this is less likely to cause ingrown hairs.
If it's important to you, shave your legs and underarms before you get naked. Go slowly to do a nice, clean shave. You may also want to use shaving cream, as this will make your skin smoother after a shave.
 During your shower, exfoliate your entire body. Pay attention to rough and dry areas, like your elbows. After you dry off, mist your body with self-tanner. Allow the first coat to seal, then apply more tanner to any problem areas you might have.You can use self tanner to create a slimmed down appearance. Try applying tanner to areas like your thighs and the sides of your waist.
Make sure to blend the tanner by gently rubbing your body with a washcloth. You do not want the lines to look uneven. The transition from darker to lighter shades should be gradual.
Before using a self tanner, always apply a small bit a patch of your skin to make sure you don't have an adverse reaction. You should also follow any directions on the bottle of self-tanner for safe use.
 Everyone’s skin is different, and different skin types pose different problems. Find a body lotion that is designed to fix the problems you’re experiencing, then apply liberally to your problem areas.If you have body acne, look for a cream that can diffuse light blemishes.
If you have rashes or sunspots, look for a tinted lotion to even out your skin.
If you have cellulite, look for a cream that tightens.
If you have dry skin, apply body oil.
If you have stretch marks, apply self-tanner to conceal the lines.
If you have bruises, apply an arnica cream to help them heal faster.
 Heels may be uncomfortable, but there’s a reason that women keep wearing them. Wearing heels can cause your butt to appear perkier and will make your legs appear longer and more toned. If you're comfortable wearing heels, do so before getting naked.Walking in heels engages your leg muscles, so you’re also getting a good workout in. For ultimate results, choose stilettos over kitten heels.
If you've never worn heels before, they can take a lot of getting used to. Spend some time walking around in heels in your home to make sure you're able to balance in heels.

