 Networking is a great way to find new opportunities and exchange ideas. Start establishing your network as soon as you decide to become a VFX artist. Join an industry group, such as the Visual Effects Society (VES). If you can’t fully join, then simply follow their activities and attend events when you can.The VES has almost 3,400 members spread across the entire world. Their work ranges from video games to television., Most VFX work situations will require that you communicate with a number of people as you complete a task. You may need to talk with directors, other VFX artists, and animators to create a unified vision for the final product. Taking communication courses in college is only one way you can learn how to communicate effectively.This also means that you will need to find ways to work with constructive criticism and feedback. Altering your final product based on information from the wider production team is often something that you just have to do. For example, a director might ask you to cut down a scene that you’ve spent weeks working on.
Pitching your creative vision and ideas to others is also an important part of the process. If you can make a product more memorable in an advertisement, for instance, then the creative team probably wants to know.
 Most VFX artists start work mid-morning and go until the late evening. Or, your shift could be an overnight one that ends in the early morning hours. The schedule very much depends on the deadlines that are looming and how the work is divided over time. You’ll want to be prepared for unpredictable timelines as a VFX artist.Partially due to the long hours, many VFX professionals describe their work setting as being pretty laid back in terms of dress and even behavior.
 If you are considering working in the entertainment industry, try to get out of your office and away from your computer and head to the actual sets. This will give you a chance to see how the production team works together on the ground. Pay attention to how each person’s job feeds into the final product.