 If you want to play a more active role in helping during a pandemic, there may be volunteer opportunities. Many of these require you to get involved before a pandemic starts. Spend some time researching organizations in your area that will provide services.


Both federal and state agencies will be involved in combating a flu pandemic. The government is generally not allowed to accept volunteer services, but may do so in emergencies such as a pandemic.Do an internet search using the name of your state and "emergency volunteers."
Reach out to your local Red Cross for volunteer opportunities. This organization is wide-spread and welcomes volunteers of all skill levels.
 Visit their website for information about what they do and how you can get involved.If you have medical training of any kind, your experience will make you particularly valuable to the the MRC; however, people without medical experience can also volunteer.The MRC website has a utility you can use to find out if they have a unit near you.If they don't, you can contact them about the possibility of organizing one!, Both the MRC and local volunteer organizations provide and require training for their volunteers. Many of these trainings must be carried out well in advance, so get involved and get trained before the pandemic hits.Front line volunteers working with infected persons will require more rigorous and extended training. If you hope to be involved in this way, it is very important that you get involved early.Some of these organizations do provide "just-in-time" trainings.This is short-notice training intended for immediate use in some critical task. In many cases, however, you will still need to be registered in advance as a volunteer so the appropriate agency will know to contact you., Especially if you don't have medical experience, the tasks you will be assigned may not be glamorous or exciting. Remember that whatever you are doing is still important, even if you can't see a direct effect. Here are some examples of tasks you might be assigned.Driving support vehicles
Training or coordinating other volunteers
Fundraising
Transporting supplies or coordinating supply operations
Answering phones or emails, or other administrative work

