 The Social Security Administration (SSA) provides a starter kit with basic information about Social Security law and the types of long-term disability benefits available.The kit includes and overview of what to expect from the application process, as well as a checklist and a worksheet to help you organize your information and make sure you have all the documents the SSA needs to process your application.If you're unable to download the kit online, you also can request one be mailed to you by calling the SSA at 1-800-772-1213., You can use the checklist provided in the starter kit to make sure you have all the information needed to complete your application.You will need the names, addresses, and phone numbers of all of your medical providers, as well as the dates you visited those doctors or facilities and copies of your records from those visits, including laboratory or test results.Concentrate on the documents you already have in your possession. The SSA will assist you in requesting additional documentation if it is needed.Keep in mind that the more documentation you can provide to back up your claim that you are disabled, the greater the likelihood that your application will be approved.
 You can complete a long-term disability application online, by calling the SSA's toll-free telephone number, or by visiting your nearest Social Security office in person.The Disability Starter Kit includes a link to the online application. You also can apply either by calling 1-800-772-1213, or by scheduling an appointment at your local SSA office.If you want to apply in person, you can find the location and phone number of your nearest SSA office by using the SSA office locator at https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp.
The application requires you to provide details about yourself, your disability, and your work and income history. Generally, you must prove that your disability prevents you from performing work in your field, and that there is no other work available to you elsewhere that you could perform., If you apply online or over the phone, you still must submit certain documents to verify the information you provided in your application.


You should send your documents to your local SSA office, and include your Social Security number with the documents so SSA staff can apply the documents to the correct application.Keep in mind that you must send originals, not copies, of many of the required documents. You should send these documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when the office receives your documents.Once the SSA reviews your originals, it will make copies and send your originals back to you. However, if you don't feel comfortable sending original documents through the mail you can always take them down to your local SSA office in person., It can take between three and five months for the SSA to process applications for disability benefits.


After your application and all supporting documentation are received, a medical and vocational expert will review your materials and determine whether you qualify for long term disability benefits.You may be contacted by an SSA representative if further information is required to process your application, or if you need to complete additional medical examinations.Keep in mind that if the SSA requires you to complete a medical examination, you won't have to pay any money for it. You are, however, responsible for keeping the appointment., Especially if your application is denied, you may want to get advice and assistance from an experienced Social Security disability attorney.


Keep in mind that long-term disability applications frequently are denied and must go through the appeals process. An experienced Social Security disability attorney understands and can help guide you through this process.
If you are concerned about the cost of an attorney, you might consider checking with your local legal aid office. Nonprofit organizations dedicated to assisting disabled people also may have legal resources or recommendations for attorneys who provide services for free or using a sliding-fee scale based on your income.

