 Many pet stores sell these items and say that they are safe for guinea pigs. However, guinea pigs cannot bend their backs. Placing your guinea pig in a hamster wheel or ball is very dangerous. Playing with these toys can cause back pain, spinal injuries,and foot injuries.Your guinea pig has different anatomy than similar animals like hamsters, gerbils, and mice.
Although some wheels will say "for guinea pigs," do not buy them., Clean your guinea pig's toys every time you clean out the cage. This will prevent bacteria from building up on the toys. Wash non-wood toys with soapy water and allow them to dry.Toys made from paper products should be thrown away and replaced as these toys will become damaged if you put water on them.


Clean the toys and the cage every week.Use a clean, damp cloth to wipe down toys.
Change out toys when you clean them to keep your guinea pig from getting bored.
Wash your hands before and after you clean the toys., If you notice that your guinea pig has begun to drool, scratch excessively, or is inactive, you may need to make adjustments to the play environment. If your guinea pig is drooling, you may not have given it enough things to chew and nibble on. If your guinea pig is scratching a lot, you may need to clean out the cage and toys. If your guinea pig is inactive, it may be bored, and it's time to give it some new toys.Anytime you introduce a new toy, watch to see if your guinea pig enjoys the new toy or if it appears uninterested.
Even though you give your guinea pig specific toys for chewing, it will chew on anything that it can. As a general rule, do not give your guinea pig anything that is not safe to chew., Your guinea pig will chew any fabric that you place in it's cage. Blizzard and Alpine fleece are ideal because these fabrics fall into pieces when chewed. Fleece will not develop strings. If your guinea pig eats some of the fleece pieces, it will not become impacted.Fabric becomes wet and soiled easily, so you will need to change the fleece at least once a week.Wash fleece with unscented laundry detergent with hot water.