 It takes only about 30 seconds for a thought in your mind to enter your deep consciousness.As a result, thinking that you can simply just push it out of your mind won’t work. In fact, It takes a lot more mental energy and effort to fight against a negative thought.


Acknowledging negative thinking doesn’t mean dwelling on it. Instead, you allow your mind to briefly accept that the thought has entered your mind, and then intentionally releasing the thought from your mind.
 Use visual imagery to allow your negative thoughts to be released. For example, you might want to imagine placing your negative thought on a leaf and then watching it float down the stream., Sometimes you have valid reasons to be concerned or worried about something, especially when feeling like you have no control over the situation. Therefore, it’s okay to recognize that there is reason for concern. Just don’t allow them to fester in your mind.Freeing up your mind from negative thoughts makes space for other, more positive thoughts. With practice and time, you’ll notice that you’ll have a tendency to engage in more positive thinking., If you begin to believe that your negative thoughts are valid, then they become your reality. Instead, ask yourself these three questions when negative thoughts take over: Are these thoughts reasonable? Are they rational? Are they reliable?If you can identify that a negative thought is unreasonable, then it allows you to put things into perspective. If you conclude that your thinking is irrational, then you can cease engaging in irrational behavior. Finally, if your negative thought is unreliable, then you can recognize that it is unlikely to be true., Figure out which personal experiences you’ve had that are behind your negative thoughts to gain perspective on your thinking and reasoning. You can then ask yourself what about that experience has lead to your negative perception., This sounds both counterproductive and extreme, but it works. Why? It allows you to see things in a more realistic perspective.For example, someone who is afraid of flying might be fearful of being in a plane crash. They might imagine themselves being the sole survivor of the crash, stranded on a deserted island and being eaten alive by a pack of wolves. Imagining their greatest fear can help them realize the absurdity of their fear.