 If the paint has recently spilled and is still wet, use a damp cloth or a damp paper towel to clean up and collect the spilled paint.


Hopefully, if you catch the paint before it dries, it won’t have time to make any hard to remove markings on your floors.;
, Once paint dries, it can be a little harder to remove. Try using warm water and a mild soap mixture to soften the paint marking. Create this water and soap mixture in a small bowl, and dip a section of a rag into the mixture. Wring out the rag, and rub on the paint with the warm, damp rag until the paint starts to loosen.Don’t use large amounts of water to try and soften the paint. Water can cause serious damage to hardwood floors by making the wood swell.
This water and soap step works best for latex paint spills, but will likely be ineffective for oil-based paint spills.
 Tougher paint spills, like oil-based paint spills, may require some heat to loosen the paint. Use a hair dryer on its highest heat setting to warm and soften the paint. Hold the hair dryer a few inches away from the floor and keep it on the paint spill for about 20 seconds.Although heat guns can be used to do the same job of warming up the paint, using a hair dryer is a more gentle way of warming up the paint.
 Use a plastic putty knife to push and scrape at the edges of the paint spill. The putty knife’s tapered edge will help to run across the flat surface of the floor, and get underneath the paint. This step may prove to be easier when first softening the paint with either warm water or direct heat.


Be very careful with your scraping tool. Some metal scrapers have such sharp edges, that one wrong move could leave a knick in your flooring. Plastic scrapers may prove me be a bit gentler while still being efficient.
 If the paint still isn’t lifting from your hardwood floors, you may have to use a solvent. Common solvents used to remove paint include nail polish remover, rubbing alcohol, paint thinner, and mineral spirits. This step is usually a last resort, since some solvents can take off finishing from hardwood floors. Before you apply one of these solvents to your floor, test a small, inconspicuous area of your floor by applying a tiny bit of the solvent to a Q-Tip, rubbing the Q-Tip on the hardwood floor, and see how it reacts to the floor finishing.Be sure to wear protective gloves when handling these solvents. Some could cause serious skin damage. Also be sure that the area you’re working in is well ventilated with open windows and fans. These solvents give off dangerous fumes.
If any of the solvents take off the floor finishing, try to avoid using them.
You also may want to wait some time after performing the test to let the solvent test areas dry, and see if there is any visible difference in the coloring or texture of the wood.
 Once you have found a solvent that won’t damage your floor (or if you don’t care about the floor finishing being damage because you’re going to redo the floors anyway), slightly dampen a small area of a rag with your chosen solvent, and rub it onto the paint stain until the paint dissolves away.Use another dry area of the rag to wipe the area dry once the paint is removed.

