 Seeking prenatal care early and continuing with your prenatal visits throughout your entire pregnancy will help to increase your chances of having a healthy baby. Your doctor will screen you for Strep B during your third trimester, and during this trimester you will need to see your doctor about once every two to four weeks.If you have not yet had a prenatal checkup, then schedule one right away. You should start prenatal visits during your first trimester, but it is never too late — it is essential that you have some prenatal care before you deliver.
If you have to miss an appointment, then reschedule it.;
, Getting tested for B strep is a normal part of prenatal care. You will be tested around your 35th through 37th week of pregnancy. If you test negative, then no extra precautions will be necessary. If you test positive for B strep, then you will receive IV antibiotics during labor.


The test is easy. Your physician will just need to swab your vagina and rectum. Then, the swabs will be sent to the lab and the results should be available from the lab within 48 hours.You may even be able to do the swabs at home on your own, though it is usually best to have these culture done under clinical supervision to make sure they are accurate.Most obstetricians and midwives offer testing for B strep beginning the 35th week of pregnancy, although you can obtain one earlier if you are concerned. It is not standard procedure to have these tests before the third trimester.
 Some women are at high-risk because they have already had a baby that contracted B strep, but there are also some symptoms that may indicate you are at high-risk of delivering a baby with B strep. Symptoms to watch for may include:Having a fever during labor.
Going into labor early or rupturing membranes before 37 weeks.
Having a labor that lasts longer than 18 hours.
Having a urinary tract infection due to B strep prior to labor.
 Although there are things you can do to reduce your baby's chance of getting group B strep, it cannot be prevented in adults. There is no vaccine available and no special precautions that you can take;however, the infection is usually harmless, so you probably will not need to worry about it.
 Do not assume that because B strep is harmless in your body that it will not harm your baby. Group B strep may cause sepsis or meningitis in babies and may also cause pneumonia, all of which can be debilitating or deadly in infants. A baby that contracts group B strep may also suffer from kidney problems, gastrointestinal problems, difficulty breathing, and unstable blood pressure and/or heart rate.Keep in mind that not all mothers who have group B strep will pass it on, but antibiotics helps to reduce the chance of passing on the infection.
Make sure your pediatrician knows that you are group B strep positive during pregnancy so that the doctor can watch out for any sign or symptoms of infection in the infant.
 A previous course of antibiotics may reduce the B strep bacteria for a short time, but it will not protect your baby during labor. B strep can live in your body and you may carry it regardless of whether you were previously treated with antibiotics or herbal remedies.


If you tested positive for B strep prior to or during your pregnancy and followed up with a course of antibiotics, it is possible the infection may have returned prior to delivery.If you are group B strep positive in the period just before delivery it is imperative that you receive antibiotics during delivery.
 Depending on the type of delivery you have, your options to avoiding passing B strep to your baby may vary.


If you have a planned surgical delivery due to particular health needs, you may not need IV antibiotics for yourself or your baby unless you naturally go into labor before the operation begins; however, some doctors will still give IV antibiotics even if you are having a caesarean section.If you intend to deliver vaginally, you may be started on antibiotics as soon as labor begins to prevent your baby from becoming infected by coming into contact with the bacteria in vaginal fluids.
If you are allergic to penicillin or another antibiotic, be sure your medical team is aware so that they can offer an alternative antibiotic in the IV fluid or treatment they provide. If it is a non-serious penicillin allergy you may use cefazolin. If it is more serious allergy with systemic implications then clindamycin is used.
 If you tested positive for B strep, then you will need to have antibiotics via an IV during labor. This will reduce the chance of passing a possible B strep infection to your child from 1 in 200 to 1 in 4,000.If you do not know the results of your B strep test or if you were unable to get tested prior to delivery, most healthcare professionals will opt to treat you with antibiotics during labor to be safe.

