 If you are too nervous to drive across town, make a shorter trip -- even if it is just around the block. Do not get yourself so worked up that driving becomes a bigger deal than it is. Unless you are overwhelmed with anxiety and terrified to get into a car, make yourself drive. Remember, even taking a small step still counts as practice.Push your comfort zone a little at a time. For example, you may want to start by sitting in a parked car, getting used to all the controls, before you ever put the key in the ignition. Once you are comfortable doing that, you may want to start the car, shift the car into drive, and then back into park. Slowly build on your comfort level.Figure out if your fear of driving is generalized or specific to one aspect of driving. If it is the latter, practice mastering the feared skill. For example, you may be terrified to parallel park. You may wish to find an empty street where you can practice maneuvering between safety cones, and when you have mastered that, perhaps you can try parking between two friends’ cars.;
, Get used to driving in quiet areas before practicing in traffic. Find quiet side streets or an empty parking lot, and get used to starting, stopping, signaling, turning, reversing, and so on. Learn to control your vehicle and to find the controls someplace where you don't have to worry about traffic or other drivers.


Work up to busier roads and longer drives as you start to feel comfortable operating the car.
You may wish to practice driving only during the day at first. You will feel more confident simply because you are able to see better., Driving with someone you trust may help you to feel at ease in the car. If anything bad should happen, this person will be there to assist and advise you, and even to take over if traffic or conditions gets to be too much for your experience or confidence level.


Make sure you are driving with a person who is naturally calming to you. For example, you probably want a person who will calmly tell you, “Oops, looks like we missed the turn back there. How about you pull into this parking lot and turn around?” instead of shouting, “That’s where we needed to turn!”
Let your friend or family member know how they can be supportive to you in the car. Maybe you would like them to tell you about their day to help keep your mind calm. Or maybe you would prefer quiet to concentrate.

