 Bicerins are best served in clear glasses so that you can see the layers in the drink. As a result, you should use clear glass Irish coffee mugs when serving a bicerin.If you do not own Irish coffee mugs, you can also serve the drink in a regular glass or coffee mug.;
, Before you begin making the drink, fill an Irish Coffee mug or any other clear glass with hot water. This will warm up the glass before pouring in the hot liquid., You should also place a stainless steel cocktail shaker or glass mason jar in the freezer to chill. This will later be used to make the whipped cream. If you have decided to purchase pre-made whipped cream then you can skip this step.The glass should stay in the freezer for no longer than 10 minutes.
 Warm up 1 cup (250 ml) of water or whole milk in a medium saucepan with 3 ounces (90 g) of chopped bitter sweet or semi-sweet chocolate. Mix together the ingredients and bring the liquid to a boil. Then boil for 1 minute while whisking constantly.Once the chocolate is slightly foamy, remove it from the heat and set it aside.
You can also use a hot chocolate package to make this mixture.
 Meanwhile, make a fresh pot of strong coffee or espresso. For the best results, use freshly ground coffee beans.
 While the coffee is brewing, make the whipping cream. Remove the stainless steel shaker or glass mason jar from the freezer. Pour a ¼ cup (2 ounces) of heavy cream into the mason jar or shaker. Then shake the container until the cream thickens. This will take about 20 shakes or 1 minute.Alternatively, you could purchase pre-made whipped cream from the grocery store.
 Before compiling the drink, empty the water from the glasses that you set aside earlier. Make sure you thoroughly dry the glasses so that there is no excess water inside., Pour the hot chocolate mixture into the bottom of the glass. Fill approximately ⅓ of the glass with the hot chocolate mixture., Turn a spoon upside down and hold it over top of the glass. Then pour the freshly brewed coffee into the glass. Make sure that the coffee pours off of the back of the spoon and into the glass. This will help to make visible layers of liquid. Fill the glass so that it is now ⅔ full., Finally scoop the whipped cream into the glass. This should fill the remaining third of the glass. You can add shaved chocolate sprinkles to the top of the whipped cream for decoration.