 The interviewer will likely try to put you at ease before he or she begins asking questions. Make sure you are able to comfortably chat about the weather or the traffic.;
, Most social work positions involve working with people, on behalf of government or community agencies.
 An interviewer will ask you specific questions about your educational background in social work and your work experience.


Prepare to discuss your degree level. Most entry-level positions in social work will only require a bachelor's degree, but if you are applying for a position at a higher level, you will need to have a master's degree or be in the process of pursuing one.
 Be sure you understand what the organization does, who it serves and what its leadership structure is like.
 You will be asked why you are a good fit, so prepare to explain how your strengths match the position.
 Most social work interviews will require you to use past experiences to explain how you would handle present situations.


Make a list of specific cases, clients and supervisors that you can quickly and easily call to mind to demonstrate your experience and abilities.
Provide details. Explain how one case helped you handle frustrations better, or why working out your differences with a certain co-worker made you a better team player.
 You might be asked where you see yourself in 5 years, or whether you plan to further your education.
 You will need to be able to speak authoritatively and intelligently on developments that might be occurring in the areas of social work.


Prepare to share insight and opinions. For example, if you are interviewing at an agency that serves homeless people, be ready to discuss what churches are doing for outreach. If you are interviewing with a cancer center, be ready to discuss health care for those in poverty.
 There is always time for you to ask questions during an interview. Never say you do not have any.


Ask what the interviewer likes about working for the agency. You might also want to ask about his or her management style, if that person will be your direct supervisor. Ask any other questions you can think of that are relevant to your employment there and demonstrate your interest in and knowledge about the organization.

