 To improve the longevity of the roses, mix an additive for cut flowers into the water. The warmer the water, the faster the roses will open. Colored roses open much faster than red roses, which have been treated to open more slowly.






;
, Trim off bottom of greens and place in vase. The greens should be resting on edge of vase with a secure feeling. If the greens are loose, your arrangement will not work. If you need to add a few more pieces of green to this mixture to fill in, do so now. This should take about a half bunch of leather-leaf fern for an arrangement of a dozen roses.
 It should be 1 to 1 1/2 times again as tall as your vase. This will set the height and width of your arrangement, so keep that in mind. Submerge the stem in tepid water and then snip the stem at an angle, to bring the rose to the perfect height. Place it in the center hole of your grid.
 Remove any large thorns before inserting roses into greens. Hold the roses up to the vase until the top of the heads of these 5 roses reach the bottom of the head of the first rose you placed in the vase. Snip all 5 the same length, at an angle, where they will be high enough to stand at the measured height. Place them in aiming towards the center rose making sure they are an equal space apart.
 The roses will land the same distance from the bottom of the top rose and the top of the vase. Cut all the same length at an angle.
 Each rose may not stay in the exact place you want it at this point; that, too, is okay.
 Even though it will be arranged "all around", you will have a front. You can even snip this rose a little shorter and put it back in, if you wish, as it will be your focal point, and should be the lowest rose toward the vase.
 Divide your filler and make sure you fill in all around the vase pretty much equally. You do not want filler in every spot; this will make it too round and full. You will want air space there and the color is evenly distributed. Pay extra attention to your focal flower that you placed lower in the front. The filler flower will frame and accentuate your other flowers, and should always be lower and deeper in your arrangement than your main flower, the rose.
 Look at your arrangement from the level that it will be placed. If it is going on a 3' tall table, look at it from that view, you will see more of the top than the bottom, so your focus should be that way. If you will be seated around it, look at it from a seated position, from every angle, if it will be up high, make sure it looks good from the bottom.
,