 Sometimes we become angry when we realize that we can not control something in our lives, like our bodies. Often, we might rebel by doing exactly what we are not supposed to. Instead, we have to accept our circumstances to stay healthy. Don't deny that you have an illness. In order to live a productive life, you must be realistic about your situation. Remind yourself daily that you are not alone. Educate yourself about the illness. Being informed benefits us mentally and emotionally--ignorance is not bliss when it comes to a serious health concern. , Groups for women who have polycystic ovary syndrome exist. Look online to find a group in your area and attend a meeting or two. Making connections with others has many benefits. You will feel better after sharing your experiences, especially if you don’t already know someone else who has the syndrome.
You can also learn a lot from talking with like-minded people, like other tips for treating symptoms.
Strangers are usually be more objective than close friends or family members. You shouldn’t have to worry about judgment while at a support group meeting.
 If you are a private person, seeing a personal counselor is another option. People use therapy for many different reasons. Counseling can be especially helpful for women who experience fertility issues. No audience of strangers will be in the room, listening and looking. This is a plus for those who might feel uncomfortable attending a support group.
You can vent about how you are feeling about having polycystic ovary syndrome.
If you are not sure how to deal with the illness, a counselor can help you formulate an action plan.
 After being diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome, it is important to reduce stressful feelings as much as possible. Meditation involves breathing deeply, being mindful of the moment, and blocking out negative or chaotic thoughts.


The most useful benefit of meditation is that it will lessen your anxiety. You will also discover new solutions to pressing concerns. Sometimes we think about things in only one way, which puts us in a rut.
It will be easier for you to conquer pessimistic feelings and feel more upbeat.

