 To make sure that oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, spray a sheet pan lightly with non-stick cooking spray so the cookies won’t stick.You can grease the cookie sheet with butter if you prefer.
 Add 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter and ¾ cup (150 g) of granulated sugar to the bowl a stand mixer with the paddle attachment in place. Cream the ingredients together on medium until the mixture is light and fluffy.You can use a handheld electric mixer to mix the cookie dough if you prefer.
It’s also possible to mix the cookie dough by hand, though it takes longer.
 Once you’ve creamed the butter and sugar, reduce the mixer’s speed to low and add ¾ cup (85 g) of crushed potato chips to the bowl. Blend the mixture until the chips are just incorporated.You can use either plain or wavy potato chips in the cookies. Keep in mind that wavy chips may alter the texture more than plain chips, though.
 When the potato chips are incorporated, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla. Mix it in on low until it is fully blended into the mixture., After the vanilla has been mixed into the dough, slowly add 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Mix it in on low until it is just incorporated and a soft dough has formed.Be sure not to overmix the dough, or you may wind up with tough cookies.
 When the dough is fully mixed, form 1-inch (2.5-cm) balls of the dough. Place them on the greased baking sheet so they are at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart.You can use a cookie scoop or tablespoon to form the balls, or roll them yourself with clean hands.
 Once the cookies are on the baking sheet, lightly dust each one with a pinch of confectioners’ sugar. Next, use a clean hand or the bottom of a glass to press each cookie flat.You may want to dust your hand or the glass lightly with flour to ensure that the dough won’t stick when you flatten the cookies.
 When you finished preparing the cookies, place the cookie sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for 10 to 15 minutes or until they are golden brown., After the cookies have finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Let them cool for 3 to 5 minutes on the sheet before transferring them to a wire cooling rack to cool completely, which should take about 20 to 30 minutes.It’s important to ensure that the cookies are cooled completely before dipping them in the chocolate or the chocolate may melt off.
 When the cookies are cooled, place 1 cup (175 g) of melted chocolate chips in a bowl. Take the cookies and dip them so one half of the cookie is coated in the chocolate.You can use any type of chocolate chip for the cookies, including milk, semisweet, or bittersweet.
You can melt the chips in the microwave in 30 second increments, stirring after each interval, or use a double boiler to melt them on the stove.
You can dip the cookies in the melted chocolate however you like. If you don’t want to dip a half of the cookies, dip them so the entire top is coated in chocolate.
 After you’ve dipped the cookies in the melted chocolate, place ½ cup (28 g) of crushed potato chips in shallow bowl. Roll the cookies in the chips so they will stick to the melted chocolate.If you prefer, you can sprinkle the crushed potato chips over the cookies for a lighter distribution.
 Once the cookies are coated with the potato chips, allow them to sit on a wire cooling rack for 15 to 20 minutes. That will give the chocolate time to set before you serve them.The recipe makes approximately 2 dozen cookies.
Keep leftover cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should take fresh for 1 to 2 weeks.

