 Being Zen involves living in the moment and putting proper focus on our everyday routine. Avoid multitasking when possible.


For example, when you are pouring water, just focus on pouring water. When you are eating, focus on your meal and experience your food.
Take time to focus on the task at hand no matter how big or small. This means not looking at your phone while at the dinner table, or trying to multitask during your day. If you are answering an email. Focus only on answering the email before checking your favorite website.
Put your focus into the task at hand to perform it deliberately, and take your time. Try not to move on to the next task until you complete your current one.;
, Try to do less with your day. This doesn’t mean being lazy but instead refers to not filling your day with an unending list of tasks.


Try to minimize the tasks and chores you need to accomplish every day. While this isn't always easy if you are in school or have a busy job, tackling fewer things in a day helps you to keep a clear mind. Focus on the now, don't obsess on the future.
Additionally, try to leave free time in your schedule. Don’t schedule appointments or meetings too close together. This only causes you to rush from one thing to the next. A packed schedule often draws your focus elsewhere to what you will have to accomplish later. Rather than what you are accomplishing now.
 Try to do at least one thing a day that serves someone else.


Remember to smile and be kind to others. The act of smiling can actually improve your mood by releasing endorphins. Even if you’re a parent or serve someone most days, encourage yourself to notice your actions. Don’t just do it because you feel you have to. Try to actually enjoy the act of helping others.
 Cooking and cleaning often feel like another thing that needs to get done. But these tasks can actually be daily rituals which help you embrace a more Zen lifestyle.


Try to approach both cooking and cleaning as a form of meditation. Concentrate on what you are doing and the benefits of these tasks.
Instead of just throwing ingredients together, actually prepare your food and take the time to enjoy the process of making a meal.
Likewise, focus on how cleaning is literally a way to cleanse both you and your home. A clean room can alter your mood and help you relax. Using these parts of your day as a form of meditation will help you to find meaning in ordinary tasks. , Living simply doesn’t mean that you have to go and throw out all of your material possessions. But it does mean getting rid of what’s not necessary.


Take stock of what you own and ask yourself if you need all of it. Do you need all those pairs of shoes, the tablets and TVs, and other gadgets?
You may find that if you get rid of some of the extra things which are making it easier for you to multitask and not be present, you can experience more joy from the moment.
What’s essential for each of us varies from person to person. Take note of what you use and do every day, and what is just sitting around or getting in the way.

