 The Mayo Clinic recommends these as home remedies for dealing with the pain of a herniated disk. Which one you chose to use may depend on the stage of your injury.In the first few days, cold packs can help reduce inflammation and swelling. You can use an ice pack or package of frozen vegetables wrapped in a towel. Apply it for about 10 minutes, then give your skin a chance to warm up. Do not apply the cold pack directly to your skin.
After the first few days, you can use warmth to relax tense muscles. Use a hot water bottle wrapped in a towel or a heating pad. Do not put the heat source directly on your bare skin to avoid burns.
 You may need to rest for the first few days after the disk herniated, but after that, staying active will keep you from stiffening up and help you recover faster. Talk to your doctor or a physical therapist to find out what exercises they may recommend for you.Avoid doing activities that could make it worse. This may include carrying heavy items, lifting, or reaching.
Your doctor may suggest swimming because the water will support your weight and relieve the pressure on your spine. Other possibilities include biking or walking.
Try pelvic tilts if your doctor approves it. Lie on your back with your knees up and put your hand beneath your lower back. Tilt your pelvis so that you are pushing down on your hand. Hold it for five seconds. Repeat this 10 times. If this causes pain, stop and talk to your doctor.
Do buttock squeezes. While lying on your back with your knees up, squeeze your buttocks together and hold it for five seconds. Repeat this 10 times. This should not cause pain. If it does, do not continue and discuss it with your doctor.
 You may get relief by lying in positions that take the pressure off your spine and your nerves. Your doctor or physical therapist may suggest:Lying on your stomach on pillows so that your back is rounded. This may reduce the pressure on your nerves.
Lying in the fetal position with a pillow between your knees. The side with the herniated disk should be up.
Lying on your back and stacking pillows underneath your knees so that your hips and knees are bent and your lower legs are parallel to the bed. During the day you may want to lie on the floor and rest your legs on a chair.
 Living with chronic pain is extremely stressful and can trigger depression and anxiety. Maintaining your social network will help you to cope and feel less alone. You can get social support by:Talking with friends and family. If there are physical activities that you can no longer do alone, let them help you.
See a counselor. A counselor can help you learn coping techniques and determine if you have unrealistic expectations for your recovery. Your doctor may be able to recommend someone that specializes in helping people cope with pain.
Join a support group. This may help you to feel less alone and to learn coping mechanisms.
 Stress makes you more sensitive to pain. By developing techniques for dealing with stress, you may be able to better handle the pain. Some people benefit from the following techniques:Meditation
Deep breathing
Music or art therapy

Visualizing calming images

Progressive tensing and relaxing the different muscle groups in your body

, There may be ways that you can change how you move or sit to avoid making your condition worse. You may also benefit from alternative methods of pain management, but always talk to your doctor to be sure that these methods will be safe for you. Possibilities include:Short-term bracing for your neck or back to protect it and give you stability
Traction
Ultrasound treatments
Electrical stimulation

