 Diagnosis of cyclothymic disorder requires seeing a mental health provider to evaluate your medical and family history, symptom patterns, and how much the disorder is interfering with your overall functioning. In general, symptoms reflect emotional highs and lows.


Emotional highs, or hypomania, may include symptoms such as a decreased need for sleep, difficulty concentrating, euphoria (or exaggerated sense of happiness), extreme optimism, excessive physical activity, excessive talking, greater motivation or drive, high distractibility, or racing thoughts.
Emotional lows may include symptoms such as being tearful, feeling fatigued, feeling sad or empty, having difficulty sleeping, losing or gaining weight, losing interest in activities once found pleasurable, and thinking about death or suicide.;
, Individual, and sometimes group, psychotherapy can help a person suffering from cyclothymia gain a better understanding of their mood and symptoms, learn how to problem-solve, and develop affect regulation skills. One type of psychotherapy used for the treatment of cyclothymic disorder is cognitive behavior therapy, or CBT.


This approach increases a person’s chances of successfully managing the disorder by helping to bring awareness to thoughts that impact mood states. During the course of therapy, patients learn how to identify negative thought patterns and create more positive and realistic methods of thinking., Although no specific medicines are approved for the treatment of cyclothymia, many doctors find that using the same drugs that treat depression and bipolar to be useful. A medication regimen may consist of taking antidepressants and/or mood-stabilizers such as lithium or anti-seizure drugs.Typically, doctors will suggest a combined approach of psychotherapy and medications to improve treatment outcomes for cyclothymic disorder.
 A person suffering from cyclothymia may find it helpful to participate in support groups. Support groups can be found in the local community or online. In these groups, patients can talk to and find encouragement from others who are battling similar conditions. They may develop better social skills and even learn different coping mechanisms from one another., Relationship problems are a major source of distress for people with cyclothymia. In fact, it is often due to loved ones growing tired of unstable moods that prompts a person to seek treatment. When family and friends have a thorough understanding of the basis of cyclothymic disorder and how it affects their loved ones’ functioning, they may be able to work with the person in developing better communication and conflict resolution skills.Participating in family therapy may also be beneficial for people with cyclothymic disorder and their families. Ask a mental health provider if this type of treatment is applicable.
 A person with cyclothymia will likely learn an assortment of strategies to cope with stress during therapy. Being able to recognize and deal with stress can help keep one’s moods in a healthy range. There are various techniques to manage everyday life stress. These include:Deep breathing is a quick way to respond to stress. Sit comfortably. Pull in air through the nose for about 4 counts, noticing the abdomen expanding. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Release the air through your nose for 8 counts, noticing your abdomen deflating like a balloon.

Massage is another great way to relax. Use gentle, kneading strokes or chopping hand motions to ease muscle tension and bring about calm. Massage can be done alone or with a partner.
Visualization offers a way to cope with stress by taking a brief vacation in the mind. Call to mind a place that is very soothing and peaceful. Use multiple senses to imagine this place. Think about how it smells, sounds, or tastes. Explore this place in the mind’s eye. Practice deep breathing while completing this exercise.
 People with cyclothymia may have troubled relationships due to the ups and downs of their moods. Therapy can help with relationship problems. However, sometimes, all it takes is to reach out and connect more. Spending more time doing positive activities with others will improve the mood of those with cyclothymic disorder. It can also strengthen their bond with others.Suggest that your loved one get some face-to-face social interactions a few times each week. Make eye contact. Practice active listening. Share thoughts, feelings, and ideas. Watch some funny videos and laugh together. It’s important to make an effort in staying connected in order to effectively treat this condition.
 An effective way to stabilize moods in people with cyclothymic disorder is by creating a healthy routine. Developing structure into the day can help this person avoid unexpected stressors maintain stability. Interpersonal and social rhythm therapy also focuses on helping people with cyclothymia develop consistent structure.A healthy routine might consist of:Getting adequate sleep
Taking medications
Going to school or work
Incorporating stress-management activities
Exercising and eating a healthy diet
Engaging in social activities like hanging with friends
Tracking symptoms
Participating in therapy or support groups

, Having a poor sleep routine can stimulate the highs and lows associated with this condition. Improving sleep will not only help stabilize mood, but also fight stress and support general health and wellness.


People with cyclothymia should develop good sleep hygiene by going to sleep and waking at the same times each day. Build a routine that includes positive, winding-down activities like taking a bath, meditation, praying, journaling, or listening to soothing music. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which may jeopardize healthy sleep.
 It is common for people with cyclothymic disorder to want to self-medicate with alcohol or drugs, especially during depressive episodes. However, these substances don’t help at all.Drugs and alcohol may seem to provide temporary relief from negative mood states, but these substances also tend to worsen mood problems in the long run. They also interfere with good quality sleep. Say “no” to drugs and alcohol and turn to healthier coping strategies.
 Physical activity is yet another positive lifestyle change proven to benefits those with cyclothymic disorder.Engaging in exercise release feel-good chemicals called endorphins that improve mood. Plus, getting in some daily activity several hours before bed can also make going to sleep easier and ensure that a person stays asleep longer.


Recommend that your loved one walk the dog around the neighborhood, join a team sport at the local recreational center, or turn on some tunes for dancing. At least 30 minutes of activity most days of the week has been shown to benefit both physical and mental health., A healthy lifestyle should also include a diet rich in vitamins and nutrients to support general health and wellness. Making good dietary choices can help stabilize mood, fight stress, and improve well-being. Stay away from the “Western” diet of red meats, simple carbohydrates, and saturated and trans fats.Instead, choose foods like vegetables, fruits, whole grains, legumes, lean meats and sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Drink plenty of water.

