 This will give you an idea of the style of ring that she likes, as well as informing you about what she doesn't need more of.


Look for the cut, gem type and preferred metal color.;
, If you don't know, you can just take one of her old rings and go to any jewelry shop. They will let you know the size. Most jewelry stores do it for free.


Be sure to take a ring that your mother won't miss for a few hours, then return it immediately.
If you can't take the ring, draw around it, both the outer and inner circles. Take the sketch to the jewelry store instead.
 You can go by your assessment of the rings you've already checked out and your knowledge of your mother and her tastes. Or, you can ask her casually to point out a style she loves when the two of you just happen to wander by a jewelry store frontage.
 You could choose a gem that your mother loves, or one matching her birth month, or one that you think she'd look great wearing but hasn't yet dared to try. Of course, your budget may also impact the choice of gem, so bear that in mind when checking the different gems.
 If you already have a favorite jewelry store, that will be a great place to start because you know the staff and the store layout. Otherwise, look for stores that have a good selection of general wear rings and aren't simply focused on engagement rings.


Lots of stores may offer jewelry on sale as Mother's Day approaches. There will also be good deals available online.
Ask if it is possible to exchange the ring after purchase, if your mother decides that she'd rather a different style or color. Keep the receipt and any exchange voucher, just in case.
 Once you have made the purchase, put the ring in a beautiful ring gift box. Wrap it in paper and add a lovely card.
 There are different possibilities for giving it to her, such as:


Place it near her pillow where she'll see it when she wakes up.
Give her breakfast in bed, with the ring on the breakfast tray.
Give it to her at a Mother's Day lunch or dinner.

