 In order to expedite the Medicare provider enrollment process, CMS has entrusted jurisdiction of their providers in specific geographic regions to a number of private medical care insurers. Once your Medicare application is approved by CMS, they should directly submit the documentation to your MAC. You can also check your progress on the PECOS system. In California, Noridian and National Government Services are the MACs who will approve your application.Noridian provides approval for providers of Medicare Part A and Part B as well as DMEPOS suppliers in the state of California.National Government Services is the organization that handles these applications for Home Health and Hospice providers in the state of California., You will be prompted to print out a certification statement within the PECOS online application system, and you will need to sign and send the statement along with a copy of your California clinical license to the appropriate MAC. You must send the documents to the California MAC within 7 days of completing the PECOS application to be considered for approval as a Medicare provider., Even though the CMS has already submitted your application with a recommendation for approval, your MAC may require additional documents or information to complete the application process. As is the case with document requests from CMS, the more quickly you’re able to respond to these requests, the more quickly your application process will continue. You may be requested to send IRS documentation, proof of identity, licenses, or other information deemed necessary by the MAC to determine your eligibility., If you are applying as a Medicare provider on behalf of a clinic, hospital, long term care or other medical facility, or as a sole proprietor, a site visit is required. Site visits are conducted through the National Site Visit Contractor. All site inspectors for Medicare providers in the US will be employed by MSM Security Services, LLC or their subsidiaries Computer Evidence Specialists, LLC and Health Integrity, LLC.


Site inspectors will present valid ID from one of these three companies at the time of inspection.
Failure to cooperate with the site inspectors may lead to rejection or revocation of Medicare provider status.
A site visit is not required for DMEPOS suppliers as they will already be meeting the additional CLIA qualification., Within 45 to 90 days, you will receive electronic verification from the appropriate MAC letting you know whether your application was accepted or rejected. If you have been approved as a Medicare provider, you will receive a Provider Transaction Access Number (PTAN). Your individual PTAN will be associated with your NPI number, and allow you to access enrollment documentation and otherwise authenticate yourself within the Medicare system., In addition to requiring documentation to be filed electronically, the ASCA also pays out Medicare claims electronically. Once you have been approved as a Medicare provider by your MAC, complete the EFT form included in their packet. If you did not receive the EFT form, contact your MAC right away.