;
, Open your "Your Account" link on your Settings page, look for the section labeled Orders (the top-most section) and look for the extension arrows below the "More order actions". Click the extension arrows for this, and click "Leave seller feedback". For others, it may be under the main labeled section "Personalization" underneath "Community".
 The screen you will see will tell you the basics about your order to remind you which one you are leaving the feedback for.
 One is for unhappy and five for very happy., Make sure this can reflect this order, such as about the speed of shipment and quality of the product you received. These comments must reflect the star rating given above, otherwise you will confuse the seller that sold you the item once you receive it.
 These questions include Yes/No questions that relate to whether or not you received the product you described by the given receipt date, whether it was in the description that the seller described as well as a question about whether or not the seller provided great service (if you contacted the seller via an Amazon method)- Amazon can not help if you contacted the seller any other way, should an A-to-Z claim need to be filed. You will find these questions above the Comment for the seller feedback and below the star-rating section of the feedback you'd be leaving.

If you didn't receive it by the date you requested, contact the seller first, to ensure it's not lost somewhere in the mailing system. Most sellers will have some sort of tracking on the item and can help you locate the item for you, before a bad feedback is left. Contact the Seller to ensure every loose end has been tightened.
If the item isn't in the quality or quantity as described, again, contact the seller, so that they may remedy the problem. However, while Amazon states that Marketplace sellers must maintain the same level of service as those of Amazon itself, each seller may have their own policies on timing on issues for an order, as long as they can also comply to Amazon's own policies are within a reasonable timeframe.
,