  Pay attention to decks, porches, pools and outbuildings like sheds and detached garages. Try to shot during the day utilizing natural sunlight. Avoid bright sunlight if possible. Try instead for an overcast day for best results.;
, Go from room to room, shooting each room from multiple angles. Pay attention to details such as woodwork, moldings and sills, floor and window treatments.  Focus on furniture and open shelving.  If the room has closets, bureaus, armoires or cabinets, open the doors and drawers and film the contents.  While filming, provide narration.
  Start again with the outside of the house. Take multiple views of the outside of the house and grounds. 


Pay special attention to the porches, decks, carports, sheds and garage. Photograph outdoor furniture, bicycles, and recreational vehicles.  Note make, model, color, distinguishing marks and serial numbers.  Tag each set of pictures with this information.
 It is amazing how many you will find.  Shovels, hoes, picks, axes, trowels, rakes.  Just because they are covered with dirt does not mean they aren't valuable. Don't forget your lawn mowers, leaf blowers, grass trimmers and chain saws.
  Arrange all similar items so they can be seen at a glance.  Socket sets, wrenches, screw drivers.  List sizes, types, brands.
 take nothing for granted.  Assume nothing.  Great Grandmas homemade quilt may be surprisingly valuable.  The value of the family china, silver, and glassware may be greater than you think. 


Make sure you record any makers marks or stamps.  Your pictures will not establish the true value of your possessions.  They are just the first step in establishing ownership.  All items should be properly appraised by someone certified to do so.
As you go through your home, you may find that you have entire collections of items.  Most people have entire libraries of Books, CD's, DVD's, Records, Audio and Video Tapes. photographing your collections may take time. 
Be sure to have adequate light.  Take a look at the lighting in your home.  If you do not have good lighting, good lighting can be created. clear a dining room or kitchen table. drape it with a neutral colored cloth.  drag the table to the window. 
Keep the sheers in place but draw back the heavy drapes and begin shooting.
 From there, you can download them to a CD. 


If you want to really go the extra mile, import your photos into Word documents and record attributes and characteristics as well as serial numbers of your possessions.  If you keep your receipts, they can be scanned into your PC and attached to the Word document as well.
, Be sure to keep one in your fireproof safe and another for your safety deposit box..

