 Give yourself plenty of time to get ready on the big day, and be on time or early for all graduation-related ceremonies. If graduation is being held somewhere other than your school, familiarize yourself with the ceremony’s location and parking situation.Showing up late is a sign of disrespect to your peers, your school, and yourself.
Even more important than showing respect, being late will just stress you out and make you even more anxious.
 Set yourself up for success so you’ll be nice and relaxed when you receive your diploma. Make sure you have your outfit and shoes picked out at least a day or two before graduation day. Keep any tassels, cords, or medallions with your cap and gown.


Make sure the clothes and shoes you choose match the graduation ceremony's dress code.
Hang up your gown so it doesn’t get wrinkled.
If the gown is wrinkled even if you've been hanging it for days, bring it in the bathroom with you when you take a hot shower. The steam will help release the wrinkles.
 Don’t skip out on the rehearsal. It’s always best to have an idea of how any ceremony will proceed, and you’ll be much more confident knowing where you need to be and when. Your teachers, professors, deans, or other ceremony organizers will let you know where and how to line up, go over the ceremony’s timing, and inform you about other important details.


You’ll also most likely receive instructions during the rehearsal about how to properly receive a diploma as you shake the presenter’s hand.
If you are really nervous, you can ask someone there, like a teacher or administrator, after the rehearsal for a little extra help.
You might also have the opportunity to practice walking across the stage. Knowing where you have to walk and getting a feel for being on stage can be a lot easier when you don’t have hundreds of people in the audience.
Finally, you’ll receive more specific information about any professional photographers that your school has hired for the event. You’ll find out exactly when you’re getting your picture taken and when you should smile for the camera.
 Asking a friend, parent, or other family member for a little help can help you master the technique of receiving a diploma, especially if it’s your first time receiving a diploma. Use a folder or a magazine as a stand-in for the diploma. Pretend that the person helping you is the actual presenter, and practice walking up and shaking hands.


If you’ve received your gown in advance, try practicing with your gown and with whatever shoes you’re wearing to become more comfortable walking.

