 You should start by adjusting your diet so you do not consume any dairy products, wheat products, or products that contain sugar. Avoid having fast food, processed food, and pre-packaged food. Cut back on these foods over a period of a few days so your body is not shocked by your change in diet, especially if you tend to consume a lot of these foods.You should also eliminate animal products from your diet, such as red meat, chicken, and pork, as well as eggs. This will help you slowly transition into eating only liquids and fresh foods.
 You should add more fresh vegetables and fruits to your diet to prepare your body for the juice cleanse. Have fruit and vegetables for every meal in raw form, such as cut up or sliced. You can also steam or boil vegetables so they are slightly cooked.


You can have clear broth with your fruits and vegetables at your meals. Avoid having any bread products or wheat products with your fresh fruits and veggies.
You can try blending up fresh vegetables and fruits to consume them in liquid form. This will help you prepare for the juices you will have during your cleanse.
 You should start drinking at least two liters of water a day to prepare for the cleanse. Replace all caffeine products, such as coffee and caffeinated teas, with water. You should also cut back on your alcohol consumption, as you should not drink alcohol at all during the cleanse.If you smoke cigarettes, you should cut back on smoking as it is not recommended that you smoke tobacco during the cleanse.
 You should avoid making any dining out plans during your cleanse so you are not tempted to break the cleanse. You may also want to avoid dining out in the days leading up to the cleanse so you are mentally prepared.You may also want to get a blank journal and use it during your cleanse to write down how you are feeling day to day. You may find it therapeutic to reflect on your moods and feelings during the cleanse.
 If you are doing your own juice cleanse at home using your own ingredients, you will need to ensure you have all the fruits and vegetables needed for the cleanse. Having the ingredients on hand will make it easier for you to prepare the juices every day.Depending on the type of juice cleanse you are doing, you may go for more leafy green vegetables like kale, mint, basil, parsley, lettuce, cabbage, beetroot, and spinach. You may also get fruits like apple, strawberries, oranges, blueberries, and kiwis.
Be aware that detox cleanses like a juice cleanse can lead to health issues. You should always speak to your doctor before you start a cleanse to ensure you are not at risk of health issues or make existing health problems worse on the cleanse.