 You must use good common sense when working with straight pins; you must have something (a cup works well) to hold them while working; for safety's sake, be certain to account for all of your pins while working, and if you drop one, stop working until it is located and return it to the container. Use good common sense when working with paint and glue. It is a good idea to wear an apron to cover your clothes, or wear old clothes when working with paint! The suggested paint will easily wash off, but the food color in the paint could create permanent stains. You may wish to wear rubber or painters gloves to protect your hands from the dye in the paint!;
, For your project, you will need 1. a washable work table (you could cover the floor beneath the work area for safety sake! 2. some artists foam board which is slightly larger than your subject (your fish!) 3. Several sheets of artists rice paper (large size) 4. water and vegetable dye based thick tempura paint 5. a good number of regular straight pins (like those used in sewing), and several inexpensive paint brushes, or foam paint "brushes." You must locate an area (best indoors) to hang your completed print to dry; a clothes hanger and several hinge type clothes pins, hung over a shower rack or door frame away from high traffic areas, will allow your painting to dry evenly.
 Catch or purchase a good sized fish. Fish with big scales make great rubbings. I prefer to use a fish which I would enjoy eating after my project is completed. I do this to honor the fish; I like to use as much of the fish as possible.
 Do not cut the fish in half, if you do, you risk removing the pectoral, coital, and dorsal fins of the fish, which add beauty to your art.
,, Pin the fish securely onto a large artists foam board, being sure to pin open the fins; pinning the fins open will add beauty to your art.
 Make sure to completely cover the fish with paint, eye, fins and all!

, You want enough paint on the fish to assure a good print, but not so much that all you get is an unrecognizable print, and your goal is to create a print of your fish! Pause and look your fish over before the next step and be sure you like what you see! At this point you can rinse your fish off, and try again! Be certain to remove any gobs of excess paint.
 Be sure to press the rice paper all over the fish without smearing the paint if possible. Try your best to not press in any folds or creases; small creases will not hurt anything, and may actually add beauty to your print. If you wish, you can use a cloth in between your hands and the rice paper when you do the pressing to ensure even pressure on your subject, or you may use your hands directly on the rice paper for a more rustic appearance.
,, The print can also be decorated with Asian inspired poetry or you can label your fish with it's species. Artists usually choose to sign in the far right or left hand corners of their work.
, Set your foam board aside to dry, being sure to stand it on edge in location where it will not curl or be damaged.
 Attach the top edge only, because this will give your over all creation more contrast.
 If we clean up after we work, our next project will gain quicker support from others who must share our work area.
 You can make a home made frame, or purchase one that is just right at a hobby store. Be proud of your work, and show it off to others!


Please Note: You can do the painting and rubbing (pressing) over and over until you are happy with the results; just be certain to use a new sheet of rice paper each time.

