 A vegan diet can be a very healthy alternative and allow you to lose weight in a very healthy way; however, you have to spend some time ensuring adequate intake of the specific nutrients, particularly iron, zinc, Vitamin B12, omega-3 essential fats, and Vitamin D. These are critically important for your health., Make an appointment with a dietitian who can help you ensure you are getting adequate nutrition. They can help you write up a meal plan that provides all the essential nutrients and answer any questions you might have about being vegan. They can help you set weight loss goals and make sure you stay healthy while you drop pounds.
 Have your blood regularly tested for deficiencies, especially if you are new to a vegan diet. Tell your physician about your food choices and your concerns. Conditions caused by nutritional deficiencies can be identified and rectified.Treating these deficiencies may require changing some of your dietary choices. This doesn't mean you need to give up your vegan lifestyle, but you may need to increase your intake of certain foods or consider supplements. Your physician or dietitian can help you with this.
 Keep track of your food and use a nutrient calculator to make sure you are getting all the nutrients you need. This helps you monitor your vitamin, mineral, and nutrient levels to make sure you are getting everything you need every day.You can use nutrient trackers like FitDay and Chronometer and check out nutrition data.
 Fish are not the only source of omega-3 fats. There are vegan sources, like nuts and seeds. These nuts and seeds can be raw.


Try flax seeds (golden or dark brown), chia seeds, or hemp seeds.Walnuts, pecans, almonds, peanuts, and virtually all nuts are healthy sources of omega-3 fats.
 Leafy green vegetables should be a staple of your diet. They include a wide array of nutrients that your body needs. One important nutrient that leafy green vegetables have is omega-3 fats.They also contain calcium and iron.You can cook your greens, eat them raw, or even put them in a smoothie. Great examples of leafy green vegetables include:


Greens of beets, radishes, mustard, collard, Swiss chard, turnips
Spinach, kale, Chinese cabbage (bok choy), cabbage, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, arugula, field greens, purslane, romaine lettuce

, Tofu has a lot of protein, zinc, iron, calcium, vitamin D, and omega-3s. You can substitute tofu for meat in just about any dish. Try it in stir fries, pastas, and even on sandwiches.Firm tofu works great for recipes since it holds its shape.
 Beans are important for a vegan diet because it provides a large amount of protein, which is important to maintain when going vegan. Beans also are rich in fiber, among other important nutrients. Legumes are similar to beans. They contain a lot of fiber and B vitamins.You can eat beans and lentils in soups, casseroles, as side dishes. There are endless possibilities.
Good examples include mung beans, navy beans, kidney beans, soybeans, black beans, and lentils.
 Winter and summer squashes are wonderful foods to add to your diet. Winter squashes are a great source of omega-3s, among other nutrients.Summer squashes, like yellow squash and zucchini, provide nutrients and are versatile components of your diet.


Winter squashes include acorn, butternut, spaghetti squash, and pumpkin.
 If you need to, make sure you take vegan-safe supplements. If you eat a varied diet full of fruits and vegetables, you should get all the proper nutrients you need. But supplements can help, particularly to get enough zinc, iron, selenium, and calcium.