 Older dogs often have a host of related issues pertaining to both emotional and physical health that could be linked to their house-soiling behavior. Just because your dog is getting old, it doesn’t mean that you cannot do anything to help them. Confronting your dog’s other health issues may help you better deal with their house-soiling., If you notice your dog is startled by sounds that used to cause only curiosity (or elicit no reaction), or is cowering behind furniture when another person comes over, your dog might be experiencing a decline in confidence. There are a number of specific conditions that can cause anxiety or fear in an older dog, including Canine Cognitive Dysfunction (similar to Alzheimer’s) or a decline in your dog’s sense of smell, sight, or hearing.Be gentle with your older dog if it demonstrates that it is becoming fearful or anxious.
Approach your dog from the front so it can see you if you notice a decline in its sense of sight or sound.
This change in behavior might also be due to pain or physical discomfort. Take your older dog see the vet if it becomes fearful where it previously was not.
If your dog’s sight is failing, try to keep your furniture in its usual place so your dog can easily locate it and navigate the house.
 Some dogs, like some people, become grouchy in their old age. Your older dog might become combative with other dogs, especially younger puppies. If your dog starts barking, quarreling with other dogs, or growling at other dogs or people, take it to a vet.Additionally, try to reduce the number of irritating stimuli in your dog’s environment. For instance, limit your dog’s contact with other dogs and puppies, or whatever it is that sets your dog on edge.
Your dog’s irritability might be due to pain, Canine Cognitive Dysfunction, or loss of its sight, smell, or hearing. Your vet will be able to offer more advice.
 Depression is not uncommon in older dogs. Unfortunately, dogs cannot talk about their feelings. But they will communicate that something is wrong through their actions. If your dog doesn’t eat as much as it usually does, spends more time sleeping, and seems nervous for no particular reason (evidenced by walking back and forth along a stretch of the house or whimpering for no particular reason), it might be depressed.To combat your dog’s depression, provide more opportunities for play, and take your dog for daily walks.
Your dog also picks up on emotional cues from you, so if you’re feeling blue, your dog might too. Both of you could benefit from walking about or meeting a friend (especially if that friend has a dog your older dog could meet).
 Many signs of arthritis could be confused for depression. For instance, if your dog no longer enjoys playing the games it used to, this might be a sign of depression, but it might also just be age-related arthritis and pain in the dog’s legs. Likewise, an arthritic dog might sleep more than a healthy older dog. But arthritis might also lead your dog to become irritable or aggressive. Finally, an arthritic dog might not want to climb stairs or jump on the sofa or bed, or might limp slightly when walking.Talk to your vet if you believe your dog has arthritis. Your vet can recommend lifestyle and dietary changes that could help. Your vet might recommend medication for your dog, too.
Never give your dog arthritis medication designed for humans.
 As your dog ages, it is increasingly important to be proactive in managing your dog’s health so as to catch illness or medical conditions before they become serious. Chances of heart disease, kidney disease, cancer, and other illnesses are all common in older dogs. That way, your dog will have a healthy and happy life, and be able to enjoy its old age.Make the most of your time with the vet. If you have questions about caring for your older dog, don’t be shy - ask away!
Contact your vet whenever you have a question about your dog’s health.

