 Children are not born with an innate sense of rules. They may not understand why you have such rules in place. Explain that you are trying to teach them important lessons about the world. Let them know in a kind manner that you love them, which is why you want them to help them learn how to survive in life.You can say, “We have rules in this house because we love you and we want you to be successful. You will always find that there are rules in life, and it’s important for you to learn how to live by them.”

, Children and teenagers often like to test their boundaries. They may plead or cry, but you should be firm in saying no when you do not want them to do or have something. If they respond with a tantrum, stand firm. Do not give in, or else you reward their behavior.


Instead of telling your children that they cannot do or have something, tell them instead what they can do. For example, instead of saying, “No ice cream before dinner,” say, “you can have an apple instead.”You might try to explain why you said no. For example, “You have to wear your coat outside, or you could get sick.”You can explain the reason why you said no once or twice, but do not repeat yourself constantly if your child keeps asking.
Older children might try to reason with you to convince you to change your mind. If they are respectful and rational, you might consider giving in. This does not make you weak. Rather, it rewards them for reacting in a mature manner instead of throwing a fit.
 When your children do something right, praise them. They will quickly learn what acceptable behavior is. Your children will associate good behavior with positive attention. Furthermore, by not constantly scolding them, you will develop a stronger relationship with your child.


For example, when they say please and thank you to a server at a restaurant, you can say, “I’m so proud of your good manners.”
You can also give your child rewards when they have done well. For example, you can say, "I'm so proud of how well you have been doing in school that I am going to take you out to ice cream."

, Being a strict mom does not mean you have to insult or swear at your child. Name calling can be harmful to a child’s self-esteem, and it will not encourage them to improve their attitude.If you feel yourself getting irrationally angry at your children, try to calm yourself down. Take a deep breath. Count to five before speaking to your child. Leave the room for a few minutes if you need to.