 If you find out that your dog is howling during times that you are away from it, the behavior may be caused by separation anxiety.Howling caused by separation anxiety is usually accompanied by other behavior patterns, such as:


Pacing
Destroying objects
Urination and/or defecation
Drooling, If your dog has separation anxiety, you will have to help it overcome the problem. The most basic technique, counterconditioning, involves getting your dog to associate good things with separation.For dogs with moderate separation anxiety, this may be enough to end the howling behavior.


Every time you leave home, offer your dog a toy.The best choices are ones that will keep your dog occupied for some time; for instance, there are toys that can be stuffed with food for your dog to enjoy for 20-30 minutes or more. Look for these toys at pet supply stores.
When you return home, take the toy away so that your dog associates it only with the times when you are gone.
Repeat these steps consistently, and over time your dog’s separation anxiety (and howling behavior) should subside or disappear.
You can also try crate training your dog in addition to counterconditioning in order to stop its howling.
In any case, do not punish your dog because of separation anxiety. Instead of making your dog stop howling, this will only increase its anxiety.
 If your dog has a more severe case of separation anxiety, it may need more extensive counterconditioning and desensitization—often by starting with very short periods of separation, then gradually increasing them. Talk to a veterinarian, animal behaviorist, or certified professional dog trainer (CPDT) to discuss training techniques, possible medications, and other options.If you seek the help of a CPDT, make sure he or she has been trained in counterconditioning and desensitization techniques, as education in these areas is not required for certification.
 Making time to play with your dog may also help reduce its separation anxiety and howling behavior. Each day, set aside time for games, treats, and exercise with your dog.


As long as your dog is healthy, it will benefit from frequent play (fetch, jumping, tugging, etc.), as well as at least one half-hour walk per day.Discuss your dog’s activity level with your veterinarian; if your dog is aging, injured, or very young, he or she may have more specific exercise recommendations.

