 What you are telling yourself in your head about what happens to you in life can be a major contributor to your mood. In order to fend off depression, you must be willing to transform negative thinking patterns into more positive, adaptive ones. Learn to challenge negative thinking by shifting your perspective, doing reality testing, thinking in a goal-oriented manner and coming up with alternative explanations for life situations.Shifting your perspective: Ask yourself what’s the worst that can happen. Can you handle that?
Reality testing: Ask yourself what evidence you have to support your line of thinking. Are your thoughts based on facts or your own opinions?
Goal-oriented thinking: Ask yourself what can you learn from this situation to help you in the future.
Alternative explanations: Ask yourself is there another way of viewing the situation that’s not so negative.;
, When your thoughts are going in a negative direction, the last thing you want to do is sit around idly. Keep yourself busy by creating a routine that is filled with productive tasks and/or hobbies and interests. Staying active in your day-to-day life gives you far less free time to obsess over worries and problems and provides opportunities to improve your mood.


Try to follow a set routine each day that includes a number of goal-oriented activities, such as making your bed, showering, eating healthy meals, going to class, and getting exercise. Include a few hobbies as well, such as reading, knitting, playing with a pet, or visiting a friend., Spending time with friends and family who value you and make you feel good can help you keep a positive outlook about life. Isolating yourself and failing to use your support system can actually make depressive symptoms worse. Aim to spend quality time with people who are positive influences. Also, try to reach out for support when you need it.Asking for support can be done as simply as saying to a friend: “Hey, I’ve been feeling a little down lately. Why don’t we hang out this weekend and watch movies.”
Consider setting up a system of checking in with a friend or trusted adult often and asking them to keep an eye out for you in case they notice some dangerous behaviors that you may not notice yourself.
 One of the major indicators of depression is no longer having interest in activities that were once pleasurable. Therefore, you can try to keep your mood uplifted by making the effort to stay involved. Even if you don’t feel like it, challenge yourself to participate in at least one extracurricular activity or volunteer in the local community.You can have a positive impact on a depressed parent by getting them involved, too. Ask your mom or dad to act as a volunteer coach to one of your sports’ teams. Or, have the whole family take part in a Habitat for Humanity project to make a positive contribution in the lives of others. You will all feel better for your efforts.
 Many teens are tempted to use alcohol or drugs to cope with problems at home or undesirable feelings. Although these substances may help you “numb” your feelings for a short time, they only cause more problems over the long haul. Exercise saying “no” to drugs and find healthier ways to cope instead.If you usually hang out with friends who use drugs and alcohol, practice keeping your distance from them while your reserves are low. On other occasions, it may be easy for you to say “no”, but you may give in more easily when you’re not feeling well. Get some space from these people and hang with friends who are drug and alcohol-free.
 Your parents’ suicidal thoughts are not your fault, and you aren’t responsible for their behavior either. Many teenage children of suicidal or depressed parents feel the need to parent their parents which adds to stress, depression, and derailment. Do your best to stay focused on your own mental health and not put the weight of your parents’ struggles on your own shoulders., Work to counteract these negative effects by regularly engaging in stress-management. It’s impossible to completely avoid stress, but it can be helpful to have some activities in mind to help you alleviate the pressure so that it doesn’t lead to anxiety or depression.


A quick, off-the-cuff way to relax in the midst of stress is with deep breathing. If you feel yourself getting tense, take a moment to collect yourself. Close your eyes and inhale through your nose slowly for 4 counts. Hold the breath for 7 counts. Then, exhale from your mouth for 8 counts. Repeat as needed.Other tools to add to your toolbox can include anything that relaxes you, such as meditation, listening to music, watching funny movies, reading, walking your dog, or calling a certain friend who is always cheerful. Jot down 8 to 10 activities you can use to lift your mood when you start to feel stressed.
 Try to make smart dietary choices by eating 3 to 5 small meals each day that include vegetables, fruits, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Schedule in some physical activity on most days whether it be from walking, jogging, dancing, or cycling.


Go grocery shopping with your parents and suggest more nutritious choices for the whole family. It can also be fun and promote bonding to exercise together. Try to organize a family hike or bike ride.
 If you believe in some form of higher power, it can help you minimize your risk of depression. Having a connection to your spiritual self can make you feel more resilient to stress and difficult times.Lean in to your spirituality for comfort and understanding. Depending on your beliefs, prayer, meditation, religious counsel, and time in nature can help you find healing and feel better about your life.
 If either of your parents has a history of suicidal attempts or ideation (i.e. thoughts about harming themselves), then you are at risk. Research has shown that suicidal behavior may be linked to a gene that is passed down through families.Depression—one of the main culprits behind suicide—also has a genetic component.Keep in mind that simply having a genetic link to a parent who is suicidal does not seal your fate. Other factors also contribute to suicidal behavior, such as early childhood or recent trauma and drug use.
It is possible to have suicidal thoughts without the desire to act on them. When you notice suicidal thoughts occurring often, then it is a good time to see a professional.
 There’s really no need to be concerned about the genetic aspect of suicide unless you are experiencing depression. Depression is experienced differently between people. In teens, it may show up as sleeping too much or too little, having trouble concentrating, feeling sad or hopeless, getting angry or irritable often, withdrawing from friends and social activities, and losing weight.If you suspect you are depressed, you should ask your parents to take you to see a therapist.


If your parents aren’t getting help for their own depression, they may be against you seeing someone. Schedule a time to sit down and share your feelings. Tell your mom and/or dad that you wish to see a therapist or counselor about some things you have been going through. You can say something like “I have been feeling really low lately. I can’t eat, sleep, or concentrate. I need to see a professional…”If they are wary of mental health professionals, you may be able to get yourself help by seeing your school’s guidance counselor. If outside services are required, this adult can help you talk with your parents about it. Also, guidance counselors are typically required to inform authorities if they believe you are in danger of hurting yourself.
 Once you see a licensed mental health provider, this person will help you determine if you are, indeed, suffering from depression and how to successfully treat your symptoms. Studies show that a combination of talk therapy, particularly cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and anti-depressant medications is most effective in treating depression.


Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a short-term, evidence-based approach to changing maladaptive thought patterns. As few as 9 hours of CBT has been shown to improve suicidal thoughts., In addition to undergoing one-on-one therapy, it can be helpful for you and your depressed parent to take part in family therapy. Specifically, a type of approach called Attachment-based Family Therapy (ABFT) has been proven to reduce suicidal thoughts and depression in teens.This form of therapy allows the family to work through conflicts and focus on strengths in order to form healthy attachments and protection from self-harm.
 Along with family therapy, it can be helpful for you and your parents to participate in local support groups for depression. This can be done as a group or you can attend groups for teens and your parents can attend an adult group.


Ask your doctor or therapist about local support groups or search for them through the Anxiety and Depression Association of America.