 Drink lots of fluids like water, juice, or tea – preferably water. This can help to flush the metabolites of cocaine out of your system more quickly. The effect of this is temporary, so you have to stay very well hydrated for the amount of time cocaine would be in your system., If you’re generally healthy and active, your body may clear cocaine faster than someone overweight or sedentary. Be active and exercise daily while trying to clear your system of cocaine.Do some aerobic exercises to get your blood pumping, like swimming, running, biking, or playing a sport., Include fresh fruits and vegetables in every meal while you’re detoxing. Eating healthy will help your metabolism, and may possibly aid in excreting cocaine and its metabolites more quickly., Abstain from alcohol while your body is getting rid of cocaine. Just like how it takes longer to clear cocaine if you were drinking simultaneously, drinking alcohol after the fact may also slow the elimination process., Zinc is sometimes considered a mineral that will help your body cleanse itself, though whether it works to clear cocaine from your system is not scientifically proven.Check with your doctor about whether it’s safe for you to take a zinc supplement. If so, take one daily at the recommended daily dose (8mg for adult women and 11mg for adult men).Don’t overdo it in an attempt to clear cocaine from your system – toxicity from too much zinc can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and headaches.
 The internet is teeming with pills, powders, and beverages claiming to rid your body of cocaine – whether permanently or just for a few hours so you can pass a drug test.Many of these products claim to be natural, but because they are not supervised by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) this may or may not be true. In reality, these kits and products have not been proven to remove cocaine from your system, and they can be quite expensive. If you choose to use one, it’s at your own risk.

Know that any product you use can interact with medications you take or medical conditions you have. It’s best not to take untested products from the internet.

