 Embouchure, the position of the mouth while playing, is a key component to hitting and holding high notes. Your lips vibrate on the surface as you push air past them. This creates necessary resistance to direct the stream through the trumpet and make sound. Most players position their lower lip just under the upper lip, creating a seal. This seal prevents the lips from parting when players “buzz” their lips to play a note. This is especially important for high notes, where the fast air increases the risk that the seal will break and the note will crack or drop., Many trumpet players squeeze their lips more tightly together and tense their stomach muscles to hit high notes. This method may work once or twice, but the notes you produce will likely be of poor tonal quality, either flat or sharp. You need to learn to relax your mouth and body while playing high notes in order to achieve a clear high note tone., This can cause damage to your lips that may prevent you from practicing for a while, or it may even lead to irreversible damage. Like tensing up when you play, pressing your lips into the mouthpiece can allow you to play a higher note once or twice, but you will not be able to play notes consistently using this method., It’s especially important to stop yourself from stiffening the upper lip. This is the most often tensed part of the embouchure, and when you do this, you actually make it more difficult to reach high notes. The fast air moving between your lips causes vibration, but when you tense the mouth, the air is unable to move the lip and achieve the pitch you’re aiming for., Starting out, most trumpeters are taught the Farkas embouchure. You may remember early trumpet lessons where you were instructed to tighten the corners of your mouth, pinch lips together, and blow air through creating a buzzing sound. This is the Farkas method, and it is popular because it works. However, for higher notes, it may actually put too much strain on the lip muscles because the fast moving air wants to force the lips apart. Instead, you may want to consider adjusting to the Stevens or Super Chops embouchures.
 This method requires you to roll in either the upper or lower lip. This creates a tighter seal because one of your lips will slightly overlap the other, making it easier to keep lips together while increasing air speed to hit high notes.
 This method also overlaps the lips similarly to the Stevens embouchure. Instead of rolling the lip to accomplish this, the bottom lip remains flat and slides over the top teeth and under the top lip to create a seal.