 Pull the switch to open the bottom flap of your camera. This will reveal the slot where you should insert your film cartridge. Put the cartridge in the slot with the dark side facing up and the metal contacts facing down, then close the flap.If your Polaroid camera has an old cartridge that you’d like to preserve, remove the film in a completely dark room and place the cartridge in a container that protects it from any light exposure.;
, Immediately after you’ve loaded your film, a dark slide should emerge from your camera. This indicates that the camera is working properly and is ready for use!If a dark slide does not come out of the camera, it likely means that there’s a problem with your film or camera. If you’ve purchased new film, you might have a problem with the camera itself. Test with another cartridge to determine the problem.
You may want to save this dark slide, as you can use it as a cover to protect your photos during their exposure time after they emerge from the camera.
 These cameras require you to wake them up before use. Examine your model to determine whether you’ll need to open and close your flashbar or flip it up. These cameras turn off quickly, so simply repeat the process whenever you’re ready to take a picture.If you can’t see your flashbar on a 600-series Polaroid OneStep camera, that means you have a model that requires you to flip it up.
Polaroid SX-70 Land cameras do not have an on/off button. These cameras are ready to use as soon as your film is loaded., A camera’s exposure refers to the camera and film’s sensitivity to light, which will then be captured in the image. Most OneStep models include a small slider that increases or decreases the amount of light the camera will let in. Experiment with multiple shots at different exposure levels to see what produces the best results for your film and camera.If you’re shooting with Impossible Project SX-70 film, move the switch toward the darker side. This film has higher light sensitivity, which will make images appear over-exposed if the switch remains in the middle of the slider., Because OneStep cameras contain fixed-focus lenses, they use distance, or depth of field, to focus on their subjects. They don’t contain the electronics necessary for autofocus. Provide enough distance between yourself and your chosen subject to allow the camera to produce a sharp image.You may need to experiment with distance when taking photographs with Polaroid cameras. Some models may produce better images at a distance of about 10 feet (3.04 m). Some models may not work at distances above 10 feet (3.04 m), so be patient and get ready to test out your camera.
Some models may include a closeup setting that is supposed to allow you take pictures of subjects located under 4 feet (1.22 m) away from you. Unfortunately, these settings generally don’t work very well. Ignore them, and adhere to the 4-foot (1.22-m) rule., Unlike most modern cameras, the viewfinder doesn’t allow you to see through the camera’s lens. Since the viewfinder doesn’t provide you with a perfect replica of what the image will be, give yourself plenty of room on either side of your chosen subject when framing your shot., Once you’re ready to go, taking a picture with a Polaroid OneStep is about as easy as it gets. No need for adjustments. Just push down your button, take the picture, and get ready to view your handiwork!, When your pictures pop out of your camera, keep them from getting exposed to light. You can either immediately place them in a pocket or light-safe container, or cover them with a piece of paper. This will ensure that the chemical process necessary for development works properly., Keep your photos face-down or shielded from light the entire time they’re developing. While some old Polaroid film may be ready within 90 seconds, it’s safer to wait longer. If you’re using the Impossible Project’s new film, be especially cautious. You’d rather have a properly developed picture after a half-hour than a dud after five minutes.The Impossible Project recommends waiting 10 minutes for black-and-white film and 30 for color film., Polaroid cameras respond well to lots of natural light. They do best with outdoor shots taken on either sunny or slightly overcast days. When you’re starting out, try taking landscape shots first. This will allow you to get comfortable with your camera., This new film does best in temperate temperatures between about 55℉ (13℃) and 82℉ (28℃). Cold weather may lead to overexposed prints that don’t contain color contrast, while hot days could give you pictures with a red or yellow tint. To shoot at higher or lower temperatures, either heat up the film by placing it in a pocket and using your body heat or cool it down by putting in the refrigerator before taking your photos., SX-70 film generally isn’t light-sensitive enough to produce good indoor pictures. Because Polaroid cameras need so much light to give you clear images, it’s important to choose a camera that’s compatible with more light-sensitive film., Use the built-in flash on your camera. While the flash may produce harsh lighting in some of your pictures, it’s important to start with the flash in order to see how best to lighten up your indoor pictures.If you can, shoot in a room with plenty of windows to benefit from natural light even when indoors.
 Most older Polaroid cameras are designed for the flash to be in use at all times, so it’s often difficult or impossible to manually shut it off. If you want to see what turning off the flash does for your photos, use a small piece of dark-colored paper and some tape to cover the bulb., If you’re taking outdoor shots at night, shooting on a dark day, or are indoors, you may need to add some light to your subject. Try LED strobe lights aimed at your subject. For a simpler option, start by aiming a flashlight at your subject., OneStep cameras have fixed-focus lenses that allow you to simply point your camera and snap your photo. Polaroid produced tons of these cameras in the 1980s and 1990s, and they remain popular because they’re relatively easy to find and even easier to operate.You can purchase refurbished Polaroid 600 OneStep cameras online at the Impossible Project. This will provide you with a camera that has been inspected and tested by a team of repair technicians.For less expensive but potentially faulty cameras, look online or at garage sales. Because Polaroid produced so many of these cameras, there are a variety of ways to find them used. Be aware that this may result in a broken piece of equipment.
Many customers now buy Fujifilm instax cameras, which are a type of instant camera not produced by Polaroid. These newer options are extremely easy to use, and they produce durable instant prints. They require their own Fuji instax film that’s compatible with a variety of cameras that come in different sizes and colors., These iconic cameras are only available for purchase used on a website like Ebay. The generally easy-to-use camera gives you the classic Polaroid look with its white body and rainbow sticker. They don’t come with a built-in flash, making them slightly more high maintenance than 600-series options.You’ll need to attach the flashbar to the top of the camera. The camera should include the optional flashbar when you purchase it.
 The Impossible Project produces new film that’s compatible with all Polaroid cameras. Deciding to purchase this newer film is a surer bet than going with the used film you can find online. The Impossible Project’s film does require longer exposure times, and it’s usually more expensive than used film cartridges.Be sure that you’re purchasing the correct film for your camera. 600-series cameras require 600-type film, while SX-70 cameras need SX-70-type film.
SX-70 cameras can use 600-type film if you install a Neutral Density filter on your film cartridges. You’ll need to purchase these filters separately from your film. They’re available at the Impossible Project., Used film cartridges, like Polaroid cameras, can be found easily online. While this purchase could result in film that’s cheap and works well, you may also receive dead film that won’t produce pictures. If you’re worried about cost, try used options first, then move to the Impossible Project’s products only if necessary.The film cartridges contain Polaroid OneStep cameras’ “batteries,” so if the film doesn’t work, neither will the camera.

