 For most young adults, renting property is the preferred method of housing. When you rent a home or apartment, it tends to be cheaper than buying a home and you have flexibility regarding where you live and how long you live there.However, when you buy a home you build equity, which means you will be building cash value in that piece of property.Also, when you own a home, you can take tax deductions for any mortgage interest you pay.For a lot of people, this is the biggest tax break people will ever receive., Before you can buy a home, you have to be able to afford a home down payment and the monthly mortgage payments you will incur. In order to do this, you will have to pay off some of your existing debt.As a general rule of thumb, you should try to pay off any debt that has an interest rate more than two times the prime rate.For example, if the prime rate is 6%, and you have a credit card with a 15% interest rate, you should try and pay that debt off or transfer the debt to a lower rate, such as via a credit card balance transfer.While it may seem counter-intuitive, you will save money in the long run by paying off debts with high interest rates. Although you will have to pay some money up front, you will be able to save more moving into the future.
 When you take care of your existing debt, your credit score will rise. Having a good credit score is important if you want to get approved for a mortgage.To request a free copy of your credit score, contact annualcreditreport.com, which is a service offered by the three major credit reporting companies. See https://www.wikihow.com/Check-Your-Credit-Score for more information about checking your credit score.
 To determine what type of mortgage you will qualify for, you will need to contact various mortgage lenders. Find three or four lenders and have them compete for your business.Get a copy of each company's "good faith estimate," which is a form that lists the basic terms of the mortgage you applied for.You can then use these good faith estimates to choose which lender you will go with. For instance, you can compare each company's offer and you can get an idea of the real loan cost.
 Next, you will need to find a home. Shop for homes in your price range by looking online or by contacting a real estate company.


To determine how much home you can afford, think about your family's income as well as your debts.Then, estimate possible mortgage payments, which you can do by using online calculators.When finished, look at the amount of money your family has after expenses, and figure out how much of that you want to spend on a monthly mortgage payment. Be sure to leave enough money to pay for unexpected things (e.g., vacation, car repair, etc.).
For example, if your family brings home $3,500 per month after taxes, consider how much of that money you want to put towards a mortgage payment. If you estimate your mortgage will be $1,500 per month, understand that will leave only $2,000 per month on other expenses.
 The amount of your down payment will dictate your loan amount and whether you need to get purchase mortgage insurance (PMI). The more money you put down up front, the less principal you will owe on the loan. Generally, you will want to put down at least 20% of the home's price up front.


For example, if you are buying a home that costs $500,000, you should try and put down at least $100,000 up front. If you do this, you will only need to get a mortgage on the remaining $400,000 and you will avoid having to pay for PMI.
 Another consideration when formulating a mortgage loan is the type of loan you will get. In general, there are two types of mortgages.


First, there is a fixed-rate loan. With this type of mortgage, the interest rate does not change over the life of the loan.A lot of home buyers like this type of loan because their mortgage payment will remain constant.Second, there is an adjustable-rate loan. Adjustable-rate loans give home buyers a lower interest rate for a set period of time.Once that time period is up, your interest rate will increase every so often.With an adjustable-rate loan, the low interest rate will usually apply for the first seven years of the loan.Therefore, if you only plan on living in the home for seven years (or less), this type of loan may be a good option for you., All mortgage lenders generally use the same criteria when they approve you for a loan. When you find a lender you like, and when you find the home of your dreams, apply for the loan. After you apply, the lender will look at the following criteria:


Your debt-to-income (DTI) ratio. This is a measurement of your income to monthly liabilities.The lower your DTI, the more confident a lender will be in giving you money.Your loan-to-value (LTV). This is used to compare the difference between the outstanding loan amount and the property's value.The LTV is often used to determine whether you will be required to obtain PMI.For example, some loans require you to get PMI when the LTV is greater than 80%.That means, in order to avoid PMI, you will need to make at least a 20% down payment.Your credit. Credit scores are used by lenders to estimate the risk associated with you, the borrower.The lower your credit score, the riskier you are.
 After being approved for a mortgage, you will need to finalize the deal, which involves reading through and signing the loan document. Due to the complex nature of mortgage loans, some people like to hire an attorney to help them through this process. If you are going to hire an attorney, look for a real estate attorney with experience closing home purchases and mortgage deals.


While hiring an attorney may make your life easier, it is not required that you do so. If you have gone through the mortgage process before, or if you understand how loans work, you should be fine handling the process on your own.
 Lenders will often attach various fees to the loan with the hope the lender will simply pay them. However, these loans can often be negotiated down or even waived by the lender, depending on how interested they are in your business.Examples of fees include loan origination fees, processing fees, and underwriting fees., When you look at your loan documents, the two main dollar amounts you need to understand are principal and interest. Principal is the sum of money you are borrowing to buy the home.You can lower you principal amount by making a larger down payment.Interest is the amount of money the lender is charging you for borrowing the money.It is usually expressed as a percentage, called the interest rate.When you add the principal and interest amounts, that is what you will have to pay over the life of your loan.


For example, let's assume the house you buy costs $500,000. You make a 20% down payment and mortgage the rest. The mortgage has a 5% interest rate. If this is your scenario, the principal on your loan will be $400,000 (which is the total cost of the house minus your down payment) and your total interest is $20,000 (which is 5% of your principal).
 When you sign a mortgage, you are signing a legal document promising to pay a certain amount of money to a lender.In order to incentivize your repayment, the lender will use your home as collateral.If you fail to repay the loan, the lender has the legal right to take the property and sell it to cover the debt.This process is called foreclosure.
 In addition to the principal and interest on your loan, there will be various taxes you will have to pay as well.The main tax included will be your property taxes., Most lenders will not offer you a mortgage unless you have insurance on the home.In general, you will want to buy insurance covering your home and your personal property from fire, theft, bad weather, and other causes.Also, if you get a conventional loan and put down less than 20% of the home's price, your lender will require you to get PMI. PMI protects the lender from you defaulting on your loan.If you have to get PMI, you will have to pay the premiums for two years or until your mortgage balance shrinks below 80% of the home's original purchase price., After addressing all of the issues and language in a loan document, you will need to sign the agreement if you are satisfied. Once you sign the loan document, you will be required to make payments and satisfy all of the conditions in your loan.
 When you refinance your home mortgage, you are actually satisfying your old loan and creating a new one with different terms.In general, there are two types of refinances, one called a rate and term refinance and the other called a cash out refinance.With a rate and term refinance, you are creating a new loan with a lower interest rate and a shorter term.With a cash out refinance, you take out a new loan for more than what you owe on the home, and you use the extra cash for whatever you like.A refinance makes sense if you need to save money by lowering monthly payments or if you need the extra cash on-hand by doing a cash out refinance.
 When you refinance, there will be fees involved that may prohibit your ability to save money. Consider the following fees before refinancing your mortgage:


Fees associated with paying down your existing mortgage with your line of credit.In most mortgage contracts there is a provision allowing lenders to charge you a fee for doing this.Often, this fee can be thousands of dollars.New closing fees. When you refinance, you will have to pay similar closing fees as when you signed your existing mortgage.Try to refinance when these fees are low or when there are no fees., If you feel comfortable refinancing your home, contact your lender to start the process. If you do not want to use the same lender you currently have, you can always shop around for a new one.
 After you iron out all of the details as if you were finalizing your first mortgage, you will sign the document and execute the loan agreement.

