 It is important to relax your mind in order to fall asleep, so counting down from 100 may help. As you lay in bed, close your eyes and start counting backwards from 100 in your head (100, 99, 98, 97, etc.). This exercise should relax your mind and help you to fall asleep.If you count all the way down to one and you are still awake, try a larger number, like 500 or even 1,000.;
, Writing in a journal is also a good way to relax your mind and start winding down for bedtime. Write about your day, your fears or worries, or anything else that you want to write about. Getting your thoughts down on paper may help you to let go of them and make it easier for you to fall asleep.Try getting yourself a special journal to write in before you go to bed each night.
You can also use your journal to make a list of things that are bothering you or to write down questions that you would like to ask someone.
 Deep breathing exercises may also help you to relax and fall asleep. To practice deep breathing, lie flat on your back and make yourself comfortable. For example, you can put a pillow or two under your knees and neck.


Place your hands on your stomach (just below your rib cage) with your palms facing down. Keep your fingers close together.
Then, take a long, slow deep breath into your belly. As you do this, your stomach should expand and you should feel your hands rise.
After a few seconds, slowly exhale the breath and feel your stomach drop as you do so.
Repeat this exercise for 10 to 15 breaths., Progressive muscles relaxation is a relaxation exercise that helps to release tension in your body, from head to toe. If you are having trouble sleeping because you feel tense and nervous, then this may help you.


To do a progressive muscle relaxation exercise, start by tensing the muscles in your toes and keeping them tense for about five seconds. Then, release them and allow your toes to relax for about 30 seconds.Next, move to your calves and repeat the same tensing and releasing pattern. Keep tensing and releasing muscles until you reach the top of your head.
 Ask one of your parents to brew you a cup of some soothing herbal tea. Many herb teas can help you to relax and may make it easier to fall asleep. Some good teas to try include:


ChamomilePeppermint
Rooibos
Fruit teas

