 The most common cause of nausea is a viral infection of the stomach called viral gastroenteritis. Viral gastroenteritis is caused by a number of different viruses including the norovirus and the rotavirus.Symptoms of rotavirus might include: diarrhea, vomiting, fever and abdominal pain. You may also be dehydrated and have no appetite.Norovirus symptoms include: diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, headache, body aches and fever., Another common cause of nausea in women is early pregnancy. In this case, it is often called “morning sickness” and is often the first sign of pregnancy. Contrary to its name, morning sickness doesn’t only happen in the morning. A pregnant woman can feel nauseated any time of day.
 Many types of medications can cause nausea. These include medications such as aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), antibiotics, and chemotherapy. General anesthesia may also make you nauseous after you wake up.
 There are a number of other factors that can contribute to nausea. These can include ear infections and a number of ear conditions, head injuries, food poisoning and radiation therapy.


If you are nauseous for more than 1-2 days after trying home remedies, call your physician or healthcare professional. If you are nauseous and are vomiting, call your physician or healthcare professional for advice right away. While waiting for an appointment, you can try the remedies described

, Nausea can also be a symptom of serious medical conditions including heart attacks and heart disease, liver disease, viral infections of the brain (meningitis, encephalitis), pancreatitis (an inflammation of the pancreas) and Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD).


Nausea can also be a symptom of sepsis or shock. It could indicate swelling of the brain and increased pressure due to stroke, heat stroke, or head trauma. It may also be a result of environmental toxins.
 If you are nauseous and are vomiting AND have any of the following symptoms, seek immediate medical attention. These could be signs of a serious problem:Chest pain
Severe abdominal cramping or pain
Headache
Blurry vision
Fainting or dizziness
Confusion
Pale skin that is cold and/or clammy
High fever with a stiff neck
If you vomit and see something that looks like coffee grounds, looks like or smells like stool

