 Unless you deliberately want an asymmetrical style, you'll want to make sure the layers on either side of your head are the same length. In other words, the layers at your temples should be the same length, the layers behind your ears should be the same length, and so on. To do this, divide them into sections by layer.









Make sure your parts are straight and even.
Make a "top box section." Use the comb to create two parts: on on the left side of your head, and one on the right. The top box is the section of hair between the two layers.
Divide the top box into two parts: the first part extends from the crown of your head to your forehead, and the second part extends from the crown of your head to the nape of your neck. Use hair clips to keep the sections in place.
Make right and left front sections. The two front sections start at your temples and end at the top of your ears. Comb the right and left front sections out and hold them up with clips.
Leave the back sections loose. You won't be cutting the longest part of your hair, so leave it down as a guide against which to measure the other layers.
 Unclip the front top box section. Lift your hair at a ninety-degree angle from your head and hold it straight between your forefinger and middle finger. Keeping your hair between your fingers, bring it down in front of your face. Slide your fingers toward the tips of your hair until they are level with the place where you want your shortest layers to start. Trim the length of hair sticking out from between your fingers.









The ninety-degree angle extends the hair straight out from the head, producing a uniformly layered haircut.
It's common to cut the shortest layer just below the earlobe, or right at the jawline. Use the picture you took of yourself as a reference. Alternatively, for longer hair, cut the shortest layer right at the shoulders.
Err on the side of making the layer longer, rather than shorter, than you want it to be. When your hair dries, it will shrink up a little. You can always cut more if you need to.
 Unclip the front right section of hair. Lift your hair with your fingers at a ninety-degree angle from your head. Hold it straight between your forefinger and middle finger. Bring it down the side of your face and slide your fingers toward the tips of your hair until they are level with the place where you want the side layers to be cut. Use the scissors to trim the length of hair extending from your fingers.









Trim at an angle, rather than in a horizontal line, for softer-looking layers.
 Unclip the front left section of hair. Lift your hair with your fingers at a ninety-degree angle from your head. Hold it straight between your forefinger and middle finger. Bring it down the side of your face and slide your fingers toward the tips of your hair until they are level with the place where the right side layer was cut. Use the scissors to trim the length of hair extending from your fingers.
 If you wish, you can also add layers to the sides and back of your hair. Using the second mirror frequently to check your work, lift small sections of hair and trim them with the scissors. The layers in the back sections should be the longest, so avoid cutting them too short; they should be just as long or longer than the other layers.
 Once you've finished cutting, check all of the layers to make sure they fall where you want them to. Cross check your cut by examining the hair vertically and horizontally. If you see uneven layers, carefully trim the hair to make them look even.








