 Tap on the S Note icon in the home screen of your Samsung Galaxy tablet or smartphone to launch it. Tap on the plus (+) icon located in the top right corner of the screen that appears, and a list of templates will be displayed. Tap on the template labelled as “Memo” to open a blank new note.


You can also later select any other templates that suit your purpose. Memo note has fewer formatting options and is suited for professional use. Other templates such as “Idea note” have more formatting features. Notes such as “Magazine,” “Diary,” and “Birthday” are also available with suitable layouts and tools that match their purposes—designing a magazine, writing a diary, or creating a birthday card, respectively.;
, When drawing on your note, you have the option to either use the S Pen or your finger. To enable the use of the S Pen only, locate the icon labelled as “S Pen only” at the bottom right corner or the top right corner of the screen (the position varies depending on the version of the S note). Tap on it once to begin editing your note using the S Pen.


Tapping on the icon again changes its mode to enable the use of both the S Pen and your finger when editing your notes.
 Do this by tapping on the Drawing Mode icon, which is shaped like a paint brush. A Pen Settings dialog box will open up. Here, you can adjust the pen settings according to your needs.


The thickness of the pen can be changed by dragging the pointer present immediately below the various pens to the left or right. The thickness that is obtained at each level of the pointer across the scale is displayed at the right end of the pointer scale.
The color of the pen can also be chosen by tapping a color present in the color palette below the pointer.
 Do this by tapping the X button at the top right corner of the dialog box. Now you can now write or draw in your note.
 A Save dialog box will appear. Enter a name for the note in the textbox, and tap “OK.”


If you make a mistake, you can erase your working by tapping on the eraser icon.
Tap “Close” to exit the note and access the templates screen.

