 If your airline rewards program has a dedicated website, you can use this website to search for hotels. Typically, this website will list the cost of the hotels in points as well as dollars. If you are a member of two or more rewards programs, try opening up their respective websites, searching for deals and comparing across the sites. You can also try using one of the aggregate travel deal websites and search for good deals at your chosen destination. Once you find a good deal, you can inquire with the hotel about the cost in points., Search for hotels in your destination and determine the dollar and reward miles cost of the available hotels. If you are searching under your profile on an airline or credit card rewards website, the search findings should include both dollar and reward points price.
 Divide the cost of the hotel in dollars by the number of reward miles or points you would need to redeem. If a hotel you are interested in is listed as $500 or 25,000 points, you would end up with a value of two cents per point. This value is commonly referred to as cents per mile or CPM., Generally, a good price per mile for hotels is 1.2. If you are not an elite reward program member, you might be looking more at .6 cents per mile or less. However, the redemption value of the hotel should be assessed by comparing the price per mile of the chosen hotel with other available options at your destination. If the price per mile of your chosen hotel is a good value in comparison to other options at your chosen destination and you would rather spend the points than the cash, you may consider it a good redemption value.If one hotel is listed at $300 per night or 25,000, it has a redemption value of 1.2 cents. This is a good redemption value, but you should still compare it to the redemption value of neighboring hotels. If there is another hotel listed for $500 or 35,000 points, which has a redemption value of 1.4 cents, you should consider spending the extra points for a slightly better redemption value and a fancier hotel. If you don’t want to part with the extra 10,000 points and are happy with the hotel listed at $300 or 25,000 points, you are still getting a good redemption value.

