 Make sure to wear gloves, mask and eye protection. You should also wear an apron and rubber boots to protect yourself.


You should maximize ventilation by placing a running fan in the bathroom window to exhaust air. If you have a bathroom exhaust fan, turn that on too.
 Use a sponge to remove the water left in bowl. This will ensure the acid will clean the bowl to the bottom, including the critical jet-hole. This is a smaller hole at the bottom of the toilet bowl; water is pushed out of it forcefully to help the toilet flush. You’ll see it in action at the end of a flush, and buildup here may be responsible for a slow flush.
 If there is a fill tube on top of the overflow tube, carefully take that off first. The funnel’s opening should be as large as possible, to facilitate pouring, but fit snugly in the overflow tube.


Make sure not to use a metal funnel; the acid will corrode it.
Rinse the funnel well after use and do not reuse it for food.
 You should only pour a few ounces of acid into the tube.You should pour fast enough that it begins to flow out of the holes in the toilet bowl rim but not so fast that the funnel overflows or falls out, as this would splash acid and be extremely dangerous.


Pour the rest of the gallon into the toilet bowl; this will help clear the drain.
 The tighter the seal the better. Just cover the bowl portion, do not include the seat. This will keep the acid’s fumes from filling the bathroom.Alternatively you can use a clear trash bag to cover the toilet bowl.
 If there are children or pets in your home, make sure the door to the bathroom is closed and locked. The acid will dislodge mineral deposits in the toilet bowl and the drain over time., You’ll have to make sure to turn on the water first. Extra flushes are advisable in older homes with iron drain pipes, as prolonged contact with concentrated acid will damage them., You can find these holes under the toilet rim. They propel water to fill the bowl whenever you flush. Make sure that water flows freely from these holes whenever you flush. You can also use a coat hanger to check the holes for obstructions and other build ups.


Repeat the procedure if necessary.

