 Biodiversity is a shorthand way of saying biological diversity. Biodiversity includes all of the various forms of life on Earth. You might also know it as "the web of life". This web of life is divided into three parts to help simplify a very complex concept:


Genes
Species
Ecosystem;
, Genes are special codes or instructions that are found in all cells. The codes give organisms different characteristics; this is what determines the way that we look and behave. For example, it is genes that determine whether we have blue or brown eyes, big or small feet or the ability to sing or not etc. Genetic diversity is a key part of biodiversity that makes people, animals and plants unique.
 A species is a group of organisms that can reproduce. Every day we see different species as we go about our daily lives, including humans, dogs, cats, birds and worms, making species diversity the most obvious type of biodiversity. Our planet, Earth, supports millions of species, many of which we are yet to identify!


Within a species, there is genetic diversity, as discussed in the step before. This means that groups of organisms that share a common ancestor and have the same characteristics are identified as a breed for animals and as a variety for plants.
 At its most basic, an ecosystem is the nature in which all species live. Ecology is the study of species in their natural environment. You are probably aware already that there are many types of ecosystems on Earth. Some of them are more familiar than others but all are equally important in terms of biodiversity. Here are some types of ecosystem:


Mountain
Peatlands
Desert
Forest
Marine
Snow

, For a class project, it can be both fun and educational to produce a small report, booklet or mini-essay about biodiversity to help increase your class' awareness of what biodiversity is. Suggestions for a report or project include:


A photo essay of the different types of ecosystems and species
A booklet on what biodiversity is with illustrations drawn by class members
A mini-essay detailing what you think biodiversity means to you and include pictures
Make models of biodiversity elements from paper, plasticine, pipe cleaners etc. Create an ecosystem; divide into class groups and choose an ecosystem each and hold a show to display each one. Have each group describe the important aspects of their chosen ecosystem.
Hold a show-and-tell event in class; have all the class bring photos/magazine cut-outs or perhaps toy animals, pieces of plant life from the garden and family photos etc., to describe the basic elements of biodiversity.

