 Even though you may feel like spending every waking moment with a guy, you need to give him space. Spending time apart is healthy and having some time away from him will give him a chance to think about how great you are and miss you. So if your guy is busy when you ask him to do something, try to think about it as a good thing and be cool about it., Doing things to help make your guy comfortable is another way that you can increase his affection for you. Little things can help you accomplish this, such as keeping your fridge stocked with his favorite munchies or falling asleep with your head resting on his shoulder., A gentle touch may also increase a man’s feelings of affection for you. Try softly placing your hand in his when he reaches out to hold it. Softly stroke his hair when you are lounging around together. Or, give him a delicate kiss at the end of a date.You might also try wearing soft textured clothes, such as silk or microfiber. That way you will always feel soft when he touches you.
 It is great if you have lots of things in common and shared opinions, but there will eventually be something that you disagree on. When he says or does something that you disagree with, let him know. Sticking up for your opinion will show him that you think critically about things and you are not a doormat. This is a good quality and he will probably be impressed.For example, if your guy makes a claim that you disagree with, say something like, “You are entitled to your opinion, but I see the matter a bit differently.” Then explain why you hold the opinion that you do. Be respectful and try not to get too defensive. Just be straightforward and honest about what you think.
 Doing nice things for someone may seem like it will win you their affection, but the opposite is true. The person who does the nice things is the one who feels more affection. So let your guy do nice things for you.For example, you can allow your guy to open doors for you, accept gifts and favors from him, and ask him for favors now and then. Just be sure not to take advantage of your guy’s kindness. It is still okay for you to do nice things for him now and then too.
 Gauge if the time is right and if your feelings are authentic before sharing. You don't necessarily have to wait for him to tell you first, but be sure if you are the one to share how you feel first, that you are making a careful independent choice /.
 If you have been trying your hardest to get a guy to pursue you and he does not seem interested, move on to someone who will appreciate you. It may be that your guy is just not ready for that kind of relationship or that he is not as taken with you as you are with him.

