 Atherosclerosis – the accumulation of plaque in one or both renal arteries, leading the artery walls to narrow and harden – is by far the most common cause of renal artery stenosis. This plaque can be fat, cholesterol, or calcium deposits.


Atherosclerosis is responsible for 90% of all known cases of RAS.;
, Though most cases of renal artery stenosis occur because of atherosclerosis, some cases also develop due to fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). FMD is a disease that can cause abnormal cell growth on the renal arteries. This abnormal growth can narrow your arteries.
 Your age and gender play a role in determining your risk of renal artery stenosis.


For RAS caused by atherosclerosis, men and people over 50 years old carry the highest risk.
For RAS caused by fibromuscular dysplasia, women and people between 24 and 55 years of age carry the highest risk.
 For renal artery stenosis caused by atherosclerosis (which, remember, is fully 90% of all cases), your health history can reveal important risk factors. If you have a history of high blood pressure, high cholesterol or triglycerides, or diabetes, or if you are obese, your risk of RAS increases.


There is also evidence that a family history of early heart disease puts you at a higher risk of RAS.
 Atherosclerosis-related renal artery stenosis is also more likely to develop in people who smoke, drink, eat an unhealthy diet, and do not exercise.


In particular, a diet high in fat, sodium, sugar, and cholesterol has been shown to increase your risk of RAS.
 For many patients, the first sign of RAS is high blood pressure (hypertension). RAS is only one of many possible causes of high blood pressure, but it should be considered, especially if you have any of the risk factors, have no family history of hypertension, and do not respond to the standard high blood pressure medications. When RAS leads to high blood pressure, the condition is called reno-vascular hypertension (RVH).


Blood pressure is represented by two figures, separated by a slash (for example, 120/80 mm Hg). The first figure is the systolic pressure, and the second is the diastolic pressure. Hypertension is technically defined as a systolic pressure greater than 140 mm Hg and a diastolic pressure greater than 90 mm Hg.
 Aside from hypertension, the other major sign of renal artery stenosis is a decrease in your kidney function. Poor kidney function is usually diagnosed at the doctor’s office, but you can be aware of possible signs that your kidneys aren’t working as they should. These include:


an increase or decrease in urination
headaches
swelling (edema) in your ankles
fluid retention
drowsiness, fatigue, and trouble concentrating
nausea and vomiting
dry or itchy skin

, Most people with renal artery stenosis do not notice any symptoms at all until the RAS has become very severe. The best way to diagnose RAS is to get regular medical care.
 Get a yearly physical to make sure that your blood pressure and kidney function seem normal. Because most cases of RAS have no symptoms, this simple preventative measure is crucial.
 A nutritious diet can decrease your risk of developing renal artery stenosis. Consume plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean protein, and low-fat dairy products. Eat healthy fats (like olive oil, corn oil, safflower oil, and canola oil) in moderation. In addition, limit your intake of the following items:


salt and high-sodium foods (like canned foods, salty snacks, and frozen meals)
sugary foods (like desserts and many baked goods)
saturated fats (like those in red meat, whole milk, butter, and lard)
trans-fatty acids (like those in packaged baked goods, fried chips, and doughnuts)
hydrogenated vegetable oils (like margarine)

, You don’t have to do anything extremely strenuous; it’s fine to start by just taking a 30-minute walk three or four times a week. But moderate exercise can help you lower your risk of developing RAS.


Talk to your doctor before starting an exercise program, especially if you have any health problems or are obese.
If your schedule is very busy, you can incorporate exercise in small chunks of time: a ten-minute walk during your break, five minutes of jogging in place several times a day, etc.
 Having a body mass index (BMI) in the healthy range is very important for overall health and will lower your risk of developing renal artery stenosis. The diet and exercise information above will help you lose or maintain your weight, but you should also consult your physician about the best weight-loss options for your specific circumstances.
 Smoking increases your risk of developing RAS, so if you smoke, quit.


The process of quitting can be difficult, so consider the variety of products and medications that can help you. Talk to your doctor about the best choices for your specific circumstances, and look into support groups in your area.
 High levels of alcohol consumption can increase your risk, so limit your intake to one drink per night, at most.
 Everyone has some stress from time to time, but you can minimize its impact by staying calm, exercising regularly, practicing yoga or tai chi, listening to soothing music, and taking time to pray or meditate regularly.

