 Place the butter in a large, heavy skillet and set the pan on the stove over medium-high heat.Once the butter completely melts, turn the pan to coat the bottom.
If desired, you could use canola oil instead of butter. Allow the oil to heat for 30 to 60 seconds, or until it starts shimmering, before turning the pan and coating the bottom.
 Add the corn kernels to the hot butter in the skillet. Cook, stirring and tossing occasionally, until it becomes lightly and evenly charred.


If using frozen corn, thaw it before adding the corn to the pan. For a fresher alternative, you could use a large, smooth knife to slice the kernels off four or five fresh cobs.
The exact amount of cooking time will vary depending on how often you stir the corn and how charred you prefer it. If you toss the corn infrequently, the process should take 6 to 10 minutes. If you stir it frequently, the process may take 15 to 20 minutes.
 Add the minced garlic and minced jalapeño to the skillet. Stir to incorporate the new ingredients into the corn, then cook for another 30 to 60 seconds.


If you don't wish to use jalapeño, try using a red chile pepper or other small hot pepper. Regardless of the variety you choose, however, you should still remove the seeds and mince the pepper before adding it.When ready, the pepper and garlic should both seem lightly toasted and more fragrant.
 Remove the corn from the heat and transfer the mixture to a large mixing bowl. Add the cheese, mayonnaise, cilantro, chili pepper, and lime juice to the bowl, as well. Toss well to combine.


Cotija cheese is the most convention choice, but crumbled Feta cheese would be a good substitute. You could also use grated Romano or grated Parmesan cheese.
Adjust the seasonings as needed to match your personal sense of taste. For an interesting variation, you could also mix in other complementary seasonings and ingredients, like salt, green onion, and avocado.
 Allow the corn mixture to cool slightly, then enjoy it while it's slightly warm to room temperature. Serve with additional cotija cheese or wedges of lime, if desired.

