 Euro pillows, also called European squares, are larger square pillows that can add height and dimension to your pillow arrangement. For the best results, select Euro pillow shams that match your bedspread. Then fill these shams with pillows that are up to 1" (2.54 cm) larger, to create a full, rounded look.Euro pillows are a good choice if you do not have a headboard.
This pillows also look good against most headboards, so long as the headboard is taller than the pillows.
 For a sleek and stylish look, try using just three square pillows. Stand two large Euro pillows up against your headboard (or wall) side-by-side. Then place one square accent pillow right in the center.A 20 x 20" (50.8 x 50.8 cm) accent pillow is a good choice for this arrangement.
This look also works with a standard pillow in a sham instead of an accent pillow.
Select Euro shams and an accent pillow/standard pillow sham in complementary colors.
 To create a look with more depth and dimension, you can use two Euro pillows, two standard pillows, and one accent pillow. Stand your two Euro pillows up against your headboard (or wall). Place two standard pillows (with either shams or basic pillow cases) in front of these. Finish with a 20 x 20" (50.8 x 50.8 cm) square accent pillow centered in front.


This can also look good as a six pillow arrangement.
To use six pillows, use two accent pillows and place each one in front of one of the standard pillows.
If using six pillows, your accent pillows can be either square or rectangular (12 x 20"/30.48 x 50.8 cm).
 If you'd really like to create a dynamic pillow look, try mixing Euro pillows with standard pillows to create levels. For this look, you will need three Euro pillows and three standard pillows in shams. Stand two Euro pillows up against your headboard or wall. Follow with two standard pillows. Then place your third Euro pillow in the center, and follow with the last standard pillow.You may choose to use basic pillow cases on the rear standard pillows. Be sure the standard pillow in the front has a nice sham.
Match the colors/patterns of the rear two Euro pillows to the front standard pillow.
Match the shams on two standard pillows and single Euro pillow.

