 Highlights are a few shades lighter than your hair, while lowlights are a few shades darker. If you want a more subtle, natural effect, go about 2 shades darker. If you want a more dramatic effect, go 4 to 5 shades darker., Hair comes in two tones: warm or cold. If your hair is honey-colored, with yellow or orange tones, it is warm, and you should choose a warm-toned hair dye. If your hair is ashy or white blond, it is cool, and you should stick with a cool-toned hair dye.If you have warm-toned hair, try a dark caramel for the lowlights.
If you have cool-toned hair, try a taupe shade for the lowlights.
 You can place the lowlights all over your hair for a more realistic effect while still adding plenty of dimension to your hair. You can also create a more dramatic effect by using foil for the lowlights and blending them less. Another option would be to place them in certain areas.Like highlights, lowlights can help frame your face and add definition to your hair. Use this to your advantage!

, Unnatural colors, such as peach, purple, indigo, or pink, are all great choices. They work well on any complexion and can help add dimension to your hair without getting too dull. It should be the opposite of your base shade, however., Cover your counter with newspaper so that it won't get dirty. Mix the hair color with the developer in a bowl according to the instructions on the package. Have a hair dyeing brush handy and wrap a hair dyeing cape around you.

Be sure to wear a pair of plastic gloves for this process.
If you can't find a hair dyeing cape, use an old towel instead.
 The pieces need to be about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) wide and about the same length as your hair. Fold the top ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) on each piece (narrow side only). This will prevent the foil from scratching you when you put it in your hair., Use a rat-tail comb to create a horizontal part, going from one side of your head to the other. Clip the upper half of your hair up and out of the way and leave the bottom half loose. You can start as high or as low as you want to, depending on how many lowlights you want.If you plan on doing a different pattern, then section off your hair accordingly.
 Grab a thin, 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) wide section of hair from the exposed bottom layer. Weave the handle of the comb up and down through the hair, from one side to the next. Push the comb as close to your scalp as you can., Lift the comb up just enough to separate the top part of the woven hair from the bottom. Slide a piece of aluminum foil under it until the folded part touches your head. Set aside the rat-tail comb and let the strands of hair fall against the aluminum foil.Have your hair covering only half of the foil. Have the remaining 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) or so sticking off to the side.
 Dip your brush into the dye, wipe off any excess on the edge of the bowl, then brush it onto the hair.

You can coat the entire length of hair with dye or just part of it.
 Fold the bottom half of the foil upward so that all of your hair is sandwiched inside the foil. Next, fold the excess foil over the hair, covering it completely.If you only dyed the upper half of your hair, then you don't need to fold the bottom part of the aluminum foil up.
 How long this takes you depends on how many layers of lowlights you do. They should be in roughly the same area as your highlights., Once the dye has set, remove the foil pieces and rinse your hair out using cool water.Wash your hair with color-safe conditioner, then dry and style it as usual., This will help your dye job last longer while hydrating and nourishing your hair. It would also be a good idea to use a deep-conditioning hair mask once a week. This will help keep your hair soft, smooth, and shiny., Too much sun, heat, and pool/ocean water can cause the color to fade. Wear a hat when you step outside for long periods of time. You can also help the color last longer by applying pre-pool treatments that help repel water and lock in the color. This will help prevent the colors from fading in the pool or beach., After spending so much time and effort in creating them, it would be a shame if you didn't show them off. Half-up hairstyles are great for this. You can do a half-up ponytail or bun, or even a Dutch braid., You can also go longer between touchups, depending on how fast your hair grows.