 Get a conventional rod, so that the line is on top and not below your rod. This will give you more cranking power and allow you to put more pressure on it. Your rod should be six to seven feet, and capable of carrying a 50-100 pound test line., Grouper can get very large and weight a lot. Your reel will need a lot of cranking power so you can pull up the fish if it's a big. Depending on the waters you are fishing, getting a reel that can hold a 50-100 pound test line will ensure that your grouper won't break the line if you are bottom fishing or trolling.


Getting a reel with a low-gear ratio will make it easier on you as you crank the wheel., Braided lines have a high breaking strength and minimal stretch. Less stress will allow you to feel bites easier. Monofilament lines are not suitable when fishing for deep water grouper because they stretch a lot.If the depth of water is under 15 feet, you can use a monofilament line when fishing for grouper.Using a monofilament or fluorocarbon line for your leader is standard practice because of their transparency and stretch., Live bait is one of the best things you can use to lure grouper to your hook. You can fish for smaller native fish in the area, or you can go to the store to get live bait or purchase artificial lures. Grouper have large mouths and will go for larger baits, so keep this in mind when fishing for them.Grunts, pinfish, sardines, blue runner, squirrelfish, and white mullet are the best baitfish for grouper., Your rig will change depending on the size of fish you are trying to hook as well as your personal preference. Typically, you will have a sinker connected to a swivel, which will then connect to the leader which connects to your hook. Circle hooks are preferable when fishing for grouper.Make sure that your swivel is capable of handling a heavy load.


100lb ball bearing swivels are the best option when fishing for larger grouper.To learn more about setting up a rig for fishing, read Rig-a-Fishing-Line

Your leader should be at least four to six feet long.