 To have a Baha'i marriage you need the approval of all living parents of the prospective spouses. Even if you're sixty years old and your parent is eighty they still need to approve of the marriage. This practice eliminates the grounds for complaints from the proverbial "mother-in-law" and actually makes sense I think because new families today often need the support of their in-laws anyway. There is no eloping among Baha'is.;
, Once parents approve of the marriage, the couple consults with their Local Spiritual Assembly and applies to have the Baha'i marriage.


Two individuals approved by the Assembly need to be present to witness the vows of the couple. The vow consists of the words, "We will all verily abide by the Will of God" spoken by both in front of the approved witnesses.
The couple must also fulfill the civil law requirements in the area in which they reside.
 Interfaith marriages are encouraged. .


If say a Baha'i were to marry a Christian and the Christian wants a church ceremony the Baha'i "ceremony" is held on the same day in another location but not mixed in with the Christian ceremony say in the church.
 The couple may want a modest wedding party which avoids the expense and helps the new family.
 Here are some important selections from the Baha'i Writings that apply to marriage.


Marriage, among the mass of the people, is a physical bond, and this union can only be temporary, since it is foredoomed to a physical separation at the close.Among the people of Baha, however, marriage must be a union of the body and of the spirit as well, for here both husband and wife are aglow with the same wine, both are enamored of the same matchless face, both live and move through the same spirit, both are illumined by the same glory.
This connection between them is a spiritual one, hence it is a bond that will abide forever. Likewise do they enjoy strong and lasting ties in the physical world as well, for if the marriage is based both on the spirit and the body, that union is a true one, hence it will endure. If, however, the bond is physical and nothing more, it is sure to be only temporary, and must inexorably end in separation.
When, therefore, the people of Baha undertake to marry, the union must be a true relationship, a spiritual coming together as well as a physical one, so that throughout every phase of life, and in all the worlds of God, their union will endure; for this real oneness is a gleaming out of the love of God.(Compilations, The Compilation of Compilations vol II, p. 441)

, With regards to interfaith marriages, I believe I read in the Aqdas that the ceremonies needn't be separate, provided the simple obligations of the Baha'i marriage are observed? Also, within the same text, I believe I read that the couple must pay a fee to the House of Justice pertaining to the marriage?Below is what reference.bahai.org has to say about this:"j. The Dowry:i. Marriage is conditioned on payment of a dowry.ii.


The dowry is fixed at 19 mithqáls of pure gold for city-dwellers, and 19 mithqáls of silver for village-dwellers, depending on the permanent residence of the husband, and not of the wife.iii. It is forbidden to pay more than 95 mithqáls.iv.
It is preferable that a man content himself with the payment of 19 mithqáls of silver.v. If the full payment of dowry is not possible the issue of a promissory note is permissible." However, At present the Kitab-i-Aqdas dowry law is not binding on Baha'is outside of the Middle East.

