 Holding yourself in an erect posture can help make your boobs bigger. Stand up straight with your shoulders back and your arms at your sides., Many companies now offer padded bras or sculpted shapewear that can make the size of your breasts appear larger, while also keeping your boobs feeling and looking natural. Buy and wear either padded bras or more structured shapewear like a corset to enhance the size of your breasts.Get fitted for the right size bra by a professional. You can ask clerks in lingerie or department stores to fit you and suggest the best size bra for you.
Purchase a bra or shapewear with underwire to help further boost your bust.
Consider the different clothing that you want to wear the padded bras and shapewear under. Buy several different options for items such as low-cut tops or sweaters, dresses, or t-shirts.
Look at your boobs in the bra. The cups should be full but not spilling over the front or out the sides., Cookies and cutlets are silicone implants you place inside your bra to make your boobs look even bigger. Insert a pair of cutlets or cookies at a strategic place in your bra to achieve the specific boob enhancing effect. For example:Put the cookie on the outside of each breast for deeper cleavage
Put the cutlet under your boob to give heavier boobs more lift
Tape the cookie so that it touches just above your nipple, while still covering it, to make your boobs look perky and youthful.Double-up with cutlets and a padded bra for maximum boost.
 The type of top you wear can make a big difference in how your boobs look. Wearing fitted tops or ones with details can make your chest look bigger and more curvaceous.Buy tops that are fitted or have darts that cinch in your waist.Wear tops with detailing that can enhance the size of your boobs like ruffles.Wear a belt to cinch in your waist, which can make your boobs look bigger., Shadows and highlights can often help make your boobs look bigger. Apply highlighters or bronzers to strategic parts of your boobs to enhance their appearance.Dab a bit of highlighter on the upper area of your breast. Make sure to blend it in so that it isn’t obvious and reflects the light to make your boobs look bigger.Use a bronzer either between your breasts or to outline them to make them appear larger.