 Portion control is one of the major ways to not overeat. If you have trouble overeating even when you try to control your portions, try making your soup a larger portion of your meal. This can help you refrain from eating too much of the other foods.For example, try fixing your plate with your healthy portion sizes. Then, start with a cup of soup. If you finish your meal and are still hungry, eat an additional half cup of soup instead of dessert or a snack.
 Soups generally take longer to eat than other foods. Take your time eating the soup instead of trying to slurp it down quickly. Eating your food more slowly can help you avoid overeating by giving your body time to tell your brain you are full.You can try eating your soup 15 minutes before you eat your meal. Sip slowly and enjoy the tastes instead of rushing to get to the main course.
 Eating canned soups too frequently can be unhealthy. Canned soups are full of unnecessary salts and may contain additives, chemicals, and preservatives that are unhealthy. Look for low-sodium canned soups or make your own. An easy recipe is just combining no sodium broth, vegetables, and a lean meat.You can put low-fat steak or chicken breast in no sodium added vegetable broth, then add carrots, kale, and black beans for a quick, easy soup.
You can also make pureed vegetable soup. Start by cooking the vegetable in broth until it is soft and cooked. Then puree it into a soup. Try making puree soup with carrots, beets, spinach, kale, broccoli, or butternut squash.
 When adding soups to your meals to help control your eating, you should make sure the soups you eat are healthy. This means you should avoid soups that contain a lot of cheese or are cream-based, like cream of broccoli, cream of chicken, or chowders. Instead, make soups that are water or broth-based.


Choose vegetable, beef, or chicken broth or stock to use as a base. Try to choose broths that have reduced or low sodium and no artificial ingredients. Consider making your broth yourself by boiling chicken bones.
Look for healthy soups that are broth and water-based and filled with vegetables.

