 This writing prompt may be useful if you are feeling tired of your regular writing voice and would like to try to embody a different voice or perspective. You may select an animal you find strange or intriguing, or an animal you find repulsive or disturbing. Try to use an animal that you have a strong emotional response to, as this can help to inject some intensity into the poem.To write from the perspective of an animal, you may want to start by writing down what the animal may hear, smell, feel, see, or taste. You may also want to describe humans or other animals from the animal’s perspective.
If you were writing from the perspective of a snake, for example, you may focus on how a snake may feel the grass or dirt on its belly as well as how a snake may see humans from its perspective on the ground.
 Another shift in perspective that could be useful might be taking on the voice of a historical figure. This could be a known political figure that you admire or a person that once existed in the past, such as a runaway slave or a street sweeper in the turn of the century. Think of a historical figure that may have a unique perspective on their time and write about how they might go about their day.If you were writing from the perspective of a runaway slave in the South, for example, you may consider how this person might feel about being on the run, in danger, and in fear for their life. You may use sensory details to describe the slave’s attempt to escape the plantation and gain their freedom.
 Many childhood memories can be triggered by certain smells, from your mother’s baking in the kitchen to your brother’s smelly socks. Think of a distinct smell that colors your childhood and pull out a memory associated with that smell. You could then write about how the smell fits into the memory and why it is such a powerful smell in your memory.For example, maybe you associate the smell of bread baking in the oven with spending time with your father as a child. You may then try to describe the smell of the bread and your perspective on your father making bread in the kitchen as a child.
 Another inspiring exercise might be to set limitations for your poem by trapping your perspective in a confined space. This could be your bedroom with the door locked, a treehouse in your backyard, or a classroom with no windows. You may then try to write a poem about how it feels to be trapped in the space. You may describe the space itself as well as your emotions when you realize you cannot get out., Sometimes, inspiration can come from a tale you have heard before, such as a classic fairy tale. You may have a favorite fairy tale or a fairy tale that you find particularly interesting. Set the fairy tale in modern times and compose a poem about the reframed fairy tale.Another option is to set the fairy tale in a new context by switching around the traditional roles in the classic tale. For example, may instead of a prince saving sleeping beauty, sleeping beauty saves the prince. Or, maybe Little Red Riding Hood ends up eating the wolf.

