 Even if you already created a resume to nab an internship, give it a refresh before you apply for a full-time job. Resumes adhere to strict guidelines, but if you work within those parameters, they can say a lot about you. Write in clear, accessible language, and don’t be afraid to show yourself in a positive light.


Include relevant work experience and accomplishments.In many cases, customer service is relevant, even if it doesn’t directly pertain to IT.Emphasize your certifications and education, too.
Know you’ll have to tweak your resume based on the jobs you’re applying to. Stay flexible.Post your resume on job search and networking sites like Monster and LinkedIn.
 You don’t need to apply to every single IT job in a hundred-mile radius, but don’t waste time looking for the perfect job either. Read job descriptions thoroughly, and give your time to any that pique your interest and seem to mesh well with your skills and experience., Your resume shows a lot about your history of accomplishments, but your cover letter shows off your personality. There isn’t as much structure to a cover letter, but in general, you’ll want it written in businesslike language, focused on you and the job you want, and carefully edited and proofread.


Tailor the letter to the job. Mention details of the job description, and why they match up to your skills and talents.Emphasize the good qualities and things you’ve accomplished that might not be visible on your resume.For instance, if you’ve done relevant volunteer work as the webmaster of your church’s website, you can expand on it and explain its relevance to the job you’re applying for.
 If your cover letter and resume are up to scratch, you may be invited in for your first IT interview. Interviews in any field can be stressful, but with a little preparation, you’ll be able to breathe a lot easier. Focus on doing your homework before so you can concentrate on seeming confident in the interview.


Practice your answers to questions the night before. You won’t be able to predict everything you’re going to be asked, but know your chief strengths and weaknesses, your relevant experience, and how to describe yourself in a minute or less.Show up on time and dress neatly. IT workers are famous for a casual aesthetic, but you still want to look like you pay attention to detail.
Remember that you’re interviewing the company, too. Ask questions about the culture and expectations.Some examples are “What is the last person with this position up to now?” and “Do people in this position work in teams, or independently, more often?”

, IT is constantly changing, and once you have a job, you should continue growing along with the field. Keep up with evolving applications, hardware, and software that you'll need to utilize. Blogs and IT publications can be useful resources to find out what’s new, and so can your coworkers and professional network.<


Consider getting additional certifications outside of work, either to broaden your scope at your job or make you better at your current specialty.Keep your ears open about professional development opportunities offered within your company.