 For example, My Chemical Romance is famous for being a pop punk band. However, their first album is completely different from all their other records and, believe it or not, sounds more like old-school emo music than pop punk. You'll notice a lot of characteristics of hardcore punk or bands like Rites of Spring in songs like "Our Lady of Sorrows" and a lot of characteristics of indie-emo bands like Sunny Day Real Estate, Texas is the Reason and American Football. Not very many people know their debut, and its songs don't have that many views on YouTube.
 Many people tend to get their genres wrong.
 It is the MUSIC that matters. These things have NOTHING to do with the music. For example, just because a band has hair fringes, tight jeans, studded belts, etc doesn't mean they're an emo band. Just because a band has big, long, sprayed hair, bright makeup and lipstick, painted nails, spandex, etc doesn't mean they're glam metal. Some people might say that a certain genre must be underground. For example, some purists say that punk rock can't be popular. But ironically, punk bands like The Ramones,The Clashand The Sex Pistolswere mainstream and still are famous. Even Jawbreaker, an emo/punk band signed to major label Geffen Records. Some say that emo can't be mainstream. However, that's ironic because it is a genre of music, not a popularity contestant. Thus, only the music counts. Even bands like The Get-Up Kidsand Jimmy Eat Worldwere mainstream in the late 1990s and early 2000s and were really famous. Even Sunny Day Real Estate have appeared on an episode on the extremely famous show Late Night With Jimmy Fallonand an episode of the international TV show South Park.Some say emo can't be on TV, but ironically, bands like Sunny Day Real Estate,The Get Up Kidsand The Promise Ringhave been on MTV and Sunny Day Real Estate have been on VH1.
 For example, some people say the music genre pop is short for Popular. But it isn't. If that was true, then bands like Suicide Silence and Avenged Sevenfold, who have as many views as Austin Mahone, Cody Simpson and Paramore, would be considered pop. The metal band Pantera were mainstream in 1990s and they should be tagged as metal, not pop. It sounds like they'd call a death metal band pop if the band had over trillions of fans. Pop is just what was considered extremely catchy, and often upbeat music. The genre has been around since the 1940s and 1950s and 1940s/1950s pop is underground nowadays. One of the most biggest traits of pop music since the 1950s is the pop song. Pop music is not usually written, done and recorded as a symphony, suite, or concerto. The major form for pop music is the song and usually a song consisting of verse and repeated chorus. Usually the songs are between 2.5 minutes and 5.5 minutes in length. There have been exceptions. The Beatles' "Hey Jude" was a 7 minutes in length song. Although, in many cases, if the song is very long, an edited version is made for radio airplay like in the case of Don McLean's "American Pie." It was changed from its original 8.5 minutes length to over 4 minutes for radio airplay. On the other end of the spectrum, in the late 1950s and early 1960s some famous songs were under 2 minutes instead.