 Locate the colorful app icon with the letter “m” on your home screen or app drawer. Tap to launch the app and be taken to its Dashboard.


If you don’t have Murtastic yet, you can download it for free at the Play Store.;
, Murtastic Points allow you to buy Design Packs, which you use to add animations to your live wallpaper. Tap the first option on the Dashboard. The Murtastic Points page will display the number of points at the top and the two ways you can earn points at the bottom.


The first option is to “Watch videos to earn points.” This is perhaps a good option, considering that it’s free and you get 10 points per video. If you select this, You have to watch a few seconds of video. Once the video is finished, tap the X at the top right corner, and points will be added to the points tracker at the top of the screen. Note that there may be times that no videos are available. You will then have to wait another day to try this option out again.
The second option is for you to “Buy 300 points for US$1.” Tapping this will open the Google Checkout window. Select your payment option (credit/debit card, PayPal, or other payment option you set), and tap “Buy.” 300 points will then be added to your points tracker at the top of the screen.
 To add animation to your live wallpaper, you use Design Packs. These are theme-based animated cliparts that you can download for a few Murtastic Points. On the Dashboard, tap “Browse Design Packs” to open the Design Packs page.


On the Design Packs page, you will see the names of the Design Packs to the left of the screen with its corresponding cost to the right, which range from free to 100 points.
There are different Design Packs you can choose from—love themed, different callouts, autumn themed, nature themed, cute themed, and so much more. To download, just tap on the Design Pack you want.
 Tap “Create new” on the Dashboard. Its the one of a brush with a “T” and a plus sign.


The Create New screen will display the message “Hi! I’m a new wallpaper! Ready to be Murtastic?” You can tap on the different tabs at the bottom of the screen to explore different options.
 Tap the first tab, “Design Packs,” to open a list of available Design Packs. Tap on the Design Packs you would like to use.


It is important to select a Design Pack before customizing your live wallpaper, as it will determine what you can select for images and animations.
 Tap the “Edit Text” tab and a text field will appear on the screen where you can enter any words you want to appear on your live wallpaper.


When you’re done, tap the Back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Tap “Text Color” and a color palette will appear. Tap from the options the color you want for the text.


When you’re done, tap the Back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Tap “Text Size” and the current text size will appear on the screen. Tap the arrow up button to increase the text size or the arrow down to decrease it.


Since the screen will be somewhat transparent, you will be able to see the changes in the background.
When you’re done, tap the Back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Tap “Font” from the tabs and a list of available fonts will be displayed. Tap the one you want to use, and then tap the back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Tap “Wall Color” and a color palette will appear. Tap from the options the color you want for your live wallpaper’s background.
 If you don’t want to have just a plain color to be the background of your live wallpaper, you can opt to use an image instead. Tap “Wall Image” to open a menu for this option, and tap the Gallery icon at the top to open your device’s Gallery. In your Gallery, select the photo you want to use as a background.


After selecting an image, you will be taken back to the Wall Image menu where you can adjust the image more by setting it to “Scale to Fit,” “Stretch to Fit,” or “Scale to Cover.” Just tap on the option you want to set the selected image as the wallpaper background.
When you’re done, tap the Back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Tap the “Animations” tab to open a menu on the various animations you can choose from. Note that the animations are based on the Design Pack you selected.


Tap on an animation for it to be added to the wall. Tap on as many animations as you want. When you’re done, hit the Back button of your device.
Adjust the placement of the animations you selected by dragging them on the screen.
If you want to delete an animation, tap it and then tap the X icon that appears near it.
 If the Design Pack you selected contains images, you can add them to your wallpaper too. Just tap the “Images” tab and tap on the image you want to use. You can select as many images you want.


Adjust the placement of the image you selected by dragging them on the screen.
If you want to delete an image, tap it and then tap the X icon that appears near it.
 You can add any number of pages to your wallpaper. This is useful if you want different images, colors, or animations to transition when you’ve set the live wallpaper on your device.


Tap the “Add page” tab at the bottom of the Create New screen, and a blank page will be added. Continue adding as many pages you want.
Once you’ve added a page, customize it by adding text, wall color/image, and animations.
 Do this by swiping to the page you want to delete and then tapping the “Delete page” tab.
 Transition time refers to the time (pause) between pages or between typing of letters (for text). Tap “Others” and select your option.


To adjust the pause between pages, tap the minus (decrease) or plus (increase) sign of the first option.
To adjust the pause between typing, tap the minus (decrease) or plus (increase) sign of the first option.
When you’re done, tap the Back button of your device to go back to the Create New page.
 Once you’re done with all the modifications and are happy with your live wallpaper, you tap “Finish” at the top right corner of the screen. On the Congratulations screen, tap “Set my wallpaper.”


A preview of your live wallpaper will appear, complete with animations. If you’re satisfied with how it looks, tap “Set wallpaper” at the bottom. When you go back to your device’s home screen, you will see the live wallpaper you created!

