 Try not to do something like "'s blog." If your blog is about books, you might choose something like "The Book Blog." Taglines, descriptions of your blog, are also important. They tell people what exactly your blog is about.
 Keep your computer organized with the various bookmarks and folders needed to keep up with all of the blogs and sites you wish to keep track of or follow. Make regular comments on them, whenever you have valuable input.
 Everyday chores such as vacuuming and washing dishes are something everyone does. Most readers aren't going to be interested in reading about these chores. Of course, if you can present a unique spin on doing chores, go for it. Choose topics that you know people want to read about, because they are interested in them. Your goal is to have a unique idea that will cause people to come to your blog and stay.
 Do you believe in the idea that a photo can tell a story more effectively than words? This is extremely true in writing a blog. Pictures you post can show more than your words can portray. For this reason, you should include as many images as you can within your blog.
 You will find that people find a way to criticize posts about any topic. Constructive criticism is a great way to see where a blog is lacking. Any that don't offer something of value, you should reply to let them know you've read it and forget about it. This will demonstrate that you are a mature blogger, which will positively affect your readership.
 Sites like Facebook and Twitter, among others, will give you a big advantage and add to your recognition, credibility and popularity as a writer. These portals give you multiple options to reach out and communicate with your readers and draw more followers in.
 Include the goal of using your blog to accumulate email addresses for a mailing list. This list can make you lots of money down the road. You may regret not starting your mailing list if you wait until a later time.
 Do not overlook the power of social media as the latest and best way on the internet of connecting you with the people you want reading your blog. If you want your blog to be a success, you have to post your articles to places like Twitter and Facebook.
 These are called pingbacks and automatically leave a comment on the post you linked to along with a link to your blog. Other people will click on it and check out your blog., The above advice offers several proven ways for increasing the audience, and by extension, the success of your blog.

