 You will need one small object such as a pen cap, a little aluminum wrap/paper ball, an eraser etc. Don't forget a ruler that can bend. The best one to use is those plastic rulers that are sort of thin. Wood rulers won't work. Those special bendy rulers might work if you put a little more effort and control into it.
 Put your opposite hand that you write with on the bottom of the ruler. Grab the top of it. When you place a small object on the ruler, you might want to grasp your object with a finger. But remember...when in the flinging stage, you must let go of your object, or, the ruler might go flipping in the air. Also, if you do it incorrectly, the ruler will flip in the air.
 Remember, the farther you bend it, the more force. It could go 20 feet (6.1 m) in the air if you know what you're doing! But, don't bend it too much, you'll break your ruler...which would suck.
 Bend it back just a little more, and don't lose your object. If you do, just repeat the steps over again.
 Let your writing hand which should be on the top go, and, if you did it properly, your object will go flying.
 It shouldn't be too big. 8–9 inches (20.3–22.9 cm) wide is enough. It should be thick, too, for better results.;
, One end should be slightly bigger. It should be the left end. Reverse if you are a lefty.
 The object that works best for this method is one of those cap erasers you put on pencils.
 You don't need that much pressure, just enough. Make sure the cap eraser on the left is still perfectly on the left side. You can hold it down with your other hand if it slips.
 Be sure to still put pressure on the right side. Pull the left side all the way back to the table. It should have been high in the air. The higher it was when you just applied pressure to the right side, the more power. But if it was too high, then it is not going to work too well.
 The cap eraser won't go that high, but still, it's entertaining. This version is a little trickier to get the hang of it. But don't worry, you will.

