 When you ask for a promotion, you should be prepared with specific details about your contributions to the company as well as with an explanation of what you're asking for. If you go into a meeting and just say, "I want a promotion," it's likely that your request won't be taken seriously. If you want to plan ahead, then you should be prepared to explain the following points:


Make a list of all of your accomplishments. Think about all of the things you have done for the company in the past six months, year, or even the past five years, depending on how long you've been at the same position. Write down any projects you worked on, any sales goals you've surpassed, or any innovative ideas you've had that have helped move the company forward.
It's important to be as specific as possible. If you can quantify exactly how much your projects, sales, or general work has helped the company, this will make your case much stronger.
Prepare to show that you've been exceptional. You don't just want to say that you've done a good job, but to prove that you've gone above and beyond expectations.;
, Many people want to advance in the company and get a big promotion, but they find that there's nowhere for them to go because of the corporate structure. If there is a specific job opening, then this part is easy, because you can apply for it. However, if there is not, determine a need for a position where you can improve the day-to-day business operations of the company by being effective in that new role.


Once you've found the position -- or created a new position -- you'll need to find examples to prove that you're the perfect person for the job. If you want to be a team leader, show your boss how well you've done when leading smaller projects.
 Many people are afraid to ask for a promotion because they can't seem to find the "perfect time" to do it. Well, there's no perfect time to ask for a promotion, but there are definitely some moments that are better than others. The best time to do this is during your yearly or semi-annual review, which is the perfect opportunity to discuss your accomplishments and future potential. But if you don't want to wait, here are some other points to consider:Consider the situation in your department or team. Has your department recently merged with another, and is there a lot of overall change in the company? If so, then you may use this as an opportunity to be a part of that change. However, if your department is laying off a ton of people due to the merge and the environment is very stressful, then you may want to hold off until things quiet down.
If your company has been struggling and losing a lot of money, or you and your fellow employees are struggling to make a major work deadline, then you should wait until things calm down a bit.
Understand who your boss or superiors are before asking. Many people have a "way" they like to converse and do business. This way is different for each individual. Determine when the right time is to ask the boss about your promotion. For instance, if she is about to take a two week vacation, she might be in a good mood. If she just lost a major account, looking to promote yourself may not be wise at that juncture.
Don't wait for the perfect time for too long. If you've been wanting to have the conversation for months but there's always a "good" reason to wait, then it's time to be less picky and to start moving forward.
 Once you've figured out what you're going to say about your accomplishments, know what position you want, and have an idea of when to have the conversation, it's time to get the ball rolling. Don't just barge into your manager's office in the middle of the day and ask to have the talk. Instead, have a conversation with your manager or send a quick email saying that you'd like to discuss your performance and potential.Once you talk to your manager, he'll have an idea about what you'll want to say, so he won't get caught off guard during the meeting.
 Though you don't need to say exactly how much money you'd like to make when you ask for a promotion, you should be prepared to talk about it if it comes up. Find out exactly how much you're worth, both in your company and the world at large. Look at Salary.com and PayScale.com and figure out what you should expect at your company as well as with the competition.