 Take a break from what’s bothering you by re-focusing your energy on positive, relaxing, and/or enjoyable activities. People who can refocus on positive activities instead of dwelling on unwanted thoughts or stress tend to be less depressed.Some relaxing ways you can take a break include:Taking a bath.
Reading a book.
Playing a game.
Going to see a movie with a friend.;
, Exercise is a healthy distraction for mind and body. It can be as simple as taking your dog for a walk, doing jumping jacks and stretching inside your home, or going for a run. Try taking an exercise class that will allow you to focus all of your attention on specific body movements. Some good classes for staying focused on your body are Zumba, spinning, and Tai Chi., Go outside to get out of your head. A change of scenery will leave you feeling more alert and energized. Getting outside, especially in a peaceful setting, will help to clear your mind from what’s bothering you.If you can’t get outside, or if the outdoors aren’t very peaceful where you are, try imagining a safe, peaceful place you enjoy or would rather be.
 Engaging in something creative can be fun, calming, and distracting. Creating something will give you a confidence boost and a sense of accomplishment. Focus on trying to have fun with the process of whatever it is you choose, rather than the end result. You can try:


Painting
Drawing
Gardening
Journaling
Taking photos

, At a certain point or in certain situations, it may be too difficult or detrimental to your health to distract yourself from what’s bothering you. Reach out for help from friends, family, doctors, or mental health professionals when your stress about a person or situation becomes too much to handle on your own. Some examples of things you should not ignore include:Experiencing or remembering trauma, such as family violence, an accident, or sexual assault.
Experiencing thoughts to harm yourself or others.
Experiencing physical and emotional symptoms of depression or anxiety.

