 One reason why many people don't reach their financial goals or aren't able to save money is because they don't know what they want to do with the money. Do you want to save for college? Buy your own laptop? Buy a car? Deciding what you want to do with your money is the first step on the path to saving it.If you're having trouble figuring out what you want to do, consult the people who know you best: your parents and close friends. Brainstorming with other people who know you very well can help shake loose your own thoughts and re-awaken your dreams and goals., Once you know what you want to do with your savings, you can figure out how much you should be saving each week or month, depending on when your allowance, paycheck or other source of income is made available to you.


A good rule of thumb is to save $1 out of every $3 you get. Saving one-third of your income might seem like a lot, but it's the only way to really build up your savings into something. Saving one-third or thirty percent of whatever money you receive is one of the best saving strategies out there. Once you start, it will become a habit.Also consider how much you want to have and when. This will help determine how much you need to save each week or month. If you want to have $100 in one year and you get $5 allowance a week, setting aside about $2 each week will get you to that goal.
 Getting a savings account is a great way to keep your money save and even earn a little interest on what you save. In addition, having a bank account can encourage good savings habits.If you're under 18 years old, your parents will probably need to be on the account. A joint account is one way that many banks offer accounts to kids. Your parent(s)'s name(s) and your name will be on the account for liability and legal purposes. This may seem like a downside, but it may also make it harder for you to spend your money at will since your parents will know if you make a withdrawal.Look for banks with minimal fees and balance requirements. Many banks have a "Young Saver" option with low or no fees.Keep in mind that some banks may only offer custodial accounts, based on the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act (UTMA). These accounts are investment vehicles that have restrictions on when a child can gain access to the account and its funds (typically 18 or 21, depending on the state). If this is the only option at your bank, try looking into another bank for a standard savings account or waiting until you are a bit older.If you don't want to open up a bank account for whatever reason, you can create your own "bank" by putting your money in a locked container and giving your parents or another trusted person the key. Better yet, so long as you trust your parents to control your money, they can open a new account in their names and deposit the money for you.
 Developing and sticking to a budget is only possible if you know how much you have to work with. Figure out and keep track of how much money you have coming in from different sources (e.g., allowances, gifts, earnings, babysitting money, etc.).


If you have a bank account, keeping track of how much money you have is easy. You can find your bank statements online or you can go into your bank branch and ask. Print and keep your bank statements in a binder to help keep track of your savings progress. This will also be useful down the line when you have to do your taxes or keep track of your mortgage.
There are also smartphone apps that make it easy for you to deposit money into your account. Many banks now allow clients to take photos of checks with their smartphones and deposit them into their bank accounts., Save receipts or keep a chart of all purchases made, even food. List the date, item, and amount spent. That way, you know exactly where your money has gone.


There are also personal finance apps that you can download to your smartphone and use to log your spending. Some even let you take photos of receipts that are then calculated in the app. This is a great way to learn about your spending habits.