 Pin down some paper and start drawing butterflies, vases, symmetrical objects, letters, shapes, and whatnot. Although your writing will be awful at first, write a couple of lines every day from the start. In this illustration, the two handed drawing technique "Hand Mirroring" is being used by the artist.;
, It is possible to write with your non-dominant hand –– it takes nothing more than practice and determination. Your hand may start to strain at the beginning, but just take a break and try again later. The tension will eventually go away.


Use a pen that flows easily, to aid in writing. Also, some good quality paper helps to make the experience more enjoyable.
Do not "claw" your hand. It may be tempting to grasp the pencil as tightly as possible, causing your hand to ball up like a claw, but this will only stop you from writing effectively and can end up hurting. Take note of how your hand is positioned and loosen it up every now and then as you write.
 Every day, write out the alphabet using your non-dominant hand in lowercase, uppercase and cursive (if you know how). At first your hand will be shaky and the letters won't be nearly as neat as your other hand's but keep practicing and your writing will start to get better.


If you're a leftie (a left-handed person) attempting to write with your right hand, turn the page 30 degrees counterclockwise. If you're a rightie (a right-handed person) attempting to write with your left hand, turn the page 30 degrees clockwise.
 This gives you a clear visual cue to the method and helps your brain to picture the same action for your non-dominant hand.
 For example:


Use your opposite hand to write "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog. The lazy dog decides to wake up and be non-lazy.", or similar sentences for practice. (The sentence suggested is a good one for practice because it is a pan-gram, meaning that it's a phrase that contains all of the letters of the English alphabet.)
Another way: Find a small paragraph and practice writing the paragraph over and over again. Also, look at the difference in the writings, and see which letter you need to get better at.
 To take this all to the next level, write from left-to-right (normal direction) with your right hand, and from right-to-left with your left, writing backwards sentences that look correct when held up to a mirror. (This is called boustrophedon.) This is useful because righties are used to writing "from thumb to pinkie", and may write more naturally with their left hand while writing backwards.
 Soon, you'll be writing as fluently with your non-dominant hand, with very few mistakes.

