 To keep your brain healthy, you need to keep your body healthy. Regular exercise helps improve critical thinking and memory retention. It also gives your brain a break from work-related thinking, which may help spark creativity.Take a walk. Exercise does not need to strenuous to engage the brain. A walk for just two miles can help the brain engage in new ideas.
The brain benefits from most forms of cardiovascular exercise. Find something that you enjoy enough to do regularly, or create a varied schedule that may include walks, runs, biking, dancing, or workout classes. Aim for at least one hour of cardio at least three times a week., Developing a healthy diet benefits many of your internal organs, including your brain. Eating a balanced diet maximizes your brain function both throughout the day and over the course of your life.


Some studies suggest that food rich in omega-3 fatty acids and flavonoids help improve concentration and fight memory loss. Cold-water fish, leafy greens, nuts, and flaxseed oil are good sources.Getting sufficient B-vitamins, particularly Folate, B6, and B12 may help slow cognitive impairment. Get folate and B6 from leafy greens and whole grains, and B12 from animal products such as meat, fish, eggs, or dairy.Broccoli, cabbage, and mustard greens may help prevent and fight neurodegenerative diseases, though further research is needed to confirm their efficacy.As a general rule, maintaining a balanced diet rich in vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and complete proteins gives your brain all of the power it needs for healthy daily function.
 Ensuring that you get enough sleep every night may contribute to stronger memory, promote productivity, and improve attention span.Treat a good night’s sleep like a necessity. Think of it the same way you would think about making sure you are fed or that you have water.
Create a bedtime routine to help you prepare for sleep, and stick to it. This may include taking a shower, brushing your teeth, reading for a set period of time, or anything else that helps you feel relaxed and prepared for bed. Keep it consistent.
Aim for at least 6 hours of sleep a night. A quality night’s rest is unlikely with fewer than 6 hours of sleep.Do not oversleep. While sleep is important, oversleeping may also negatively impact memory. Try not to exceed 9 hours a night under regular circumstances.