 You can use a common oil, like olive or canola oil, to extract essential oils from plant material. You can also use ethyl alcohol to extract the oils, if you would prefer. Both methods use the same basic process. To start, gather the right supplies.You will need plant material in the form of herbs of flowers, depending on the type of essential oil you're making. For basil essential oil, for example, use basil herbs. For rose essential oil, use rose petals. You can find herbs or flowers at a local grocery store or florist. Make sure any flowers you use are grown organically, as pesticides may be harmful to the skin. Get a large amount of whatever herb or flower you're using, as only a small amount of essential oils can be extracted at a time.
You will need two non-metal containers, such as ceramic crocks. You'll also need a strainer. You will need sealable bottles to store your mixture when you're finished.
You'll need a carrier oil, like canola or olive oil. If you want to use alcohol instead, aim for ethyl alcohol. If you cannot find this, you can also use unflavored vodka.;
, To start, pour a portion of your oils into your non-metal container. Pour enough to coat the bottom of the container, and then pour the alcohol or oil into the container. Pour just enough to cover the plant material completely., Find a safe place to store your container. Your container should be set somewhere where it's unlikely to be knocked over. You should keep it out of reach of children and pets. You'll be leaving the container in this place for 24 to 48 hours. If you want stronger essential oils, opt to set the container aside longer.A high cabinet, which can be closed easily, is a good option if you have small children or pets.
Let other household members know you're making essential oils so they know not to disturb the container.
 After the allotted time has passed, remove the container from its storage place. Take your strainer and pour the mixture through the strainer into another, similarly sized container.Press the plant material lightly with your hand to squeeze out any excess liquid. This will result in more oils being released.
If you're using a large container, have someone else hold the other container while you pour to make sure nothing spills.
 At this point, your mixture should be giving off the scent of your chosen plant material. However, only a small amount of essential oil has been extracted so far. Rinse out the original crock and add another layer of plant material. Pour the fragrant mixture on top of the plant material., Once again, set the container aside for 24 to 48 hours, and then strain the mixture. Repeat this until the mixture gives off a very strong scent of your chosen plant material. In general, it will take 6 to 8 rounds of treatment before you get a satisfactory batch of essential oils., Once you're finished, pour the oil into one or two sealable bottles. Tighten the bottles securely and store the oils in a cool, dark place in your home.Essential oils can be harmful if swallowed. If you have young children capable of opening bottles, make sure to store your oils out of their reach. You should also be careful not to store the oils out of reach of household pets, like dogs, that could chew through a container.

