 For example, BM (Black Market) items on your horse can increase the price, depending on what items it has. Usually the more passes the BM items cost, the higher you can raise the price of your horse.


People collect retired and non-retired coats (Golden Apple) so horses with coats can bring a very high price.
There is more demand for Instant Pass Horses and Morpheus Arm horses than ever so they are a good choice to sell.
5th Elements are very rare now so they would also be a good choice to sell.
Shutterfly Splint boot horses bring about 70,000 equus at the auctions and lots of passes in the private sales which makes them very easy to sell.;
, If you've trained your horse and worked on its skills, it'll be worth more than if it has little or no training, and more people will want to buy it.
 Horses with GPs of 350 are worth a lot less than horses with higher GPs. The higher your horse's GP is, the easier it'll be to sell.
 Decide what is good or special about your horse that could affect the price. For example, if it's a unicorn, it's almost guaranteed to be sold, as unicorns are fairly rare. Also, if your horse has Greenstars, it'll be easier to sell.
 Taking everything you've just read into account, decide on a fair starting price for your horse. For example, if your horse has little to no skills and no BM items, start it at 500 equus; that way it's almost guaranteed you'll sell it on the first try. If your horse has skills, BLUP, and a BM item, raise the price, but don't go overboard. Having a 30,000 equus price will turn most people off unless your horse is truly spectacular.
 If you blup a horse to 100, it is sold very fast for about a pass.


Train the horse in every bar (may take a lot of time).
Enter the horse in a lot of competitions.
When you see that the horse has 100 blup, breed it with another 100 blup pure breed of its own breed.
Then sell it for 500 equus and 1 pass. It works all the time.
 Check to see how good your horse is, as in the first part.


If it is just a regular horse you can sell it in direct sales for 1500-3000e depending on how popular the breed is.
If your horse has BMI such as Helios ray or Medusa's blood you can sell them for 4000-7000e depending on the value and amount of the items.
If your horse is a Golden Apple horse you can sell it for 60000-75000e or more if there are more BMI.
If you horse is a retired golden apple horse you can sell it for 100,000-250,000e, again depending on how many items are on your horse.

