 Alternatively, head straight for your computer, tablet device or typewriter, if you prefer.;
, (A whole list of mystery writers can be accessed on Wikipedia at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mystery_writers.) Highlight the passages, words and phrases you like best. Don't use a highlighter pen in a beloved book, just put bookmarks in to mark the pages you want to remember or sticky notes, or light pencil marks that can be gently erased. Read the highlighted parts again to nourish your mind and help you to get inspired.
 Now that you've been inspired by others, it's time to work out your own ideas and make the most of that inspiration. For a mystery story, consider these important elements:


What is the mystery?: Is something or someone missing? Has a dead body been found? Are people or pets mysteriously disappearing? Has an odd new person turned up in the town/school/local volunteer's group and caused havoc? Are things glowing a weird color at night? Is someone dog-napping? Has a supernatural event taken place? Do the neighbors seem possessed? Has a mysterious person turned up claiming to be royalty (think Princess Caraboo)? Has something precious being stolen? And so forth...
Develop a hook to get the reader reeled in from the beginning.
Who will the characters be? Who are the main protagonist and antagonist? Will you narrate in first or third person?
What is the problem and the ultimate solution? Will there be mini solutions along the way?
What clues will you lay along the trail as you write? Don't forget the red herrings too, those hints that seem like clues but are actually designed to put the reader right off the scent. For example, a good red herring is the alibi the accused doesn't wish to reveal, for fear of being embarrassed or entangled in another totally unrelated issue, but which makes the accused appear guilty in relation to the mystery needing solving.
Will the ending resolve everything or leave things on a cliffhanger? What about bringing everything to a climax midway, only to then have the reader's expectations dashed and have to get to the end before everything really becomes clear?
Will you introduce flashbacks?
What is the "action" element of your story? Will you include travel, transportation (think fast cars, trains or jets), fighting, wit-challenging discussions, chases, hiding out, parkour, or whatever else?
What twists will occur, such as a good character turning out bad, and vice versa?
Write out descriptions of the mystery, the setting, the characters, to help you to develop the world in which your mystery will unfold.
 After reading, think for hours. Think of the three basic parts of your mystery action story, then plot out the mystery from start to finish in your writing plan. You might like to use an app for developing a timeline or similar device to assist with the creation of your plot. Also be sure to developed well fleshed-out characters, working out now what sorts of traits they have and their roles in the mystery.


The beginning –– in what way will you introduce the characters, the mystery plot and the setting?
The middle –– seek to avoid any sense of lag or too many tangents. While a few tangents are essential to throw the reader off the scent, too many can make it over-complicated, unwieldy and overly heavy for the reader. Some lighter moments, even humor, can help to ease the tension and keep the book flowing nicely too. After all, whether or not there is a mystery involved, people still need to eat, sleep and get along together.
The end –– solve the mystery, wrap up the story and decide which characters are for the chop and which are for the sequel. The best ending in a mystery is the unexpected, so work on developing logical twists that hold water.


Once you have decided on these, you can work on developing your characters, locations and those mysterious and action packed elements.
 Try to write every day if you are planning to write a novel. Ask for and accept help from others. This may include family, friends and teachers.


Writing help can be found on wikiHow, with such articles as how to write a novel, How to overcome writer's block and How to write creatively.
 Focus on enjoying the writing journey as much as completing it, so as to gain fulfillment from the experience. This is a labor of love, so don't rush it if that's not your thing; however, it if does come to you quickly, that's fine too. If you reach dead ends while writing, retrace your steps to work out which direction would be better to take at the stage where the story seems to go stagnant or awry.
 If you get to points in your writing where you're not sure if it's mystery or plain obvious subterfuge, talk it through with others. Explain the story thus far and the dilemma that you've placed the character or characters in and whether your suggested solution or next step is plausible. Talking about it out loud can help you to clarify the sense of its direction and those listening to you may have some excellent suggestions for strengthening the mystery tale.
 After you've finished writing the story, have a break from it to gain some perspective. After the break, go through it sincerely and objectively. As you read it again, consider whether there are pieces that you could honestly have written better. Rewrite these if required.
 Take on board the elements of their suggestions that you consider would improve your story, making it more robust and believable.
 Then edit it using computer if further edits are required.
 Your school newspaper may like to publish your story or you can look for story sharing websites to submit your work to.

