 Pick a certain phrase that motivates you and repeat this in your head before, during, and even after each run. Keep it short and positive in tone. You might say, “I can do this,” or “Keep it going.” Once you establish a breathing pattern, you can say this phrase in between breaths to keep the pattern going., Dig back into your memory and recall the last time you felt like stopping during a run. Then, recall what happened when you kept going. You can also think about general moments in life that you are proud of, such as when you graduated from college., Everyone hits the pavement for a unique set of reasons. Instead of focusing on the negatives, like leg soreness, think about what you get out of running. Maybe hitting the track makes you healthier and more able to play with your children. Perhaps marathons let you express your competitive instincts., Most of us have a particular type of music or a certain artist that gets us pumped up and excited. Create a playlist on your iPod or other device that includes songs to motivate you to pick up the pace. You could also include songs or genres that are inspirational, such as gospel. Keep adjusting your playlist until it fits your needs and refresh it regularly as well.If you are running a longer distance, like a marathon, you may want to test out podcasts or even audio books as well. Just make sure to keep up the pace as you listen.
 Focus on a nice, cool bottle of Gatorade waiting for you after the run. Or, perhaps picture yourself enjoying a soothing bath. The reward itself should be enticing enough to catch and hold your interest. It should also be attainable. Many social runners often envision the gathering awaiting them post-run.Some runners actually build a reward in to their route. For example, they purposefully go by an ice cream shop toward the end of their run to grab a quick cone.
 If you are in a relationship, see if your partner is interested in joining you on runs. Or, ask a friend or acquaintance. Go to a gym and find another runner who is looking for a partner. You don’t have to run at exactly the same pace to benefit from running with one another. In fact, they can even just start off with you and then separate. Or, if they are faster, they may push you to excel., Contact your local gyms or rec centers to see if they have an active running group in place. Or, hit your local running store and ask if they know of any running clubs that are currently active. Participating in a group will keep you accountable and it will also provide an outlet for any questions that you may have.You can also join digital running groups that allow you to enter your run information online and talk with others. These can be a good option if you don’t feel like starting up your own face-to-face club.

