 Xenadrine contains green coffee, which is not recommended in some situations. Do not take Xenadrine if you have any of the following conditions:Pregnancy.
Anxiety.
Diabetes.
Diarrhea.
Glaucoma.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Irritable Bowel Syndrome.
Osteoporosis.;
, The Xenadrine manufacturers advise dieters to take this weight loss pill with a glass of water.This is an important component of taking this pill, and any other pill that you are required to swallow. Water lubricates the throat so that the pill passes safely into the stomach. It also aids in digestion.Water prevents ulcers and damage to the stomach lining.
If a pill is not swallowed with water, you risk getting it stuck in your throat and burning a hole through the esophagus. This can be fatal., To be most effective, Xenadrine should be swallowed with a glass of water about thirty minutes before a meal, either breakfast or lunch. In other words, Xenadrine should be taken on an empty stomach.The herbal elements in Xenadrine make it a diuretic.This means it prompts your body to flush out water more efficiently.Most diuretics are designed to make your kidneys put more sodium into your urine. This sodium pulls water from your blood as it exits the body, which makes you lose weight.
 Currently there are two different types of Xenadrine products on the market. For Xenadrine Core, take only one pill the first two days.For Xenadrine Ultimate, take one pill twice a day for the first three days.After the first two days of taking Xenadrine Core, you can increase your dosage to one pill two times per day (two pills per day). Do not take more than two of the Xenadrine Core pills in 24 hours.After the first three days of taking Xenadrine Ultimate, you can increase your dosage to two capsules two times per day (four pills per day)., Since a large component of both types of Xenadrine is caffeine, it is most effective if you don’t take it within 5 hours of your bedtime. To be safe, avoid taking Xenadrine before dinner. Instead, take Xenadrine just before eating breakfast and lunch., In order to see the best results, maintain your Xenadrine regimen for 60 days, or two months (about 8 weeks). It takes time for any new diet or exercise routine to affect your physical body, Xenadrine included.Stop taking Xenadrine after using it for 60 days. Short term use of this diet pill can have excellent weight loss results. Long term use can cause your body to adapt to the substance and stop the weight loss. It can also lead to chemical dependence.It takes about four to eight weeks to start seeing toned muscles after beginning an exercise program., A diet pill like Xenadrine will probably stimulate your metabolism enough to make you want to move more. But you should still be purposeful about weight loss. For best results, combine Xenadrine with a healthy diet and regular exercise routine.Find a healthy eating lifestyle that works for you.
Read about different diets and ask friends and your doctor for their advice.
Talk to your doctor or a physical trainer to find the best exercises.
 It is always important to find out what ingredients are present in something that you put in your body. You should find out of you have an allergy to anything, and you should know what each ingredient will do to your body.


In Xenadrine core, you will find the following ingredients:Green coffee bean extract
Caffeine anhydrous
L-Theanine
White kidney bean extract
Mangosteen pericarp powder
Coleus root extract
Perilla seed extract
Yohimbe bark extract
Caraway seed extract
Gotu kola whole herb extract


The capsule is made of gelatin and titanium dioxide, as well as mica, FD&C blue no. 1, silicon dioxide, and magnesium stearate.
Ask your doctor if Xenadrine is safe to take if you have an allergy to any of these ingredients.
The capsule is blue and is advertised as a rapid-release pill.
 To discover what effects Xenadrine Ultimate will have on your body, it is important to find out what ingredients it contains. Its ingredients are actually quite different from those in Xenadrine Core.


In Xenadrine Ultimate, you will find:Robusta coffee bean extract
Caffeine anhydrous
Yohimbe bark extract
Garcinia cambogia
L-Theanine
Spearmint leaf extract
Autumn olive fruit extract
Ashwagandha root and leaf extract


The first three ingredients are classified as specifically for weight loss, and the rest of the ingredients are part of the Xenadrine Ultimate complex.
The capsule ingredients aren’t listed on the Xenadrine Ultimate website, but it is likely they are the same as the capsule for Xenadrine Core.
If you’re allergic to any of the ingredients, either don’t take Xenadrine Ultimate or ask a doctor about it first.
This pill is blue and in rapid-release form, like Xenadrine Core.
 Xenadrine Core and Xenadrine Ultimate target slightly different results. Both promote weight loss and extra energy. However, Xenadrine Core claims to be a thermogenic source of weight loss. Xenadrine Ultimate lacks this thermogenic feature, but increases focus.Xenadrine Core cites two studies that support its weight loss formula.A thermogenic formula is one that increases the production of heat in the body.In weight loss supplements, thermogenics means that it is designed to help your metabolism burn more fat., Xenadrine is only intended for people over the age of 18. If you are pregnant or nursing, you should not take Xenadrine. You should ask a doctor first if you are taking other medications, or if you have an existing medical condition. Be aware that you may experience the side effects of increased caffeine intake.Xenadrine has the same amount of caffeine as two cups of coffee.
If you are not used to this much caffeine, you may feel some things when you first start taking Xenadrine: jitteriness, nervousness, headaches, etc.
If you experience unusual symptoms, consult a doctor immediately.
Do not take more than the recommended dose of Xenadrine. The side effects of excess caffeine include nervousness, inability to sleep, and upset stomach. Limit intake of caffeine to 400 mg a day (100 mg per day if you are a teenager)., To help your body burn fat, you need to add an exercise routine to your intake of Xenadrine. Choose an aerobic exercise that you enjoy and can perform several days per week. Start at a moderate pace if you haven’t exercised in a while.


Experts recommend about 150 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise per week, or 75 minutes per week of strenuous aerobic movement. However, this amount is recommended for maintaining weight and staying healthy. To lose weight, you will likely need to exercise at a moderate level between 60 to 90 minutes on most days of the week.Examples of aerobic exercise include swimming, jogging, dancing, etc.
 To tone flabby muscles, it is important to add strength training to your exercise regimen. After your aerobic workout, you might add in exercises that build muscle. Examples include weight lifting, weight machines, or rock climbing.Experts recommend doing strength training a minimum of two days per week. There is no recommended time frame.
 There are many diet options available today. For example, you might try becoming a vegan, eating a Mediterranean diet, or even buying products for a diet like the Atkins diet.The important thing is to find a good balance that is right for your body. You want to feel full without consuming excess fat, sugar, or carbs.


A good rule of thumb is to stick to lean protein and whole grains.
Keep healthy snacks on hand. Prepare snacks that are prescribed by your diet so that you aren’t tempted to eat junk food.
Avoid snacking between meals to get the best results from Xenadrine., Your body needs hydration. Xenadrine recommends drinking eight to 10 glasses of water everyday to get the maximum results from their diet pills. Xenadrine recommends that you eat well, exercise, and drink water in combination with their products.