 Expect a Scorpio woman to have a sense of adventure. Scorpios need a lot of stimulation to be happy and are always down to try new things. A Scorpio woman will appreciate a date night that pushes her out of her boundaries a little.Take her somewhere she's never been before. If she's an avid hiker, for example, take her on a challenging hike in a new place.
You can also try things she's never done before. For example, book a horseback riding or skydiving lesson with her.;
, Scorpios are spontaneous by nature. They love adventure and do not like always adhering to strict plans. If you want to entertain a Scorpio woman, take her on an unexpected date. For example, propose the two of you go see a movie on a weeknight or hit up the bars Sunday afternoon. Scorpios are spontaneous by nature and will want their partner to match this energy., Scorpios are very sexual by nature. If you're in love with a Scorpio, an active sex life is important. Make sure to keep up with your Scorpio woman in the bedroom to keep her happy.Take dating a Scorpio as a chance to explore your own sexuality. A Scorpio woman will be eager to try out new things in bed, so have an open mind.
 On anniversaries, birthdays, and holidays, you should be prepared to present a Scorpio woman with a gift. Scorpios are very passionate about their partners and expect the same in return. However, be choosy here. Scorpios expect a gift to have meaning.Traditional gifts like jewelry, flowers, and chocolates will not be appreciated unless they have special meaning or match a Scorpio's character. If you find, say, a necklace that you feel would have sentimental value to her, this would be a great gift. A generic necklace, however, may not be appreciated.
Think about something that caters to her specific interests that she'll really use. For example, if your Scorpio woman is an avid reader, get her a subscription to a literary magazine. She will appreciate a gift that shows you understand her character.
 Part of loving a Scorpio woman is putting up with her volatile emotions. Scorpios tend to have strong moods and may shift between moods quickly. Loving a Scorpio requires patience. Be willing to listen and support your Scorpio woman when she experiences strong emotions.Try to understand where your Scorpio woman is coming from when she experiences mood swings and strong emotions. Ask questions like, "Why do you feel that way?" and "Can you explain?" It's important to a Scorpio woman to feel she can express herself emotionally.
You should also be open with your emotions in return. If you tend to be more withdrawn and logical, push yourself past these boundaries and really open up. Let your Scorpio know what you're feeling and why.
 While Scorpios are upfront about their feelings, they also like to keep some things private. A Scorpio woman may unleash some aspects of her life without hesitance, but keep some secrets mysteriously guarded. Try to understand and respect this.Scorpios are upfront by nature, so a Scorpio woman will let you know if you're bothering her. If you ask her about something she'd rather not share, she will say so.
Scorpios are thinkers by nature and have a rich internal life. They prefer to keep some aspects of this life private, and expect those who love them to grant them this privacy.
 Scorpios enjoy a little mystery in their partners. If you're in love with a Scorpio woman, do not spill all your secrets right away. Feel free to hold back a little information about yourself. Keeping her guessing will keep her interested in you.Scorpios tend to enjoy power plays, so make her feel like she has to push you a little to get information. While this may feel like you're playing games, Scorpio women actually may enjoy this dynamic.
 Scorpios are passionate by nature and you cannot expect them to stay with lovers who hold them back. If a hobby, career, or interest is important to your Scorpio woman, you need to let her pursue it.Never interrupt a Scorpio woman while she's at work. A Scorpio who is an avid reader, for example, will not appreciate you talking to her while she's invested in a book.
You need to be your Scorpio woman's personal cheerleader. Scorpios will not settle for partners who do not encourage them to pursue their passions.
 If you're in love with a Scorpio woman, be serious about the relationship in order to keep her. Scorpio women do not date casually, so it's vital you treat the relationship as a serious priority. If you're not looking for a longterm, loyal partner, you may want to look for love elsewhere., A Scorpio woman is not going to sit at home waiting for you to make plans. Scorpios are independent by nature. A Scorpio woman will pursue her own fun and interests. They do not need their partners to feel fulfilled and will not stay around with someone who hampers their independence.Do not be offended if a Scorpio woman does not seem to need you to have fun. A Scorpio's independent natures means she is able to make her own fun, whether others are present or not.
Learn to value this. This is not a sign you are not important to Scorpio woman. In fact, you are very important. She is not with you because she relies on you for companionship or comfort. She is with you because she genuinely wants to be around you.
 Scorpio women do not forgive easily and they never entirely forget a partner's indiscretions. Infidelity will not be tolerated by a Scorpio. Even minor things, like casual flirting, will be viewed as breach of trust. If you're in love with a Scorpio woman, accept that you need to be with her and her alone., You need to develop a thick skin if you're in love with a Scorpio. They are brutally honest by nature, and you can expect tough love on occasion. If a Scorpio feels you did something wrong, they will not hesitate to tell you.Remember, Scorpios are loyal, passionate, and stay with partners whose company they genuinely enjoy. Therefore, criticism can be seen as an act of encouragement. A Scorpio woman wants you to be the best person you possibly can.

