 Also look at magazines, pamphlets, the packaging of products from the supermarket etc.;
, With this method, even if the title and artwork were smaller, you would still align it to the left (the spine side).
 This style is harder to do and you will have to use a ruler and pencil. With the pencil, make the initial lettering of the title, and if you are satisfied, go over it with a round tip, black marker pen.
 To balance it, place the artwork to the left. The artwork can also be placed in the center.
 You will need an inspiration for your artwork, choose a picture to draw that relates to the title. Search the dictionary, the internet, the yellow pages etc for something to draw under the title.
 From the photo, the words "cover design" can be replaced with the author's name, the book publisher, the book edition, etc. This simple book cover design required, in materials, just a ruler and a marker pen.
 With the title printed on white paper, you will have a lot of contrast as a bonus.
Print the artwork from the internet, use a photo, or cut out artwork from the newspaper, magazine, yellow pages etc. Printing your artwork with black ink on white paper will also have great contrast.
Choose and print the artwork first, later adjust the size of the lettering of the title, so that it will be in harmony with the picture. Black is always a good choice for the color of the lettering.
Make a simpler artwork such as an anchor instead of the ship.
Technically make the lettering precise. Artistically, make your cover pleasing to look at.
Use a multi-colored scheme for the title.
Instead of artwork, use a photo or a picture from the internet, of the actual book cover. In this photo, the title was not cut perfectly and by framing it the uneven cutting would not be visible. Frame the title also with a marker pen and a straight edge.
 Protect your book cover by covering it with clear, mailing tape such as in the previous photo. The contents of your textbook are more important than the cover, study hard!

