 Look closely at the signature and pay attention to how it was formed. Everyone writes their signature a little differently, and chances are if you try to reproduce it without studying it first, you'll make some obvious mistakes. Pay attention to these factors as you take in the contours of the signature:


Look at places where the letters connect. Is there a lot of overlap between letters, or are there spaces between the letters?
Check out the formation of the letters. Are they legible? Misshapen? Scrunched together? Do they have dramatic flourishes?
Look at the height and size of the loops. Are they big and billowy? Small and sharp? Getting the loops right is central to a good forgery.
Examine the slant. Does the signature slant to the right or to the left? How much does it slant?
How much space does the signature take up on the line?

, It can help to look at the signature from another angle. Look at it as a drawing instead of a signature. This will help you approach it more objectively and enable you to recreate it for what it is, rather than getting your personal signature-writing habits involved.
 This will help you get a feel for the lines and curves of the other person's handwriting. Take care to try to mimic the motions of the person who originally signed his or her name.
 Now that you understand the signature, start writing it freely. You're going to need to practice a lot before it looks anything like the original. The difficulty of getting it right might surprise you! Signatures are tough to forge, which is one reason why they're still used as a way to verify a variety of legal documents.As you practice, note minor differences between the original signature and your practice signatures. Make adjustments as necessary.
Keep practicing until the act of writing the signature feels natural, and you can sign the name without pausing.
 When it's time to put pen to paper, you should be confident enough to sign the name without lifting the pen or spending too long writing it. A signature signed with confidence will look more authentic than one where it's obvious that a lot of time and care was taken to write it. Sign the name quickly and resist the urge to make changes - there's no going back now.

