 If your perfectionism is hurting you and those around you, you should seek help as soon as possible. A licensed counselor or therapist may help you understand the underlying emotions spurring your perfectionism. They may also suggest some strategies for helping you manage it.
 When perfectionist thoughts enter your mind, try to recognize and challenge those thoughts. Take time to reflect on your feelings and the impulses they inspire. Try meditating to become more mindful and aware of your perfectionism.When you start having perfectionist thoughts, ask yourself questions like “am I jumping to conclusions?” or “is this as bad as it seems?’

, In order to begin addressing your perfectionism, your counselor or therapist may suggest that you create a list of the positives and negatives of being a perfectionist. You may find that the negatives of perfectionism – anxiety, damaged relationships, substance abuse – outweigh the positives. Creating a list may help you gain some perspective and insight on the impact of your perfectionism.You may also want to consider how your actions impact others.
 Look at the areas of your life where you experience intense perfectionism and try to set more realistic goals. Setting objectives that you can meet will help limit any negative emotions you might experience from failing to meet your unrealistic expectations. Whenever you begin something, ask yourself if you have created impossible expectations for yourself. Achieving reasonable goals will help you feel better about yourself and negate any negative emotions.For example, you may set a goal of running five miles and only complete four miles. As a perfectionist, you may feel disappointed about your performance and anxious about improving it. Instead, tell yourself that four miles is good enough for now and accept that you might not be able to run five miles.
Remember that depending on others isn't a weakness. Learn to work with others, and allow them to help you when you need it.
 Instead of viewing criticism as personal attack, think of it as an opportunity to learn and grow. Understand that mistakes are a natural thing and that you have a right to make them. If you try to distance your fear of failure from your feelings of self-worth, you may find that you are less angry and defensive.When you make a mistake, try to think of things that your learned or could learn from it.
 Try to limit the spaces in which you apply your perfectionism. Work and school are natural places to push yourself and try to achieve excellence. However, the same is not true of your personal relationships or events beyond your control. Regardless of your actions, these things will never be perfect and you should accept that. Concentrate on applying your perfectionism where it is useful and applicable.Try to think about what it would be like to be less perfectionistic in a certain situation.
Consider why you expect perfection from other people and how that impacts your relationships with them.

