 Write down the number of hours you work each day. At the end of the week, calculate how many hours total you worked.


You can use a variety of electronic applications, online software, or even just write it in a notebook.If your hours vary from week to week, you will want to keep track of your hours for a longer period of time. Then, you can average the numbers.
For example, if you work 10 hours one week, 25 the next, 15 the following, and 30 the last week, you end up with 80 hours for the month. Divide this by 4 weeks and you get an average 20 hours a week.If your hours vary a great deal between different times of the year, you may need to track an even longer period. For example, imagine you work 50 hours a week for a couple of weeks around the holidays, but only 20 hours a week during the summer. This is going to affect your calculations a lot. In the case of large variations, you might even have to track your hours over a whole year to get an accurate figure.
 If you work more than 40 hours in a 7-day period, your employer must pay you at one and a half times your regular wage. In other words, you should receive a half-hour credit for every hour you worked over 40 hours in a week.The formula for this calculation is: Total weekly payroll hours = Actual hrs worked + For example, say you work 45 hours one week. This is 5 hours of overtime. Multiply 5 by .5. This gives 2.5 extra hours.. Add this to the 45 regular hours. For this calculation, your hours for the week are then 47.5, rather than 45.
 To figure this out, multiply the average weekly payroll hours by 52.For example, if you usually work about 45 hours a week, multiply 47.5 hours (adjusted for overtime) by 52. This equals 2,470 hours a year.


If you track your hours for a whole year, you can simply add them up, rather than multiplying a weekly average by the number of weeks worked.
 Multiply the number of hours by your hourly wage.


For example, if you make $15/hour multiply 2,470 by $15. This equals an annual salary of $37,050.

