 If you know this person, this can be difficult, but know that the more you contact them, the more the will think their stalking is "working". If you talk to them, even to try to ask them to stop, this might make things worse.;
, When somebody stalks you, even if they're an ex, they're not doing it out of love - they're doing it for the power it gives them. And you give them more power if you are isolated from those around you.


Stalking can often make you feel ashamed, like you've done something wrong, but you need to react in the opposite way to the shame; you need to make sure everyone you love knows what's happening. That way, they can support you, and if the stalker tries to make contact with them (and they probably will) your loved ones also know that this is serious.
 In this day and age, this is the hardest part - it's incredibly difficult not to end up in a friend's snapshot and be put online even when you know you need to remove yourself from the internet, but you have to try.


Block this person on all your social networking, advise your friends to do so as well, and if this does not work, you may have to remove yourself from social networking entirely. This sounds drastic to some, but it is the quickest way to stop your stalker from being reminded of you. Withdrawing from the internet is in no way a surrender to your stalker, it is the best thing you can do - think of your presence like oxygen to a fire. The less they have of it, the better.
 If the stalker is someone you used to be with, this is worth talking about; you will probably want to talk to them, you might even have times where you think that reasoning with them might work, but it will not.
 You will not want to do this, as you want your stalker to be gone, but this is so you have a compilation of solid evidence if matters turn serious and you need to involve the police. If the stalker gives you "gifts", take a photograph, keep them safely locked away somewhere, and make a record of the time and date they were received.


Keep a record of all calls and texts they send you - don't delete them, because these are important evidence. (If you don't want to be constantly seeing these calls and texts, you can forward them to an older mobile and keep them there.)
Screenshot all internet contact, including date and time, and keep a diary of the times and dates they stalk you in person. This can feel bizarre, and make you feel as if you are stalking them too, but this is for your own protection.
 Stalking can have serious emotional and psychological effects on the victim. You need to take a step back from your experiences, when you feel ready and are no longer in danger from the stalker, and evaluate how the experience has changed you - are you afraid to go outside? Do you have trust issues that you didn't have before? Do you have irrational, intrusive thoughts of being hurt? Do you sometimes think you see your stalker in public when they're not really there?


If it has effected your life, you probably need counselling of some description. If you do not want to see a counselor, you can try the following mental exercises.
 If you are afraid of going out, you need to make a special effort to go out as much as you can - avoidance tactics have been proven to only increase irrational fear, so you need to face your anxieties head-on. If you are in no danger from your stalker, you can try this:


Ask yourself, "what is the worst thing that can happen?" Then, solve the worst-case scenario in your own head. Perhaps your worst-case scenario is that your stalker will see you and the stalking will resume - tell yourself that if this scenario happens, you have a plan, perhaps to take the matter to the police. Rationalize your way out of the fears.
 This is what counselors often use for depression and PTSD. In CBT, you create write down your automatic negative thoughts, how these make you feel, then you write down a challenge to these thoughts. Ask yourself if there is any evidence backing up your negative thoughts. If so, how much?


Often, our irrational fears are not backed by evidence. Most CBT is about retraining your brain so that you stop the automatic negative thoughts by bypassing them with rationality.
 Then give yourself time to challenge yourself, to become more social, and if you feel you need to, also go into counselling to help irrational fears and emotional trauma.

