 If you just want some pretty seashells to bring home from vacation, you may not be as curious to learn the peak hours and locations to find particular shells. However, the more serious shell collectors may have specific shells they seek, in which case they will need to do a little more research.


Keep in mind that if you are a casual shell collector on vacation, you may have issues bringing your shells through airport security.;
, There are resources online to determine this. By knowing which shells are most prevalent near you, you’ll know exactly what to keep your eyes peeled for, and it can also give you an idea about how easy or difficult it will be to locate shells.


If you're committed to finding great shells, you may even consider traveling to find the best ones. If the shells are sparse where you live, or if you don't live near a beach, you can go to some beaches that are famous for their bounty. Sanibel Island, on Florida's Gulf Coast, is regarded by many as the best shell collecting spot in North America., Some beaches may be littered with shells, and a casual jaunt down the beach can result in a gorgeous variety. However, other beaches may be bare, and you’ll need to dig a little to find shells. Rocky beaches may contain more shell fragments than intact shells, so you may have to patiently sort through debris to find the shells you seek. In some places, you may even want to snorkel or scuba dive to find the coolest shells. The prime shell spots will vary depending on where you live or travel, so research and explore the beaches near you!, Just like hunting or fishing, there are prime times when you’re more likely to find the shells you’re after. When the tide is low, you’ll be able to search for shells that may be covered by water during high tide. More beach is exposed, so low tide is a great time for a shell collecting excursion.


Tides are caused by gravitational forces between the earth and moon.Tide levels and times depend on where you’re located, so it’s best to look online or in your local paper for tide charts for your area before you head off to collect shells.
Different varieties of shells often wash ashore during big storms, so you can find some gems if you head to the beach right after bad weather.