 Short axle-to-axle bows (33 inches or less) are good for hunting turkeys because they are made for easy maneuverability while seated or crouched low to the ground.









Axle-to-axle length is a measure of the distance between a bow’s cam/wheel center. The axle-to-axle length does not affect the accuracy of the shot as much as brace height—the perpendicular distance from the strong to the pivot point of the bow’s handle.
Make decisions on your axle-to-axle length based on your hunting needs. For example, if you are hunting from a blind, you would select a shorter axle-to-axle bow to make shooting easier.
Adjust the poundage of your bow. Poundage is the amount of force (measured in pounds) required to draw the bow to a set difference in order to shoot. The poundage to shoot big game (like deer) is typically around 70 pounds (meaning you must pull 70 pounds in order to shoot and kill).
When shooting turkeys, set your poundage to 60 so you are able to hold your bow at full draw for as long as possible. This allows you to shoot quickly and without being detected.Use expandable broadheads. Broadheads are flat pointed steel arrowheads with sharp edges. Expandable broadheads open on impact and cut bigger holes. This is important as turkeys have small vital areas., Place decoys 15 yards (13.7 m) out from your set up and shoot 20–25 yards (18.3–22.9 m) out. Decoys both draw the bird closer and serve as markers to indicate how far away the bird is as he approaches them.
 Whether behind a big tree or in a pop-up blind, hide well as turkeys can easily spot the smallest motions. If you are concerned about the motion of drawing your bow, consider using a crossbow as they are always cocked.
 In order to ensure a kill, aim for the turkey’s head (popular with those using expandable broadheads because they take the head clean off the bird), the butt of the wing, the rear end (where a severed spine paralyzes the bird), or between the legs, halfway up the body of the bird (severing the leg tendons making it difficult for the bird to walk or fly away). Humanely dispatch of the turkey in the event you do not kill it right away.








