 Whether you’re working on a project for class or work or starting up a “round-robin” online story club, you need to define what your writing goal is. What do you want your writing to accomplish? Who is your audience? How will you know that you have met your goal?If you’re working on an assigned project, you may want to determine your thesis or argument here.
If you’re working on a creative project, you may want to be more flexible, but set yourself a goal such as certain number of words or a type of product (short story, novel, poem, etc.).
You may also need to consider deadlines in this step. This will help you in planning, particularly if this is an assigned project.;
, Collaborative writing can take place entirely in-person; this is often the case for peer reviews and other classroom activities. It can also take place entirely online; you may find an online writing group that operates this way. Much collaborative writing falls somewhere in the middle.


You may also decide that you want to do certain things, such as planning and editing, together. Then each writer can write on his or her own and bring back material for the group to work on.
If you’re meeting in-person, make sure to collate everyone’s schedules so that you can arrange meetings that work for everyone. A tool like NeedtoMeetor SurveyMonkeycan help you learn when everyone is free.
 In the most basic form of collaborative writing, everyone has equal access to writing, information, and role-sharing. A wiki is a good example of this type of writing, because everyone can write and change others’ writing. Most collaborative writing has more defined roles. Particularly if you’re writing for a project or a grade, it’s important to determine upfront who will play what role.You can break the work up by parallel tasks. For example, each member conducts a particular type of research, and then each member writes a particular element. This can be helpful if you’re rushed for time because all tasks can be done at the same time.You can also assign tasks by role. Common roles include researcher, primary author, commentator, and editor. You can also assign multiple roles to each person depending on their strengths. You may even have multiple people filling each role.The researcher may not write anything used in the final draft. S/he is responsible for researching and fact-checking the chosen topic. Other roles will turn this material into the project.
The primary author is usually the person who writes the bulk of the material. This person may “jump-start” the project by writing a first draft, or s/he may wait until other roles have generated material and pull together a draft from that.
The commentator can read drafts and offer suggestions. S/he may suggest places where the writing is unclear, or where more research is needed.
The editor takes suggestions from the commentator and other collaborators, as well as making his or her own. S/he will pull the material together into a polished final draft.
 For some work or class projects, you may have a platform recommended or assigned to you. If you aren’t sure what to use, you have some options.Google Docs is a popular collaborative writing tool because it’s free, easy to navigate, and is open to everyone who has a Google account.
There are also a variety of online platforms designed specifically for collaborative writing, especially creative writing. MixedInk, Penflip, and Protagonizeare popular platforms.
You can swap manuscripts with a word processor like Microsoft Word. Just make sure you have the “track changes” feature enabled so everyone can see what’s altered.
You can also use good old-fashioned pen and paper, especially if you’re meeting in person., Whatever platform you choose, make sure that everyone can access and edit the material. For this reason, it’s a good idea to confirm with everyone that they will be able to use your chosen platform before proceeding.


Keep in mind that people may not want to pay for software or services. They may also have different versions of word processing software. Make your platform as easy for everyone to access as possible.
 It’s important to talk with each other about what’s going on with the project. This is especially important if you’re working mostly on your own and coming together only to plan or revise. Stay in touch with updates.Without communication, your writing will fall apart.You can do this in a variety of ways. You can leave comments in a Google Doc, use a chat or messenger, or even write email updates.
Offer your own updates and ask for updates from others. Use these consultations to verify that you’re on track with the project goal, check information, offer strategy, or consider audience.It’s helpful to have a record of these communications. Save chat or messenger logs, or use the “CC” function on emails to make sure everyone can access them.
 Technology is very helpful for collaboration, but experts recommend that you meet in person at least once. Communication involves many things other than words, such as body language, tone of voice, and gestures, that you will miss out on if you do all your work online or via text.If you can’t meet physically in-person, try a conference call, Google Video Hangout, or Skype conference. This will ensure every member of the group gets a “voice” in the communication.
 If you’re writing on your own, it’s crucial that you stay in your assigned role. If you’ve been assigned to write a literature review and you go off on a tangent, it isn’t helpful to the final product (and can end up offending your collaborators).


If you find some juicy information or a cool direction that doesn’t fit into your role, share it with the group! You don’t have to actually write everything to be a contributor.
 Writing together means that everyone depends on one another to do their parts. If you are late with your work or you don’t do your fair share, you may alienate your collaborators.


If you know that you won’t make a deadline, let your collaborators know. Offer a brief explanation and how you will make up for it.
 It’s very important to have a way to keep track of changes you make to your collaborative product. Don’t just delete something you don’t like or find unnecessary; others in your group may have a different opinion. It’s a good idea to use features like comment boxes, color-coding, and “track changes” features if you have them.
 Rather than simply making comments like “Delete this” or “Reword,” offer explanations to explain your thought process. Remember that you’re working with others, who may have different ideas and opinions than you do.


Explaining why you see things a certain way will offer your collaborators insight into how you approach the project. It also keeps you from sounding too bossy.
The same thing goes for common comments such as “Show, don’t tell.” Ironically, this comment often tells rather than shows! If you think something needs more explanation or more vivid writing, offer an example of how the change could be made.
For example: “She felt happy” tells, rather than shows. It is boring. “She waited until the elevator doors closed and then pumped her fist in the air and squealed with delight” shows what’s going on rather than simply telling about it. This is more engaging for the reader., Particularly if you have a large number of collaborators, it can be helpful to ask one person to make sure that the goals you agreed on are updated as necessary. When collaborators distribute new versions of the project or additions, ask the goalkeeper to update the goals and the project summary to reflect these changes.


You may find that keeping a separate spreadsheet or document is helpful. Each person can check in with what s/he has contributed, and the goalkeeper can collate this information to provide an overall picture of where you’re at.
 If each of you wrote your piece separately, merge all your work into a single document before reading it. This way, you’ll be able to focus on creating a coherent project without getting distracted by smaller concerns, such as style and proofreading.Coherence involves elements such as structure and flow. Make sure that the document makes sense, feels logical (or at least appropriate, if you’re writing creatively), and flows smoothly from one section to the next.
After you’ve achieved coherence, you can worry about minor issues such as smoothing out different writing styles and correcting grammatical and proofreading errors.
 No matter what you’re writing, when it comes time to read and review the work, keep your audience and their needs in mind. There are several ways to do this.Read as a “Common Reader.” This is where you read and track your personal responses to the work. What parts do you find interesting or boring? Are there places where you’re confused? Is there language that you find unclear, or that you find really beautiful?
Read as an “Expert Reader.” For many projects, you can assume that your audience has a base level of knowledge about your topic. For example, if you’re collaborating on a lab report for a college science class, you can assume that your professor has a level of knowledge about your subject that the common reader would not. This doesn’t mean you should leave gaps or important concepts unexplained, but you can write to show that you understand what you’re writing about, as opposed to focusing solely on what the layman reader might need.
Read as a “Diagnostic Reader.” This type of reading is good for figuring out where problems are in the text. For example, if it’s an argument, does it have a clear thesis statement? If it’s a story, are the characters’ motivations clear? Does the writing flow smoothly, or are things like transitions lacking?

, Sometimes, critique can hurt people’s feelings, especially if it only focuses on what needs improvement. You can help encourage your collaborators and show your appreciation for their work by also noting what’s going well, too.
 Even if you have an assigned editor, it’s a good idea to have a few other group members work with him or her. Editing is time-consuming when done properly, and leaving it all to one person could leave him or her overwhelmed.One strategy is to have your assigned editor do a “first-pass” edit, and then have the other group members review that revision. This will allow for other eyes to catch any mistakes.

