 Delta’s SkyMiles frequent flier programs and the Starwood Preferred Guest program have joined forces in the Crossover Rewards program. If you have elite status in either program, you can earn points in both rewards programs for purchases made with either company. Importantly, you must link your rewards accounts to receive these benefits.For instance, when you purchase a Delta flight, you can earn both SkyMiles as well as Starpoints for the purchase.
Furthermore, If you’re a Delta Medallion member, you’re eligible for special perks at SPG properties, and Starwood Elite members get perks when flying Delta.
 Status in one of these company’s rewards programs can translate into perks from the other as well. The RewardsPlus program is especially slanted towards membership in one another’s “elite” status programs. For instance, If you’ve achieved at least a Premier Gold status with United, you’ll automatically be Gold Elite in the Marriott Rewards programs. Similarly, if you’re Marriott Platinum, you’re automatically MileagePlus Premier Silver status in United’s eyes.You’ll need to register for both rewards programs and link them in order to receive these benefits.
 Simply by joining the Hilton HHonors program, you’ll effectively begin earning double rewards. You’ll earn HHonors rewards points per dollar you spend at Hilton properties, as well as an additional reward that’s up to you. Your options are either additional HHonors points or airline miles (1 per dollar spent, with multiple airline options)., If you catch the travel-rewards bug, you may be itching for even more ways to maximize the rewards you’re earning. Fortunately, there are some extremely helpful websites on the topic. In addition to thepointsguy.com, check out frugaltravelguy.com.The latter even includes a “Rookie Guide” to doubling and tripling your rewards. In it, you’ll find more specific information on how to determine your goals, other partnership programs, and how to help keep track of all the rewards you’re earning!

