 If these values are not a part of your teacher/student relationship, you cannot hope to succeed. As difficult as it may be at times, try to control any feeling of dislike you have for a student. Work to overcome any prejudice you have toward a particular student or type of student. Treat each new day as a chance to begin again if you've had a bad experience with a student.;
,


As soon as possible, learn their names and some of their interests. Being able to talk about sports, pets, travels, hobbies, music and other things that matter to your students helps build rapport.
Be aware of any special needs your students have. Medical conditions, language difficulties, and cultural differences can affect learning. Being aware helps you connect and avoid problems and misunderstandings while being able to personally assist your students with any special needs they have.
Express concern when bad things happen. A death or illness in the student's family, for example, can seriously alter student behavior. If the student trusts you, he will more likely share personal problems. You may then be in a position to refer the student to a school counselor if necessary.
 It is a mistake to get too personal with your students, but sharing stories about your children or pets is certainly a way to bond with them. Talk about a sporting event or a movie you saw. Share pictures of a trip you took. This makes you more human and approachable.
 Although you hold a position of power, your role of instructor should be one of facilitator and guide. Keep your students' best interests in mind at all times.
 Endeavor to be both fair and consistent both in the classroom and elsewhere on the school grounds. One method used by many teachers who work with younger students is assertive discipline, a system where the student is held accountable for his actions and knows the specific consequence which will follow misbehavior. Actions and consequences are posted and understood by all.
 Make lessons interesting and stimulating. Student motivation is essential for a successful learning experience. Show that you are a professional and know what you are doing.
 If your students feel they can talk to you about questions and concerns they have, they will trust you.



Let students know that failure is a part of learning. Make sure every student feels that it is possible to succeed and even excel.
Ridicule and sarcasm should be discouraged. When students respect each other, they feel safe.
At the same time, students need to know that you expect their best efforts. Insist on high standards. Students should value their successes.
 Look for ways to make these connections if even for a few minutes a day. Students who are shy or difficult especially benefit from a one-to-one relationship with their instructor.
 Teachers are humans and there will be times when you may lose control. But try to behave as a responsible professional at all times.
 This can be a delicate balancing act, but when your students are able to make some decisions they develop a sense of ownership of the classroom or the course. Teachers who are too strict often find they spend more time trying to maintain control or student interest than they do teaching.

