 Gait analysis should involve having you run on a treadmill in a 'neutral' pair of running trainers. You should be filmed, and the device/app that the running shop use to film you should allow zooming in/slowing down. A neutral shoe is a running shoe that doesn't have any extra support in the arch of the shoe.

There are 3 different types of 'gait' that people will fall into:

Neutral- when your foot hits  the ground, your arch doesn't collapse in past a right angle to the ground.
Over-pronation- Where your arch collapses past the point of a right angle/arch drops inwards.
Supination- Where your foot stays too far on the outside of the foot during your full stride.


This is why gait analysis is so important, to find the right kind of shoe for your running style.Neutral runners make up 20% of gaits, Over-pronators make up 75% of runners, leaving 5% of runners who are supinators. In other words, the majority of runners 'arches collapse under load during their stride, and therefore need support in the shoe.;
, There are varying levels of cushioning/comfort depending on people's preference of feel and their budget.
If you over-pronate, you need a structured trainer/support trainer. These trainers have a double density material in the arch of the shoe which is a lot harder than the rest of the sole. The idea behind this is, as your arch collapses, the double density block will not allow the arch to collapse past the point of the right angle, hence converting an over-pronating gait into a neutral one. Strength of the double density block varies from brand to brand, so its worth trying a few different ones to find the correct one for you.
Supinators are very very rare, and in such cases, you will be best to go and see a podiatrist who will likely make you some orthotic inserts to put in your shoes/trainers to correct the gait to neutral.
 The reason this support is so important is it can drastically reduce risks of injury/make your run a lot more comfortable and enjoyable. If you over-pronate and don't have the correct support, it puts extra stress on your calf muscles, and your shins. This, in turn, will increase your muscles' recovery time in between runs.

If you took 12 hours to recover in between runs, it could add as much as another 6 hours to that recovery time. So you go out on your next run on an already stressed muscle. This will add even more recovery time to the stressed muscle, and so it goes on until you have an injury. Shin splints are very common as your muscles are swollen, adding pressure to your shins; it will feel like a dull ache that is not very pleasant at all.
 Although it is very rare that your gait will change, it is worth getting done each time you replace your running trainers. Mainly for peace of mind, but as you get stronger muscles, it can change ever so slightly.