 Unlike the tablet-based Kindle Fire HD, a regular Kindle lacks advanced utility beyond displaying ebooks. You can still print materials from it, but it requires you first hook it up to a computer as you normally would. Connect the Kindle to your computer via a USB cable. Within a few seconds, your computer should register the Kindle has linked up.;
, This is annoying, but it can be bypassed with the help of third-party software. Luckily, DRM-removal software is easy to download. Download a DRM-removal program specific to Kindles and install it to your computer.Make sure you're downloading from a reputable source. If there's an excess amount of marketing or 'special offers' attached to the download, it may be risky and worth taking time to seek out an alternative.
 DRM-removal programs will make a duplicate of the chosen ebook file without copyright protection, leaving the original intact. The file should otherwise be identical to the original.Once your removal software is installed, access the program and select the file(s) you'd like to have printed. The program will copy the files, stripping them of their DRM.
 Using a PC program like Kindle for PC, you can convert the cracked files (Kindle uses a unique .azw format) to a universal format, like .epub or .pdf.Though you won't be able to print a .azw file via Kindle for PC alone, converting it will allow you to access the file from a program that does offer printing utility, like Adobe Reader.


The Mac OS has similar programs available for it as well. Before you download a program, check the OS compatibility.
 Converting files via Kindle for PC should be a quick and easy process, as ereader files tend to be quite small by design. From there, you should access a third-party reader program like Adobe Reader or Calibre.Once a universal reader program is up, access the file you're looking to print off. A print button should be apparent from there.
 When you click the print button, you'll be prompted to input specific information for your print, including the number of copies you'd like made, and whether you would like the pages one or two-sided. Fill in the proper information and finalize the printing process.Provided the printer's connectivity is stable and it's properly filled with ink, the print should go through as planned. Once the pages are all printed, give them a check to make sure they have printed successfully. Count the number of pages, and ensure all of the pages have been adequately inked.


You may need extra cartridges if you're planning on printing off a larger file. If you're printing off a full book, it is recommended to make your pages two-sided, as it will make it easier to bind the pages together.

