 If you are a minor, coming out to homophobic parents might cause a lot of unintended consequences. Your parents might restrict your activities, say hurtful things, or try to force you to become straight. Be sure you’re prepared to deal with the potential fallout before you talk to them.Consider waiting until you’ve moved out on your own to tell your parents about your sexual orientation.
 Talk to your parents when you and they are calm and in a good mood. Avoid coming out during a busy or emotionally tense time, like a holiday, a big family event, or an argument.Think about what you’ll say ahead of time, so you don’t get tongue-tied.
 Your coming out may come as a shock to your parents. They might react with sadness, confusion, or denial. Try to understand where they are coming from, and be as gentle as you can during your conversation. Reassure them that you’re happy, and tell them you can still do things like get married and have kids.


You might (understandably) feel upset if your parents take the news badly. Remember, though, that they love you and want the best for you. Their negative emotions are probably rooted in their concern for your happiness and well-being.
 Your parents may get upset or try to convince you to change. Listen to them respectfully, keeping in mind that they may accept the news better after they’ve had a chance to calm down. If they have objections, answer them carefully and compassionately, but firmly – don’t give them false hope that you can change., When you’ve told your parents what you needed to and listened to their responses, you’ve said enough for one day. Leave them alone to discuss the issue privately. You’ll be able to talk more in the future if you need to., Sometimes it takes a while for people to adjust to a new reality. Don’t expect things to be perfect the next time you see your parents – your relationship may remain awkward or strained for some time. Let them digest the news, and don’t bring the topic up again until they seem ready., Show your parents that you haven’t changed – you’re still their child, and your personality is the same as always. Don’t make your orientation the focus of your interactions. Instead, chat about simple, uncomplicated things like the weather or your plans for the weekend.Acting the same as you always have will help your parents feel “normal” about your relationship again.
 Counseling might help your parents come to terms with your orientation. If they don’t seem to be adjusting to the news very well, suggest making an appointment with a family counselor.Even if your parents don’t want to talk to a counselor, consider getting individual counseling for yourself. If you’re in high school or college, you can probably talk to a school counselor for free.

