 Get your phone/laptop ready with all of the movies you like. We all have a long list of movies that we want to watch, but the only reason we are unable to is less free time. And so, long journeys are the perfect moments to catch up on movies falling under your ‘must-see’ category. Whether it is about watching your favorite movie 100th time or watching that documentary movie after a month, you can easily pass a couple of hours with the movie.

Always use your own headsets, instead of asking for them during the flight.



 

;
, When you travel across cities, states and countries, it definitely implies that wherever you are heading to, is a place that has different language and communication styles. Your journey is a chance to read and understand a few phrases that you would be greeted with. If you are not an alien to the language, then you can also opt to polish your language skills, and ready yourself for the local people and lifestyle. On the other hand, if you can carry your iPod, MP3, or CD player, then you can also bring your audio phrasebook. You can also transfer the audio lessons on your MP3 player and then get along with the studies again.
 One of the best way to pass time on long journeys is to catch up on your sleep. If you do not feel sleepy, taking a sleep aid or pill can help loosen up your body, make you lethargic, and take you into complete sleep mode. You always have a choice to carry a pillow (or can ask for them when in the flight), sleeping mask, and earplugs if you need them while you sleep.
 At regular intervals of time, get up from your place and take a stroll in the cabin so as to keep the body moving and blood flowing perfectly. This will keep you off from all problems rising from immobility. When in flight, the back area of the plane also has a spot for stretching as well.
 This wholly depends on- whom are you sitting next to. You can commence by discussing about such a long journey that you both are in and then continue talking on what you plan to do at the destination. What are your areas of interest on journeys and how do you find travelling by several modes of transport. And if the other person is some big shot and a corporate traveler, you might also end up getting a new job with a hike. You might also bump into your next travel buddy like your next career opportunity.
 If you are an avid reader, then a book and a long journey is what all you need. Plus, there are also tons of first-rate travel books narrating travel stories from writers such as Pico Iyer, Ted Conover, and Bill Bryson. You can read their interesting works not only to pass away the time but also to build up the knowledge on travel industry and several destinations. Travel stories are the most intrinsic way to keep the spirits high and help you explore the destination as well as the journey to the core.
 Long journeys offer you a great opportunity to pen down your feelings and observation on the way and later share it with the world. You can end up in completing your long unfinished sketches, your journal entries and begin the draft of your article. Usually carrying a pen with paper and sketching out ideas turn out to be the paintings later on.
 On crowded and long journeys, the best way to avoid the background noise and go to sleep or read a book is to listen to music.
 Crossword puzzles and Sudoku are the most sought after distractions from a long journey. A deck of cards might also serve as a treat if you find a freaky seatmate. Based on your packing plans, you could also bring along handheld electronic gaming devices such as portable Sony Playstations or Nintendo.

