 Start by doing tiny things that steer you in the direction of the habits you want to make. For example, if you want to do yoga daily. Put out your yoga mat every day for four days in a row at the time you would want to do yoga. Soon enough you will find yourself stretching and working out. Doing these tiny actions consistently will lead you into doing the bigger actions.
 What you want is bigger than your moods. For example, you want to become a good musician, so you can heal others through music therapy. However, you may not feel the importance of that goal in the morning when you need to wake up early to practice your instrument before work.


Visualize the thing that you want to be doing. In the moments where your feelings differ from what you want, picture yourself doing the thing you need to do. Think about how many steps you need to take to get to your guitar. Think about the tea or coffee that you can drink to wake you up. Think about which pieces of music you will play.
 When you are able to start your day with good momentum, you will find yourself much more able to do the things that you have set out for yourself. The opposite can happen if you do not get up on time. Be vigilant in problem solving getting yourself up in the morning if you have trouble sleeping in.


Set a second, louder alarm to go off a couple of minutes after your first alarm. In those two minutes before the second alarm goes off, visualize what you should do. When the second alarm goes off, it will be much easier to get out of the bed.
 Every hour and day can be a reset. We all let our feelings get the best of us sometimes. However, the more wins you get on the side of doing what you want, the more our feelings will start to line up with what we want to do. , Set SMART goals for yourself. Smart goals are specific, measurable, action oriented, relevant and time bound. If you want to become a published writer, for example, your first goal might be to expand a 5 page short story into a 20 page story in a month. Your next goal could be to spend two weeks researching, writing letters, and sending your manuscript to at least three publications.
 Realize that the work that you have cut out for you is going to be more challenging even than the work others will give you. You will go through a lot of days where you feel defeated because of the seeming impossibility of doing what you want to do. Remember, however, that this work will help you grow and mature into the person you want to be. The hardest work that goes toward serving your purpose is ultimately going to benefit you the most.


Accept the bad feelings and restlessness. When you are working toward a difficult goal, it will not always feel good. Allow yourself to experience those emotions, and keep working in spite of them. These feelings will pass and you will be at least a tiny bit closer to what you want. , We have many obligations to attend to in life and sometimes it is easy to spend no time doing toward what we actually want. Those 15 minutes can motivate you to bigger things in the same way that doing those tiny things like putting out your yoga mat will lead you to do your yoga. Over time you will realize that you can actually make progress toward your goals. This ability to see progress can continue to motivate you to work for what you want.


For example, work toward a SMART goal every day. Give yourself parameters in your work, even in those fifteen minutes. For example, if you are a musician, have yourself work on three songs in fifteen minutes. Try practicing two old songs and one new song.

