 The most successful people in life have all failed. The difference between them and people who live in fear of failure is that successful people face the failure, learn from it and use it to spur their next attempt. They persist because they know that failure is simply part of achievement. For yourself, learning to perceive failure as a natural part of the road to success is the key to thriving. Ask yourself:


What is my attitude to failure? Am I avoiding it by never persisting at anything? Am I scared of failing?






Am I using a fear of failure to avoid being persistent in my current goals and actions? Is my success rate reflecting this?







, This is so commonplace that a failure to persist turns into self-confirmation that not trying was the best option, which then turns into folklore and hearsay about the pointlessness of trying. Anything worth doing or achieving is going to encounter hurdles and difficulties. Treat that as a given and treat the challenges as something that will test your mettle and shape you for the better, making you stronger, more astute and more compassionate. If at first you don't succeed, try it again and again. If you don't get the job of your dreams or the publisher for your novel at the first, second or third attempts, make many more attempts. Too many people think that the first few rejections mean that it's never going to happen. This is a self-limiting and baseless assumption; provided that you know your strategy or goal is right, it is simply a case of not repeating it enough times. Remember that there are a lot of people and a lot of opportunities in the world––you can't possibly hope to pitch your own wishes and goals at the right people first off every time!

, This leads on as a second prong from the previous step; once you've already tried to persist at length with your original strategy but you find you're continuing to get rejections or hitting road bumps constantly, you may need to tweak your approach. As Rita Mae Brown once said: "Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results". Perhaps your blog writing isn't as exciting as it could be so the readers just aren't amassing as hoped; perhaps your resume isn't really showing you in your best light so you're not getting the interviews; perhaps your interview technique needs polishing with the help of a professional interview expert because you're not getting the job offers; or perhaps your business marketing needs a more innovative approach because that great product or service you're offering just isn't getting noticed.


Stop and assess the things you're doing to reach your goal; it is often not the goal at fault but the methodology or fine details that haven't been adequately clarified or tailored to help reach the goal.






Don't ever be afraid of constructive criticism on how to do things better––your own honest assessment and that of people you trust and even that of your competitors can give you a lot of information about how to improve your approach toward a goal. Listen carefully and learn from the things criticism tells you.
 There is a common phrase that states "never give in". What this really means is "never give in easily"; it means that you give it all you've got and give it one more try to then reassess the approach or even the goal. The phrase "never give in" doesn't mean be a stubborn fool. If the facts tell you that letting go of a goal or desire that has since proven untenable or unrealistic despite your efforts, then be sensible about rerouting your energies. Be graceful in defeat, for you have just learned what doesn't work and isn't worth persisting with but you can now try new ways to achieve your goals.
 When the going gets tough and you just want to drop it all, restore your sense of purpose by remembering your vision. Visualize the end result you want to achieve, with yourself in this vision. Make sure that this is an exciting vision, something that inspires and uplifts you. Wallow in the exciting vision instead of a picture of bleak doom. You deserve the vision's outcome, so keep reminding yourself of that as you put in the effort to achieve it.

