 Meloxicam (also known as Metacam) belongs to a family of drugs called NSAIDs (Non-Steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs). Meloxicam works by inhibiting an enzyme, COX-2, which triggers prostaglandin release, which in turn limits the inflammation that leads to fever. Meloxicam is a useful drug to reduce fever.


Meloxicam is only for kittens over six weeks of age, and only if no sickness or diarrhea.
Meloxicam needs to be given with food lining the stomach, so never dose your kitten with meloxicam if they are not eating at all.
The recommended maintenance dose is 0.05mg/kg one daily of feline meloxicam. Thus, a 1 kg (2.2 lb) kitten needs 0.1ml of cat Metacam. Note that meloxicam is formulated in two strengths: for dogs (1.5mg/ml) and for cats (0.5mg/ml). Dog Metacam is three times more concentrated, and extreme care should be taken when considering its use in the feline as inadvertent overdose may easily occur.
Meloxicam should only be used in well hydrated animals. Dehydrated animals may have impaired renal function; the additional decrease in blood supply to the kidney may tip the animal into renal failure.
Meloxicam must be given with or after food. If the cat is not eating, be sure to line his stomach by syringe feeding a small amount of food. Do not give Metacam on a completely empty stomach. The inhibitory effect on the blood supply to the stomach will be exacerbated, which can lead to serious gastric ulceration.
Do not give meloxicam with or after other NSAIDs or steroids. Doing so can cause gastric ulceration, gastro-intestinal ulceration, and bleeding -- with possibly fatal blood loss.
 A chilled kitten will feel sluggish and be slower to recover, which will make it more difficult to get him to eat.
 Sick kittens feel vulnerable, and they will recover more effectively if they have a place to hide. Provide a nesting area or cardboard box lined with blankets.
 If your kitten seems very ill, or if your kitten's symptoms persist for more than a day or so, see a veterinarian.

