 Your child plays a big role in your life and takes up a lot of your time. While helping your child is important, don't forget about yourself. Continue to participate in activities and hobbies you love and enjoy.Don't give up gatherings, traveling plans, friendships, goals, and interests because of your child.
 Helping and raising a child with bipolar disorder can be a challenge, and it can also be mentally draining. Talk to a trusted friend or family member about how you feel. Ask for help when you need it from friends and family members.


Consider meeting parents with children who have bipolar disorder as well to get the emotional support and courage you need. You may want to seek out a support group for the loved ones of those with bipolar disorder in your area.
Talk to a counselor or therapist if you need. They can help you learn to deal with your emotions while taking care of your child and yourself.
 Understand that setting a few boundaries for yourself is okay. Remember, you need to take care of yourself, too. Taking care of yourself allows you to better care for your child. Decide where your personal limits are and what activities or actions will need boundaries.For example, think about how much time you're with your child everyday. Create boundaries for how long you should spend time with your child without feeling overwhelmed and distressed. Allow another trusted adult to watch over your child when you need a break.
You will likely need boundaries with other people, as well, to reduce your overall level of stress.
 Having a child with bipolar disorder can be very difficult. Managing stress helps keep you healthy emotionally and physically. Reduce all unnecessary stress from your life.Consider cutting a few appointments or activities if they're not needed and make you feel tired and exhausted.
Remember to exercise daily, eat healthy meals, and get enough sleep at night, as these things can all influence your stress levels.
Consider incorporating stress relieving activities, like deep breathing exercises, yoga, or meditation.
 Having a bipolar family member can be challenging for those who live in the same household as your child. Family therapy can help with any family issues and provide you with assistance. It can also help teach your family members how to have a more successful and healthy relationship with your child.If your child has siblings, they may be scared to approach their sibling or may feel jealous since you give a lot of your attention on the child with bipolar disorder.
If you are married or in a relationship, helping your child may leave you worn out and frustrated towards your spouse.
 You don't need to let your child consume all of your time. Consider taking breaks and having time for yourself or others. Allow another trusted adult watch your child while you do something for yourself. Your child is important, but you don't want to forget about yourself, too.Asking for help doesn't make you weak. You shouldn't have to do this alone. Work with your spouse or partner if you have one, or ask others to help you so that you do not have to do it all by yourself.

