 Talk to a doctor if you are concerned about an inability to gain weight, grow, or if you already know you have a condition that inhibits these things. Follow a doctor’s advice on how best to treat, supplement, or live with something that affects your size.


Ask about a possible nutrient deficiency or other common condition that could affect weight loss or ability to gain weight, especially if you have other unusual symptoms.Always consult with your doctor before embarking on any physical or diet regimen to attempt to gain size or weight.
 Consume healthy, whole foods regularly and in accordance with any dietary or health restrictions.


Count the calories you eat in a typical day and increase that number by 200 to 500 calories per day to start gaining weight if that is recommended by a dietician. Just be sure to avoid adding calories from processed junk foods.
Eat protein from food like meat, eggs, and nuts. Focus on complex carbohydrates from foods like rice, whole wheat, and potatoes. Get healthy fats from olive oil, coconut oil, and avocados.
Try eating five smaller meals throughout the day, or snack in between meals, to ensure you are getting enough calories., Go to the gym or use home workout equipment to gain strength and health, and build muscle mass in a healthy way.


Make sure you check out fitness videos and instructions for home equipment, and get guidance from gym staff or a personal trainer, to ensure that you have proper form when using any weighted equipment.
Strength training workouts should consist of 8 to 12 repetitions each of 8 to 10 different workouts that target all different areas of your body. Do this type of workout at least twice a week to begin.Ask your doctor before beginning any new workout routine. Also keep in mind that you don’t need to work out to reach a particular goal or gain significant size; exercising can simply make you feel good and achieve overall health.
 Wear clothing that fits you well and has long, straight lines to help accentuate your height and flatter your small frame.


When shopping women’s clothing, try looking for flared pants, vertical stripes, and v-neck tops to elongate your body.Note that high heels can make you look and feel temporarily taller, but you may want to work to embrace your own size as it is.
When shopping men’s clothing, try outfits that are monochromatic, and choose slim cuts on shirts and pants. V-neck shirts are also a flattering choice.Smaller women can shop in the “petite” section of many department stores, while men can shop brands like Peter Manning to find clothing that fits well without further tailoring.