 All plant matter must be dried out first, so as not to impart moisture when mixed.


When gathering plant materials, do this after the dew has dried off but before the sun has shone on the plant for too long, as this can reduce the volatile oils. Note however, not every potpourri maker finds this to be an issue; if you live in a mild and dry climate, afternoon picking may well work for you.
Always use the freshest and brightest flowers and herbs. Discard any plant material that looks damaged or is deteriorating in any way.
Both flowers and petals can be dried on sheets or paper or wire screens.
Petals are ready for use in dry potpourri when they are crisp to the touch. When drying them, toss regularly to ensure even air circulation and faster drying.
If using citrus peel, always remove the pulp and pith before drying the peel, as these moister elements can cause mold to grow.
 The standard, affordable fixative is orris root, available from craft stores or florists. The ratios will depend on the recipe you're following but as a general rule:


Every 4 cups of dried plant material requires 2–3 tablespoons (29.6–44.4 ml) of powdered spices, 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of ground orris root (or other fixative), one strip of citrus peel and 2-3 drops of essential oil.
 The more oil added, the stronger the resulting scent.
 To distribute the essential oil evenly, rub the mixture together using your fingertips.
 The components will be determined by your recipe but usually this will be dried petals/flowers, dried leaves, whole spice pods, barks, dried moss, pine cones, herbs, etc.
 Mix with your hands to distribute everything evenly.
 Set aside in a dark, dry place for four to eight weeks, or for the length of time required by the recipe. This will give the scents time to mingle and form a mature fragrance.


For the first week, shake the container daily.
Leave as long as you like beyond the suggested time; the fragrance will continue to strengthen.
Any part of the mixture that is not required for use can be left in the sealed container until needed.
 After tipping the potpourri in, always rearrange to ensure that the most appealing pieces are visible at the top of the arrangement. Place where you want the scents to waft forth.

