 In the United States, you need a Social Security number or other proof of the right to work.;
, Always list most recent employment first, and move back in chronological order. For each job you've held, include:


Company name, address, age and contact information
Supervisor and contact information
Your job title, responsibilities, and accomplishments
Dates you started and ended employment at the company, the reason you stopped working there, and your final pay rate.
 If you have no work history, have not worked for some time, or have been in prison, you still need to write something down in the "previous employment" section. The correct response can mean the difference between getting the job and being turned down.


Gaps in Employment – If there are months or years between your jobs, you need to explain why. Note if you have been attending school or training. If you have been searching for a job for some time, you can simply write “job hunting.”
No Work History – Even if you have not had a paying job, it is still best to include something in the employment section. List any volunteer, charitable, or casual labor jobs such as babysitting, doing lawn work, painting a house, or helping out on your family’s ranch.
Prison – Write down the jobs you did in prison. As your employer, list the state where you were imprisoned if a state prison or the United States government if a federal prison.
 Some applications will request your entire education history from high school on, while other will only want to know the highest level of educations you attained. List most recent education first. Be sure to include:


The name, location, and level (high school, GED, college, graduate) of each school attended
The dates attended
Any honors received
If you are in school or working towards your GED, list the date you expect to receive your diploma.
 Most applications will want to know if you've been convicted of a felony, or if you've ever been fired, forced to resigned, or resigned in order to avoid being fired. In responding, you can:


List the incidents. Avoid words like “fired” or “quit” and used “involuntary separation” or “resigned”, respectively.
Write “will discuss at interview.” This allows you to explain why you were fired or the extenuating circumstances behind a felony conviction.
Remember that you do not have to report misdemeanors on applications. Also, if you have been charged with a felony but have not yet been found guilty, you may answer “no” when asked if you have been convicted.
 Most applications will want three references, and some companies will only want professional references. Keep a list that is a mix of professional and personal references so you can easily pick and choose who to list on each application. At minimum, you should have a list of six references: three personal references and three professional references.


Professional references should be individuals such as employers or co-workers who have observed your work.
Personal references can be co-workers or friends, but should not be family members.
Be sure to contact any references you list in advance to be sure they are willing to act as a reference.
 Most applications have an “Other Related Experiences” section. You will want to tailor this information to the particular job you are applying for, but to prepare, make a list of the sorts of information you might include:Languages you speak, read, or write
Machinery or equipment you can operate or repair
Computer programs you know and any programming skills
Licenses and certifications

, There are laws against discriminating against job candidates due to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or genetic information. The only information requested should be that which is essential for determining if the candidate is qualified. If a prospective employer asks for any of the following information, you should politely decline to provide it:Inquiries about disabilities
Membership in organizations, clubs, societies, or lodges that may indicate an applicants race, sex, age, religion, or national origin
Church membership
Race, sex, or national origin information, if requested for tracking purposes, should be on a separate form that is not considered during the application review.
 Plugging all your information into a single-page model application that is easy to carry with you will make it much easier when you have to fill out applications in person. If you have a smart phone, consider keeping this document on your phone so that it is always with you.


You can find generic applications to use as the base for your model at many government websites such as wsd.dli.mt.gov or labor.idaho.gov.
 There are federal and state job centers in all 50 states that will review your application for free, as well as helping you search for jobs and preparing you for interviews. You can find a list of resources at http://www.dol.gov/dol/location.htm. At the very least, have a family member or friend whose opinion you trust look over your model application.

