 You can find the Play Store in your Apps list (⋮⋮⋮).
 This will return a bunch of apps that can enable Kids Mode on your phone.


There are tons of different Kids Mode apps you can try, and all will function slightly differently. This method will focus on "Kid Mode: Free Learning Games by Zoodles," which is one of the most popular options.
 This will begin downloading and installing the Kids Mode app.
 This button appears after the app has downloaded and installed.
 When you start Kid Mode: Free Learning Games by Zoodles, you'll be prompted to select the launcher you want to use. Tap Kid Mode and then tap Always.
 You'll need a free Zoodles account to get started with it. Enter your email and create a password to get started.
 This will be the passcode for accessing Kid Mode settings. You don't have to actually use your birth year, especially if your kids know what it is.
 Enter your child's name and birth year. The birth year will help tailor age-appropriate content.
 This will allow you to set some additional options before handing the phone off to your child.
 You can ignore the upsells for now and proceed to the dashboard.
 This will allow you to see the time your child spends in each of the different learning disciplines.
 This will take you through the different pages. Some pages are for premium subscribers only.
 This will display apps that you can add to Kids Mode for your child to use. Most apps are free, and don't contain ads or in-app purchases that your child can accidentally tap.
 You'll see the educational subjects that each app covers, so you can find the perfect app for your child.
 This will launch Kid Mode for your child, and they'll be able to safely explore the apps and activities without being able to access the internet, your regular apps, or your device's settings.
 When you first start the free version of Kids Mode, your child will have access to the Jungle. Tapping the Jungle on the map will allow your child to see all of the different activities that are available there. As your child earns points by playing games, they'll unlock more activities to do.
 This button is only available on the Parents' Dashboard, and the child won't be able to exit unless they know the passcode.
 This will return your phone to regular operation.


If you want to start Kid Mode again, open your Apps list and tap the Kid Mode app. You'll then be prompted to select the Kid Mode launcher.

