 Maybe a friend said some nasty things about your series of fashion selfies. Or an art critic voiced their confusion about your approach to painting. Or you didn’t make the ball team, despite trying your hardest. In these cases, the best response is to buckle down, bang out a few push-ups (figuratively or literally), and get back to work honing your craft., When something gives your ego a knock, admitting to to someone else can not only feel good, it can lead to renewed motivation to get your mind back on track. It doesn’t matter if you’re speaking to a workplace mentor, a close friend, or a mental health professional.If you're hesitant to speak with someone but you keep thinking about something that happened, remind yourself that it’s a sign of emotional maturity if you’re able to admit it when you’re bummed.
Simply pull someone you trust aside at some point and say something like, "Geez, James said something earlier that really got to me. I've still been thinking about it and I'd like to get it off of my chest. Can we talk for a minute?"

, It can be helpful and motivating to reflect on your own. In fact, many people are motivated by experiences of defeat or humiliation to examine their prior behavior or level of effort and adjust to prevent a similar experience from happening again.To aid in your reflection, ask yourself questions like, “What could I have done differently that might have prevented this?”
In this way, you can challenge yourself to address the matter in a healthy and productive way by thinking it through without someone else.
 As important as honest conversation and reflection may be, it’s also important to move on shortly after receiving a blow to the ego. Address and manage your emotions, and then focus on other aspects of your life.Thinking too much about what might have been, or how something might have gone differently, will prolong your discomfort and prevent you from spending your time thinking about and doing more productive things.
Whenever a thought arises that you don't want to think about, simply push it away. Don't become frustrated if it keeps coming up, just take a deep breath and focus on something else.

