 Toast the seeds for about 2 minutes, or until they are fragrant and lightly browned.


Swirl the pan or stir the seeds continuously to prevent the seeds from burning.
Toasting the seeds first draws out their natural flavor, thereby improving the taste of the dish overall.;
, Pour the vinegar into the saucepan, followed by the sugar, garlic, salt, peppercorns, turmeric, red pepper flakes, and water. Continue heating the contents of the saucepan until they reach a boil.


Once the solution reaches a boil, drop the heat to medium so that the solution simmers gently as you prepare the cauliflower florets. The solution needs to be hot when you add it, but it does not need to be at a rolling boil.
 Place the florets into a clean quart (liter) sized jar, packing them in as tightly as possible.


Any size jar will work for this method: quart (liter), pint (half-liter), or half-pint (quarter-liter). The jars do not need to have bands, but they do need to have tight lids.
 Pour the hot pickling solution over the cauliflower inside the jar. Make sure that the solution seeps all the way down to the bottom of the jar, and leave roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 ml) empty headspace at the top of each jar.


The headspace will prevent the glass from cracking or breaking as the liquid expands and contracts.
 Keep the jar on a counter or table until the solution drops down to room temperature. After the temperature drops, cover the jar securely with its lid.


Do not place the jar directly in the refrigerator. The glass will be hot after you pour the hot liquid in, and a sudden shift in temperature can cause the glass to crack.
 Place the jar inside your refrigerator and let the pickling solution do its work. The cauliflower should begin to absorb the flavors within a few hours, but for maximum flavor, leave the jar alone for two or three days., Store the sealed jar of pickled cauliflower in your refrigerator, taking what you need whenever you need it. When prepared in this manner, pickled cauliflower can last anywhere from two weeks to three months.

