 While you may feel ashamed or embarrassed to tell your family about your drug use, remember that they can offer support and encouragement to you. Chances are, your addiction likely affects your family, especially if you live in the same home. If your relationships with your family have suffered as a result of your drug addiction, saying that you are seeking recovery and treatment can be a part of the mending process.Even if you try to hide your addiction, it’s likely your family has suspicions, as drug addictions can affect several aspects of functioning.It’s best to get them on your side with support instead of engaging in shame and secrecy.
It's also important to asses the risks of telling certain family members and determine whether it is necessary. Some may have trouble understanding, coping, or reacting to the information in a healthy way. This may include family members with learning disabilities, emotional struggles and mental health issues; children or the elderly; family members already dealing with a drug addiction; family members who are abusive or likely to react in a harmful way; etc.;
, By planning what to say, you can get better support and have a more productive conversation. Plan to talk about the “process” first, meaning, prime your family for discussion and what you’re hoping to get from the discussion. Then, talk about the specific problems of your drug addiction, followed by ways you’d like your family to help.Having a format in mind can help keep the conversation on track and minimize distractions or tangents.
 It’s entirely up to you how much you want to disclose to your family about your addiction. You are not required to tell them things that make you feel uncomfortable or that bring you shame. Keep in mind why you want to tell them about your addiction, and let this guide what you say.You may want to use this discussion as a way to ask for help in seeking treatment. If so, keep your discussion centered around how treatment will help you and why their support is important.
If your goal is to tell your family as a way to gain support for your recovery, there’s no need to tell them about events that cause you shame; however, if there is a risk of pregnancy or serious health risks due to drug use, this may be information you want to share.
 Prior to going into the discussion, know that you may be met with many types of reactions from your family. They may be shocked, bewildered, sad, embarrassed, or even angry. Some may be immediately supportive and helpful. Keep in mind that initial reactions are likely in response to the drugs and what they are doing to your life and are not necessarily directed at you personally.It may take some time for the “shock factor” to blow over; it may take minutes, hours, or weeks. Be ready to face their reactions, both positive and negative.


Allow your family time to process the news. Once the shock wears off, they may be more willing to help and support you.
Your family may want to share with you the ways in which your addiction has affected them. This may be difficult to hear, and you may want to suggest you all attend family counseling to work through any feelings of resentment or anger.
 You may wish to enlist the help of a close friend in telling your family about your addiction. This way, you can have the support of someone who cares about you while you talk to your family. This person can help you if you’re struggling to open up or talk about what is bothering you. He can assist you in telling people you care about of your addiction., Start the discussion by talking about what you’re hoping to get from having this discussion and why it’s important to you to talk to your family. Prepare your family for the discussion by introducing it well.Often, starting the conversation is the hardest part, so you may want to practice this ahead of time.


For example, you can say, “I have something serious I need to talk about, and I’m really nervous about bringing it up. I’m hoping you will listen and try to understand as I try to tell you about this difficult thing in my life.”
You can also say, “I’m really struggling with something, and this is my way of reaching out to you. It’s really hard for me to talk about this, so please take me seriously and listen. I’m hoping you will be supportive.”

, Be honest with your family during this discussion and tell them if you are currently using. Don’t lie or downplay your use, which might be tempting.Instead, be honest and tell your family what’s going on.


Say, “I’m currently using, but it’s because I’m scared to stop. I want to get this under control.”

, Tell your family how addiction is affecting you. You may feel mixed emotions, which is okay.On the one hand, you may notice how addiction is negatively affecting your life, yet you find it hard to stop and cannot think of finding an alternative. By talking about your emotions, you can help your family recognize how the addiction is affecting your life and that you are suffering.


Say, “I never thought I would get to this point, and it scares me knowing I can’t help myself. I need help.”

, Tell your family why you are concerned. Clue them in on what is bothering you and how it is affecting your life. Drugs can affect social, emotional, physical, and spiritual aspects of your life.Feel free to give examples of situations that you feel comfortable talking about with your family.For example, you can say, “Since I’ve started using drugs, I’m having a really hard time going to work, and I’m scared I might get fired.”
You can also say, “The drugs are impairing my ability to raise my child, and I’m scared I’m turning into a bad parent. I don’t want to hurt my child and I want to be a good parent.”

, If it’s difficult for you to gather your family or you feel more comfortable writing instead of talking with your family, consider writing a letter or sending an email. This way, you can organize your thoughts and say what you need to say without interruption.


A letter also allows your family members to process the information on their own time and get in touch with you when they are ready.
 Perhaps your family will refuse to help you and support you. Remind them that you are asking for support for your recovery. You are not asking for them to help you support your addiction. Say that you are reaching out to your family because you are hoping to gain the love and support that family can offer.Say, “My intention is to recover from my addiction. I do not want help supporting my addiction or involving my family in it. I want to be free from this.”

, Some family members may be inclined to give you advice, tell you what to do, or run your life for you. Be clear in stating that you are reaching out to ask for encouragement.Having someone to talk to can help you reduce your stress and elevate your mood. When talking to your family, make it clear that you are seeking help and support, not judgment and discouragement.


Say, “This is a very difficult process for me, and it would be very helpful to have my family encourage me and support me to get better.”

, You may feel overwhelmed by the prospect of looking for treatment on your own. Ask your family to help you find a place for you to safely recover. Treatment centers are located all around the United State.Find a center that is accredited by the state and has trained and licensed medical and psychological professionals.


Say, “I want to get treatment, but I am feeling very overwhelmed. Will you help me find something?”
Sit down with your family and look online to find an appropriate treatment center. You can also call your insurance to see which treatment centers are covered.
 If you need specific help with something, state this clearly. For instance, if you want someone to attend meetings with you or drive you to therapy appointments, state this clearly. Say what you need help with and ask who is willing to help you succeed in your treatment.Any requests you make should be centered around treatment and getting help with recovery.
Say, “I want to go to weekly therapy, yet I cannot drive myself. Would you be willing to give me a ride in order to support my recovery?”

, If your family tries to overload you with advice or tell you what to do, set boundaries. Be clear when you want advice from others and when you want someone to just listen. If someone tries to discredit you or your treatment, remind her gently that you are the one with the addiction, and you are seeking help in the best way you know how.If family members offer you their opinions or uninformed advice, be firm in stating what is helpful and what is not. Say, “I appreciate your concern; however, I feel really overwhelmed. I think it’s best to take the advice of the treatment professionals.”

