 Refrigerate any extra batter or dough, covered with plastic, for up to a day.


You won't want to use batter that is older than 24 hours. Most batter contains milk and eggs, which can spoil quickly if not used.
Batter will also lose its leavening if its left too long. Baking powder and baking soda will lose their efficacy once they are wet.
Check to see if it is spoiled or has a smell before using it.
Warm up the batter before using. You can get it to slightly cooler than room temperature.;
, You will need the following ingredients and supplies: Leftover pancake batter.
Blueberries or chocolate chips.
A mini-muffin tin.
Cooking spray.
 You can do this with a whisk or spoon.You want to make sure your batter is well mixed before re-using it.
Make sure it is not lumpy or too thin.
Scrape the sides of the bowl to make sure no lumps of flour are sticking to it.
 This is the temperature you will need to use to bake your muffins.A 425 degree oven will result in a muffin with crispier edges.
For a softer muffin, you can bake them at 400 degrees.
The lower the temperature, the longer the muffins will need to bake.
 This will prevent your muffins from sticking while they bake. Spray the tin generously.
Don't spray it too much. If you do the spray will pool at the bottom of each muffin.
You can also use a non-stick muffin tin.
 You need to fill them 2/3 of the way. If you over-fill a muffin cup, the batter will overflow during baking. The edges of the muffin will easily burn.
Under-filling a tin will result in a smaller, dry muffin.
As you fill the muffin tins, stir the batter to keep it well mixed.
 You can add as many or as few as you like. Add at least 3 blueberries or chocolate chips to the center of each muffin.
There is no need to press them down into the muffin. They will bake into the muffin as it rises.
You can also experiment with other fillings like dried cranberries or other fruit.
 You will now bake them until golden. These will bake 8-9 minutes in a 425 degree oven.
If you prefer a softer muffin, you can bake them for about 11 minutes in a 400 degree oven.
When done, allow to cool slightly before serving.
Serve the muffins hot with maple syrup.

