 Humidors can only control humidity, which makes it your job to watch the temperature. Humidors should be kept in climate-controlled rooms between 68 and 72 degrees F at all times.
 A common point of confusion and interest for aficionados with a large collection is where to store the different cigars. If you've got 15 Maduros and a variety of other miscellaneous cigars, of various strengths and flavors, can they all age next to each other? Yes and no. Keep natural cigars with natural cigars, and flavored cigars with flavored.


It is possible for flavors to bleed between cigars, but not between all cigars. A good rule of thumb is to definitely separate (remember those cedar dividers at the cigar store?) any flavored cigars you might have, from any natural tobacco cigars. A cognac-flavored stick, for example, can leech onto natural tobacco sticks it shares space with, making everything taste the same. In general, though, natural sticks should stay together, regardless of strength or flavor profile.
If you must store a variety of cigars in the same box in a humidor, or the same humidor next to one another, consider storing them in cedar sleeves, or create your own from old cedar at the cigar store.
 Another debatable topic in the cigar-collecting world is whether or not to store cigars in the cellophane wrapper, or "naked," having been removed from the wrapper. If you've got a quality-humidor that you maintain effectively and want to age a high-quality cigar for a long period of time, it's recommended that you remove the cellophane by some, though it largely has to do with preference.


If you plan on smoking a cigar shortly, in less than a month, it's perfectly fine to leave it in the cellophane wrapper for that length of time, and even longer if you wish. It's just as common to leave cigars in the tubes and wrappers they arrive in, especially cedar-lined wrappers.
 To make sure the air doesn't get stale in your humidor, it's good practice to move cigars around every month or so. If you're an avid smoker and are constantly moving them around because you're taking some out and replacing with others, you probably don't need to schedule rotations, but if you're a collector of fine cigars that you've been aging for a long time, it's best to move them around.


In general, cigars should be stored flat, to promote air circulation. Don't store cigars on top of other cigars. Keep cigars in a humidor with plenty of room for more.
 It's good practice to check your hygrometer at least once a week to make sure the humidity levels are staying steady, and to change the fluid in the humidifier every couple of months, depending on the climate in which you live.


In especially cold and dry climates, it's a good idea to change your humidifier fluid, or recharge the beads every 3 months or so, and certainly any time you see the levels dipping. In more tropical-climates, you're safe changing it every 9 months to a year.
It's a good idea to recalibrate hygrometers once every six months, by removing it from the humidor, storing it in the bag with salt, and checking to make sure it's giving an accurate reading. Faulty hygrometers are responsible for most user-errors in storage.

