 If your school has already had dance teams in the past, you might find it useful to find the rules pertaining to these and show your principal. If not, talk to your principal and/or superintendent about the idea based on your own reasons and research. Explain why you want to form a school dance team and what sorts of activities you intend for it to perform.


Ask what support and funding your team might possibly expect.
 Make sure that if you choose some one that knows what they are doing to help you , that you trust them.
 This person will be able to steer you in the right direction in terms of team formation, where to practice and what competitions or other events you could all become involved in.
 It is best to make a dance team of friends or it may not work as well, as you have to perform together as a team. This means being able to understand one another well and to be able to accept constructive criticism where needed to improve dance moves.


Does the school have specific rules on forming a hobby group or activity? Follow the rules if they have any, as these may impact the amount of people involved, the times you can hold the activity and the required skill sets.;
, Make it something catchy yet easy to say, so that others will recognize your team easily.
 Set these up for lunchtime or after school, and book a suitable place such as a hall or gym.


It's a good idea to get some teachers helping with the judging as well as students. All judges should be good with dance and understand a good dancer when they see one.
Ask the office to make an announcement about the auditions. You should ask if you can put posters all over the school.
 Maybe someone who works at a nearby dance studio or perhaps a teacher at school with dance skills.


Your coach should be trained in dance, in order for your team to succeed.
 Also ask about what sorts of events your dance team should strive to participate in. Your coach will know what's available and worth competing for

, Develop a dance routine that suits all the different skills in the group. It helps if all team members can agree on the style of music and the dance steps for the team. If not, consider having smaller teams under the bigger dance team, doing different routines.


Practice often. Book a regular place in the school buildings for lunchtime or after school practice sessions.
 This may be at a school competition, at local competitions or other places.

