 Before you go buying all of this elaborate dance gear you might want to check if your dance school has a dress code. If the dress code is a black leotard and pink tights feel free to expand on that. Get a really prettied designed black leotard and match it with seamless or convertible tights. Make sure that you are comfortable and can dance. There are also many types of shoes such as ballet flats, pointe shoes, tap shoes, jazz shoes, foot undies and much more. Make sure to get the correct kind of shoes and check with your dance teacher before you start sewing on ribbons and elastics.


If you have to wear a black leotard and pink tights, get a fancy leotard and some convertible tights. Try using some warm-up gear. Don't worry, you don't have to have a team jacket and all that. Just wearing some casual leggings/trash bag pants and a neutral dance warm-up jacket is fine.;
, Put it in a bun, ponytail, braid, or whatever will get your hair out of your face and so that you don't need to keep fixing it. Most studios prefer if students have their hair in a bun.
 The most important thing is that your hair doesn't fall out. If you are doing turns, leaps and frantic dance steps, you don't want to have to go to the side and redo your hair.


Start by pulling your hair back into a simple ponytail. If you have bangs, secure them back with a headband or with clips.
If you don't have a lot of hair, it might be a good idea to get a bun doughnut or a bun wig.
If you have enough hair wrap your hair in a circular formation and secure with bobby pins. After this wrap, a hair net around the bun and you're good to go.
Start adding colorful flowers, hair bands, and clips.
 Select a dance bag that has ample room, with lots of pockets. Put in all of your different types of dance shoes in the bag with a smaller bag for all of the things that you need for your pointe shoes. Add a water spray bottle, deodorant, hairspray, stretch gear (sweatpants and dance gear), makeup, rubber bands, bobby pins, extra tights and anything extra your teacher might want you to bring.


Try not to wear any makeup to dance class, as it can easily run down due to sweat and it will be messy.
 Eating too much before dance can cause you to feel nauseous or tired., You want to arrive at dance class at least 15 minutes early. This gives you time to stretch, talk to your friends and be ready for class in time.
 This makes sure that you are ready and secures that you won't get hurt. It may be a good idea to even take an extra stretch class. You can also buy things like stretch bands. This makes your ankles stronger and feels like you're pushing against a force.


Try stretching forward on the ground with legs straight in front of you and toes pointed, and then repeat with toes flexed. Stretch in the butterfly, and then open up to a straddle. Lean to the left and then right.
Repeat the straddle stretches. Then, still in a straddle, stretch forward with the feet flexed all the way. Now roll through the middle splits onto your belly and push up, stretching out your back.
Do this with no hands. Then do it with your legs behind you bent. Some people call this a cereal pose. Then roll back through the middle splits and do all of your splits, including the center.

