 Sometimes, just talking can be fun. However, you have to work on your communication skills to assure you and your friends always have fun while chatting. A great way to ensure a fun, engaging conversation is to say what's on your mind without a filter.


People often stumble through conversations worrying about what to say next. You might find yourself thinking, "Would I sound smart if I said this? Would I sound cool?" Trying to edit what you say can make you come off as dull. Try to avoid filtering your thoughts when talking.Try to not think too much before responding in a conversation. Say what's on your mind, as long as it's not mean spirited, and people are more likely to respond favorably. People in general have more fun in a conversation when they don't feel they have to filter themselves. Your friends will find your uninhibited nature fun and feel more free to speak their own minds as well., While you want to speak your mind in conversation, that does not mean you should dominate the conversation. People have fun if others seem interested in what they have to say. Make sure to always listen closely to your friends and ask for additional information.


People enjoy being around those who are interested in their stories. If your friend tells you something, respond with something like "Oh, cool!" or "Tell me more." This will encourage your friend to keep talking and flatter her. Asking questions is a great way to keep conversation flowing., Amusing anecdotes are a great addition to any conversation. People will have fun being around you if you know how to tell a great story.


When it's relevant to the conversation, jump in with a story. For example, say you have a hilarious story about a prank you and your brother played on your mom during your vacation to Mount Rushmore. If your friends are talking about April Fool's Day, this could be a great opportunity to tell your story.You don't have to limit storytelling to what has happened to you personally. You can pick up stories anywhere. Did you hear something interesting on the news recently? Read something fascinating in a magazine article? Do you know an interesting anecdote about a famous actor or comedian's past? These can all be fun stories you can add to any conversation.If you're unsure how to tell a good story, try listening to radio programs like The Moth or This American Life. These programs rely heavily on storytelling and you can learn how to tell a good story through listening to them.

