 Unless the toy has batteries or instructions specify that they are not dishwasher safe, running small plastic toys through the dishwasher will remove dirt and disinfect them. Place on the top rack of the dishwasher. Afterward, allow the toys to air dry on a dish rack.Check the tag to verify that the toy is dishwasher safe. If you can't find any information, you can assume that it is dishwasher safe. Most small plastic toys without batteries are dishwasher safe.
If the toy is a bath toy, like a rubber duck, be sure to empty it of dirty bathwater prior to placing it in the dishwasher.
Small plastic toys can also be hand washed in the same way that metal, electronic and large plastic toys are. However, using the dishwasher is easier and generally more consistent.
 Toys that cannot go in the dishwasher should be washed by hand. Apply warm soapy water to a rag or sponge and rub the toys down. Be careful to remove all visible stains and dirt.If the toys are very greasy or grimy, add vinegar and baking soda to the water.
When hand washing toys with batteries, make sure to remove the batteries prior to washing them. Do not submerge them in water or wash the inside of the toy. Scrub the outside with your soapy sponge.
Rinse the toys well before you finish washing them.
 To pick up very tough dirt and grime on toys, make a solution with baking soda and vinegar and apply it to a towel. Mix 1 2/3 cup baking soda, 1/2 cup liquid soap,1/2 cup water, and two tablespoons of white vinegar. Mix until all clumps have dissolved., It's important to disinfect baby toys when you clean them. Mix a tablespoon of bleach in a quart of water and use it to rub down the toys with a rag. Be sure that all dirt and grime has been removed before you sanitize the toy; germs can hide under the dirt.It's very important that you dilute bleach. Bleach is only non-toxic to children when properly diluted., Give the toys approximately 24 hours to dry. After there is no noticeable moisture on it, you can return it to your child.