 Tinnitus isn’t a condition but actually a symptom of other problems or condition that range from age-related hearing loss to hearing damage or circulatory system disorders. The treatment for the condition will be based on the underlying cause of tinnitus, which is why finding the cause matters. Tinnitus can be primary or secondary. Primary tinnitus occurs when no cause can be identified other than hearing, and secondary tinnitus occurs as a symptom of another condition. Determining which type of tinnitus you have will increase the potential of successful treatment.Tinnitus can be classified in two categories. First, objective tinnitus, also called pulsatile tinnitus, happens in just 5% of the cases and is audible to an observer who is listening with a stethoscope or is standing close to the individual. This type of tinnitus is associated with vascular or muscular disorders to the head or neck, such as brain tumors or brain structure abnormalities, and is often synchronized to the individual’s heartbeat. Second, subjective tinnitus is audible only to the individual and is more common, occurring in 95 percent of the cases. This is a symptom of many different ear disorders and is reported in over 80 percent of people who suffer from a sensorineural hearing loss.Tinnitus may affect individuals differently, even though they are experiencing identical loudness or pitches in sound. The severity of the condition can be a function of the individual’s reaction to the condition.
 Tinnitus is often described as a ringing in the ears but it can also sound like buzzing, hissing, roaring, or clicking. The pitch and tone can vary from individual to individual and the sound may also change. You might hear the noises in one ear or both, which is an important distinction your physician should know for diagnostic purposes.Aside from the ringing in the ears, a person may also exhibit other symptoms such as dizziness or lightheadedness, headaches, and/or neck pain, ear or jaw pain (or other TMJ symptoms).


Some people will experience a loss of hearing while others don’t experience any difficulty hearing. Again, this distinction is important during diagnosis.Some also become hypersensitive to certain frequencies and volume ranges of sound, a condition called hyperacusis. This is strongly associated with tinnitus and individuals can suffer from both at the same time.Secondary effects of tinnitus include difficulty sleeping, depression, anxiety, problems at work and home, and a deterioration of an individual’s emotional state., Think about what has happened in your life recently and search for situations or circumstances which may have caused tinnitus. To prepare yourself for a medical appointment for diagnosis and treatment of your tinnitus, record your symptoms and any other information that may be relevant to the development of your symptoms. For example, note if you:


Have been exposed to loud noises
Have a current or chronic sinus, ear, or mastoid infections
Are taking or have recently taken any of the medications listed above
Have been diagnosed with a circulatory problem
Have diabetes
Have TMJ
Have suffered a head or neck injury
Have a hereditary disorder, osteosclerosis
Are a woman and recently experienced a change in hormonal levels, such as pregnancy, menopause or start/stop of hormonal replacement therapy

, Your physician will perform a thorough history to determine any past environmental exposures or medical conditions which may have triggered tinnitus. Treatment for tinnitus will depend upon the underlying medical cause of the condition.


If you are taking medications which are associated with tinnitus, you may want to discuss changing the medication with your physician.
Auditory nerve retraining may be necessary if you experience hyperacusis.

