 Smoke and carbon monoxide alarms should be tested every month, but it's especially important if you haven't inhabited the house for an extended period of time.Test alarms by pressing the test button.Replace any batteries that are dead or dying. Most smoke alarms require a nine volt battery.Vacuum around the vents of smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms to remove any dust that has built up around the sensors., The filter on your furnace traps dust, dander, hair/fur, and other particulates in the air inside your home. Basic fiberglass or paper filters typically need to be changed every one to two months, and electrostatic or HEPA filters need to be cleaned or changed every two to four months.Even though you won't need the furnace during summer, it's a good idea to change old filters. If a cold snap hits in the spring and you turn the furnace back on, you'll want to ensure that the furnace isn't loaded up with dirt, dust, and other particulates.


Be sure the furnace is turned off.Remove the service panel. If you cannot find it, consult the manufacturer's guide.Slide out the old filter. Filters are typically located near the fan inside the furnace.Insert a new filter, then close up the service panel., If your home has a fireplace, it's a good idea to clean it out as part of your spring cleaning and dewinterization routine. Much like the furnace filter, you want to ensure that the fireplace is clean, in case a cold snap hits in the spring and you need to have a fire.


Move anything that might be blocking the fireplace, and put down old sheets or a plastic shower curtain to catch any ash and soot.Use a wet paper towel to wipe down the grate inside the fireplace.Use a shop vacuum to remove as much of the ash, soot, and wood fragments as possible. Do not use a regular household vacuum, as the material you vacuum from the fireplace might clog the filter of the vacuum.Scrub the walls and floor of the fireplace with a handled brush and a mixture of warm water and a gentle soap.Have a professional chimney cleaner scrub out your chimney to prevent the risk of fire.