 You need to understand the team you play, for example: The Nod has weaker units than the other teams and should use stealthier approach towards the enemy. Basically, you need to know what the team is strong against and what its weakness is try having skirmishes against hard or brutal AI you may lose but practice makes perfect (also AI is faster than a normal player so if you can beat a brutal or a hard with ease you can fight players just as easy).;
, Once you have chosen your team you like the feel of, then you need the basics. You need to expand quickly and efficiently, don't spend all resources doing this. Try to evenly spend on units, defense and gathering resource. To expand, build an emissary, outpost or explorer depending the team and send it to the nearest Tiberium field that you cannot reach via using your own build radius. It also may be cheaper and easier to defend if you unpack your MCV and move it closer to the field. Also, take interests of nearby 'capture' buildings like EMPs and Tiberium Spikes. These are of value.
 Once you have a steady income, then concentrate on defense or attack. However, don't forget about money income. Still, expand further if you can. You need to build units because they act as the hammer-blow of an attack or the very metal wall of defense to guard you base plus they move!

, Depending on your tactics, you should start with the low level units and gradually build on, using more advanced and stronger units or hordes of the weaker units. Build small groups of them. For example: GDI, build 6 pitbulls and scout Tiberium fields and destroy the enemy harvesters to slow their Tiberium income. Also, use this time to scout their main base or bases. Also Try to build up the tech tree if the enemy is flying through the tech tree and your still using infantry and light tanks you will find that destroying his army will be very difficult so remember there's always room for tech and improvement.
 By this time, you will know what they're doing or have a close idea in what they are doing to build units to counter this. If they build defense turrets, build things to out range them. If they build tanks, counter them with rocket men and better tanks, so on and so forth, or you could use this time to upgrade your units from the tech center.
 The match with your opponent should be beginning to close as your units are destroying his stuff. However, you need to take out the key buildings. For example, the scrin are going to attack your air units via using the anti-air plasma disc launchers. Target his nerve center, so he can't build anti-air turrets or his power, so they go offline if you attack more accurately then setting them to aggressive hope they do stuff you'll enjoy the game a lot more and be a lot more of a challenge. If you have followed this guide correctly and made you own style and combo of units and the way you build, then you'll find to be quite the challenge. However keep in mind that you need mix it up a bit don't constantly do the same thing try experiment with your units and powers.

