 If your nose is stuffed up but not dripping, or mucus isn't coming out easily when you blow your nose, don't force it. Your impulse may be to blow your nose — hard — until you expel some mucus, but it's best if you leave the tissues alone. Only blow your nose when it is running.


Blowing hard repeatedly will make the delicate membranes inside your nostrils get more inflamed, and can quickly lead to increased stuffiness. It seems counter-intuitive at first, but you really will feel better if you use tissues less.;
, Depending on the cause of the stuffiness, you might be able to find some relief in widely available medications. Here's what to choose:


If you have a cold, pick up a decongestant. Decongestants will ease the swelling and inflammation in your nasal passages, leading to easier breathing. You can take them orally, as a pill, or use a decongestant nasal spray. Be aware that decongestant nasal sprays are only recommended for three consecutive days of use; oral decongestants such as Sudafed can be taken for up to seven days.
If you're suffering from allergies, such as hay fever, get an antihistamine. If allergies are at the root of your problem, an antihistamine will both relieve congestion and take care of other symptoms, like sneezing. Be aware that some antihistamines can cause sedation. Look for non-drowsy options to take during the day and wait to drive or use heavy machinery until you see how the antihistamine affects you.
 Saline nasal sprays are simply salt water in a convenient applicator — no medications or drugs are included. The water will soothe the inflammation in your nose, as well as flushing out any mucus or bacteria.


Buy the spray, or make your own spray. You can purchase sterile saline sprays at most drug stores. Or, if you own a nasal aspirator or bulb syringe, make your own by mixing 1/4 teaspoon of salt with 1 cup warm, sterile water.
Lean over a sink, with the tip of your nose is pointing toward the drain. This position allows the water to easily run out of your nose.
Slowly spray the saline into one nostril at a time. If you're using a bulb syringe, squeeze it a little to evacuate the air, dip it into the saline solution, and release the bulb. Squeeze the bulb again to put the solution into your nostril.
Allow the solution to drain from your nose completely before spraying again.
Use the saline solution two to three times a day.
Check out How to Use a Neti Pot for an alternate way to irrigate your sinuses with saline solution.
 The moisture and heat from steam will ease the inflammation and help you breathe easier. The good news about this method: you can do it as often as you need to, including running a humidifier constantly until you feel better.


Take a steamy shower. Close the bathroom door so that no steam escapes and turn the water temperature up. If you don't want to bathe, simply get the shower going and inhale the steam as it fills the bathroom.
Inhale the steam from a boiling pot of water. Bring the water to a gentle boil, and carefully lean over it to breathe in the steam. (Just make sure you don't burn yourself!)
Run a humidifier or vaporizer. This can be especially helpful while you're sleeping. Make sure you follow the instructions for cleaning the unit, as mold can easily grow on humidifiers, which will only make your symptoms worse.
 Drinking plenty of fluid will thin out any mucus in your nose, making it easier to expel. The extra moisture in your system will also soothe irritated nasal passages and prevent sinus blockages.


Some people find it helpful to drink warm fluids when they're congested. Consider herbal teas, broths, or soups.
 Wet a washcloth with water that's as hot as you can stand, lie down, and lay the cloth over the bridge of your nose so that it covers your sinuses but leaves the path to your nostrils clear. Rewet the washcloth when it starts to feel uncomfortably cold.


It might take a few rounds of reheating the washcloth for you to feel any benefit, so be patient. Try using a compress while you do something relaxing, like listening to music or watching TV.
 Most chest or vapor rubs contain menthol, eucalyptus, and/or camphor, which some people believe helps ease congestion when the vapors are inhaled. Popular rubs that can be used for this purpose include Vick's, Tiger Balm, and IcyHot. Although the ingredients in these remedies may effectively relieve the sensation of a stuffy nose in many people, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that they effectively treat cold symptoms.Try these application methods for some relief:


Rub it on your throat or chest if you're going to sleep. It's close enough to your nose that you'll be able to breathe it consistently as you sleep, but not so close that it will irritate your eyes.
Put some vapor rub on a tissue, then hold the tissue to your nose and inhale deeply.
Or, if you don't have any vapor rub on hand, dab a drop or two of peppermint oil beneath your nose. It should have the same effect.
 If you find that the congestion gets worse when you lie down, try to elevate your head a little bit. Put an extra pillow beneath your head, or try to sleep in a recliner.
 These thin white strips go over the bridge of your nose, and are meant to manually widen your nostrils just enough to help you breathe easier. They might be marketed as anti-snoring strips in some stores.
 If your sinuses are congested, consider chowing down on a dish that's slightly spicier than you usually enjoy. Drink plenty of water as you eat, and you should find that your nose is running by the end of the meal. Blow out as much mucus as you can.
 If it is merely a mucus-filled nose this method can help. When you're in the shower or bath, take some soap and wet your finger so they can run over skin easily. Massage both side of the nose for a little while and this should soothe the nose and the mucus should run easily out of your nose due to the warmth.

