 If you’re worried about dancing at a club or during some other social situation, you’re not alone! This is a normal concern, especially if you’ve never danced in public before. The best way to combat your nervousness is to practice at home, preferably in front of a mirror. Wait until you can get some time alone to practice.


When you’re ready, start by putting on a song with a good beat that you can dance to.
No one is watching, so close your eyes and get into the music.;
, The beat is the thump-thump-thump pattern that you hear. Relax and then start to nod your head along with the beat. As you get into the song, start to move your arms very slightly back and forth to the beat. Relax your shoulders and your knees so that they’re loose and easy to move. Gently bounce on your knees to the beat.Give yourself room to find your own style of dancing. As you practice, it will start to develop.
 Your knees are loose. You’re bouncing on them as you nod your head to the beat. Relax your torso and then rotate it slightly, keeping in time with your knee movements. The movement is sort of like when you're skiing. Make sure your arms are relaxed, then start to move them up and down.


Swing your arms so that they move in time with the beat.
Continue to bend your knees and rotate your torso as you incorporate the arm movements.
 As you grow more comfortable, start incorporating additional movements. Loosen and move your shoulders in time with your arm movements. Get your feet moving to the beat – take steps side to side or back and forth. Vary your arm movements a bit. Make sure you continue to nod your head, which will help you stay in sync with the song’s beat.Start out slow and ease your way into it.
It’s always better to make low-key movements rather than spastic ones.
 Watch how people dance in music videos and in movies. Take note of their movements and try them out. Check out the way your friends dance for more ideas. If you’re at a club or party, look for inspiration by watching everyone. You can incorporate your new moves on the spot, or save them for when you’re practicing.
 When you’re dancing, you won’t always have the space you’re used to having during practice. Anticipate different scenarios, such as a crowded dance floor. Practice how you would move in that situation. Consider how you’d move if you had lots of space on a relatively empty dancefloor. Also practice how you’d adapt to dancing face-to-face with another person.


You’ll need to be aware of your knees, so that you can avoid knocking them with your dance partner.
You also won’t have a lot of arm room in front of you. It might feel a little silly, but if you’re having a hard time picturing this, turn to face a wall and dance very close to it.

