 It may seem counterintuitive, but participating in class discussions is one of the only ways to engage in class without getting in trouble.


Fear of being wrong is often a reason that people do not join in on class discussions. Don’t be afraid to be wrong. You are in school to learn-- your teachers won’t get upset with you for being confused or remembering things wrong.
 If you have an interest in sports or music, physics are heavily involved in those things. If you have an interest in art or drawing, geometry and chemistry are quite visually engaging. Do you like video games? That’s 100% math and science.


You don’t have to do extra work-- you can relate your studies to your interests without it if you ask a few questions, or just look at things a little bit differently. With a few google searches, however (for example, “Math in music”), you can find entirely new ways to relate your interests to what your teachers want you to know.
 If you are bored in class because you already understand the material, you should let your teacher know. Your teacher can advise you on how to switch to advanced classes, or help you gain access to more interesting material.


If you are interested in the subject of your class, but bored by the class itself, you can request additional, more interesting readings. You can ask for extra projects, or think of unorthodox ways to fulfill assignments.
 Take notes, and keep them in order. Record your homework in a planner, and record any extra events that will cut into homework time.


When taking notes, challenge yourself. Try to write everything on the board or screen, or try to write everything in your own words. Make an illustration for each bullet point, or try to say everything in as few words as possible. Challenges will make your notes more memorable, and your note-taking more interesting.
 When you already know the facts, class discussion won’t seem like a waste of time. If you have had more time to absorb the material, you can bring up questions that you have about it, or find ways to relate it to your life, or even other subjects at school.
 As interesting as it may seem to keep updated on texts and social media, the truth is that constantly checking your phone makes you more bored. People who use their phone to avoid what is in front of them are more bored in school ‘’and’’ at home. If you get rid of the constant stimulation on your phone, the things that are actually around you will be more interesting. You will be able to take notes and avoid having to cram later. Eliminate notifications for your apps. It’s not like you’re going to forget about the apps that you really care about.
Use a passcode to get into your phone, and change it up if you already use one. This will make you think twice about checking your phone.
If you find yourself checking your phone without thinking about it, just turn it completely off for the duration of class. 