 You’ll find that a variety of different retailers sell health supplements online. Compare different sites to not only get the best deal but also minimize the risk of scams or buying unsafe products.Stick to sites from countries that have known safety standards for supplements.Sites in the United States, for example, may offer safer products than places that don’t regulate safety standards.Check to see what types of offers each site has. Some retailers have frequent buyer clubs or free shipping and returns that may decrease the price of your supplements.
Make sure the company guarantees its products and allows you to return them if you’re not satisfied.
Look to see if the site offers customer service numbers or direct chatting with online reps so that you can ask questions.;
, Once you’ve identified potential sites to buy your supplements, investigate the company’s credentials. This can help ensure you’re quality products from legitimate companies.Check to see if the company is reviewed or listed by government authorities. For example, the Better Business Bureau has an exhaustive list of company reviews available online.You can search by name, website, phone number or email address.Buy with caution from smaller retailers, such as botanicas, which often do not meet safety standards.Consider using large and well-known retailers, even if the prices are slightly higher. They often have specific product information and sell supplements that meet the Federal Drug Administration’s Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs)., Once you’ve identified one or two reputable retailers, you’re ready to select the supplements you want to buy. Read all of the product descriptions to make sure you’re getting the best quality supplements.Look for some of the following markers on product labels:


Certifications from an organization that verifies supplements such as United States Pharmacopeia (USP), NSF International, or ConsumerLab.com.However, be aware that this doesn’t guarantee safety or efficacy, rather that the product meets proper manufacturing standards, contains the ingredients listed on the label, and doesn’t contain harmful levels of contaminants.Detailed product information including the name of the supplement, contact information for the manufacturer, and a complete list of ingredients.
Information on the amount of the nutrient in the supplement.Medical research on the product. Any product making a medical claim must also contain the phrase “This statement has not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease."Production information, including any adverse effects reported and recalls.Make sure the product has an expiration date. If it doesn’t, don’t buy it.Look for product recall from the FDA to help guide your company and product choice.Compare different dietary supplements online by using the Dietary Supplement Label Database., After comparing sites and products, you’re finally ready to buy your supplements. Select your chosen products and place them in your basket.


Read product information before you put the supplement in your shopping basket. This can minimize the risk of getting poor-quality products or enrolling yourself in a subscription if you don’t want.
Remember that “natural” does not mean “safe.”Also keep in mind that one product cannot cure everything.Read customer reviews on the product for any potential problems with the supplement, the shipping, or payment.
Avoid products that claim to be alternatives to FDA-approved drugs, have marketing materials in another language, or make promises of quick effects and results. These can be signs of tainted supplements.Decide if you want to make a one-time purchase or if you prefer an auto-renewal offer, which might decrease the price or have a special shipping rate.
 Before you checkout, confirm the details of your products and order. Reviewing your order can alert you to potential scams and protect your health and personal information.


Make sure a company offers options for a one-time purchase, auto-renewal, or a subscription. The inability to decide what and how you buy may signal a scam. You may also want to check for “dynamic pricing,” which is when a company offers different prices on the same products based on your perceived willingness to pay more. These sites often use cookies to track this information.Avoid products advertised on the sidebars of a trusted site. These could be scams that sell tainted products or hack your information.
Make sure there is detailed information on the shipping methods including geographic limitations, choices for shipping, as well as shipping costs and insurance.Note any cancellation, return, and customer service policies., Once you’ve confirmed the details of your order, you’re ready to purchase your supplements. Be aware of any signs of scams or unsecure sites as you make your purchase.


Make sure you see “https://” in the address bar of your screen, which can let you know that the site is secure.You can also look for a closed padlock in the address bar to indicate a secure site.Read the company’s policies on how it protects your privacy and security.Enter your shipping and billing information as requested.
Enter your payment information as requested. You should never need to enter any more information than your credit card number, date of expiration, customer verification code (CVC), and the name as it appears on your card.Never give your social security number or password.Write down and print your order confirmation numbers.
 Track your order with the confirmation number provided. Once it arrives, open the package and check your order to make sure that you received everything and that none of the products are damaged.


Make sure the supplements are properly sealed and labeled.
Call customer service if anything is missing or seems different than you remember from your order.
Return the products if you have any concerns about their packaging, pricing, or other elements.
Check with the FDA’s MedWatch to see if any of your products have been recently recalled., If you want to buy supplements but are unsure of what you might need for your health, speak to your doctor. She can suggest products that may be beneficial to you and discuss any dosing instructions.Ask if you actually need a supplement. If you are getting enough nutrients through a healthy diet, you may not need supplements because they won’t bring any additional health benefits.If you are suffering from certain conditions, talk to your doctor about how supplements can complement your other treatment., If you and your doctor decide to boost your health with supplements, learn about the benefits of taking them. This can help you manage your expectations and ensure you don’t overdose yourself. Specific supplements can help:Women with heavy menstrual cycles
Adults over the age of 50
Individuals with poor nutrition or who eat less than 1,600 calories daily
Individuals with digestive conditions such as chronic diarrhea or food allergies that affect nutrient absorption
Vegans and vegetarians
Individuals allergic to fish
Pregnant women (prenatal vitamins and folic acid)

, Many companies will promote their supplements with grand claims of aiding your health. But there is little evidence that supplements cure major diseases.Acknowledging the benefits can help manage your expectations of the supplement.


Be aware that no supplement has been proven to cure a major disease such as cancer or heart disease.In addition, there is also no evidence that supplements can diagnose, treat, or prevent diseases., Just as supplements can benefit your health, they can also pose danger if manufactured or used improperly. Recognizing potential dangers of supplements can help prevent you buying bad products or overdosing.Some of the risks of supplement use include:


Heart, kidney, and liver problems
Aches
Allergic reactions
Fatigue
Nausea
Overdosing
Death.Hidden prescription drugs. There is evidence that some companies have spiked their supplements with prescription drugs. Check websites such as the Federal Drug Administration for recalled products or reports on known spiked supplements.You should also be aware that warning labels are not always accurate and may only offer general information. However, warning labels must include information about iron in their products by law because they can cause death., It’s important to follow the dosing directions of your doctor or on the supplement packaging.This can minimize your risk of overdose or more serious consequences.


Avoid supplement megadoses. Aim to take a supplement with 100% of the daily value of all vitamins and minerals instead of products that offer, for example, 500% of one vitamin and only 20% of another.Check your food for vitamin and mineral additives and factor this into your supplement use.Check the expiration dates. Products that have expired can lose efficacy.Discontinue use and speak to your doctor if your supplements are making you feel ill.

