 The best way to keep warm is to wear appropriate clothing. If you are going to be outside, wear layers. Layering is the best way to keep warm.


You should have three layers of insulation. For the first layer, wear thermals, long johns, or material that wicks away moisture. For the mid layer, wear thick materials, such as fleece and down. For the outer layer, wear a material that protects you from snow, rain, and wind.Your layers should be loose instead of confining. You want to avoid sweating, because sweating creates moisture, which makes you colder.;
, Wear a hat, a scarf, and gloves. Forgetting a scarf can make you much colder because you lose a lot of heat through your neck. Only wearing one layer of pants is a major mistake people make. Wear thermal pants, fleece tights, and leg warmers under your jeans. Wear multiple pair of socks with winter weather boots. Make sure one pair of socks is a closely fitting wool.
 If you don't have warm clothes, or if you're wearing layers but are still cold, create friction on the cold parts of your body. That generates some heat. Rub your arms or legs and try to create as much friction as you can.


If it is possible, put your arms inside of your shirt and keep them there. You have become a larger mass and are therefore retaining more heat as the heat radiates off of the clothing and both of your arms. If you are wearing long sleeves put one arm in one sleeve and vice versa.
Become the largest mass you can. Put your arms and hands under your legs or use the shirt technique. But do not separate yourself; the most heat is conducted when many things are together and can mutually share and give off heat.
 To get your feet and hands warm, get some blood pumping into them. If your feet are cold, try moving your leg back and forth 30-50 times. Make sure when you move that you include the thigh muscle and that you swing the leg in wide arcs. To warm up your arms, move your arms in large 360 degree circular movements. Make sure to engage your entire arm in the movement.One reason why your hands and feet get cold is because your core is pulling all the heat towards it, leaving your hands and feet bloodless and heatless. Wear vests and more layers over your torso if your hands and feet are constantly cold.
If your extremities like your nose or hands are cold, then blow on them. Use hot, warm air generated from the back of your throat for your hands. For your nose, you may want to clasp your hand over your nose. Not only will you warm your nose, but you will also warm your hands with the warm air from your nose.
 Body heat is transferred between people. The bigger mass attracts more heat. Other people give off lots of body heat. If you are stranded with someone else, cuddle close together to stay warm.

