 Walk outside in the fresh air and sunlight. While any change in environment is likely to help sleepiness, physically moving outdoors will usually be the best choice. If you are able, move your work outside for a little while. If you cannot go outside, try opening a window for fresh air, or at least sitting near a window with curtains or blinds drawn back to let in natural sunlight.
Even if it is dark out, going outside is more likely to wake you up than staying indoors. The combination of fresh air, exercise, and changing the environment are all signals to your brain to wake up.;
, Though natural light is the best, any increase in light can be a shot to your senses and give you a “wake up” surge. Bright light signals to the brain to awaken. If you are unable to access natural light, blue light that is present in LED screens has also showed benefits to wakefulness. Many people find florescent lights draining, especially low-quality or "industrial" type of lighting. It is still better than no light, or dim light, but other lighting types (LED, incandescent, halogen) may be better.
 Although the light in screens can keep you awake, your TV or computer can lead to both visual and mental fatigue. In addition, these electronic devices are typically done while sitting for long periods. This in turn leads to a groggy, logy, restless feeling.


Try stretching your vision by looking at things close up and then far away, alternating very quickly. Also try looking at far-away objects, whether it is gazing at the city skyline, seeing if there is snow on the mountains, or checking for boats on the ocean.
 Pumping up the volume on your favorite jams and singing along will help you feel more awake. You may need to use headphones if you are in an office setting or if there are other people around. Be sure to select songs that are upbeat and peppy.
Get a bonus energy surge by dancing along with the music.
 Colder rooms are more likely to make you feel alert. Working in an environment that is hot and stuffy can make you feel like you need to nap. Turn down the thermostat and open a window if it is cool outside. If it is a hot day, try turning on a fan and the air conditioning if applicable. 