 To start the appeals process, sit down with your university advisor. Ask her for the academic probation application form for your institution. Your advisor may also give you tips on how to complete the application form successfully. The academic probation application forms may also be accessible online on your university’s website.
Ask your advisor about any deadlines for the application. You should schedule a follow up meeting with your advisor within the coming weeks to ensure you meet the deadline.;
, Each institution will have different requirements for the application. You will be required to fulfill all the requirements outlined in the application form to ensure your appeal is reviewed by the Academic Appeals Committee. Your application form may require:

A letter of explanation. This is a formal, typed letter explaining the extenuating circumstances that lead to your poor academic performance during the last term you were enrolled. You may also need to provide official documentation to support your explanation of the detrimental circumstances.
An academic success plan. This document should describe how you are going to improve your academic performance.
A list of courses required for graduation. This list should show the Academic Appeals Committee that you have researched the courses you need to complete or re take to improve your academic standing and be approved for graduation.
 Type up a concise letter that outlines the extenuating circumstances that lead to your poor academic performance during the last semester. There are several possible extenuating circumstances, ranging from medical issues to family issues. Some institutions may require you to also include official documentation that supports your extenuating circumstances.Medical or psychological circumstances: You may have had medical issues that inhibited your ability to come to class and complete assignments. You will need to provide a statement from your physician or therapist that includes the dates you attended therapy sessions or saw your doctor. Your medical reference should also note if you are stable and able to return to your studies.
Personal or family emergency: Maybe you dealt with a serious medical or health issue involving your family or someone very close to you. You will need to provide medical documentation or a statement from a physician that describes the circumstances of the medical issue. You can also use a notarized statement from a parent or a family member.
Unexpected death of a family member: Perhaps you experienced the loss of a family member. You will need to provide a copy of the obituary, the funeral program, or a certified death certificate for the deceased.
Domestic violence or sexual assault: You may have experienced domestic violence or a sexual assault that left you unable to attend to your studies. You can use a copy of the police report or legal court documents as supporting evidence for your application. You should also include a statement from your physician or therapist indicating that you are stable and ready to attend to your studies.
Change of employment or unexpected financial issues: Perhaps you lost your job suddenly, or you had other expenses that hindered your ability to pay for tuition or to focus on your studies. You can provide statement from your employer proving your termination or your employment change. You can also use financial documents like bank statements. If you are appealing your academic probation based on financial reasons, your institution may have a specific process for your appeal. Talk to your advisor for more information.
 Once you discuss the extenuating circumstances, and note the supporting official documents, you need to go into detail about how the circumstances affected your academic performance. Include at least one paragraph in your letter that elaborates on this, and discuss how you overcame these circumstances.For example, perhaps you had to deal with a sudden death in your family. The death could have then thrown your world out of order and lead to a deep depression and mourning period. You neglected your assignments, slept through your classes, and had a hard time interacting with others. Eventually you decided to reach out to a therapist to help you process your emotions. You have been working with the therapist for two months and now feel ready to return to your studies.
 The Appeals Committee will want to know how you plan to get back on track and successfully complete your degree. Create a written plan that discusses how you are going to shift your academics, your on campus activities, your family life, and your social life. This will show the Appeals Committee that you are trying to improve in several different areas of your life, and are working towards being a well rounded and well balanced person.Note any new study habits or goals you are going to commit to, and any academic resources on campus you plan to utilize, like a study group or a once a week meeting with your advisor. Discuss the types of activities you plan to do on campus, such as getting involved in sports teams, and off campus, such as volunteer work with the homeless or the elderly.
If you have issues with employment in the past, and with paying your tuition payments, you should note how you are going to shift your finances to afford to pay for tuition and living expenses on time. You may take out a personal line of credit, or apply for scholarships and loans. Or you may apply for part time jobs to help pay for your studies.
 Do some research on your academic standing to determine which courses you need to complete or re take to improve your GPA and attain your degree. This will show the Appeals Committee that you have considered exactly which courses you need to take to succeed academically and that you are motivated to graduate.


Create a semester by semester outline of the all outstanding courses. Note which semester you will take each course and have the course list approved by your academic advisor.
 Before you submit your appeal application, sit down again with your advisor to go over your application. Ensure you have all the necessary documents for the application and you have included all the appropriate materials. Your advisor can help you check off each required item.Your advisor can also go over the next steps in the Academic Appeals process for your institution, such as where to turn in your completed application and how long you will have to wait for a decision from the committee.
You should also discuss an alternative plan with your advisor in the event your appeal is denied. You may choose to wait to reapply the following term or to take continuing education classes at another institution. Talk to your advisor about your Plan B options.
 Once you have confirmed you have all the necessary documents for your application and your advisor has signed off on the application, do one more read through of the documents. Look for any spelling or grammar errors, as your application should appear as professional as possible. Read your letter of explanation backwards for any typos.
 Depending on your institution, your advisor may be able to file your application with the committee for you. Alternatively, you may need to hand in your application yourself to your institution’s academic appeals office.Wait times for the results of an academic probation appeal vary from institution to institution.

