 If you are a nonunion performer, concentrate your efforts on winning roles as an extra, rather than a principal character. Save yourself time and energy by avoiding auditions for lead roles, which are far more likely to go to union members regardless of your talent. Instead, seek work in the background, which may still entitle you for eligibility with SAG-AFTRA. Increase your chances of eligibility by focusing on roles that:Require at least three days of employment.
Involve working in harsh conditions or environments.
Share scenes with only a small number of other performers.
Are not sought after by union members (i.e., productions filmed outside of actor-hotbeds like New York or Los Angeles).
 Take advantage of SAG-AFTRA’s New Media Department, which covers less traditional forms of content. Seek roles for web productions rather than TV or film. Benefit from their more relaxed rules regarding nonunion performers.With TV and films, SAG-AFTRA requires the production to always hire union members whenever possible, unless special circumstances demand the use of nonunion performers.
With web content, the production is free to hire nonunion performers for additional background roles once they have filled the first ten with union members.
 Do not assume that you will be considered eligible for membership just because you have been hired and registered by the production company. Anticipate the union researching both your role and the production in order to verify that you are indeed eligible.Choose work that appears to demand actual acting on your part, rather than just filling a space in the background.


When SAG-AFTRA researches your role, they specifically try to determine whether that role only exists as a favor in order to make the actor eligible.
So if you have a choice between, say, a low-paying job as Zombie Extra #5 way out in the middle of nowhere and a higher-paying job right around the corner as Customer #11 in the background of your friend’s workplace sitcom, choose the zombie role.

