 Get an idea of what different designs look like so you're ready to draw them.;
, As you can observe in real life, flowers are not just shown in one angle, but in many. Drawing them from different angles like in front, side, or back adds realism to your art.


for the front and back angle, the circle is usually a perfect circle, while in side-view, it's an oval shape, because the flower is flat and not a sphere. Imagine a piece of paper in the shape of a circle; when you look in front, it's a perfect shape, but as you move or rotate it at the sides in different degrees of angles, it becomes an oval until it completely becomes thin in 90 degrees.
 The filaments are one of the basic parts of the cherry blossom. Make sure to incorporate the angle you want it to be. Think of sticks or people standing, as you also go in different directions or angles. The line changes, rotates, and increases or decreases its length.
 The anthers are an important part of the cherry blossom. Think of the ball of a pin, positioned in different angles.
 Cherry blossoms aren't just one shade of pink. Different species of cherry blossoms comes in different shades of pink to white. There can even be color blending on the petals. The blending of the petals can be dark to light, or light to dark from the inner to the outer. The center of the flower is usually colored in different shades of dark pink, and white cherry blossoms usually have a dark green to olive green color.
 Add them to make the scene of the Cherry Blossom Complete. Because a Cherry Blossom can't stand alone without something to hold it. Not only just the flower, the leaves, stems, and branches are an important part of the tree.
 We can't just leave the remaining parts colorless and lifeless. Give it life by putting color in it. Add some texture to make it look a bit natural.
 The different species of cherry blossoms not only differ in color, but also in petal shapes. Some have a bit of a spiky appearance, while some are roundly shaped.


Look up pictures of real cherry blossoms. You can observe from nature, that there are more styles of petals in different forms. You can even experiment and try inventing your own style.
 Using the different designs and colors, try to keep it more diverse as possible. Here are some examples of more Cherry Blossom ideas.
 You might be able to make a cherry blossom tree with great detail.

