 Whenever you need to edit or revise any piece of writing, it's best to let it sit in a drawer or on your desktop for a short while first. Jumping right into the editing and/or revision stage can make it much more difficult to polish your piece of writing into a masterpiece, in part because you're still very attached to the work you've done and the details are still very clear in your head (meaning you're not approaching it like a reader would).Give yourself anywhere from a few days to a few weeks after finishing the project before you attempt to revise/edit your work.
If you try to edit/revise right away, you'll be less likely to notice issues within the writing (typos/errors, as well as things that aren't clear or don't make sense), and you'll have a harder time cutting things that aren't necessary.
 Your brain is hardwired to connect patterns without even thinking about whether anything is missing. It's why you're able to read short notes upside down, for example, without having to turn the page right-side up. The same is true of typos and missing words in a sentence: you are so familiar with the concept you're writing about (and subsequently reading about) that you might not even notice that you left out some vital part.Read your draft slowly out loud to yourself.
Take your time and circle, highlight, or otherwise mark anything that is incorrect or incomplete. Don't make revisions as you read, though, or you could lose your place many times.
As you read, make sure you're only reading what you've written on the page, word for word.
In addition to typos and incomplete thoughts, look for any sentences that trip you up or confuse you as you read aloud. These sentences should also be marked for revision.
Once you've gotten through the whole thing (or a good chunk of it, like an entire chapter), go through and make the necessary changes.
 Resolving things doesn't mean that all the problems you or others experienced throughout the book are suddenly gone. By resolving things in your book, you should be making sure that all loose ends are tied up, so to speak. Nothing should be confusing or unfulfilled for the reader, and the reader should finish the last page of your essay or book and know that the nonfiction story you've told is complete.


This is another aspect of why approaching the work after a short intermission will give you the best results. You may not realize that something hasn't been resolved because you've connected all the dots in your head (which a reader obviously can't do).
 Having someone else's eyes looking over your work is a great way to catch errors and omissions in your writing. As you write an essay or a book of nonfiction, you probably have a clear picture in your head of what your project is going to cover, as well as what the final product will look like. This is good for keeping you on track, but it can also color your reading of the final product.


If something hasn't been fully explained or resolved, you're less likely to notice it than an outside reader. Your mind will fill in the gaps precisely because you were the author and you know what you meant to say.
Ask your friend to help you proofread your manuscript for typos, errors, and other line-level problems.
Let your friend know that you want honest, critical assessment (not just praise).
 As you revise your essay or book, you'll most likely find sections that are not as complete as they could or should be. As you wrote your manuscript, that section no doubt made sense to you, in part because your mind was able to fill in the gaps and connect the subject to other larger ideas that weren't explicitly written. A reader will not have those gaps filled in, though, and will require some further explanation and elaboration.If anything was rushed through or not fully explored, revisit that section and think about ways to flesh out the subject so it's more comprehensive.
Rearrange certain sections to see if they can complement one another. A sparsely-written section may end up being much fuller and more complete by being rearranged near another section.
 As you revise and edit your writing, you'll need to make some tough choices on what stays and what goes. You will likely be very fond of your own writing, so this part of the process can be difficult - which is why it's so important to set aside your writing before you attempt to edit or revise a manuscript you've completed.Use clear, concise language. Cut out any flowery prose that distracts from the rest of your book or essay.
No matter how fond you are of the way a sentence sounds, if it is not necessary or relevant, it shouldn't make the final cut.

