 Go to Avast’s website (www.avast.com) and select the installer that is appropriate for the type of platform your computer is running (Mac or Windows). Follow the prompts to download the installer.;
, After downloading the installer, double-click on it to install Avast 2014 to your computer.
 Double-click on the program’s icon found on your desktop.
 This can be found in the "Home" or "Overview" window.
 After selecting “Software Updater,” Avast will scan your computer and programs installed. Wait for it to finish scanning.
 Select the application you want to update from the list of scan results. If there’s a current version available over the Internet, an “Update now” button will appear next to its name. Click this button to update the application.


For a better view of the scan results, you can set it to only display the programs that need an update. Uncheck “Show up-to-date programs.”
To view additional information about the program you chose, click on “More details.” This options is located below the “Update now” button. It will expand the selection and display additional details.
If you want to do another system scan, click on “Rescan” on the upper-right portion of the window.
After clicking on “Update now,” you’ll be taken to the program’s web page where you can download and install the current version.
 If you don’t want to manually update each application, you can set Avast 2014 to automatically update programs whenever possible. Click on “Activate automatic updates” located on the lower-right corner of the window and wait for it to finish retrieving information.


This feature is only available in the Premier edition of Avast, which you have to purchase.
 Click on “Settings” (right beside “Rescan”) to open the “Software Updater” settings window. Here you can change the following options:


Enable Software Updater. This option is activated by default. If you uncheck this option, all the other settings and the entire Software Updater tool will be deactivated.
Allow update of system-wide products for administrators only. This notifies only the computer administrator about available updates.
Automatically download updates if possible. If there are current versions available online Avast will update your applications without user confirmation.
Database Reset. This option restores Software Updater’s default database value.

