 Try to get your hands on as many comic books as you can get. Classics like Superman are good; Sheldon is a fan of The Flash and Batman. If you can, try to get (and wear) the costumes too.


Try to get first edition comics, keep them in mint condition. Be sure to boast about them.;
, Study up on String Theory, and other physics theories; be able to explain these to anyone who asks and defend your own theories. Stack your shelves with scientific books (and read them too). Constantly watch documentaries on any science subjects.
 Get a few other nerd friends and form a group. You can have a Wii bowling league, and a band on Rock Band. Try to get in a routine and have nights for each activity. For instance, Thursday night - Halo Night, and Friday night - Wii Tennis Night. Try to get as many game consoles as possible.
 You could even learn sci-fi languages, such as Klingon.
, Act like you don't understand sarcasm. Don't use sarcasm either.


Say 'Bazinga' when you have told a practical joke. Don't play practical jokes too much though.
 Also, make a spreadsheet showing your routine, so that other people are aware of it. Put it up where people will see it.
 You can do this alphabetically, by colour, or size. Make sure you and other people put everything back in exactly the same place. Have your cereals stacked according to fiber content.
 Buses carry diseases, as do trains and airplanes. But Sheldon is obsessed with trains. Just don't drive a car and have someone drive you if you can't find a train.
 Repetition is how Sheldon thrives. He has a Thai night, a Chinese night, and so on. Eat takeout with your friends.
 Make up reasons why that seat is perfect and you could not possibly sit anywhere else. Act extremely uncomfortable when forced to sit anywhere else.


Sanitize every chance you get.
Do not shake hands with others.
 Wash your hands as often as possible. Always carry a hand sanitizer with you and act uncomfortable when somebody is supposedly spreading their germs to you.
 Sheldon likes nerdy jokes. Search for some funny, yet eccentric science jokes.
 Prepare an explanation for them. Sheldon never misses the chance to throw some fun fact out of his head to the people around him.
 You'll have to get the best grades in school and read.
 Be awkward in social situations. Never go to parties unless forced to do so.
 If you don't, then look for one.
 Be careful with this though, as you don't want to annoy your partner until the point when they don't want to be with you. Preferably choose a partner who likes The Big Bang Theory too.
 Say the person's name over and over before they answer the door.
 Have takeout food with precise requirements.

