 A short cut scene of Terry, Clay, and 4 NPCs arriving in formation will play once you have arrived at the yellow marker. 1 of the NPCs is replaced by Jim Fitzgerald during the storyline.;
, There are three different types of gang wars, which are listed below.


Escort, which has a rival gang escorting a target vehicle you need to destroy.
Cruising, which has a rival gang on bikes or in cars waiting for an attack.
Hanging Out, which has enemies at a location you need to attack.
 At Cruising and Hanging Out gang wars at gang war 30, kamikazes will run at you and your comrades, while burning in flames.


If you see an enemy with grenades or Molotov cocktails, kill him immediately.
 There is an increased risk of police involvement and explosives used against you as you progress in gang wars.
 This gang war includes a target vehicle, either a lorry, a limo, a van, a sports car or an ordinary car that you need to chase and destroy to complete the gang war.
 Shoot the driver to stop the vehicle, then shoot at the vehicle until it starts burning and consequently explodes.


It is essential you have either a sawn-off Shotgun or SMG as you need to shot at the vehicle from your bike.
Alternatively you can try to get ahead of the target vehicle and use an explosive weapon like the RPG.
 The Cruising gang war requires you to attack a rival gang on the road.


There are many enemies in this style of warfare as they do call for more backup and more gang members spawn.
 You should also aim for head shots.
 Some enemies will follow you to an ambush. Return to the remaining foes afterwards.
 This gang warfare style is when a gang is situated in one location of the map and there approximately 20-30 enemies to gun down then has the capability to call for reinforcements.


It is a good idea to get on top of a building or on a platform overlooking the enemies. This way you can snipe the enemies down, their weapons can rarely harm you and you don't risk losing your backup.
Hit-and-run tactics can also be used here to lure the enemies into an ambush.
, Gang Wars can get very hard at points and if you are in a tight spot you might need cheats to help you out.


(362)-555-0100 - Full Health and Armour
(482)-555-0100 - Full Health, Armour and Weapons
(486)-555-0150 - Weapons (Poor)
(486)-555-0100 - Weapons (Advanced)
(267)-555-0100 - Lose Wanted Level
(245)-555-0150 - Hexer Motorcycle

, There are 5 different gangs The Lost MC will attempt to attack. Each of these gangs drive their vehicles with unique paint jobs usually reminiscent of the gang's colours.


The Jamaican Yardies
The Italian Mafia (Gambetti, Pavano, Messina, Lupisella, Ancelotti, and Pegorino crime families/syndicates)
The Russian Mafia (Petrovic, Faustin, and Bulgarin crime families/syndicates)
Albanian Mafia
Angels of Death Biker Gang

