 You can use alternate tools in place of the suggested tools to create a wood bow, but just be sure you are using proper safety precautions. Here is a list of suggestion tools:


Hand axe
Machete
Draw knife
Wood rasp
Carpenters pencil
Tape measure
Straight edge
Bow string

, A hunting bow can be built from just about any tree, but there are certain qualities to look for. Find a tree that is about 4" in diameter, smooth, and straight., Look for the straightest six foot section, and cut it down with a handsaw or chainsaw. Let the wood, or stave, mature for about six months in a dry place so the wood can dry out., The easiest way to remove bark is to use a draw knife. A draw knife is a woodworking hand tool that works nicely for skinning bark and roughing off corners. Use caution when working with a draw knife, and consider wearing gloves to protect your hands., Look for the cleanest and straightest side of wood that will fit the proper measurements for the bow which should be 68" long. Try to find sturdy areas that do not show any signs of rot or weakness. Wood can be smoothed out, but there isn't anything you can do about wood that has started to break down. Once you find a good area, use a thick carpenter's pencil to mark where you will cut., Use a hatchet and machete to cut the ends. You want to make the limbs about 1/2" thick near the ends, and leave the 4-6" handle section in the middle about 2" thick. To help shape the limbs to the appropriate thickness, use a wood rasp which has small teeth and is meant to shape and smooth out wood., After you have finished shaping the bow, place the bow limbs on the floor and give gentle pressure in the middle with your foot. You want to make sure the limb bends uniformly. Be careful when applying pressure, and go slow. You want to test the flexibility of the bow, but not break it.Check to see if the bow can bend into a semi circle. If the wood refuses to bend with ease, scrape away more wood to weaken the limb., At both ends of the bow limb, you need to cut notches that are about 1" deep that will hold the string or paracord. Angle the notches towards you and away from the front of the bow. This will help secure the string at you are using the bow., Tie a knot around each end through the notches. Tie off one end, and then bring the string down to the other side. Make the string have enough tension so that it snaps when you pull it., You can either purchase arrows or make those yourself too. Be careful when using your new bow, and always practice caution.

