 This is a big decision, and it depends on your situation. If you are unable to live on your own, then it can be risky to tell your parents that you are an atheist. Some parents react very badly, and you will have to deal with them until you are old to be independent of them. So, you should seriously weigh the risks and benefits of coming out as an atheist at home. You have to determine, for yourself, what their reaction will be to you being an atheist.


If you do wish to tell them, you might start testing the waters by asking their opinion on religion influenced issues such as abortion, gay marriage, or other political stances. See how they react to your opinions. If they react harshly, they will probably be more harsh in response to you being an atheist.
When you are ready to come out as an atheist, tell them in a polite manner if the subject comes up. If they pester, bother or even yell at you for being an atheist, don't make an argument. If they try to argue, tell them that you are not going to debate this. You have made your choice, and it will not change. But let them know that you are still the person they knew before you became an atheist, and that will not change.;
, You might not support their beliefs, but you should respect the person and their opinions. In time, they will learn to respect you as well. If you are polite and courteous, it may counter any negative stereotypes they have of atheists.
 If someone says, "God bless you", don't automatically take the opportunity to point out that God doesn't exist. Instead, take it in the spirit it was given. If it is said snidely, then let them know you don't appreciate the tone. If it is said genuinely, say, "Thank you." Don't cause unnecessary friction.
 If they ask you to a religious activity (e.g. going to church), say "no" in a polite manner, if you don't wish to attend. On the other hand, don't shun people just because of their religious beliefs. If you do go to a religious service, don't be disruptive or disrespectful. Decide which parts you wish to participate and which parts you don't. Be natural.
 Socializing with someone can help you make a new friend that agrees with you. If you can't find one, or maybe none of them wish to talk to you, you can go online and see if there are places you can go. Anywhere you can go to be around fellow atheists will ease the burden.

