 In most places, employers are responsible for the safety of their workers and must take measures to prevent heat stress. That being said, these regulations vary considerably depending on country and region, so employers should become familiar with local regulations in order to ensure compliance.Many federal governments and international nonprofit groups provide detailed online resources dedicated to such guidelines, so browse sources like osha.gov if you're in the U.S. or hse.gov.uk if you're in the U.K.
 Before introducing your workers to high-temperature work environments, make sure they are well educated regarding proper safety measures, prevention, and treatment of heat stress. Make sure they know who to call if a symptom is detected and how to direct paramedics to the site. Additionally, assign all workers with groups or partners who are specifically responsible for monitoring each others' conditions and potential symptoms.In the event that a worker does get heat stress, be sure to use the incident as a learning opportunity. Review what you and your team did wrong, and how you can correct it in the future.
 Hydration is one of the most important ways to prevent heat stress, as the ingestion of fluids will replenish moisture lost through sweating. Every worker working in heat stress prone conditions must drink a minimum of one pint of water per hour. Enforce this by monitoring water consumption and, if possible, giving workers water bottles to carry at all times.Hourly intake of water should not exceed 6 cups per hour or 12 quarts a day. To avoid problems with overconsumption, encourage workers to sip often rather than in big, high volume doses., You should try to schedule heavy work days and projects on cooler days or during cooler morning hours. When this isn’t possible, minimize the toll of these heavy work periods by appointing as many workers as possible to these tasks.You should also be conscious of the expertise and experience of all of your workers. Experienced workers who have been on the job for a long time will have a higher endurance in the heat, whereas new workers will need to get acclimatized gradually before they build up a tolerance., Even with proper hydration, your workers will need to take frequent breaks throughout the day in order to allow heart rate to slow and internal temperature to decrease. Establish a work/rest schedule for all workers that mandates when and for how long each worker must retreat to the cool area to rest. Optimally, these breaks should be shorter and more frequent—for example, 15 minutes every hour—rather than longer and less frequent.The special break area should be well air-conditioned if working in a humid climate, and at least a fully shaded spot if working in an arid environment.
If 15 minutes every hour seems excessive and likely to diminish productivity, remember that these break periods don’t have to be idle! Workers can complete bureaucratic or organizational tasks during this time, attend a necessary training, or engage in planning for the project.
 When work in the hot area begins, you need to start with reduced work loads for all employees. The amount of exposure to high-heat conditions should increase gradually over a period of 7-14 days, with the first day including no more than 20% of the work day spent in the heat. You should increase this percentage by no more than 20% every afterward.Experienced workers can start off at 50% on the first day, with the percentage increasing to 60% on the second, 80% on the third, and full-time by the fourth day.
Be aware that it will take older and less physically fit workers longer to acclimatize.
 Some engineering and industrial jobs will require insulated gloves or suits, while others may need reflective gear and helmets. This gear is necessary to protect the workers from other, non-heat related hazards on the job, but it can also contribute to the risk of heat stress. Consult with a health professional to ascertain whether work/rest cycles should be adjusted to compensate for this additional risk.Keep a close eye on workers who might be tempted to remove safety equipment as relief from the hot conditions. Even if it seems like there is minimal danger in shedding extra equipment, you can be fined for permitting this lapse if witnessed and sanctioned by a governmental authority.

