 Some people turn to drugs, alcohol, sex, food, shopping, or gambling to push negative feelings away or to numb painful feelings. Addiction is often an attempt to deal with unresolved trauma or to push it down. If you find yourself using addiction as a way to escape negative feelings, there may be some unresolved trauma to look at.Some signs of addiction include feeling the need to engage in the addiction daily, having intense urges, spending money on the addiction even when you don’t have it, engaging in risky behavior, and failing in your attempts to stop your addiction.Addiction is harmful to your body, relationships, and emotions. If you have a problem with addiction, check out How to Overcome an Addiction for more information.
Addiction can also co-occur with other psychiatric disorders such as depression and bipolar disorder.;
, Some people turn to an eating disorder as a way to try to escape painful feelings.Risk factors for developing an eating disorder include body dissatisfaction, low self-esteem, poor coping skills, and social problems.By controlling your foods and becoming strict on diet, you may try to escape feelings of sadness or trauma. Regardless of how you escape, disordered eating is harmful to you and therapeutic treatment is strongly advised.


For more information about treating an eating disorder, check out How to Treat an Eating Disorder.
 Self-harming often represents an attempt to mask emotional pains that are difficult to express. Some people attempt to get relief from emotional pain through physical pain, or self-harm to distract from life.Self-harming can be a part of unresolved trauma.Self-harming can include scratching, burning or cutting your skin with a razor. You may bang your head, stick objects into your skin, swallow poisonous substances, or prevent wounds from healing. Self-harming is serious and can be life-threatening. If you’re struggling with self-harm, check out How to Recover from Self Injury.
Self injury is a sign of Borderline Personality Disorder, so it is important to share this behavior with your therapist or health care provider so they can use this information for diagnostic purposes.
 Some people with unresolved trauma have problems going to sleep or staying asleep.While sleeping problems do not indicate trauma, they can occur when dealing with trauma or unresolved trauma.


If you’re having consistent problems sleeping, ask yourself whether they may be related to unresolved trauma.
It is important to practice good sleep hygiene and get between seven to nine hours of sleep a night. If you are not meeting this goal, then discuss this with your health care provider.
 You may begin to experience anxiety or panic attacks in typically normal situations.The anxiety and panic attacks may come out of nowhere, and suddenly you may feel scared or fearful. Even after the anxiety fades, you may feel unsure why you experienced those symptoms or what brought them on.
 If you struggle with unresolved trauma, you may have a deep feeling that you are worthless, bad, or unimportant.You may have low self-worth or internalize negative feelings of yourself. Feeling shame about yourself can indicate a level of unresolved trauma.


If you think, “I am bad” or “I am unworthy of love,” think about how these beliefs came to be and why you believe them.
 Unresolved trauma may lead to chronic depression.If you are depressed, you may feel hopeless, angry or irritable. You might experience self-loathing, a lack of energy, difficulty concentrating, or changes in your eating or sleeping habits.You may feel down, sad, or helpless for no apparent reason. You may also feel chronically depressed with no break.
The most common symptoms of depression include the following mnemonic SIG E. CAPS: S= Sleep Problems; I= Lack of interest in normal activities; G= Feelings of Guilt; E= Lack of Energy/Fatigue; C= Problems with Concentration; A= Changes in your appetite; P= Psychomotor agitation; and S= Suicidal Ideation.
 You may move through difficult feelings rapidly, such as rage, sadness, or upset. Or, you may avoid feelings altogether, whether good or bad. You may respond to situations by feeling withdrawn or numb.Unresolved trauma may leave you feeling detached and unable to cope with intense feelings or situations that may cause intense feelings.


You may begin to feel sadness or anger, then move quickly past it or push it down and ignore it.
 As a result of unresolved trauma, your relationships may begin to suffer. You may avoid close friendships or relationships due to a fear of being hurt or rejected, be unfriendly or even hostile to others, have intense but brief romantic relationships, avoid getting “too close” to others, or perhaps even avoid relationships altogether.On the contrary, you may also seek out relationships with abusive people, take on a victim role, and re-confirm to yourself that you are unworthy of love.
Relationship difficulties may indicate a need to protect yourself from being hurt.
 Your thinking may become more concrete and child-like. You may cling to incorrect thoughts or beliefs despite evidence that contradicts those beliefs. You may even revert back to thinking patterns you had as a child or create life rules based on your childhood experiences.This type of all-or-nothing/black-and-white thinking can create rigidness in your thoughts and behaviors. For example, if your unresolved trauma involved a male, you may begin to distrust all men or avoid interactions with men thinking that they are “bad.”

, Dissociation means that you feel away from yourself, almost as if you’re looking in and not actually in your body. You may space out, lose track of time, and feel totally detached from yourself.Dissociation is a means to cope with unresolved trauma, especially childhood trauma. It can help to separate you from the trauma or memories of the trauma, yet does not help to resolve the associated feelings.Check out How to Overcome Depersonalization for more information.
 Having unresolved trauma may lead you to feelings or thoughts of suicide. You may feel chronically suicidal.Some warning signs of suicide include feeling hopeless or having no purpose, talking about feeling trapped or experiencing unbearable pain, socially withdrawing, feeling like your life is a burden to others, looking for or thinking about a means of suicide, and increased alcohol or drug use.Take suicidal thoughts seriously. They are a good warning sign that you need help.


If you feel suicidal, call emergency services or reach out to a suicide hotline. In the USA, call 1-800-273-8255. You can also check out How to Stop Thinking About Suicide.

