 Green business certifications are everywhere. By doing a simple internet search, you will be able to find ways to differentiate your products and your brand in order to create the most recognizable environmental products available. The SBA website offers a large list of certification programs available in different areas and for different types of green businesses. Some common, well-respected green certification options include:USDA's organic program
Green Seal
LEED certification
Green e-Certification
the EU's Eco-Label Program

, Getting certified as a green business or as having a green product will help you attract green customers and/or create environmentally sustainable products. Look through certification options and find ones that fit your business.


For example, if you are selling a green product, you might be eligible for a Green Seal, which sets product standards and awards its labels to environmentally friendly products.If you are thinking about building a structure for your business, consider getting the building LEED certified, which is an award given to buildings that meet certain environmental standards., Once you find possible certification programs that fit your business's needs, visit those certification websites and learn about their process. For example, if you want to become a "B Corporation", which is a designation given to corporations that meet certain moral and environmental standards, you will have to first meet performance standards set by B Corporation. You can take a test on their website to help you determine if you would qualify.Each website and certification organization will have a different process for accreditation. Make sure you understand what will be required of you and whether you will qualify before you apply.
 Once you have a pretty good idea of whether you will qualify for certification, you send in your application for each certification you wish to receive. Each certification organization will have different application procedures. Some applications will be relatively simple and may only require you to make a pledge to environmental causes.On the other hand, other applications may require you to sign legal documents, submit business plans, submit product ingredient lists, and submit financial statements.Make sure you are prepared for the application process before you begin. Some applications may take months, or even years, to complete.
 Some certification organizations will allow you to use specific labels on your products. These labels will tell consumers that you meet certain environmental standards.


For example, if you have a Green Seal on your product, consumers will know that your product is sustainable.In addition, if your fruit or vegetable is labeled as USDA Organic, consumers will know your product was not farmed with any pesticides or created through genetically modified organisms (GMOs).If your building is LEED certified, you may want to tell people this information in television advertisements or on the back of your product. This will help differentiate your green business from others and will help you prove your environmental friendliness.