 Joint pain may prevent a dog from going on long walks or playing for an extended period of time, but it is important to ensure that they get some exercise every day. Take your dog on short walks in nearby areas, and end the walk when you notice your dog slowing or struggling.Depending upon your dog’s overall mobility, it may be advisable to avoid areas like dog parks and dog beaches, as other well-meaning dogs may be too quick or rough for your dog to handle.
Play games such as fetch and tug-of-war in the home, too, to help keep your dog from getting stiff throughout the day.
 Giving your dog a gentle joint massage for five to ten minutes every day can help relieve some of their pain and keep them from getting too stiff. Give your dog short messages in the areas that bother them most.Gently massage your dog’s muscles in small, circular motions along the areas where they experience regular pain. Firmness should be only slightly greater than what you use to pet or scratch your dog.
Support your dog during the massage by wrapping your arm under their stomach and helping them stand, if necessary.
Try not to rub areas that currently aggravated. If you notice your dog wince or express pain, stop massaging that area immediately.
 If you are a dog owner who swats their dog for an accident or rubs their nose in the mess, adopt a non-physical form of punishment. Acting physically against your dog may rapidly increase joint pain and could cause greater damage.Eliminate physical punishment and instead opt for speaking in firm and severe tones to communicate your discontent.
You may consider not giving the dog a regular treat as a part of punishment, but never deprive them of food, water, or other basic necessities such as shelter.
If your dog has regular accidents, consider getting indoor training pad meant specifically to be thrown away after your dog to does their business.
 As your dog experiences new joint problems, the way in which you play and interact with them may change. You may have to spend less time playing rough and more time simply petting or showing affection to your dog. Regardless, you should show your dog support by ensuring they get attention every day.Spend the same amount of time you would have typically spent with you dog before they began having joint problems. You may be doing different activities, but you don’t need to cut back on time with your dog because of their joints.
If your dog is no longer able to run and play, try lower impact activities such as slow-paced games of fetch in the house, or even taking your dog for a swim.

