 Immediately following a fracture, complete rest is advised. During this time, the pain and swelling will be at their maximums since the fracture is still fresh – any further stress will almost certainly worsen it.


Rest does not mean you have to stay on a bed and live like a couch potato. Rest simply means avoid doing strenuous activities that can add workload in your bones and muscles. Avoid high impact exercises such as lifting weights and heavy objects.
If the injury is more severe, your doctor and physiotherapist may ask you to use crutches to move around in order to avoid weight-bearing on the bone. It is important that you rest properly and do not walk or bear weight on the leg at any sign of relief in pain that you might have due to the painkillers.;
, Iron is an essential part of red blood cell production. Red blood cells are produced by the bone marrow inside the bone, which is why you need iron for fast recovery. It also helps in increasing iron storage in the body known as ferritin. You can get more iron by eating:


Clams
Oysters
Animal liver
Nuts
Beans
Whole grains
Tofu.
 Vitamin C also plays an important role in bone repair as it is responsible for manufacturing collagen, which forms the connective tissues, bones, cartilage and ligaments. Here are some good sources of this vitamin:


Oranges
Lemons
Kiwi
Kale
Guava
Yellow bell peppers

, You need to take iron simultaneously with vitamin C because vitamin C increases the rate of absorption of iron in the body. If your diet doesn't allow you to intake these foods, consider taking a supplement. Taking 10mg of iron and 500mg of vitamin C daily is enough.


Talk to your doctor before changing your diet seriously, however. Certain supplements may not be safe or healthy for you.
 Dairy products like milk contain a lot of calcium. As you probably know from your elementary school days, calcium is very helpful in maintaining bone health and growth, so drinking a few glasses of milk every day will do wonders to make sure your body has the right amount of calcium in it.


Stick to low-fat products so you don't inadvertently cause a spike in your blood pressure or cholesterol. Go for natural cheeses, low-fat milk, low-fat yogurt, and low-fat cottage cheeses.
 To avoid potential acidity and heartburn as side-effects to your pain medications, be sure to get a healthy, balanced diet. Concentrate on getting more fruits and vegetables as these have plenty of essential vitamins and minerals that will ultimately enhance your bone healing process as well as your overall health.You can also take fish oil supplements and multivitamin supplements that are perfectly safe, so long as you talk to your doctor about which ones you're taking and how much. Too much of a good thing isn't healthy either.
 Depending on the severity of your injury, your doctor will refer you to a physiotherapist who will then ideally be able to design and chalk out the best method for you. This could be anything from pain medication and strengthening exercises to a splint or crutches.


There aren’t any special exercises as such that are designed for stress fracture recovery. The key lies in the fact that you should maintain a fine balance between overburdening your foot and optimally helping your recovery with activity. Seeking a professional will help you find this balance.
 If the fracture is localised and smaller in nature, your orthopedic doctor may not put you in a splint or a cast. He may just prescribe you a few anti-inflammatory painkillers such as ibuprofen, paracetamol or tramadol in cases of severe pain. However, caution must be taken before you immediately decide to start running at the moment your pain subsides as a result of the medications. Remember: the pain isn't gone – it's just masked by the medicine. You still need to stay off your leg.


A stress fracture can take anywhere between 5-8 weeks to heal, so it is very important that you do not rush into things as this can in fact worsen your condition, ultimately delaying the healing process.
It is important to note that slight weight-bearing activities 2-3 weeks after your injury can, in a way, stimulate the healing process, but yet again care must be taken guided with professional advice.
 Knowing that you have tiny breaks in your bone, you need to be patient as it takes time to heal the muscle and repair these breaks. It can take 2 weeks, 6 weeks, or as long as 12 weeks, depending on the gravity of your situation. If you start running while minimal pain is present, it will not help at all – rather it will put you at risk in having a serious bone fracture.
 After this period, the swelling and pain will naturally reduce. During this phase, it is advisable that you begin slow. Jogging and swimming are great exercises that can help you maintain your cardio exercises without putting the full strain on your feet again.


But before you beginning your resumption of any form of exercise, always ask your doctor who will then check you up and give you an all-clear.
If the swelling reduction has taken place to an extent that you can start seeing your skin creases again, this is a good sign indicating good healing.
 Before you resume with your running activities it is important to maintain your fitness by doing simple exercises such as aqua jogging, swimming, and biking. You can do these exercises for 3 to 4 times a week for 30 minutes. If you can’t tolerate any exercise don’t force yourself. Your body will tell you if it can tolerate the activity or not.


A very good exercise for injured runners is aqua jogging, the practice of trying to jog whilst your limbs are under water. For this, you need a floatation belt and aqua shoes which you will be able to find any sports shop. Aqua jogging will ensure that the force you endure from the water is not damaging to your bones, and likewise at the same time, you will still be able to burn those calories and maintain a good cardiovascular workout.
 Before you get back to your old active habits, you should try a trial run. However, even before that you should assess if there is still mild pain in your injured area. If pain is still present – even if it is only mild – do not go for that trial run. It can only worsen your condition as it may indicate that the bone is not yet completely healed.


The sooner you pick activity back up, the more you are putting yourself at risk. If you have rested for two weeks only, be prepared to have to wait a bit longer, if nothing else but to stay safe.
 You cannot run the usual distance that you are used to running. Point blank. Distance, frequency and duration should not be increased all at the same time. You can try increasing one or two but never increase all three to keep yourself healthy. Taking on too much can cause muscle and body intolerance since your body is not used to your old running activity.


It is advised and recommended that you alternate walking and running at the same time to get your muscles and body well-conditioned. You can have 3 running days every other week. Avoid running for 3-4 straight days as this can injure your muscles and bone. After 1 month you can run every 2 days with one day off. With this kind of set-up you can return to your old running style.
 If you have rested for 3 months and you experience minor pain after running, this doesn't mean you need to stop running again. It may actually be due to phantom pain.Just apply an ice pack for 15 minutes an hour to the area until the pain fades. If it fades, you're fine. It's just a minor inconvenience you'll have to deal with.


If the pain progresses and continues during the run you are advised to see your doctor. However if it was just a phantom pain, it will be sporadic (on and off) and vary in location and intensity during the run. This eventually wears off as you continue to run, so feel free to maintain a positive outlook in your running life.
Avoid fear and frequent thinking of bad memories as phantom pain has something to do with a person’s mentality. It may just be that pain was present due to psychological thinking.
 The next time you engage in long running activities it is better to take precautions to avoid stress fracture again. Look on the surface you are running. It is comfortable for your feet, ankles, and legs? And if you can no longer tolerate the exhaustion caused by running, it is better to stop and pause for a while to have rest. Better not to push yourself very hard as you don’t want a stress fracture to happen again.
 As the name says, a fracture that occurs due to repeated stress and strenuous forces on the bones are known as a stress fracture. Naturally, such constant forces are commonly noticeable in distance runners. They usually manifest as small, sometimes multiple, cracks in the bone, particularly the foot bones (called metatarsal bones) and other weight-bearing bones in the limbs.This condition can happen to any individual especially those who are physically active. When you walk the body absorb forces 2x your weight and when you run greater force is applied and received by your bones and body – that would be 2x the weight when you are walking. That’s why stress fractures happens &ndash because great repetitive forces are being absorbed by the body that the bone can no longer handle.
 Though there might not be significant symptoms present like in a case of a major fracture, a stress fracture would be characterised by the presence of a constant dull aching pain around the site of the fracture. This would get worse during exercise and sometimes even whilst walking or standing for prolonged periods of time. Swelling around the fracture area is also common.


Some people also experience tenderness, redness, and inflammation surrounding the injured area of the bone.
 For all stress fractures – from the minor the major – it is immediately advised that you go to your doctor. He will then examine you and ask for a CT scan or an MRI to be done.


A simple x-ray is sometimes not helpful in detecting a stress fracture due to the minute size of the cracks that may be present.
Stress fractures should not be left to your judgment. If these is pain, it needs to be treated by a professional.

