 The HDMI cable does not come with the Roku 3 package, so you will have to purchase one. You can buy HDMI cables either at the nearest electronics store in your area or from online stores.;
, Plug the HDMI cable into the HDMI port on the Roku 3, and plug the other end of the cable into the HDMI port at the back of your TV.
 Grab the power cable included in the box, and plug the small jack into the corresponding power slot in the Roku 3. Plug the adapter end into a vacant wall outlet.
 If you prefer to use wired connection to your Internet, you can connect the Roku 3 to your router using an Ethernet cable (not included in the Roku 3 package).


To connect, plug the cable into the Ethernet port behind the Roku 3, and plug the other end into the router that is connected to the Internet.
 Turn on your TV, and search for the HDMI display by using your TV’s remote control and pressing the “Source” button.


Once at the right channel, the Roku welcome screen will appear.
 Do this by using the Roku remote to navigate the screen then press “OK” on the desired language.


Don’t forget to insert the batteries into the Roku remote control, both of which are included in the Roku 3 package.
 If you are using a wired connection, simply select “Wired Connection” in the next screen; otherwise, select “Wi-Fi connection.”


If you selected “Wired Connection,” skip the next step.
 If you selected “Wi-Fi connection,” the next screen will display the wireless networks the Roku 3 has detected. Select the desired wireless connection and press “OK.”

, In the next screen, you can enter the network password if the network is secured. Once you’ve entered the password, the Roku 3 will connect to the network.
 On your computer, double-click a web browser's icon on your desktop.
 Once the browser is open, type in https://owner.roku.com/Login/ on the address bar at the top of the screen and hit Enter.
 Click on “Create account” near the center of the screen.
 Fill in the fields provided in the next screen with your First Name, Last Name, Email Address, and Password. When you’re done, hit “Next.”

, The next screen will prompt you to set up your billing account, so simply fill in the required information like your name and credit card details or PayPal details.


You must set up a Roku billing account so you can pay for apps and for pay-to-view movies and content.
Once you’ve set up a billing account, a link code will appear on your TV screen.
 Type in the code displayed on your TV screen into the Link Code field in the website.


The setup of the streaming device is now complete, and your Roku 3 is now ready, as it will tell you on the TV screen. Press “OK” on the Roku remote, and you will be taken to your Roku 3 home screen.

