 The first step to becoming a good boss in a particular role is having an excellent understanding of the job and what is needed to be successful.


Without significant experience, obvious mistakes will be made and the boss's judgment will be questioned by subordinates. Therefore, it is important to define what qualifications your ideal candidate needs to have in order to understand and do the job successfully.
For example, a sales manager should have several years of experience in sales and a strong understanding of the sales cycle and selling techniques. A sales team will not follow a sales manager if the sales manager has significantly less experience than other members.;
, All teams run slightly different, even within the same company. In order to determine what type of manager the team needs, you should evaluate team’s role, how long the team has been doing the same job, how members interact and how they are motivated.


Understanding how the team operates and what works best for them will allow you to find a boss with a management style that suits the team. When a team and their boss work well together, the team will be more successful as a whole.
For example, if the team has been working together for 3 years, maintains good communication and its members can make decisions independently, you will be best hiring a boss that can be more democratic and work with the team to devise the best course of action in a given situation. A strict micro-manager in this circumstance will demotivate the team and should not be hired.
 It is important to understand your company culture so you can evaluate if a potential hire will fit in. Company culture includes, amongst other things, values, beliefs, norms and habits. It is the potential boss’s personality and characteristics that will determine if they are a good fit for the company culture. For example, determine what type of personality will thrive in your company by asking the following questions:


Is the company laid back or fast paced?
Is the company fun or serious?
Does the company encourage new ideas from all employees?
Does your company encourage professional development?

, Once you understand the type of boss you are looking for, place these qualifications and characteristics into the job posting. #*Be as specific as possible in the job posting writing, as this makes it more likely that the right candidates will apply for the job. Most importantly, you will have less of the wrong type of candidate apply for the job.


For example, a sample job posting could be "sales manager with over three years of sales management experience, with proven ability to motivate sales professionals in a very fast paced environment."

, Asking for specific examples of the candidate’s experience will probe deeper into a person’s capabilities. It will also give you the opportunity to judge if this person is telling the truth about the extent of their experience.


The best way to do this is to ask open ended questions such as, “Can you tell me about a time when you led your team to exceed sales goals?”

, When speaking to a candidate, ask them questions to determine if they would be a strong leader such as:


Can you provide examples of your leadership abilities and successes with your previous team?
Explain your experience coaching and mentoring others?
Have you conducted training in the past? If so, what kind and how?
How do you motivate others to be successful?

, Throughout the interview, ask yourself a number of questions in order to evaluate whether this candidate is right for the position:


Does this person have necessary skills to be a leader?
Can they grab my attention?
Are they confident?
Can they communicate clearly?
If the combined answers lead you to believe this person is a strong candidate, you may have found yourself a good boss.
 A good leader should have excellent communications skills. This means that person will be able to express themselves clearly and provide direction to others, with little room for interpretation.


A great communicator must be able to communicate well across all mediums so it is important to assess their communication skills during every interaction - including over the phone, in person or by email.
 Try to determine if the candidate's management style will fit the team’s needs. Management style can be difficult to assess in an interview scenario, so the best thing to do is just ask the candidate directly.


For example, “How would you describe your management style?” and “Can you provide examples of how you utilized this management style to meet or exceed your team’s goals?”

, During all communications with the candidate, try to develop an understanding of their personality traits. Examples of positive personality traits include optimistic, trusting, humorous, understanding and encouraging. Then, ask yourself the following questions:


Will this person fit in well with the team and the company?
Does their personality match well with company culture?
Can you see yourself working with this person?
Do you feel team members will be able to take direction from someone with this personality?

, Hiring a boss can take some time, and the higher the level of employment, the longer it can take to find the right person. Good bosses or managers can be hard to find because you are looking for a unique set of skills and abilities to do the job and lead a team to success.


One person may be able to do the job successfully but cannot lead their team to be successful. Another person may be an exceptional leader but lack the subject knowledge necessary to do the job.
Always take your time in finding the right candidate. Making the decision too quickly might result in hiring the wrong person, and this could have a negative effect on your team. The perfect boss for your team is worth waiting for.

