 These may be easy months if you had previously kept up with the general relaxer guideline of touch-ups every eight weeks. Start thinking of good transition styles for the months ahead. Take this time to practice a few styles and see if there's one or two that you want to pursue.Consider braid extensions. They are a good way to get your mind off of growth and they reduce daily styling.
Don't pick a style that requires the use of a flat iron or curling iron. The style you chose should be in preparation for when you have your natural curls.
 This is where transitions can get more challenging, as you'll need to be very attentive taking care of your hair at the line of demarcation, that area where your relaxed hair meets your new growth. This area is particularly fragile area where you'll experience the most breakage., You may have anywhere from two and three inches of new growth. The new curls you have growing in will look noticeably different than your relaxed hair. If you had a texturizer instead of a relaxer, you won't notice as much of a difference. Daily styling may be a challenge, which is why you should try styles that make the most of your curls, not fight to straighten this new growth.


Trim one to two inches of hair and continue with protein and deep conditioning treatments.
 Once you get about four inches of new growth, you may want to get rid of your processed hair. The ends of your hair may seem to be barely hanging on. The sooner you get rid of your processed ends, the sooner you can begin to understand your hair's unique texture and work with it. If your relaxed hair is shorter in length than your new growth, consider cutting the processed ends away.This can be tough for women who like their hair long, but thin and broken ends are not flattering.
 By this point, you will be more familiar with your natural texture and begin to understand how to manage it. When you cut off the rest of your relaxed hair, you'll see how your hair is unique to you and you can embrace your beautiful hair.

