 Bribing a child to do something puts out a message that what you are asking is going to be unenjoyable and unbearable. They may think they aren’t going to like it if they have to be bribed to do it. Bribing also puts out the notion that they have a choice in the matter, when they don’t.


Talk to your child about why what you’re asking them to do is important, instead of offering a bribe. You could say, “I understand you don’t want to go to the dentist, but keeping your teeth clean and healthy can stop them from hurting.” Avoid using words like “must” and “should,” as they will likely feel like they are being pushed around., Every parent has bribed their children at some point in their lives. Some may have even made a habit of it. Creating a pattern like this, however, can make your children think they have power in this situation. They may get to the point where they refuse to do anything unless there is a bribe involved. For example, you might promise your toddler that you will buy them candy, if they behave appropriately at the doctor's office. If you decide not to give them candy, or you forget to offer the bride on one occasion, they may misbehave in the waiting room. They no longer have any reason to be on their best behavior.
This only contributes to their bad behavior as you create inconsistent standards.
 Bribes are typically given out in moments of stress. You offer your child something to stop them from behaving badly, like if they are throwing a temper tantrum at a grocery store. Over time, they will learn that they can get what they want if they scream and have a fit.


The best way to break this habit is to stop bribing them during these moments of duress. They will eventually learn that having a hissy fit won’t bring them a reward., Children won’t experience the joy of simply feeling good about themselves for doing what they should if they are given bribes for doing it. The sheer act of getting an “A” on a report card or completing a book by themselves boosts their self-confidence when they do it on their own. Doing a good job only because of a bribe robs them of this confidence boost.


You can still celebrate a job well done. Taking your kids out for ice cream is perfectly fine when they’ve done something worth celebrating. However, don’t bribe your children with it: reward them as a surprise.If your child asks for a certain object or privilege, have a conversation with them about their behavior. Let them know whether their behavior over the last few hours or days is worthy of this treat.

