 Different types of orchids have very different care.


Phals usually have 3-6 very broad, somewhat floppy leaves that alternate. The flower spike comes from between these leaves.
The flowers on phals can be any color, including white, pink, yellow, striped or splotched. Flowers are usually 2–4 inches (5.1–10.2 cm) in diameter and bloom on a spike that may be 12–18 inches (30.5–45.7 cm) in length.
There may be more than one spike on a large plant and it may have anywhere from 3-20 flowers. If you aren't sure you have a phal, check the internet for images.;
, This is the number one cause of death and you may not even know you are doing it until one day the plant is dead.


Phals are epiphytic plants, meaning in the wild they attach themselves by their roots to a tree or rock and get their nutrients from detritus that accumulate around their roots.
This means that their roots aren't sitting in wet soil under natural conditions. Frequently, orchids from big box stores are either over watered or under watered. Over watered plants get root rot and eventually die b/c they can't absorb water.
Under watered plants have hard, brittle roots. Healthy roots should be thick, a silvery green with bright green tips.
It's a good idea to check the roots on a new phal when you bring it home. If all the roots are brown and squishy, trim them off and repot the plant.
Keep it on the dry side until you see new roots forming.
When you do water(typically once a week works well in most homes, but you should put your finger into the substrate to feel it before watering, if wet, hold off), allow water to run until it comes out of the holes in the pot.
Do not get water on or in between the leaves, as this can cause rot, which can kill the plant.
Generally, under watering is a lot less likely to kill a phal than over watering.
 Proper potting of the orchid will help keep you from over watering!


During this time, you may want to keep the orchid in a more humid area, like a bathroom (as long as it gets some light).
Phals can be potted in a variety of substances, but the most important is that the potting substrate allows the roots to get some air and drys relatively quickly.
This means never, ever use potting soil for houseplants on phals. One of the easiest thing to use is a bark mix for orchids.
To re-pot your plant, get a plastic or clay pot (plastic holds water better and you water less with one than clay-if you have tendency to over water, go with clay).
Go with a pot size that fits the roots the best, not the leaves. Smaller is always better, as it dries faster.
Position your flower in the middle of the pot and fill in the pot with the bark mix. As you fill, you should bang the pot against the floor to help settle the bark.
It helps to soak the bark beforehand in water. Pots should always have holes in the bottom to allow good drainage.
You can put a plastic pot with holes into a more decorative container if you want to and then just take it out when you water it.
Orchids don't like to have wet feet! Not all roots may fit in the pot and that is normal

(Phals have aerial roots, you can mist them with a spray bottle when you water the plant).
 Phals are a lower light orchid. They do not like to be in direct sun and this can burn their leaves easily.


Diffused light or early morning light in an east window works well.
Overhead lights in your house are probably not enough though, so you should keep it near a window where it gets some natural, diffused light.
Not enough light will keep the plant from re-flowering. If it's been 6 months since you've seen signs of a flower spike, try putting the plant in a little more light.
 Phals do not like to get too cold. Temps at night shouldn't get below about 62 degrees. Daytime temps in the mid 70's to 80's are good.
 Phals need plant food at some point.


Once a month diluted in water works well.
You should use about half the recommended amount on the label and avoid food that use urea for the nitrogen, as it can burn the root tips.
A 10/10/10 or 20/20/20 formula works well. There are several formulas especially for orchids, but they are all pretty much the same.
 Starting with a healthy plant is easier than trying to revive one that wasn't cared for properly in the store. Look for a plant with big thick roots and nice shiny leaves that don't droop too much.