 The extent of discomfort, soreness, or pain will relate to the amount of tissue removed. Most patients experience little to no soreness after the surgery.However an increase in pain, tenderness or soreness can indicate a source of infection.


In other words, if your initial discomfort after the surgery was a three on a scale of one to ten, but it suddenly increases to five or six, it’s time to call the doctor.
 If your temperature rises above 100°F or you experience chills, it is time to call your surgeon.Fever may be an indication that your body is fighting an infection. Evaluation and treatment for an infection will improve your recovery and reduce the problems associated with wound infection.


Surgical infections are especially dangerous because they can lead to sepsis (infection in the blood), poor and prolonged wound healing, well as heart and respiratory problems., You must have your doctor address any signs of infection immediately to prevent further complications. Wound infections will be characterized by redness, swelling, and tenderness that increases instead of getting better after surgery. The area of redness around the incision will grow as well.Incisions can be washed with soap and water, but should not be covered with creams or ointments unless directed by your doctor. Do not submerge your incision in a tub or pool.
Wound infections can also have a bad odor.
 In addition to infections, reduced blood supply to the area after surgery can also lead to skin separation and/or dead tissue (necrosis). Flap necrosis occurs in 18 to 30 percent of women who have a mastectomy.This tissue death is caused by a lack of oxygen supply to the tissue used to cover the breast area after surgical removal of the breast tissue. If you suspect that the tissue is not healing, swells, gets numb, is leaking blood, smells bad, is changing color or “just isn’t right,” you should call your surgeon for an evaluation.


Skin flap necrosis will cause the tissue to become a dark red and then the color begins to turn black as the skin cells die. This is because a hematoma develops under the flap, which reduces the perfusion to the flap.
The skin over the incision area may also separate. If this happens you should call your doctor immediately for evaluation and treatment.Separation of the skin will not allow for proper healing and increases the risk of infection. Your doctor may prescribe the use of a breast binder, which can take tension off of the wound and help with healing.
 Reactions to medications can result in rash, itchy skin, difficulty breathing, coughing, or nausea and vomiting. Report these reactions to your doctor. Request a change in medications to if you are experiencing excessive pain or if you feel the medication is too strong.Constipation is a common side effect. Talk to your doctor about over the counter medications that can help.
 Not all redness and swelling means an infection. It can also relate to the development of a hematoma. These may occur over the incision site or in nearby areas to the surgery but will look different from an infection. The changes are related to the release of blood in the area and will appear just like a bruise would if you were bumped.Small hematomas will turn black and blue and be absorbed by the surrounding tissue. However, because the tissue in the area is compromised from the surgery, any indication of hematoma should be evaluated by your surgeon.Large amounts of blood must have a needle evacuation to reduce the potential of ischemia (lack of oxygen and blood supply) to the area, which increases the risk of flap necrosis., Any bleeding from the incision that leaks out from your dressing after discharge from the hospital is not normal and must be reported to your doctor.Some oozing of clear fluid is not a major issue. However, it continues for more than one or two days, or if it changes appearance, contact your doctor.
 If you feel pain in the breast tissue that is no longer there, this is a phantom pain. You may experience itching, pins and needles feelings, pressure, or throbbing. Your doctor can prescribe medication, as well as suggest massage and exercise techniques to minimize phantom pain.


There is no evidence to suggest that phantom pain indicates the recurrence of cancer in the remaining tissue., Because lymph tissue may be been removed, it disrupts the flow of lymph fluid.This disruption can create swelling in the area that is often preceded by a feeling of tightness or reduced flexibility anywhere between the arm and the wrist.


Lymphedema ranges from the very mild (barely noticeable) swelling to extreme swelling that makes the arm difficult to use. Left untreated, extreme swelling can lead to secondary infection, fibrosis (thickening and scarring) of the overlying skin, restricted range of motion, and a rare form of soft tissue cancer.You can treat lymphedema with exercises, wrapping, massage, and compression garments depending upon the extent of the problem. Consult your doctor to learn treatment techniques best suited to your specific case.