 Being difficult to diagnose, it's so important to not ignore a bunch of recurring symptoms that are chronic/nagging (irritating):Abdominal pains and/or back pains
Nausea/digestive difficulties
Loss of appetite
Unexplained weight loss
Jaundice
(There is a summary discussion of symptoms before the "Tips" section below.)

, Why? When these tests were studied in connection with diabetes, a large majority of the participants found to have pancreatic cancer were also diabetic. It was reported that using all three tests in harmony significantly improved the sensitivity for results specific to detecting pancreatic cancer.Cancer marker testing can be worthwhile if you and your doctors have some reasons to suspect there are symptoms of pancreatic cancer. Tests are not conclusive, because some markers can be caused by several other problems.
Be aware that there is not one simple test or set of defined symptoms that can readily screen for/or detect pancreatic cancer.
 One of the first signs of pancreatic cancer can be jaundice, which is the yellowing of the skin, eyes and mucus membranes due to too much bilirubin in the bloodstream.Jaundice is associated with liver disease, although pancreatic cancer often causes nearby organs, liver and gallbladder to swell, which leads to dysfunction. Look at your skin and eyes in a well-lit mirror to check for yellow discoloration.


Jaundice also causes itchy skin, so be on the look out for that also.
The parts of the eyes that turn yellow are called the sclera (the "whites") not the iris, which is typically colored either brown, blue or green.
To confirm jaundice (if the yellowing is not so obvious), your doctor may test your urine for bile or order a blood test.;
, One of the first signs of pancreatic cancer can sometimes be a diffuse abdominal aching and soreness, although many people don't feel any pain until the cancer is advanced. The pancreas gland is located underneath the stomach and behind intestines — pretty much in the middle of your belly. It secretes insulin (for blood sugar control), hormones and digestive enzymes. If your belly soreness doesn't go away after a week, contact your doctor.


Palpating (deeply touching) your pancreas for mild-to-moderate swelling is difficult and virtually useless for doctors because the gland is positioned behind and close to other organs. Because pancreatic cancer often causes the liver and/or gallbladder to swell, which are easier to palpate and detect, the condition may be misdiagnosed as liver cirrhosis or cholecystitis.
Due to abdominal tenderness, fatigue and diarrhea, the early stages of pancreatic cancer can mimic infections, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease and irritable bowel syndrome.
 Another early sign of pancreatic cancer -- as well as in most other types -- is a general feeling of tiredness, fatigue and weakness.This is because pancreatic cancer may block the flow of digestive fluids -- and also, cancer cells tend to use lots of resources, burn lots of energy and trigger your immune system to work harder. As such, the early stages of cancer can feel like you're about to come down with a viral infection, but without the coughing, sneezing, runny nose, etc.


During the early stages of pancreatic cancer, you'll likely experience unexplained tiredness in the evenings and lose motivation to exercise or even leave your home.
The fatigue and tiredness from cancer is typically not alleviated very much by getting lots of sleep.
Because your muscles aren't getting enough nutrients (glucose) and energy during cancer development, they'll likely feel weak and maybe even a little shaky with normal use.
 One of the main functions of the pancreas gland is to produce the hormone insulin, which shuttles glucose sugar from the blood and into cells, from blood vessels, to be used for energy. Therefore, when the pancreas is cancerous and dysfunctional (not making enough insulin), blood sugar stays in the blood and levels tend to be high.When your blood glucose levels get too high, you feel lethargic (tired and fatigued), thirsty, weak, irritable and tend to have more headaches.


High blood glucose is measured by a simple blood test. You can buy inexpensive electronic devices at your local pharmacy that can read blood glucose levels, if you think you may have an issue to check regularly.
Diabetes involves reduced production of insulin (or lessened sensitivity to it), but it's not typically due to cancer. On the other hand, pancreatic cancer almost always leads to diabetes at some stage.
There are actually multiple types of pancreatic cancer depending on what cells are involved (adenocarcinoma, glucagonoma, insulinoma, islet cell tumor, VIPoma).Some types trigger diabetes sooner than others.
 Another potentially early sign of pancreatic cancer is chronic diarrhea. Also, if your stool is clay-colored or consistently lighter in color than normal, then that indicates low amounts of bile.Diarrhea develops with pancreatic cancer because not enough digestive enzymes are released into the small intestine to properly digest food and absorb nutrients. Be concerned and contact your doctor if a bout of diarrhea lasts longer than a week or so.


Another clue that your pancreas is dysfunctional by not producing or releasing enough fat-digesting enzyme (bile) is that your stool will look greasy, smell worse than usual and tend to float in the toilet bowl.
 As pancreatic cancer progresses, the signs and symptoms tend to get more noticeable quite quickly. One of the first significant symptoms is moderate-to-severe diffuse upper abdominal pain usually described as burning or gnawing in nature. The pain may also radiate to your mid back (thoracic spine) area.The intense pain is what sends most pancreatic cancer patient to the doctor for the first time.


The intense pain can be caused by digestive enzymes destroying surrounding tissue and/or a growing tumor putting pressure on nearby nerves.
In addition to strong prescription drugs such as morphine, your doctor may recommend injecting an alcohol-based substance into certain abdominal nerves to block the pain — its called a celiac plexus block., Another more advanced sign of pancreatic cancer is moderate-to-severe nausea and chronic vomiting.The nausea tend to be fairly unrelenting as it waxes and wanes throughout the day, whereas the vomiting is typically on a daily basis — sometimes multiple times per day. Eating becomes very difficult and often keeping liquids down can be a challenge with advanced pancreatic cancer.


The intense pain combined with the constant release of adrenaline and other stress hormones tends to be the cause of the nausea and vomiting.
Chronic vomiting can quickly lead to dehydration and loss of electrolytes (mineral salts), which can trigger severe muscle cramps and heart palpitations.
 A number of factors may cause weight loss in people with pancreatic cancer. In general, cancer causes wasting away (cachexia) due to the amount of energy the cancer cells can burn. Furthermore, abdominal pain, nausea and, possibly, vomiting make it difficult to eat and maintain a healthy weight.If you're losing excessive weight (you'll probably notice it from your face and waist first), see your doctor as soon as you can to get it checked out.


Even if you can eat and keep it down, your body will have difficulty absorbing nutrients from food because your pancreas isn't producing enough digestive enzymes.
This is why enzyme supplements are often recommended for pancreatic cancer patients because they aid in digestion and help to maintain weight.
 Your doctor or an oncologist (cancer specialist) will likely order a series of blood tests once you present with any or all of the above-mentioned symptoms. Several types of blood tests are useful to help diagnose pancreatic cancer and rule out other causes of abdominal symptoms, such as: complete blood count, liver function tests, serum bilirubin, kidney function test and looking for various tumor markers.Tumor markers are substances that can sometimes be found in the bloodstream of a cancer patient. Two that are related to pancreatic cancer are called CA 19-9 and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA).
These tumor markers are not elevated in all people with pancreatic cancer and some who don’t have any cancer might have higher levels for some other reason, so they are not really accurate indicators but are relatively cheap and non-invasive so are helpful in determining whether or not to test further.
Looking at hormone levels is useful as some (such as chromogranin A, C-peptide and serotonin) are often elevated in people with pancreatic cancer.
 Once in the hands of an oncologist who strongly suspects pancreatic cancer (based on telltale symptoms and blood tests), a number of imaging tests will be performed. Common diagnostic tests include: a CT scan and/or an MRI of the abdomen, endoscopic ultrasound of the pancreas and endoscopic retrograde cholangio pancreatography (ERCP).Once a test strongly suggests cancer, more detailed tests are done to see if the cancer has spread — this methodology is called staging.


An endoscopic ultrasound uses a device to take images of your pancreas gland from inside your abdomen. The endoscope is sent down through your esophagus and into your stomach to take the images.An ERCP uses an endoscope to inject dye into your pancreas, then an abdominal x-ray is taken to highlight the bile ducts and other parts of the gland.
 Once a number of tests have seemingly confirmed a diagnosis of pancreatic cancer, a final procedure to be completely sure and to determine which cells are most involved is called a pancreatic biopsy or tissue sample.Biopsies require anesthesia and can be done in three different ways: percutaneous, endoscopic and surgical.


A percutaneous biopsy (also called fine needle aspiration) involves inserting a long, thin, hollow needle through the abdominal skin and into the pancreas gland in order to remove a small piece of tissue / tumor.
An endoscopic biopsy involves inserting an endoscope down the esophagus, through the stomach and into the small intestine to get close enough to the pancreas to cut off a tissue sample.
A surgical biopsy is most invasive because it involves making incisions into the abdomen and inserting a laparoscope to get a sample and look around to see if the cancer has spread.
 Since early signs and symptoms may be ambiguous, they are often not associated with the pancreas until the disease is quite advanced. Early issues include:Moderate abdominal and/or back pain
Nausea (not vomiting)
Loss of appetite (food is less desirable)
Unexplained significant weight loss
Yellow jaundice (which also causes itchy skin)

,