 Many of the lochs allow you to canoe or kayak across them which is a very popular activity. Some of the most famous lochs in the Cairngorms National Park are Loch Insh, Loch an Eilean, and Loch Morlich. Loch Morlich has a beautiful view over the Cairngorm Mountain Range.;
, The Cairngorm National Park is home to the second and third highest mountains in Scotland- Ben Macdui and Braeriach. There are beautiful views from every single one of them on a good day. If you aren't a big hill-walker then there are smaller, less strenuous mountains too. Remember to take your camera to capture the undulating land of Scotland!

, Two of the most prolific are Blair and Balmoral Castle. Balmoral is actually the holiday home of the Royal Family during the summer where they roam around Ballater and visit the local church- Crathie Kirk. You can't obviously visit the castle during her stay but it is open to the public each year from early April to early August.
 As well as the Cairngorms indicating a mountain range and a national park, there is also two mountains in the Cairngorm Mountain Range with the word in it- Derry Cairngorm and Cairngorm. However, the only one with a Funicular Railway going up it is Cairngorm. The train takes you all the way to the summit where a café called the Ptarmigan Restaurant awaits you. All ages are allowed to access the train.
 The forests are just as beautiful as the hills and give a variety in length. This is a good idea if you have a big family and don't want to trek the younger of them up the mountains. It is another spot to take out the camera and the binoculars because a variety of wildlife can be found in these forests such as pine martens, deer and red squirrels. The Abernethy Forest and the Rothiemurchus Forest are very popular amongst both locals and tourists.
 There are many places in which you can try out this sport and really get into it as well. Or alternatively, if you are not much a fan of scaling the heights, the normal family bike rides are on offer too. There are countless places where you can hire bikes and mountain-bikes. Remember your helmet!

, There are countless stunning waterfalls all over Scotland, not just in the Cairngorms National Park. The Falls of Bruar are many people's favourite. You could watch the crashing water fall into the rocky river below for ages. Bring a picnic for a resemblance of pure bliss!

, Waltzing Waters is a stunning show in the Kingussie area where water of different shades and shapes create wonderful shadows and images before your eyes. it is a must see. Landmark is also a must-see where the kids can play and have fun. It is a forest adventure park. There are even adjoining hotels and places to stay with everything from obstacle courses and climbing walls to water slides and train rides.
 Skiing is a wonderful activity whether you have done it before or not. The variety of ski-slopes, artificial and real, are extensive. You can even go skiing on Cairngorm mountain itself! It is a very enjoyable activity and reflects the personality of the Cairngorms National Park as a whole.

