 If your students are from multiple cultures, there will likely conflict between students about the different ways they may see the world. Being aware of this can help you recognize and minimize these conflicts.Some students, unfortunately, will learn racism or other types of intolerance at home. This can make your job in the classroom more challenging, but you can also address bigoted points of view head-on.
For instance, if and when a student conveys beliefs or behavior that is disrespectful of another student’s culture or identity, immediately direct them to stop, and tell them why you are doing so.
For specific examples about how to handle intolerance in the classroom, reach out to your colleagues and review resources offered by organizations working to improve attitudes about diversity., In order to promote multiculturalism and celebrate diversity in the classroom, visual materials must reflect the communities in which your students live, as well as the other cultures represented in your country. For instance, posters in the classroom and videos you show should include people from different races and with different identities.Meanwhile, it is important that teaching materials do not reinforce stereotypes. For instance, instead of a poster featuring a Mexican man in a field wearing a sombrero or a Native American woman in a ceremonial headdress, have a poster that features a male Mexican doctor and a Native American businesswoman.
 To prevent exclusion and insensitivity, it can be helpful to articulate the importance of always respecting one another to your students. Ask your class to help you determine what that will mean in your classroom.Start the discussion off by saying something like, “I think one rule we should have is that we will always listen to whoever is speaking and give them a chance to convey their perspective fully.”

, True social justice and equality will only be achieved if children are taught to be open-minded, understanding, and resistant to the biases that everyone is exposed to. In fact, many people reach adulthood without ever expanding their personal worldview to acknowledge and fully respect other people’s ways of living.


Fortunately, there are more and more resources available to help you and other educators provide accurate and responsible perspectives on the world we share. For more information about culturally diverse resources, visit http://www.teachingforchange.org/.