 You will need plain white card stock, 5-6 sheets of different colored construction paper, and some acrylic silver spray paint. Super glue, tape, a ruler, and scissors are all necessary to help build your robot. You may also want to add different colored pipe cleaners, buttons, and beads onto your robot.;
, First, you will want to find paper which is thick, like card stock. The dimensions of your cube will be 2X2X2 inches. Using a ruler, draw a 2X2 square on the paper. You can use a protractor to check whether each of the angles are 90 degrees. After you have drawn the first square, you will now have to draw three more of equal size.The next three will go directly next to the first square. Each new square will use a line from the previous square. Continue this until you have four squares, all connected together in one large rectangle.
You will now have a rectangle of four connected squares, with a total dimension of 2X8 inches, and three visible pencil lines.
 The last two squares are placed apart from another, at square number two on the rectangle. Place a square on each side of that rectangle at the same position. You should now have what looks like a cross.
 Use scissors to cut around the outside edges of the cross. Do not cut on the inside pencil marks. After you have cut out the cross, throw the excess paper away., For this step you can use either glue or tape. Fold up the three squares at the top of the cross. Lift up the long end of the cross and fold the top over. You should now have what looks roughly like a cube. Use small pieces of tape, or dabs of glue, to join together the edges. If you use glue, hold the edges together for at least 30 seconds so that the glue can dry., This follows the same steps as the normal cube. The only difference is the dimensions. Draw a 2X4 inch rectangle. On top of that rectangle, on the long side, draw a 4X8 rectangle. Make sure that the lines of both rectangles connect with one another. On top of that rectangle, draw another 2X4 rectangle. Then, on top of that one, draw another 4X8 rectangle. At the end, you should have a rectangle that is 4X20 inch rectangle, with three pencil marks.Remember, 4 inch sides need to match up with 4 inch sides. 8 inch sides need to match up with 8 inch sides. For example, when drawing the 4X8 rectangle above the 2X4 rectangle, the 4 inch sides need to match up.
On both sides of one of the 4X8 rectangles, draw a 8X2 rectangle. At the end, you should have what looks like a cross.
 Use a pair of scissors and cut out the cross. Fold up the two 8X2 rectangles, and one 2X4 rectangle. Then fold up the other section, so that you end up with a rectangular cube. Use dabs or glue, or small tabs of tape to secure the edges. If you use glue, hold the edges down for 30 seconds to ensure that the glue dries., If you decide to paint your cubes, you will need to buy acrylic silver spray paint. Take your cubes outside so that fumes don't build up in the house. Spray the cubes from about 1-2 feet away. Make sure that you get all the sides and edges. You can let one side dry before you spray paint the other sides.If you decide to wrap your cubes in tin foil, simply peel off large sheets of tin foil. Cut two long strips which will wrap around both cubes. You also want to cut out four smaller pieces to wrap around the smaller areas and edges.
You can either wrap the tin foil tightly around the cubes, or glue them down with dabs of super glue.
 Take the smaller cube and place it on one of the 2X4 rectangles in the larger cube. Place the cube in the center of that rectangle. Place a healthy amount of super glue underneath that cube and press down for 15 seconds., Choose any color you would like, but darker colors work best. You want to cut out two strips, each that are 1X7 inches long.
 This means that the first 1/2 inch you will fold up, the next 1/2 inch you will fold down, the next 1/2 inch up, etc. Do this to both strips until they have been completely accordion folded., Place a dab of super glue about one inch below the head of the robot, on both sides of the body. Take the ends of your accordion folds and press them against the super glue. Hold them there for fifteen seconds so that the glue can dry.
 Each of these squares should be 4X4 inches. After you have cut them out, feel free to dispose of any excess construction paper. The color of this construction paper should match what you chose for the arm accordion folds., Take each of the squares in your hands and roll them like a cigar. You want to make sure you leave at least an inch or two in diameter. Then take a small piece of tape and place it on the overlapping edge so that the roll stays in place., Spread super glue around one of the ends of your roll. Do this to both of the legs. Then press and hold them on the underside of the body (large rectangular cube). The legs should be the same distance from one another, and about a 1/2 inch inwards from the edges. Hold the legs there for 15 seconds to allow the glue to harden and dry., Choose from a vast array of buttons or small items you might want to use as eyes. You might want something shiny, so that it matches the essence of a robot. After you have chosen the buttons you wish to use as eyes, super glue them onto the head. Make sure that they are placed on the front of the head, each about an inch inwards from the sides., You can do this with a sharp knife, or a pair of scissors. You want to do this on the top part of the head. Each hole should be about an inch inwards from the edges. Make sure the holes are tiny, otherwise the antennas won't hold. Take a pipe cleaner and cut it in half. Stick one piece in one of the holes and one in the other. Bend them slightly as if they are receiving signals., These can range from 1/4 inch squares to 1/2 inch squares. Cut these out of construction paper using scissors. Make sure you are using a multitude of different colors. Glue them on the front of the main body. You can do these in any order you wish. Press each of the pieces down for 15 seconds to allow the glue to dry. These squares will represent blinking lights/electronics on the robot., Cut out two circles, each the same size, about 2 inches in diameter. If you have a hard time drawing a perfect circle, try to find a small circular object, like the end of a paper towel roll, and trace the edge of it. You should use a different color than the color you used for the legs and arms. Place your robot down on its back. Place glue around the edges of the lower paper legs. Press each of the circles onto the legs, and hold them for 15 seconds. This will allow the glue to dry., Find two small beads that are the same color. You will want to use gold or silver beads. Take a small amount of super glue on each side of your robot's head. Place a bead on each side, and hold them against the super glue. Make sure to hold them for 15 seconds to allow the glue to dry.,