 You will have to go to physical therapy after you have ACL surgery. Your physical therapist will give you exercises to do.


The exercises listed in this section are common rehabilitation exercises that are recommended for people who are recovering from ACL surgery.
 To do this exercise, roll up a hand towel and lie down with your head facing up. Place the towel directly beneath your ankles. Your heel should be propped high enough to lift your thigh off of the floor. Let your leg naturally fall into a full extension (meaning that it is straightened).Do this exercise three or four times a day for 10 to 15 minutes each time.
 Sit down in a chair with another chair facing it. Lay your ankle on the edge of the other chair (your entire foot should be supported by the chair). Relax your thigh muscles. Allow your leg to fall into its natural position at full extension.Remain in this position for 2-5 minutes. If your knee begins to hurt, take a break and repeat exercise again later.
Do this exercise three times a day.
 Sit on a stool or chair that allows your feet to dangle. Let your knee bend naturally. Remain in this position for 2-5minutes. If your knee begins to hurt, discontinue exercise and repeat later.


Do this activity three times a day.
 Lie down with your head facing up. Flex your knee by bringing your heal toward your buttocks. Hold this position for 5 seconds. Straighten your leg by gently sliding your heel downward. Hold this position for 5 seconds.Perform this exercise 10 times (one set) trying to bring your heal closer to your buttocks each time. Do one to three sets at each session, resting 30 seconds between sets.
Do this exercise three times a day.
 Once you have restored your knees range of motion, you will begin muscle-strengthening exercises. These exercises may include riding a stationary bike (10-20 minutes twice a day), swimming and low impact exercise machines. Low-impact exercise machines that you may use at your physical therapy facility include:


Elliptical cross-trainer.
Treadmill.
Leg curl machine.
Leg press machine.
 If you were doing an activity, such as a muscle training exercise or walking to the grocery store, and think you may have hurt your knee again, it is important to know when to go to the hospital. Signs that you need to seek medical treatment include:


Your knee is hurting more than it has been.
Your knee seems like it is getting worse instead of better.
Your knee is swelling more or is inflamed (soreness or redness).
Your knee is being negatively affected by the use of your knee brace.
Your knee becomes warm, is more painful and accompanied by a fever higher than 101 degrees F or 38.3 degrees C.

