 Go to the Yahoo Mail login page and sign in. Log in using your Yahoo ID, or username, and password in the two text boxes provided. Click Sign In to proceed to your mail account.;
, Click the gear button on the top right corner of your Yahoo Mail to bring down the Settings menu. Click the “Account Info” link from here. You will be brought to your Yahoo account data.
 Click the “Recent Activity” menu from the left panel. All the recent activities made by your Yahoo account will be displayed. Most items here will involve your login or session records, since Yahoo keeps track of these.
 Look at all the activities listed on the Recent Activity menu and see if there’s anything out of the ordinary. Check and verify if you are the one who made all these. Yahoo keeps a record of your sign-in history for the past 30 days.
 If you see something suspicious—for example a sign in from a device or a location you didn’t know of—click the record for the activity. A small window will appear displaying the sign-in history under the device for the location for the last 30 days.
 The IP address for every sign in is recorded with each entry. You can then use this to track your hacker, since IP addresses are unique. You may need to work with your local Internet service provider and/or law enforcement agency to track down the IP address’ exact location and your hacker.


It is very unlikely that you will be able to track down the individual who hacked your account via the IP address. The chances are good that a person wasn’t even involved, and that your account was compromised by an automated hacking program. The best thing you can do is change your password to prevent future hacks.
 If you’ve confirmed that someone else has access to your Yahoo account, immediately change your password to stop it. Click the “Change your password” link at the top of the page to quickly start the process. You will be brought to the password change page. Enter your new password and save it.
 You can have a recovery account associated with your Yahoo account. Make sure that this account is secured as well, and that it is an account you control. You can change this from the “Account security” section of the Yahoo Mail Settings.
 This is an additional layer of security. Yahoo will send you a text message whenever you log into your account. You’ll need to enter the code you receive in order to access the account. This will prevent unauthorized users from accessing your account information.