 Ear and facial piercings are very visible, which can cause problems at school or work for some people. If you're thinking about getting a piercing, make sure you won't have to take it out at school or at your job.


If you're set on getting one, give some thought to covering your piercing in the meantime. Sometimes, schools will allow piercings to be covered with a small bandage while it heals.;
, Temporary rings can be gently clipped onto the place you're considering piercing, allowing you to get used to the sight.


If you don't have a clip-on piercing, you can use a small sticker-backed bead, or small plastic jewel and stick it to your face with non-toxic white glue. It might seem silly, but you can look at yourself in the mirror from different angles.
Go out in public if you want. Get other peoples' opinions. Keep looking at yourself in the mirror throughout the day in different lighting. At the end of the day, did you ever have any doubts about the placement? If so, you can always do this step again.
 Take a picture of yourself from the front and from different sides. See how it looks. Upload it online to see what your friends think. Make sure that it shows your whole face, head-on, in good lighting.


Upload the picture to an image editor. It can be as simple as Paint or you can use an advanced editor like Photoshop, or you can use an online editor like pixlr.com.
Place a black dot (or a picture of a ring or stud) on your face to represent the piercing, if you don't have a clip-on. Step back from your computer and look at it. Adjust the placement until you have a good idea of where you want it. Experiment.
 As backwards as it may sound, you an use piercings to distract or augment certain things you might think of as flaws. For example, a bumpy or squat nose can easily be covered up with a nostril piercing. Don't like the shape of your brow? Try adding a ring, or drawing attention to other parts of your face, with a lip piercing.
 Don't make any snap decisions. Take a couple weeks to think about it. Keep trying on your fake piercings and making sure you like how it looks. Think about how much work it will take to keep clean. Make sure you really want it.
 The best person to talk to about any of your piercing questions and concerns is a piercer certified with the Association of Professional Piercers (APP), who are required to attend at least a year-long apprenticeship program, and stay up to date on blood borne pathogen safety. When you get pierced, make sure you get pierced by a professional., You may need to acquire your parents' consent before you get any part of your body pierced. In some areas, you can be 16 and get pierced without consent, while other areas require you to be 18 to get a piercing. In some areas, you must be at least 14 to get pierced, with or without your parents' consent.

