 You may look like a lazy person. It might also be disrespectful. Stand up and offer to take their coat or purse, or show them to the closet if you think they would prefer to hang their things up themselves. If they have never been to the house before give them a quick tour. Close the doors of any messy rooms, and tell the adults which rooms are off limits, and where the bathrooms are.;
, Don't stare or give evil glances to people around you. If you know them well give them a hug when you meet, if you don't offer your hand and state your name. Be Polite, and offer the adult an appropriate drink.
 You really don't want to have blue eye shadow and bright red lipstick, with an adult gawking at you, now don't you?

, If you think it's really important then excuse yourself but try to ask the caller to try calling later.
 It's better not to watch TV, go on the computer, or listen to your iPod. Don't be a hermit. If you feel like you are unwanted by the adults in the conversation you should ask for permission to go to your room for a while.
, How are your children/hamsters/family?" Use your manners. You want the adults to want you back, and comment on how nicely you behaved. As a bonus, your parents will also be proud.
 Be careful not to spill food or talk with your mouthful. Don't put your elbows on the table. Offer to help out. At the end of the meal join in with taking out the plates, washing the dishes, or drying them. Try to eat what you're given, even if you don't like it that much. Don't complain about the food or make negative comments. Compliment them on anything you do like even if it's only a side-dish. Try to make polite dinner conversation.
 There may be only one little lonely five year old, and no matter how much you may dislike children, play with the kid. Make a craft out of some stationary (ask permission before using materials), draw, or color. If you have been playing for a while responsibly declare that you want to take part in conversation.
 Don't ask for a drink the adult most likely won't have but ask for the choices first. You don't want to ask for a drink that can only be found halfway across the world. Sit in the place that is suggested even if you don't particularly like the people you are next to.
 It is also nice to return the favor by driving them somewhere or bringing them a small cookie or small perfume sample to say that you honestly do appreciate the ride. If you don't say thank you, then they may not be happy about driving you somewhere next time.
 Explain exactly what you received, how much you like it, and what you are going to do with the object. The adult went out to buy you something, and it's up to you to show that you mean it when you say you like it.
 The adult is most likely very happy to see you, and they would be crushed if you look as if you would much rather be at one of your friends' parties.
 Instead of "Yeah," or "Yup," say "Yes, I would love that." Listen to the conversations. The adult might ask you a question so try to talk and explain your answers. If an adult asks how you like school, you could say, "Yes, school is fine, though homework is really going up this term!" This makes the adults feel that they are your friend, and you are comfortable talking to them. Compliment things you like. Don't interrupt a conversation to say something irrelevant. That is extremely rude. When speaking, make sure it's appropriate. If you're not sure than it's probably better not to say anything.
 They are people, too, and they deserve to be treated as you treat your friends. Use Mister or Miss, and then say their last name unless specified otherwise. If you are just meeting them ask the adult what they would like you to call them.

