 A razor comb is typically divided into three sections. The end of the comb contains a regular comb. The front of the comb is divided into two different sides: the small-toothed side and the wide-toothed side. The wide-toothed side can be used to create choppy layers. The small-toothed side is great for thinning hair and creating a more subtle look.If you are a beginner, start out using the small-toothed side first. Once you are comfortable using this side, then try the other side.
Visit your local beauty supply store to purchase a razor comb and razors. Razors are usually sold separately.;
, Use a brush to comb through your hair until it is smooth and all of the tangles are removed. If you are a beginner, it is recommended that you start with dry hair. This way you can see how much hair you are removing and if it is too much or too little., Use clips or ponytail holders to divide your hair into a top, middle and bottom section. The top section should be composed of the hair from the top of your head to the parietal ridge. The middle section should be composed of the hair from your temples to your occipital bone. The bottom section should be composed of the hair at the nape of your neck.The parietal ridge is the bony halo or ridge along the upper part of your head.
The occipital bone is the protrusion at the base of your skull.
 Split it down the middle into two sections. Bring both sections forward over your shoulder so you can see your hair., Starting on the right or left side, isolate a chunk of hair. The chunk of hair should be about .4 to .5 inches (10 to 12 mm) thick in diameter. Hold the section of hair straight out from the side of your head. Make sure to hold it taut., Starting two to three inches away from the root of your hair, position the comb at a 45 degree angle relative to hair your. Using light pressure, gently move the razor in short, choppy motions from the middle down to the ends of your hair.Make sure the razor is not at a 90 degree (perpendicular) or 180 degree (flat) angle relative to your hair.
 As you razor your hair, the cut hair will accumulate. Use the comb to remove any loose hair.Repeat steps two through four on the rest of the bottom section.
 Once you are finished with the bottom section, use a ponytail holder to isolate it. Then let down the hair in the middle section. Repeat steps one through four on the middle section of your hair.When you are razor cutting the middle section, try to avoid cutting the baby hairs around your temples.
Once you are done cutting the middle section, don’t forget to isolate it with a ponytail holder so you can razor cut the top of your hair.
 Let down the top section of your hair. Divide the top section down the middle into two sides. Working from the back, isolate a section of hair. The section of hair should be about 3 inches (9 mm) thick in diameter., Position the blade two to three inches (or more) from the root of your hair. Place the razor at a 45 degree angle relative to your hair., Using very light pressure, move the razor in short, choppy motions from the middle down to the ends of your hair. Since the hair at the top of your head is the most visible, make sure to use very light pressure and work slowly. Remember, you can always go back and remove more hair if it isn't enough.Make sure to use the comb to remove the loose hair as you cut.
 Do this for the rest of the sections at the top of your head until you have razor cut all of the sections. Once you have cut all of your hair, brush through your hair one final time to remove any loose hair. Your hair should feel much lighter.