 Although there are a variety of lifestyle factors that can affect your risk for diabetes, there are also many genetic factors that will pre-dispose you to this disease regardless of your lifestyle.


If you have family members, especially parents or siblings, with diabetes, you're automatically at increased risk for acquiring diabetes.In addition, if your family background is African American, American Indian, Alaska Native, Hispanic, Asian American or Pacific Islander you're also at a higher risk to acquire this disease.Outside of genetics, if you're over the age of 45 you're at increased risk as well. This isn't a genetic issue, however it's a factor you have no control over and cannot change.;
, Outside of your genes, weight plays a key role in determining your overall risk for Type 2 Diabetes. Those people who are overweight or obese become more resistant to insulin and can eventually develop diabetes.Calculate your BMI to determine if you're overweight. A BMI of: 20-24.9 is considered normal weight, 25.-29.9 is considered overweight, 30-24.9 is considered obese and anything over 40 is considered morbidly obese.A BMI over 25 puts you at increased risk for diabetes. As BMI continues to rise or increase, the risk level for acquiring diabetes also increases.Use ideal body weight in addition to BMI to see how much excess weight you carry. Use an online calculator to determine your ideal body weight and possible excess weight.
The more excess weight you're carrying for your gender and height, the higher your risk for diabetes.
 In addition to how much excess weight you're carrying, how and where you carry that excess weight may also predict your risk for diabetes.


Waist circumference is a measurement taken around the middle of your abdomen. It can help determine your risk for diabetes in addition to many other chronic diseases.You're at increased risk if: you're a women and your waist circumference is >35 inches or if you're a man and your waist circumference is >40 inches.
To measure your waist circumference, take a cloth measuring tape and wrap it around your waist at belly button height. Make sure the tape is parallel to the floor all the way around your waist. Take note of the measurement.
If your waist circumference is high, your BMI is also most likely elevated.
 Not participating in regular physical activity is another risk factor that increases your risk for diabetes.Regular exercise helps to increase your cell's sensitivity to insulin so they are better able to use insulin when it's secreted.In addition, when you're muscles are working, they are better able to take up blood sugar or blood glucose.Fortunately, physical activity is a modifiable risk factor. This means that you can change your routine by either starting to be more active or including more physical activity in your day.
 Besides genetics and lifestyle factors, your past and current medical history can also play a role in determining your overall risk for Type 2 diabetes.If you have a history of cardiovascular disease (like atherosclerosis) you're at increased risk for diabetes in addition to high blood pressure and stroke.High blood pressure will also increase your risk of diabetes. In addition it damages your blood vessels and cardiovascular system.PCOS or polycystic ovary syndrome is a common condition that is frequently associated with obesity and diabetes.High cholesterol and triglyceride levels increase your risk for diabetes in addition to cardiovascular disease., Including regular amounts of physical activity is a great way to stay healthy, lose weight and reduce your risk of Type 2 Diabetes.


Aim for a total of 150 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic exercise every week. This is about 30 minutes 5 days a week.When you exercise, you should get your heart rate up to 50-70% of your maximum heart rate for the entire time that you exercise. You should calculate your target heart rate here.
This type of exercise helps your muscles and body use both insulin and blood sugar more effectively.
In addition to cardiovascular exercise, aim to include a few days of strength training. Work every major muscle group and participate in these exercises for at least 20 minutes.Strength training helps your muscles become more sensitive to insulin.
 A big factor that will determine your risk for Type 2 Diabetes is your weight. Losing even 5-7 percent of your body weight will cut your risk for getting diabetes in half.Cut out about 500 calories daily from your diet. This generally will help you lose a safe 1-2 pounds per week.Count your calories for a few days to get an average of how much you eat. Subtract 500 from this amount and use this new amount as your calorie goal for weight loss.
If you don't need to lose weight, but want to make sure you do not gain weight, count the total amount of calories you eat on a typical day. Try to stick to this amount on a regular basis to keep weight in check.
 Even if you're at a moderate weight, having an unhealthy diet can still affect your health and your risk for diabetes.


A balanced diet means you're eating nutritious foods from every food group each day. In addition, it's important to eat a wide variety of foods from within each food group.
To decrease your risk of diabetes, focus on lower calorie and lower fat foods. This means choosing lean protein like low-fat dairy, poultry, eggs, lean beef and legumes.Also focus on lower calorie and low-fat cooking techniques. Don't fry foods, cook them in a lot of oil or butter and avoid using heavy and rich sauces or gravies.
In addition, eating a diet high in fiber can also help decrease your risk of diabetes. Make sure to eat a fruit or vegetable at each meal and choose 100% whole grain foods., Eating large quantities of processed foods or eating them on a regular basis can decrease the quality of your diet. Overtime, this may lead to weight gain and an increased risk of diabetes.Processed foods can be dangerous because they are typically higher in calories, fat, sugar and sodium.Try to avoid or minimize these types of foods in your diet: fried foods, fast food, frozen TV meals or canned meals, processed meats, sweetened beverages, candy, cookies, cakes or pies, breakfast pastries, and alcohol.
 If you smoke, you're 30-40% more likely to get Type 2 Diabetes compared to non-smokers. Quit immediately to help decrease your overall risk.More recent research has shown a direct link to smoking and diabetes. In addition, the more you smoke, the higher your risk.Stop smoking immediately. Try quitting cold turkey or using over-the-counter products to help you give up the habit.
If you're having difficulty quitting, talk to your doctor. They may be able to refer you to a smoking cessation program or provide prescription medication to make quitting easier.

