 Unfortunately, Ebola lacks any obvious, tell-tale symptoms that enable an immediate diagnosis. Since the symptoms are somewhat general, you must use your judgment to determine whether or not your proximity to an outbreak and the symptoms you note might signify the presence of the disease.


If you are in proximity to an outbreak, and/or to someone who has been near one, err on the side of caution if you have symptoms.
Symptoms normally appear between 2-21 days after exposure, with an average of 8-10 days.Common symptoms of the disease include:Fever
Severe headache
Fatigue
Muscle pain
Weakness
Diarrhea
Vomiting
Stomach pain
Unexplained bleeding or bruising



, Washing your hands regularly and thoroughly with soap and warm water is absolutely essential, especially if you're in the midst of an outbreak.Everyone assumes they wash their hands sufficiently, but there is a proper method to washing hands properly. This is the time to use it.
If in a medical setting, you should wash your hands, up to the elbow, before removing your hospital gown and other protective wear, and again after removal is complete.
Using alcohol-based hand sanitizers is better than doing nothing, but a good scrubbing with soap and warm water is always preferable.
 While it's safest to avoid areas of infection entirely, if you're working as a healthcare provider or volunteer around infected patients, the use of extreme caution is necessary.


When the virus first broke out, the CDC recommended that hospital workers use disposable masks, gloves, goggles, and gowns, to be worn at all times around infected patients. After a few cases of Ebola among healthcare workers in the U.S., however, the CDC recommends a Level 4 suit with a protective hood and taped seams for workers around Ebola patients.Proper removal procedures are just as vital as how you put the protective clothing on. Study and follow the most up-to-date recommendations closely and with great care.It's also important to never reuse needles under any circumstances. Discard bedding and clothing that came in direct contact with infected patients. Extreme caution is necessary.
 Anything that comes into contact with infected patients, or with the bodily fluids of infected patients, needs to be properly discarded or sterilized immediately following use. Disinfectant needs to be used liberally in patients' rooms, and around sleeping areas specifically, to avoid the spread of the infection.There are several acceptable methods for sterilizing medical instruments; make sure that whatever method chosen is followed carefully and completely.
To sterilize medical instruments, first rinse them thoroughly immediately following use while wearing protective mask, gloves, and gown. Then follow the sterilization protocol.
Operate the sterilizer according to proper procedures and then catalog the instruments and label them sterilized.
 If you're working with the infected, the highest level of security needs to be practiced. Isolation practices must extend as well to those who may have died of Ebola, along with the belongings of the living and deceased.Plastic zipper barriers are being employed in some hospitals to minimize the contact that health care professionals have with infected patients, and in most hospitals patients are being quarantined, or separated from the general population to minimize the risk of disease spreading. Direct contact with patients needs to be reduced as much as possible.
The bodies of the deceased can still spread the infection, and as such must be handled with as much care as the living. Belongings must also be properly disposed of or disinfected., If you pass three weeks without displaying any symptoms of Ebola, you are generally considered to be "in the clear."If you display anything resembling Ebola symptoms during this 21-day period, you owe it to yourself, your loved ones, and the public at large to seek medical attention immediately.

