 This is extremely important. If you start by cleaning all the dirt and grime off, you will look and smell clean. While you are in the shower, be sure to clean the following: Hair, Face, "Privates" (this will also help eliminate body odor). If you are a girl, shave your legs, arms, underarms, private parts. Wash under arms, behind ears and neck too.







;
, If you have bad breath and food in your teeth, there is no way that you are going to look clean. If you don't have braces, use a whitening toothpaste. Be sure to brush after breakfast, after lunch, before you go to sleep. (If you're in school, eat your lunch and go to the bathroom and brush your teeth with a travel- sized toothbrush and mini toothpaste tube)Also be sure to floss everyday and use a bacteria killing mouthwash.
 This is in its own category. Whether you are a guy or a girl, antiperspirant deodorant should be applied under arms and any other place (besides face and neck) that you experience excessive sweating.
 This means washing it frequently. You don't have to wash it everyday, but you should wash it at least every other day. Another thing is to keep your hair neat. All hairstyles you do should look neat and tidy.
 Keep this to a minimum. Do not ring your eyes with black eyeliner and mascara. This smudges and makes you look really dirty. Try a little cover up, light foundation, a little dusting of blush, neutral eyeliner if you absolutely need eyeliner, and a peachy or neutral lip gloss. Maybe even just some chap-stick. Also if you wanted to apply a tiny bit of bronzer to give a sun-kissed look, this is absolutely fine. Just make sure to always wash your makeup off before you go to sleep.
 If you have food around your mouth on your face, it will make you look dirty. If you females have a hairy upper lip as do many females do, get it shaved, or waxed, or threaded. Also make sure your eyebrows are groomed and tidy.
 Breath mints/gum, hairbrush or comb, touch up makeup, lotion, matching spray, deodorant, nail filer/clippers, sanitation wipes, ponytail holders/bobby pins/ barrettes/ hairspray, water bottle, and chap stick.
 Do not wear clothes with holes, stains, etc. Do not wear clothes that don't fit you well... this doesn't mean skin tight clothing either.
 With your pretty smile, you will look happy, clean, fresh and awake.
 If you are slouching and walking all hunched over, you are going to look dirty and as if you have no confidence at all.








