 You'll need to be very fit to be an effective wicket keeper.;
, This is especially important if you plan to stand up to the stumps for fast bowlers

, Both of these activities will improve your stamina, as well as footwork and coordination.
 No matter what happens, never take your eyes off the ball. Start observing the ball when the bowler starts his running. Keep your concentration completely focused on the ball.
 Successful wicket keepers will need to have good slanted postures in order to react faster when facing fast bowlers. As the bowler comes closer towards the non-striking stumps, wicket keepers, at this point, will be in a catching position. At the starting position, the palm of the wicket keeper's hand will be facing towards the bowler, their fingers pointing down onto the ground and their heads watching the ball.
 You must be able to judge the pace and turns of the ball. Good catching skills are essential to get a catch or stop the ball from reaching the boundary.
 This will come in handy, especially for fast bowlers. It is important for receiving the ball away from the body, especially swingers.
 Don't be lazy. Wicket keeping is like meditation. Its an exercise for your mind and brain. Practice with a mate and get him or her to throw ball for you.
 This helps you to keep to balls that stay low without giving away byes.


When crouching, always make sure to catch the ball below your eye level.
 A wicket keeper is the workhorse of a fielding team. Without a good wicket keeper, keeping opposition tight with a chase-able score is unbelievably difficult. If you are a wicket keeper, then you are the main part of fielding department of your team.
 A wild wide delivery wasn't what the bowler had in mind, use your anticipation, concentration and the hunger to stop the runs and nothing will go past you.
 Since wicket keeping is the most important job on the field, you should not let anything get you down, not even a dropped catch. Fielders mostly take after the wicket keeper's reactions, so it's very important to always keep up your energy levels and cheer the guys on.


Avoid getting too loud. A cheerful, loud and aggressive keeper will rub off onto the rest of the team. It isn't easy to bat when you have a foghorn going off between deliveries. A simple "come on" or shouting the bowler's pet name will be sufficient.
 Always keep believe in yourself. Never think, "I can't handle it". Always think, "The ball is mine, it's for my keeping gloves".
 The main thing for a wicket keeper is concentration. Always try to be cool before your match. Try to avoid fighting, yelling etc. Stay calm, collected and seem like the wise one on the field.
 Although you may be keeping wicket beautifully, you must also have a good hand on the bat. Thus, if you want to become an all-round useful wicketkeeper for your team, concentrate on your batting. If you get some important runs, this will build your confidence levels.
 Just keeping the ball straight through (without touching bat) is not your main job. You've to be ready for the edge. Don't be so nervous, think every ball that, "There will be an edge", no matter whether there is or not.
 This will broaden your knowledge. Include books written about great wicket-keepers of the past. You might pick up a tip or two.

