 You'll see the MSQRD camera screen appear once the app loads.;
, MSQRD effect options vary often. Search through available effects by swiping from left to right and select one with two people in the picture or two empty faces on your screen. The face swap is often near the end of the list., You'll see two head outlines when you select the face swap effect. Line up your face and someone else's face in the two outlines. You'll need to either be standing next to each other or be otherwise very close.


You can only swap faces with someone else in the same room; you can't load a picture from your device. Still, there are ways to swap faces with pictures and other things. See the next section for details.
 Once you have both faces lined up, MSQRD will swap your faces. This may take a moment on older devices. Make sure to keep both of your heads within the outlines on the screen.
 Continue tapping until the picture is as bright or as dark as you want it.
 Once your faces are swapped, you can tap the shutter button at the bottom to take a picture or begin recording a video, depending on which is selected. You can switch between pictures and videos by tapping the button next to the shutter button.


Keep both of your faces in the outlines the entire time you're recording to keep your faces swapped for the video.
Tap the shutter button a second time to stop recording.
 As soon as you take a picture or finish recording, the picture or video will be saved to your device's camera roll, allowing you to find it in your Photos or Gallery app. MSQRD will also provide several quick sharing options, including Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You'll be prompted to authorize access to these accounts if you select to share to one in MSQRD.You can tap the Share button to open your device's standard Sharing menu.
If you don't want to share your picture or video right away, you can find it anytime in your Photos or Gallery app on your device. You can then edit it or share it from there like any other picture or video.
 While you can't load images from your device to swap with, MSQRD will detect faces in images that you hold up to the camera. You can load an image on your computer screen or use a photo. Line the face up in one of the outlines to swap it with someone else.


For fun, put two pictures of two different people side-by-side on your computer monitor. Switch to the rear camera and line both up in the outlines. As long as the pictures are large enough, the faces should swap!

, MSQRD can detect faces that are close to real, so you can swap with a detailed statue. Your face will take on the statue's color and shape. This will only work if the statue is detailed enough to be detected by MSQRD as a face.
 Because you can switch to the forward facing camera, you can swap two people's faces without them realizing it. Have them stand next to each other for a picture, then use MSQRD to swap their faces.

