 The price you choose will be a combination of the comparative market analysis (CMA).for your area, your equity versus pay-off amount, and your goals. For example, an investment property in a desirable neighborhood can be listed for a higher price because you don't necessarily need a quick sale. Conversely, if you have moved or need to sell quickly in order to buy a new house, you'll want to price to the lower end of the neighborhood spectrum.


If you have agent, she can run a listing of the most recent property sales and listings of comparable properties in the neighborhood. An "For Sale By Owner" seller can pay a real estate attorney or agent for a report., Inspections aren't just for buyers. Investing in an inspection before you list the property can reveal small issues that can be repaired before the listing and more serious repairs can be factored into the listing price., Unless you have a very desirable property in a hot neighborhood, the buyer has many choices. He is looking to stretch his budget as far as it will go. Stage your property to highlight its benefits and be prepared to include your property upgrades in the negotiation. For example, if you had planned on taking the appliances, but the buyer expresses an interest, consider adding them to the deal.
 If the offer is verbal, and you believe the offer is serious, request that the buyer put it in writing. You can have blank forms ready.A written offer shows the buyer is serious and makes it harder for him to renege during the negotiation.
 In the typical list price-offer exchange, the seller will make the first counter-offer. You need to think about the daily costs of owning the property and figure that into their counter-offer. Mortgage, taxes, insurance, utilities, lawn care, and HOA fees are real costs coming out of your pocket while the property remains unsold. If you have already moved, you are also dealing with the risk of storm damage or vandalism on the vacant property. Ask yourself how much the property has cost you since you put it on the market and if you are willing to continuing to pay those costs while waiting for another serious buyer. Factor these costs into your counter-offer. If you have limited interest in the property consider coming down closer to the buyer's offer.


Keep your cool. If buyer's offer is insultingly low, don't respond with anger or sarcasm. Make a reasonable counter-offer to show your position. The buyer may still be serious and simply a poor negotiator. Calling the buyer "cheap" or "ridiculous" may lose you a serious buyer.
Offer to assume or split some of the closing costs. If the buyer insists on an inspection, that is his choice, but you can split costs like title insurance, a real estate attorney, and miscellaneous fees.
 If you have an otherwise qualified buyer who can't get a conventional mortgage because of credit issues or the bank won't lend on the property because of age, location, or condition, you can carry the loan yourself. The disadvantage is you won't be paid immediately and may have to deal with a loan default. The advantage is you may be able to realize a higher purchase price.


Unless you have experience with setting up loan agreements, consult with a real estate attorney to craft the best loan agreement for you and the buyer., Both parties should sign the final offer, even if it is an informal document you and the buyer both worked on. This will become the basis of your sales contract. Hiring a real estate agent or attorney to prepare the final contract and closing documents is a worthwhile investment.


Set a closing date that is far enough out to allow the title work to be finished and your attorney to prepare the final contracts and deed. Typically, 30 to 45 days should suffice.

