 Ingestion can lead to many symptoms, and it can be complicated since symptoms based on systemic exposure cannot be ruled out. Exposure through ingestion can lead to nausea, vomiting, burns to the mouth and airways, and abdominal pain. You may also experience necrosis of areas of the stomach and digestive tract, which can cause severe pain due to localized tissue death.


You may also suffer gastric bleeding, which is accompanied by an inflammation of the stomach.
Pancreatitis can also be a symptom, which is an inflammation of pancreas that results from internal digestive tract exposure to HF., If you ingested HF, you need to drink a large quantity of water right away. This will help dilute the acid in your system and ease the severity of the damage. Do not induce vomiting. You can also drink some milk. If exposed person is alert, give them 4-8 ounces of milk or water.


Give no more than 4 ounces of either liquid to a child.
Be very careful with this kind of exposure. Death has occurred within 90 minutes of ingestion of HF contained in rust remover., Ingestional exposure is life threatening and can cause a lot of permanent damage to organs. Always seek immediate medical attention as soon as you suspect HF exposure. You will likely be started on a treatment regime that will help neutralize the acid, even if you have done it yourself on the way to emergency care.


You will be carefully monitored for increased effects of the burn over time, as HF burns can damage your body on a varying time scale depending on the concentration and exposure level.
 After drinking milk or water and calling for help, it is necessary to attempt to bind certain substances in HF with a neutralizing substance. Take some Tums, which are chewable calcium tablets that can help during HF ingestion. The calcium can help bind the HF in your system.


If you don't have Tums, try milk of magnesia, Maalox, or other liquid antacid. Drink 4 to 8 ounces of these liquids to help.
Don't overdo it with the liquids by trying multiple methods. You don't want to induce vomiting. Vomiting can cause the acid to further damage unexposed areas that are undamaged.
 Your doctor will perform additional blood tests to assess any large decreases in calcium due to binding with the ingested HF. This can lead to cardiac problems, including cardiac arrest. A urinalysis will also be done in order to assess your fluid levels. This will help to guide fluid management and help with replenishing of any depleted electrolytes.


Your doctor will run the same test as with other forms of exposure, which check for electrolyte balance, heart complications, and other lasting issues.