 Depending on who you are and where you are fishing, you might not even need a license.Decide whether you fit into one of the following categories:


Children under 16 don't need licenses.
If you are assisting a disabled fisherman who cannot cast their line or retrieve their line without assistance, you don't need a license. However, the person receiving assistance does need a license, and the two fishermen have to share a line.
Active duty military on leave or furlough don't need licenses to fish.
You also don't need a license to fish in a privately owned pond, a body of water which you or your parents own (as long as it doesn't border state owned land), or on a body of water where you reside if you derive your income from agricultural production.
 There are several categories of people who are eligible for a free license--but they still do need to get a license.These categories of people include:


Disabled veterans, former prisoners of war, residents of state or county institutions, or disabled individuals who need assistance casting and retrieving their lines.
People born before January 1st, 1938.
 While individuals born before January 1st, 1938 will obtain their free licenses exactly the same way a person would obtain a paid license ( by phone, mail, in person at any license outlet, or online at http://wildlife.ohiodnr.gov/), if you fall into one of the other categories, the procedure is a little different.


If you are eligible for a free license for any reason other than age, you'll need to submit a formal application.The application is available at http://wildlife.ohiodnr.gov/fishing/fishing-regulations/licenses. Simply expand the section at the bottom that says "License Exemptions" and click the links at the bottom of the expanded section.
 Veterans and disabled individuals will need to send in their application so it can be verified. If your eligibility is verified, your license should arrive in 12 weeks or less.


Once completed, veterans should send their application to:

Eligibility Verifications, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 1240 East Ninth Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44199-2001


Once completed, disabled individuals should send their applications to:

Ohio Division of Wildlife, Free Licenses, 2045 Morse Road, Building G, Columbus, Ohio 43229-6693



