 You may be angry, and may have every right to be, but being rude will only put the recipient on the defensive. Write in a respectful tone and avoid making threatening, angry or sarcastic comments at all costs. Remember that the person reading your letter was not directly responsible for whatever happened, and they will be much more responsive and willing to please a gracious, polite customer than an angry, accusatory one.


Remember, the company to which you are writing probably isn't out to get you, intentionally. Most companies have an interest in their customer's satisfaction.
You will have much better success treating the recipient as somebody who wants to help you, rather than assuming they're filled with malicious intent.
Don't write when you're furious. Wait to write your letter until you have calmed down. Or if you wish, write the letter while you are fully steamed, and then let it sit for a day or two before you send it. In all likelihood, you will want to rephrase things in a less-incendiary way.
 Customer service representatives may receive as many as hundreds of letters a day, so it's vital that you get to the point quickly, so they know exactly what they're dealing with as soon as they begin reading. If your letter is too long or detailed, the reader will be inclined to skim its contents and end up with an unclear idea of the exact problem or your desired resolution.Avoid superfluous detail or going off on long rants or tangents.
Try to keep your letter on a single page, or under about 200 words.
 Being authoritative in your letter creates the right tone and lets the company know that your complaint is to be taken seriously. This is especially true of more serious complaints, which may have considerable financial implications.Being authoritative encompasses a range of things, such as the quality of the language used, your knowledge of your rights and the company's responsibilities, as well as the professional presentation of the letter.All of these things give you credibility, which should positively effect the response to your letter.
 As mentioned above, formatting your letter in a professional way can favorably influence how your complaint is received. Include your name, address and the date in the top right-hand corner, followed by the name or title of the person you are writing to, along with the company's address, on the left-hand side, just above the body of the letter.


Always type up your letter on a computer, this makes it easier to read and is much cleaner looking. If you must hand write your letter, make sure your writing is clear and legible, with no crossed out words or ink smudges.
To write your signature, leave a blank space under the Yours faithfully or Yours sincerely where you can write in your signature by hand. Underneath this space you should also type your name so it is easily read.
Keep the letter tidy and well-spaced, with paragraphs of approximately equal-size.
 Incorrect spelling and grammar can negatively influence how your complaint is received. Make sure to do a spell check on your computer before printing the letter, or have someone else read it over before you send it.

