 I’ve come to learn “Yes, I can; I can sell ice cubes to Eskimos – I just have to find the ones living in Florida”. Remember, you make the choice of whether you want to make a positive or negative evaluation – either way is a 50-50 shot.;
, Let your customer ask his/her concerns and then answer them. This obviously does not limit us as responsible salespeople the duty to proactively inform customers if our products or service will negatively impact them or their customers/patients.
 – Really! Why would you ask a question and answer it a few seconds later. Most people feel uncomfortable with silence, you should use it to your benefit – it will allow you to actually focus and listen to your customers, plus it will allow your customers the time to think. Just as uncomfortable as you may feel so do your customers, they will begin to talk soon after the question to terminate the silence. Next time you ask a question ask and listen – quietly.
,, You must follow through and get the answer if you want to maintain the credibility.
 Really, keep it simple. Do not try to show customers you vast volume of knowledge. You will have a chance to do so if he/she ask you to elaborate further. Besides a good salesperson knows how to condense the key points with better impact than dumping a volume of information.
, The point is unless you have the only super product/service in the market, you need to sell yourself before your product.
 I really emphasize it. This does not mean you become a pest to a potential customer, instead keep adding the seeds for growth. Patience and nurturing of the seeds will flourish when done skillfully.
 It’s OK to have the feelings that come with rejection but have them for a few minutes and then move on. Rejection is part of selling and we need to accept it. After a rejection plan a new strategy to go after that business. – This is when excitement kicks back in; we now have a new challenge.
 If you are enthusiastic about your product and/or selling, the enthusiasm will carry over to the customer. You’ve heard this from management and probably read it in books, I agree 100% - enthusiasm sells.
, You walk away because the sell is turning into a lose-win situation and walking away may turn it back into a win-win by showing you are in control. Careful! One needs to feel a high level probability that the need for their product/service was sold.
 You must act based on logical business decisions.
 No one will know you were out of your zone unless you tell them.

