 Maybe you are feeling you just don't love the way you look. It may be less about not feeling beautiful and more an indication that you are restless and could use a change.Consider what you are unsatisfied with, or if you are not particularly unsatisfied, what you would like to alter to switch things up!.


Change what you can. Maybe you dislike the baggy area under your eyes. An easy solution would be to get some good sleep and maybe splurge for under eye spa cream or a new concealer. You'll be rested and you'll feel pampered.
 Maybe you are unhappy with something that you cannot easily change, like the shape of your nose or the size of your ears. Change something that will draw the attention to a feature you do like. If you have great lips, put on some bright red lipstick., One of the easiest changes you can make which can have a big impact on how you feel about your appearance, is to change your hair. You can change the color, the cut, the style, or add fun accessories.

Whatever you decide to do make sure that you invest the time and the money to do it right. Make sure you go to a good salon or someone you trust, so it can be just the way you want., If you are unhappy with your body, then pick up a new fitness hobby. Picking up a new fitness hobby will help you reshape your body, learn what a powerhouse you can be, and will keep you healthy. Choose a fitness hobby that you like or maybe one you consider fun, such as aerial yoga or rock climbing. The more you enjoy it, the more likely you will be to continue to do it.
 Changing your clothes or your clothing style is another way to have a big impact on your appearance and on your confidence.Start by getting rid of anything that doesn't fit well or doesn't make you feel beautiful.You've worked on changing your idea of beauty from the inside, now let your outside reflect those changes. So go for what makes you feel comfortable and beautiful.


If you don't have the money to by new clothes, don't worry. You don't need a totally new wardrobe, you just have to get creative. Think or new combinations to change your normal look. Keep trying on different combinations until you're happy with the new style!
If you are still not feeling the best about your new style, try adding in some new accessories like jewelry or new materials (maybe leather bracelets or metals) to your style.

