 Attach the yarn to your hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation of ten chain stitches.


Check the "Tips" section if you need further instructions on making slip knots or chain stitches.
 Work one single crochet into the second stitch from the hook, then work one more single crochet into the stitch after that. As you make these stitches, insert the hook under both loops of the chain.


You will need to continue working each new stitch into both loops for each one worked into your foundation chain.
Make sure that there are still seven empty stitches of your foundation chain after you work these two stitches.
See the "Tips" section for more information regarding the single crochet stitch.
 Work one half double crochet stitch into both loops of the next chain. Work one double crochet stitch into both loops of the chain after that.


If you need help making half double crochets and double crochets, please see the "Tips" section.
 Both of these double crochets should be worked into the same stitch. That stitch should be the next one along the chain.
 To complete the rest of the side, you will need to repeat the same pattern of double crochets, half double crochets, and single crochets.


Do not repeat the two double crochets made in the previous step.
In the next stitch, work one double crochet.
Work one half double crochet into the stitch after that.
Work one single crochet into each of the last two stitches of the foundation chain, completing the side.
 Work one chain stitch from the loop on your hook.
 You will need to make the exact same series stitches along the opposite side of your foundation chain to complete the second side. When making these stitches, you should work the hook under the single loops that still remain free along the bottom edge of the foundation chain.


Work one single crochet into each of the first two stitches.
Work one half double crochet into the next stitch, and one double crochet into the stitch that after that.
Work two double crochets into the following stitch.
Make one double crochet into the next stitch, followed by one half double crochet in the stitch after that.
Finish the second side by making one single crochet into each of the last two chains.
 Slip stitch once into the beginning of the foundation chain. Doing so closes the end of the leaf.


See the "Tips" section if you need help with the slip stitch.
 Work one slip stitch into the first stitch along your first side.


Insert the hook through both loops of the stitch as you work. You will need to do so to complete this initial slip stitch and all of the stitches that follow.
This step starts the process of forming one "prickle" along the side of the leaf.
 Single crochet once into the second stitch of the side, then work two chain stitches from the hook.


The last chain should be somewhat loose. If you make it too tight, the prickles along the edge of the leaf will bend and bunch up.
 Slip stitch into the second chain from the hook, then single crochet once into the same stitch.


Insert the hook into the second chain and yarn over. Pull the yarn through the stitch, then through the chain on your hook. This process can be a challenging one, so take your time.
This step completes the point of the first prickle and finishes the first prickle as a whole.
 The rest of the prickles are made using the same basic steps used to create the first.


Slip stitch once into each of the next two stitches.
Make your second prickle in the stitch after that. Single crochet into that stitch, chain two, then slip stitch once into the second chain from the hook and single crochet once into the same chain.
Slip stitch once into each of the next two stitches, then repeat another prickle using the same technique.
Slip stitch once into each of the next two stitches, bringing your hook to the chain-one you made previously at the tip of the leaf. Use the same technique to make a prickle into that chain-one stitch.
Work your way down the opposite side, creating three more prickles in the same exact way you created the prickles for your first side.
Slip stitch into the last stitch at the base of the leaf to round off the bottom of the leaf.
 Make four chain stitches off the base of the leaf. Slip stitch once into the second chain from the hook, then once more into each of the next two stitches.
 Insert your hook into the base of the leaf, near the middle. Yarn over, then pull a loop through to the front of the leaf. Pull this loop through the chain on your hook, as well.


Insert your hook further up through the middle and repeat the stitch once more.
Continue working your way up through the middle of the leaf in this manner until you reach the tip of the leaf. You should end up making about eight or nine of these stitches.
Make sure that your stitches remain somewhat loose so that the leaf can still lie flat.
You're working a center chain through the middle of the leaf during this step. This chain will give the appearance of a center vein.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 4-inch (10-cm) tail. Pull the tail from the back of the leaf to the front and through the loop on your hook to tie it off.


Use a yarn needle to weave the excess tail along the center back of the leaf, securing it in place.
The completion of this step also completes your leaf.

