 When you have finished your tracking, give it a listen. Click on the triangular green Play button (or press the Space bar). Your track should play from the beginning, and will automatically stop at the end of your track.

Pressing Shift while you press Play or the Space bar will loop your track until you click the Stop button or press the Space bar again.






To loop a specific section, make sure the Selection Tool is enabled, then click and drag over the section you want to loop. Note: after you make your selection, press “Z” for the software to automatically find the zero crossing point: the point where the start and end waveforms are at 0 amplitude (start and end at at the same sound level). Depending on the nature of the loop and the source material, this will often give you a very clean loop without clicks or pops.
 You can alter the playback speed easily, which can come in handy if you are working out a solo, or trying to learn a difficult piece of music.

Drag the Playback Speed slider to the left to slow the track down, or to the right to speed the track up, then press the green “Playback at Speed” arrow to play your track back at the new speed. To make changes, adjust the speed and click the arrow again.
 The default view is the waveform viewed in linear form. Without going into detail, the linear scale is viewed as a percentage of level between 0—or silence; and 1, or maximum level. You can also view the track in other formats:

Waveform (dB) which shows the waveform in decibel levels. It will generally appear “larger” than the linear view.






Spectrogram, which is a colorful FFT (Fast Fourier Transform) view of the audio.






Pitch, which shows pitches from high at the top of the track, to low pitches at the bottom. It’s very interesting with rich textures, and chords.
 If you have multiple tracks playing, and only want to hear one of them, click on the Solo button in the Track control area to the left of the waveform.


All other tracks except those that are soloed will be silenced. This is very useful if you want to, for example, get a good level between the bass and the drums.
 If you have multiple tracks playing, and want to silence one or more of them, click on the Mute button in the Track control area to the left of the waveform.


All other tracks but the muted track or tracks will still sound. This is very useful if you want to, for example, compare 2 takes, or thin down the mix temporarily.
 The Pan control will place your sound in the stereo field, from left to right, to any point in between. The level control sets the volume for that track.

