 Accessories can add edge or individuality to your look. The right details will complete your style, and they will also create more possibilities for adding variety to your developing wardrobe.


A skinny, brightly colored belt can add a welcome splash of color to a look that consists mostly of blacks and dark colors.
For many styles of rockstar fashion, a studded belt is a staple. You can find studded belts at Primark, Haze, Voodoo, PacSun, Claire's Accessories, Attitude and New Look.
 Spiked bracelets emphasize danger and ferocity. They are popular in punk, metal, and goth styles. Likewise, a skull shaped ring can strengthen a rebellious look.
 For disheveled looks, Converse sneakers or black boots are popular. For more refined looks, a formal dress shoe may be appropriate. Note that certain styles may lead others to make assumptions about you. For example, people may expect you to skate if you wear skate shoes.
 A good hairstyle for a rockstar may be either subtle or extreme. Shaggy hair is common as it fits the image of a disinterested rebel. If you want a more extreme look, consider a mohawk or a buzz cut. Fashion and style publications occasionally compile useful lists of rockstar hairstyles.Bring in a picture or show your new rockstar image to a trusted stylist who can help you decide on the right style.


If you are a touring musician, consider a style that will not need regular cuts to maintain. Since you may be on the road for long periods, you may have difficulty scheduling appointments with trusted stylists.
Get imaginative with hair dye, wash in colors, and styling products. Rockstar style often involves projecting confidence while looking unusual. Look for pictures of styles that you like and find out which product is used for that style: hair gel, paste, pomade, mousse, cream, or hairspray all have different effects.Ask friends with distinctive hairstyles to suggest their preferred hair products and brands.
 Look at the rockstars that you have used as models to see how they use makeup. It can be used it sparingly or to create an over-the-top look. Once you find a style that you want to try, you can find tutorials on Youtube. Don't be afraid to try a new style: you can always clean it off and try a different look.


Heavy black eye liner is popular for metal and goth styles. Additional color or blush is common among rockstars cultivating a dandy or foppish image.
Glam and art rock performers use makeup to create color schemes, shapes, and patterns that exaggerate, transform, or obscure facial features. David Bowie, The Sweet, and Alice Cooper are prominent examples.

