 There are a variety of smart phone apps for iPhones and Androids that you can use to change the sound of your voice, many of them free. New apps are always coming out, so check out the app store to find out what's available.


Some of them allow you to record your voice and play it back in manipulated form, while others allow you to speak into the phone and project weird robot noises and other big changes. One app, Call Voice Changer, even lets you make calls with your new fake voice.;
, You can use a Digital Audio Workstation (D.A.W) on a Windows or Mac. Garageband, ProTools or Ableton can all be used to record and manipulate your voice, then change it.


Use effects and plugins like distortion, pitch shifters, speed adjustments to make your voice sound gravely, low, or high, according to what you want.
Record yourself saying common or funny phone phrases like, "What do you want?" or "Can I take a message?" or "My son won't be coming to school today" to pull off the gag.
 Play music just loud enough so that your voice can be heard over it. You can use other recorded sounds as well, including traffic noise, white noise and static, or even the sounds of heavy machinery.


Another person can help you by making humming noises or other sounds while you are speaking that have the same effect as recorded sounds.
Put a handkerchief or other piece of cloth over the phone’s voice input area and move it around to create a static effect. Try using different materials for a different effect.
 One of the easiest and fastest ways to change your voice is to buy a little megaphone with silly effects to speak through. Voice changers can be found in magic or joke gift shops, as well as more serious surveillance stores, and even Halloween stores.


These toys are usually available at a wide range of prices, and the cost will usually determine the quality. Even the cheap ones help to make your voice sound a lot different.
A regular megaphone can be used to change the sound of your voice too. Just stand back from the phone, or you'll blow the other person away.

