 Get a medium width rubber band, about 3" long (unstretched). Appropriate rubber band sizes for this dark operation are: #16, #18, #19, #31, #32, or #33., If need be, practice a few times before you hunt your fly, so that you can perfect your technique.

You'll want to make a fist out of your forward hand with your thumb on top, flat and pointing forwards. Then place the rubber band on the tip of your thumb, so it's hooked in place, and pull the opposite side of the band back, with your other hand - a finger or a pinched finger and thumb.Ideally, everything is parallel and flat, so there's little chance for the band to hit your thumb or hand upon release.
When you're ready, sight along the rubber band, at the target, and release the band cleanly from the back hand, allowing it to shoot over your thumb towards the target.
Once you have your aim right, you can work on increasing your power. Though you don't need fly-smashing contact, the rubber band cannot just barely get there. The speed and power need to be moderate, at least.
 Ninja style is great, if you are so inclined. Mimic a cat, try a nonchalant saunter, or just sidle up rustler-style.
 There should not be any delicate knick-knacks near the fly because these might get damaged by an errant shot.
, Make sure you achieve sufficient tension to shoot well past your target, but not so much as to risk breaking the rubber band (especially if you don't have a back-up weapon at hand).
 The most common cause for an errant shot is that the rubber band deflects off a part of your body. Make sure you have a clear shot.
, Zingo. The fly never saw it coming, never will. The rubber band goes too fast for any fly (unless you have encountered the Super Fly reincarnation from the '70s).
 Put it in your pocket if you have "gotten your fly." If not, track the critter and take a second shot and a third and a... Well by that time, you should be getting the hang of shooting a rubber band. If not, put in a request for a wikiHow article titled "How to Shoot a Rubber Band with Fly Killing Accuracy", wait for it to be published, then go into rubber band training or to rubber band boot camp (whichever the article suggests).
 Sometimes body parts are splattered on the window, wall or other backdrop. Spray the remnants with household cleaner and buff to a polish with a paper towel.



The carcass should go to the sanitary landfill (You know flies are unsanitary, right?) via special transport vehicle (the garbage truck).
Alternatively, just compost the carcass. Then the brothers and sisters can visit the burial ground more easily. (They are likely to be in the compost area anyway.)

,,