 Showering is a wonderful way to reset, interrupt anxiety, and reduce stress. Particularly if you’ve been stuck in a slump, just hopping in the shower is an excellent way to practice self-care and give your self-esteem a boost. Furthermore, the physical sensations of showering (hot water, happy smells, self-touch) are excellent for relieving stress., “Legs up the wall pose” or “viparita karani” is a wonderful yoga pose for reducing stress. This posture improves circulation to your head and upper body. It also provides rest for your central nervous system.Sit down on the floor and scoot your bottom as close as possible to the wall.
Relax your upper body to the floor.
Bring your legs up in the air to rest against the wall.
Stay here for ten minutes.
 Dancing is excellent for relieving stress in two ways: it exposes you to upbeat music and it provides all the benefits of exercise.You can achieve these benefits in just a few minutes. Anytime you begin to feel stressed, get up and dance for the length of one song. You can even schedule these mini-dance breaks into your workday to provide a regular release.
 Any form of aerobic exercise has been shown to calm nerves and improve moods. Walking can be a quick and simple way to receive these benefits. One study shows that a brisk 30 minute walk can be as effective as taking a tranquilizer.But even a 5 or 10 minute stroll can do wonders for relieving stress.


Any time you feel stressed out, go for a quick walk.
Work your way up to walking for 30 minutes at a time.
Do this a few times a week (or even every day) to minimize stress and feel good.
 Massage has been proven to relieve stress and promote well being. But you don’t need to visit a professional! You can get these same benefits by massaging yourself.Start with an easy massage for your eyes. (This is perfect if you have been staring at a computer.)


Close your eyes.
Place your thumbs under your eyebrows.
Apply pressure and move your thumbs in tiny circles, moving towards the outsides of your brows.
Continue this movement around your eyes.

