 You need to start this yoga position in the basic triangle pose. To do the triangle pose, start off by stretching your legs 3 and a half to 4 feet apart.








Raise your arms. Hold them parallel to the floor. Reach with your arms to either side, allowing your shoulder blades and back to stretch.
Keep your shoulder blades wide and your palms down as you continue to reach with your arms.;
, Bend your right foot outward at a 90 degree angle. At the same time, bend your left foot in slightly to the right. Align your left and right heel.








As you do this, tighten both your thighs.
Turn your right thigh outward. You want the center of your kneecap to line up with your right ankle. Keep your thighs tight throughout this process.
 Start with the torso. Move your torso directly over your right leg. You want to bend from the hip joint and not from the leg.








You want to make sure you stay standing strong. You can anchor your movement by strengthening your left leg and pressing your heel into the floor.
Now, rotate your torso to the left. Move your left hip forward slightly. Move your tailbone toward your back heel.
 Rest your hand on whichever place is most comfortable. This will depend on your level of flexibility.








At the same time, move your left arm towards the ceiling. Keep it in line with your shoulders.
Turn your head to the left. Look at your left thumb.
 Hold the pose for shorter if you start to feel strained. Do not hold it for longer than a minute. Inhale as you begin your transition to half-moon pose., Once you are in the extended triangle pose, you can begin the transition to half-moon pose. Start small with a few tiny shifts. Place your left hand on your left hip. Look at the floor as you do so.








Bend your right knee. Move your left foot about 6 to 12 inches closer to your right foot.
Reach down to the floor with your left hand. Place only your fingertips on the floor, just in front of your right foot.
 Use your right hand and foot for support. As you lift up your left leg, straighten your right leg. Keep moving until your left leg is at least parallel to the floor. If you feel comfortable, continue to move your left leg from here, until it is higher than your hips.








As you lift your leg, reach outward with your left heel.
Make sure to keep your right leg and knee cap pointing towards your head.
 You want to point your fingertips towards the sky. As you do so, open your torso slightly to the left. If you're able to do so while maintaining your balance, look at your left thumb., Do not hold the pose longer than is comfortable for you. You may only be able to hold it for 30 seconds. If you feel any strain or dizziness, you should come down from the pose.To exit the pose, exhale as you lower your left leg.
Transition back into extended triangle pose. Make sure to exhale as you lift your torso when transitioning back into extended triangle.
 This is especially important for injuries to the legs, hips, shoulders, or back. You should see a doctor to address injuries. Do not try to treat them through yoga., If you knee starts to wobble, you'll lose your balance. Be aware of your right knee as you move through the pose. Strive to keep it sturdy the entire time. Do not let it bend inward. This will help you better maintain your balance., You should not bend from your hips. This will cause you to wobble and lose balance. Instead, always bend from your belly or torso. This will give you better control over your movements.