 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large pot. Heat the oil over medium heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Be sure to use a pot that holds at least 5 quarts (4.7 l).
 Add half an onion that’s been finely chopped to the hot oil. Cook the onion over medium until it’s soft and browned, which should take 7 to 10 minutes.Stir the onion often as it cooks to keep it from burning.
 Add 4 cloves of minced garlic to the pot. Let the mixture cook for another 1 to 2 minutes, or until the garlic becomes fragrant.As with the onion, stir the mixture well as it heats to keep the garlic from burning.
 Mix 3 28-ounce (794 g) cans of crushed tomatoes, 4 tablespoons (6 g) of dried basil, 1 ½ teaspoons (3 g) of black pepper, and 1 tablespoon (13 g) of sugar into the pot. Stir the mixture well to combine all of the ingredients., When the ingredients are combined, raise the heat to medium-high. Let the mixture come to a low boil, which should take approximately 5 minutes.Stir the sauce often as you wait for it to boil so it doesn’t stick to the pot.
 Once the sauce has come to a low boil, reduce the heat to low. Let it simmer for 2 to 3 hours so the flavors can deepen and meld.For the first hour or hour and a half of simmering, leave the pot uncovered. For the second half of simmering, cover it.
Remember to stir the sauce regularly as it’s simmering to blend the flavors and keep it from sticking to the pot.
 When the sauce is finished simmering, mix in ⅓ cup (35 g) of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir well so it’s fully incorporated, and allow the sauce to simmer for another 5 minutes.You can substitute Asiago, Parmigiano Reggiano, or Pecorino-Romano for the Parmesan cheese.
 After you’ve cooked the cheese into the sauce, remove it from the heat. Ladle the sauce over the cooked pasta of your choice, and toss the two together so the sauce coats all of the noodles.The sauce makes enough to serve 8 to 10 people, so you may want to freeze any leftovers for future use. Allow it to cool and place it in the plastic freezer bags for storage. Use it within 4 months.

