 Telling your doctor about your symptoms is an important part of your office visit. Symptoms help your doctor make a correct and more informed diagnosis. You should prepare to tell your doctor about any and all of your symptoms.Be as specific as possible when giving your doctor your symptoms. Be truthful and don’t exaggerate or downplay the symptoms. Making symptoms worse or better than what they actually are may affect your diagnosis.
Try to tell your doctor when the symptoms started. Also include any triggers that caused the symptoms or anything that seems to relieve the symptoms.
Include any information about how the symptoms made you feel. Include lifestyle changes you made due to the symptoms.
Make sure to include any symptoms you may feel are not important.For example, you may say, “I am feeling tired a lot, even after a full night’s rest,” or, “I have pain in my legs after walking for a few minutes.”;
, Doctors don’t need to know just about your physical health. They also need to know symptoms associated with your mental state. Don’t be embarrassed about your feelings or trivialize them. Instead, share them with your doctor.Let your doctor know if you have been feeling depressed, anxious, or stressed out. Depression is a symptom for many medical conditions, and your doctor needs to know if you feel down or different.
Mental health is just as important as physical health, and the majority of people with mental health issues don’t get proper treatment. Make sure to discuss with your doctor any concerns you have.
There is a stigma attached to mental health issues, and you may be afraid to talk about symptoms you may have. You may be afraid of seeming crazy, or weak, or feel like you should be able to just deal with your issues on your own. Don't let these thoughts stop you from getting proper treatment. Mental health is essential to overall health, and you may even find that physical symptoms, such as fatigue or unexplained pains, are actually related to a mental health condition, like depression.
 Some conditions are genetic and you may have a higher risk for certain conditions if someone in your family has a history with similar conditions. Sharing this information with your doctor can let her know about specific diseases and conditions she should watch and screen you for. Find out your family’s health history so you can share with your doctor.Look to your parents, grandparents, great grandparents, and siblings. You may also want to look at blood-related aunts and uncles.
Families share more than just genetics — environment, lifestyle choices, habits, and diet are often identical or similar among family members. These are important factors in determining your risk for certain diseases as well.
Pay attention to history of cancer, heart disease, stroke, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and depression. If your family has any other genetic diseases, make sure to make note of them to share with your doctor.
If you were adopted, the agency may have medical information on your birth relatives.
 Many people lie to their doctors because they are embarrassed. They also are afraid they will be judged. You shouldn’t feel embarrassed or worry about judgement with your doctor. The number one goal of you and your doctor is to accurately diagnose you so you can get proper treatment.Being honest with provider regarding habits, lifestyle choices and risk factors can only result in appropriate and timely diagnosis and treatment. Lying to your health care provider can delay timely and appropriate care.


Remember that doctors are professionals. None of your problems are things they haven’t seen before or haven’t studied. Don’t be afraid to share symptoms like bowel issues, sexual problems, or even mental problems, even if they feel embarrassing to you.Remember that everything you share with your doctor is private. Doctors will not gossip about you and your condition to other doctors or medical staff. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, is a law that ensures each patient the privacy and protection of her individual health information.
 Doctors can miss things when they do exams, especially if they are not looking for something. If you find a spot, growth, lump, or other new mark on your body, let your doctor know even if it doesn’t look serious.Skin cancer, cysts, and other diseases can be detected from newly formed or abnormal growths. Identifying changing lumps, spots, growths can help alert providers to evolving potential concerns.
Don’t forget to check your genitals for growths, moles, lumps, or other new spots that weren’t there before.
 When you come to the doctor’s office, prepare a list of questions. This helps you understand what health problems you may have. Being honest when you don’t understand something is important.Your doctor should be providing you with clear explanations of your health, your conditions, and your test results. If you don’t understand what your doctor is saying, ask questions. Don’t just say you understand. That may cause problems.
For example, you can ask, “I don’t understand what that test result means,” or, “I’m not sure why that is the treatment for my condition.”

