 While dorm rooms usually aren’t very large, there are ways to arrange the furniture so you and your roommates each have some privacy. If you’re sharing the room with only one roommate, you can each take a side of the room to set up your space. If you’re sharing the room with three or four roommates, you can each take a corner of the room for your furniture.In a two person dorm room, you might use the room’s furniture to divide the space. Place the dressers, closets, or bookcases side by side in the center of the room, with yours facing your side of the room and your roommate’s facing theirs. That will create a barrier that gives you each a little more privacy.
Check to see if your school will loft your bed for you. By lofting your bed, you can create a space beneath that you can put your desk or create a seating area where you’ll have a little more privacy.
In a two person dorm room, having one person loft their bed and place their desk beneath it, and the other leave their bed on the floor, with their desk overlooking it, allows you to keep different sleeping and studying schedules without disturbing one another.
 When you may want a little more privacy than your dorm room’s layout allows, a folding screen is an ideal solution. You simply place it in front of your side of the room to give yourself some private time. Because it folds up, though, you don’t have to leave it out all the time, so you can still be social with your roommates when you’re in the mood.A folding screen works especially well if you’ve lofted your bed and created a study or sitting area beneath it. Open the screen in front of the area, and it’s almost as if you have your own private room.
You can find folding screens or room dividers at stores such as Target or Walmart. If you’re on a budget, you can even make your own with old shutters and hinges., Fabric can also work well as a room divider when you want privacy from your roommate(s). Most colleges won’t allow you to screw or bolt curtain rods and cables into the ceiling, though, so you should opt for a lightweight material for the curtains, such as cotton voile, organdy, or cotton gauze, that you can attach to the ceiling with easy to remove push pins.You can hang the fabric panels in the center of the room to completely divide the room, or just in certain areas, such as in front of the area under your lofted bed.
If you want to be able to open and close the fabric divider, use curtain tiebacks to gather the panels back when you open up the room.

