 Most dog leads are about eight feet (2.4 meters) long, so cut your rope to that length. Use nylon rope ½ inch (one centimeter) thick., Separate about five inches (12 centimeters) of the strands at one end of the rope, lengthwise. You should have three separate strands. Wrap a piece of masking tape tightly around the end of each strand to prevent further fraying., Fold the unraveled end up about five or six inches (12 to 15 centimeters). Jam a fid through the rope at this about this five or six-inch point. A fid is a kind of stake-like implement used when working with rope. If you imagine the rope as a “J” at this point, with the frayed/cut end curved back up toward the rest of the rope, you should place the fid inside the rope at a point directly across from the lower tip of the “J”.Pushing the fid through the rope will open a gap between the rope and one of its strands.
 Lie the rope on its side so that it stretches from left to right before you. Slip one of the ends you cut through the loop created by the fid. Pull and twist it through to tighten., Remove the fid, then rotate the rope slightly. Shove the fid between the strand of rope located next to the first one you threaded and the strand directly below it. Slip another of the ends you cut through the loop created by the fid. Pull and twist it through to tighten., Remove the fid, then rotate the rope slightly. Shove the fid between the strand of rope located next to the second one you threaded and the strand directly below it. Pass the final strand through the opening you made with the fid., Repeat the splicing pattern three or four more times, gradually moving up the rope (and away from the end of the rope you cut). If you want a larger handle on your lead, weave the unraveled end into the main portion of the rope at a higher point along its length. If you want a smaller handle, weave the unraveled end into the main portion of the rope at a point that is further from the opposite end., Lay the opposite end of the rope on a flat surface and curl about three inches (eight centimeters) of it around toward the opposite end. Slip a small clasp of the sort used to attach leads to dog harnesses over the short end and position it at the low end of the curve in the rope. , Position the rope in such a way that the shorter end curves up and away from you in a “J” shape. Set two rope clamps beneath the end of the rope to which you’ve attached the harness clasp. The clamps should encompass both the shorter end of the rope (the one curving backwards toward the end you spliced together) and the longer portion of the rope (the right side of the “J”). Place one clamp closer to the clasp, and place the other closer to the loose tip on the short side of the “J”.Carefully hammer the clamps closed by smashing their prongs inward so that they cover the rope.
Give the clasp a tug once you’re done. The rope should not loosen or move if the clamps have been closed properly.
If the rope is not entirely secure within the clamps, hammer them with more force to ensure your dog lead won’t come apart.

