 The best way to treat a sore foot is simple rest and relaxation. This is especially helpful if you believe your sore toe is due to injury or overexertion. Try and stay off your foot for a few days and see if you notice any improvement. Do not engage in strenuous exercise and avoid walking and jogging until your pain passes., Applying ice on a sore toe can help speed up healing time. You can make your own ice pack at home or buy an ice pack at a drug store.


If you buy an ice pack at the store, make sure you do not apply it directly to your skin. An ice pack should always be wrapped in a towel or rag before applying it to an injury.You can also place ice cubes in a plastic bag or use something like a bag of frozen vegetables., Over-the-counter painkillers like acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen can help ease foot pain. Take any over-the-counter meds as directed on the package. Make sure you talk to a doctor or pharmacist if you're on any medication currently or have other medical problems. You want to make sure over-the-counter medication will not negatively interacting with any existing medications., While there is limited scientific evidence as to the benefits of Epsom salt soaks, many people find them soothing for foot pain. You can purchase Epsom salt at many drug stores. Fill a bath or basin with lukewarm water and then add a small handful of salt to the water. Soak your feet for 20 to 30 minutes and see if you notice any improvement., Elevation can help reduce soreness and swelling in sore feet and toes. Try elevating your foot slightly above your heart whenever possible. See if this improves your symptoms., A sore toe usually heels on its own within a few days and is not a cause for medical intervention. However, you should see a doctor if you have the following symptoms:


Severe pain or severe swelling
An open wound
Any signs of an infection, such redness, warmth, tenderness, or a fever over 100 degrees Fahrenheit, or pus coming from a wound or the area that’s sore.
Are unable to walk
Are unable to put any weight on your foot, Toe pain can be caused by a variety of medical conditions. See if you have other symptoms that may point to some common causes of toe pain. An injury such as dropping something on your toe, kicking something with your toe, or stubbing your toe can cause acute toe pain. See your doctor if you have suffered an injury of your toe and have severe pain, swelling, or other severe symptoms.


Gout, a type of arthritis, can be a cause of toe pain. In addition to toe pain, you may notice redness, warmth, and tenderness near your toes.Blisters, corns, and callouses are common foot ailments that can sometimes cause toe pain. You will usually notice fluid-filled sacks, pimple-like marks, and hard, rough areas of yellowish skin. Blisters tend to heal naturally on their own while callouses and corns may require medical removal.Ingrown toenails are a common cause of foot pain. These occur when the sides of your toenails grow into the surrounding skin. The toenails pierce the skin, causing it to become red, swollen, or tender. You may also notice brown discoloration of the toenails., While many causes of toe pain are easily treatable, some conditions can be somewhat serious and difficult to treat. Evaluate whether you're at risk for any serious conditions related to toe pain and see a doctor to rule out such conditions.


Diabetes can cause tenderness in the feet and toes. Other symptoms of diabetes include excessive thirst, frequent urination, frequent hunger, and cuts and bruises that are slow to heel. If you're concerned you may have diabetes, your doctor can diagnosis you with a routine exam and blood test.Arthritis is a chronic condition that causes inflammation of the joints. If you have arthritis, you will probably notice pain throughout your body in addition to your feet. You are more likely to have arthritis if you are a senior. If you're worried about arthritis, talk to your doctor., If your sore foot does not improve with at home treatments, see if your doctor can offer any treatment options based on your condition. Your doctor will perform an examination to determine the cause of your foot pain and recommend treatments from there.


If you have a broken toe, your doctor may use medical tape to secure the bones in place so they can heal. Usually, the injured toe is taped to the uninjured toe allowing that toe to act as a splint. Your doctor may also provide a cast or a stiff bottom shoe to promote heeling. In very rare cases, surgery is used to treat a sore toe.For the most part, over-the-counter medications are ideal for the treatment of a sore toe. However, if your pain does not improve with over-the-counter meds your doctor may recommend prescription medication based on the suspected cause of your condition, your medical history, and your existing medications., A podiatrist is a foot doctor who can give you another opinion about your toe, especially if the pain is lingering and becoming a chronic problem. The podiatrist will examine your foot and toes for trauma and look for any benign growths or tumors. Your regular physician will refer you to a podiatrist if he or she feels it is necessary., High heels and shoes that are too small or tight can cause soreness of the feet and toes. Make sure you select comfortable footwear that fits your feet. If you have a job that requires a lot of walking, opt for comfortable flat shoes over high heels or tight, pinchy dress shoes.
 If you are prone to foot soreness, consider purchasing shoe inserts. You can either ask a doctor for customized shoe inserts or purchase over-the-counter inserts at a local department store. Shoe inserts are flat, gel-like material inserted inside your shoe to help ward off discomfort than can lead to soreness down the road.
 As ingrown toenails can cause toe soreness, make sure you trim your toenails properly. Always cut your toenails flat across and avoid cutting into corners. This can cause ingrown toenails.

