 Play the scale up and down. Don't try to play it fast-- You will improve much more quickly by playing it very slowly for 20 minutes than by trying to play it as fast as you can for hours. Make sure you play it cleanly without any dead notes or screw ups and listen to each note in correlation to the others. When you're sure you have the whole scale down:


Play new patterns. Run three notes down the scale, back up two, down three, etc. Skip every 4th note. Play notes 1-2-3, then 2-3-4, then 3-4-5, etc. in rapid succession. These little tricks will speed your hands up and keep you from always playing simply up and down.
 If you replaced all the words in a song with notes, you'd basically see that good singers are "soloing" all the time. However, since singers must move more slowly than a guitarist, they are more concerned with making each note count. They can't simply run through a scale -- they have to make the whole line or verse coherent, intertwined, and smooth. You should be doing the same thing in a good guitar solo, no matter what speed you go. While composing, think about:


What are the important notes, and how can you emphasize them with vibrato or bends?
How do you get from one note or chord to another smoothly and melodically?
What is the overall feel of the song? How does your solo fit into that feel?, Solos aren't just a random assortment of notes in a scale, but rather they are composed of a quick, precise, and melodic succession of scalar intervals. Try listening to some solos, singing them back and working them out on the guitar and see how they work play the chords underneath.


The best guitarists in the world all spent years memorizing other people's solos, taking little licks and learning structure firsthand. Duane Allman, for example, famously operated his record player with his toe, moving the needle to rehear solos over and over while he tried to learn them on the guitar.There are guides and videos online to "Learn to play like _____." These are great ways to learn new scales and note combinations for your own solos.
 If you have a specific vision in mind, sing it out and record the "solo" in your phone or computer. Then grab your guitar and work on transcribing the song onto the fretboard., You can learn guitar techniques like sustained bends, pinched harmonics, vibrato, sweeping palm muting, etc. to give a unique sound to your lead playing. Not every solo needs an advanced technique, but having a bigger bag of tricks will lead to better, more diverse solos every time.
 Modes are variations on common scales, each with distinctive notes and flavors. Learning modes is a great way to tailor your songs to the genre or mood of the song you're soloing over, and they don't vary wildly from the pentatonic scale. However, the modes change depending on your key. Because there is too much variation to list here, the best way to choose a mode is by knowing music theory, or searching online for modes in the key of your song. There are many online generators that let you type in the key and the mode you want, then show you the scale you need.



Ionian - The basic major scale sound, it is often considered "happy" or "triumphant."

Dorian - Your all-in-one blues, rock, and metal scale, common for minor keys.

Phrygian - The exotic mode. Sounds a bit middle-eastern/Egyptian.

Lydian - Common in Steve Vai songs, this creates a dreamy atmosphere.

Mixolydian - Old school blues/jazz based, and common with acoustics.

Aeolian - Straight minor, often considered "sad" or "depressing. Used in classical music a lot.

Locrian - Super "evil" and dark sounding, and common in heavy metal.