 People with ADHD are often easily distracted, and are prone to forgetfulness and procrastination. It's possible to overcome these roadblocks to decluttering if you make — and follow — a schedule for your errands and chores. Use a day planner, wall calendar, post-its, reminders on your phone — whatever works best for you. Pick a date and a time to drop off your dry cleaning, and write it down. Schedule things like yard work, laundry, paying bills, or anything else that tends to pile up or contribute to clutter., Schedule three hours to tackle all of the disorder in your home on a monthly basis. Given the challenges of distraction with ADHD, it is important to actually set aside the time to take control of the clutter in your life. Once you begin doing the monthly straightening out, you may pay more attention to organizing on a daily basis so that the monthly declutter is easier.You may want to choose an evening when you are alone. After organizing, you may feel more able to invite people into your space.If you feel overwhelmed by the clutter as a result of your ADHD, consider asking a close friend or family member for help.If you find it too hard during the week, you may want to choose a weekend afternoon.
If the mood to declutter strikes before your scheduled organization time, that's fine! If you feel driven to declutter, get down to it.
 Always do chores if they take less than a minute. Instead of leaving the dishes from your lunch meal for later in the day, just do them right away. Anything that takes less than a minute should be done right away.If there is a pile of coats that need to be placed on a hanger, just do it right away instead of leaving it for later.
 At the end of your day, walk around your house and look for things to clean up. When you see an article of clothing or a book that is out of place, put it away. Clean up as much as you can in five minutes. If you feel you are easily distracted as a result of your ADHD, spending just five minutes on organization can be a good way to go.