 Visit the StumbleUpon website at www.stumbleupon.com/ and sign into your account with your username and password. If you do not have a StumbleUpon account, click on "Join for Free" and follow the prompts to create an account.;
, From your profile, click on the Stumblers tab and click on the "Invite Friends" button on the right side. The next screen will allow you to type in your friends' email addresses, as well as an optional message inviting them to StumbleUpon. Click on the "Send Now" button to invite your friends.
 From your profile, click on the Stumblers tab and click on the "Invite Friends" button on the right side. Underneath the "Post an invite to" section, click on the Facebook link. A pop-up window will appear that will allow you to post the StumbleUpon link to your wall so your Facebook friends can read it. Click on Publish.
 From your profile, click on the Stumblers tab, then click on the "Invite Friends" button on the right side. Underneath the "Post an invite to" section, click on the Twitter link. A pop-up window will appear that will allow you to post the StumbleUpon link into your Twitter feed. Click on "Tweet" to publish your post.
 From your profile, click on the Stumblers tab and click on the "Visitors" link. Click on the green "Meet a stumbler" box to begin browsing and "stumbling" through other member's profiles. On the right, click on the green "Follow" button to add them as friends. Below the "Follow" button, click on the "Meet another stumbler" link to continue looking for friends.
 When you stumble upon a website you like, click on the "Info" button on the StumbleUpon toolbar. This will display a page with reviews written by other Stumblers and a list of all the Stumblers who also liked this page. You may click on the "Follow" button after viewing their profiles to add them as friends.
 From your profile, click on the Stumblers tab and look for the "Search for a stumbler" search box on the right. This feature will only work if you already know the username of the Stumbler.
 From your profile, click on the Discover tab and choose one of your favorite topics on the right by clicking on that topic. The next page will show a list of Stumblers who also share interest in that topic. Click on a Stumbler's profile and click on the "Follow" button on the right.

