 Practice this in the mirror: furl your eyebrows into a scrunched up scowl, as if you were concentrating really hard. Turn your nose up like something smells terrible. And frown. Turn your smile upside down, like you had two fishhooks hanging from the corners of your mouth. Beautiful. Make this face at all times.
 Bad kids never look anyone in the eye. That communicates that you're willing to talk and you're interesting in them as a person. A bad kid is never interested. Look over people, as if you're bored by what they're saying, or focus on the floor. Look anywhere but in another person's eyes.


Alternatively, if someone challenges you–another bad kid, or an unsuspecting goodie-goodie–then you've got to stare them down. Lock eyes and channel your death rays. Be an alpha.
 A bad kid should look totally unapproachable. That means crossed legs, crossed arms, slouching, and a drooping head. Look as if it's physically painful to sit up straight. If you have to sit next to someone, sit as far away as possible from them, as if the idea of physical contact would make you nauseated.
 No matter how bad you are, eventually–somehow, someday–you're probably going to crack a smile or two. Something will be funny, especially the misfortune of others. But when someone slips and falls on the ice, or you learn about a terrible school bus accident, you can't smile like a doofus: ya gotta smirk. Learn to smirk instead of smiling.


Try this: imagine you've got a fishhook through one corner of your mouth, and someone's pulling it up. Now squint your eyes and nod slowly, as if you're totally satisfied with what you're seeing, but can't be bothered to really care about it one way or another. Perfect.
 Bad kids make friends with the color black, especially if it's black leather. Learn to start dressing like a bad kid and giving yourself a nasty reputation instantly.


For boys, black metal band t-shirts, leather jackets, and combat boots are a quick way to look bad. You could always rock some camo pants if you want to get a commando thing going. It should always be dark and severe. For more of a corporate look, wear a tight-fitting suit and constantly talk about how expensive it is. Don't let anyone touch it.
For girls, styling your hair in a-symmetrical fashions and using severe make-up is a good way to stand out as a rule-breaker. Bright red lipstick, dark eye make-up, and chunky Doc Martens under a baby-doll dress. Put some safety pins in your jacket and you're ready for the punk show.
 No bad kid can complete the image without some ink and some metal. If you're of the right age, or can get parental permission (or better yet, an older brother who'll sign for you), you can get a tattoo to make your badness permanent.


Good tattoos for bad kids: skulls, panthers, anything sharp and barbed-wire-like. Sailor Jerry tattoos are popular, as well as Japanese-style ink. Any combination of the above is also acceptable.
Good piercings are typically facial piercing. Eyebrow, nose, or lip are common bad-kid piercings. Instantly iconic and recognizable. If you've got your ears pierced, add a second for increased danger cred. If anyone asks, it didn't hurt.

