 Much of the stigma associated with type 2 diabetes is associated with a lack of knowledge about the disease. You should never feel as though it is your responsibility to educate others. That said, informing someone that their assumptions about the disease are not accurate may cause them to treat you and others with the diseases differently.There are a few go-to phrases you can rely on to combat common misconceptions.
For instance, say something like, "While lifestyle factors are important, type 2 diabetes is not always caused by an unhealthy diet or a lack of exercise. These are two common misconceptions about type 2 diabetes."
Alternatively, ask others what they know about type 2 diabetes when they bring it up, then politely clarify any misunderstandings they convey.;
, Some people are tempted to check their blood glucose levels and administer insulin injections discreetly because they don’t want others to know that they’re diabetic. Remind yourself that you are not obligated to do so. The more comfortable you are with others’ knowing that you’re diabetic, the easier it will be able to talk about it when it comes up.Checking or adjusting your monitor, for instance, can lead to conversation about your disease, and the opportunity to educate another person about diabetes.
Letting others know about your diabetes is not only helpful for them, it could be life-saving for you. The more people that know you are diabetic, the faster they can respond if an emergency arises.
 If you notice someone staring at your monitor or watching what you’re doing, offer to tell them what you’re up to. Demystifying the disease helps contribute to improved knowledge, and less stigma. Further, some people may be uncomfortable if they see you give yourself an insulin injection and assuming you’re using a recreational drug.For instance, say something like, “Ever seen one of these before? I need to use it because I have diabetes. What do you know about diabetes?”

, One major contributor to the stigma associated with type 2 diabetes is misrepresentation in the media. For instance, some of the common misunderstandings about the disease are often reiterated in media sources that many people consume.


An example is the implication that type 2 diabetes can be avoided with changes in diet and more frequent exercise. This is not always the case.
Write to a newspaper or TV network and point out anything they may have misrepresented by saying something like, “I wanted to write to discuss your portrayal of people with type 2 diabetes. Everyone you featured in your segment was significantly overweight, which contributes to the idea that this is a “lifestyle disease.” While it’s true that lifestyle factors can affect someone’s risk of getting the disease, sometimes otherwise healthy people develop the disease as well.”

