 Customers love a good deal, and you may be able to build customer loyalty by offering gift cards, reward cards, coupons, frequent-shopper points, or discounts for referrals. All of these will give your customers incentive to continue patronizing your business. Consider offering incentives especially during slower seasons or to promote a new product or service.
 It's important that your customers (and potential customers) know about your incentives and rewards. Include them in your advertising strategy and budget. For example, if you want to start a rewards program at your bakery, advertise it on your website, display fliers explaining the program in easy-to-see places in the store, and have your employees remind patrons about the program.
 The point of an incentives program is to encourage customers to conduct repeat business with you and to attract new customers as well. If your program is complicated or has lots of restrictions, you won't see the results you were hoping for.


Customers will be less likely to use your incentives program if they have to fill out long forms or give out too much personal information.
You'll probably have better luck with the rewards program at your bakery, for example, if you just pass out cards that customers can keep in their wallets.
 Some business experts recommend using “artificial advancement,” which lets the customer feel s/he is making real progress in earning benefits.


For example, you can have a “buy eight pastries, get one free” card at your bakery. Then, instead of printing cards with eight places for stamps, print cards with ten spaces, and have the first two already stamped. If you do this, it's more likely that customers will participate in and complete the program, which means that you will sell more pastries! , Customers seem to prefer and participate more often in rewards programs that feature multiple levels. They seem to like it if there are levels "below" them.


For example, they like finding themselves on the "gold" or "platinum" level where they might envision better rewards. 