 The LGBT+ community is very diverse, and people who share a sexuality or gender identity could be very different from each other. Watch out for stereotypes, because these can undermine your ability to write a three-dimensional character. Here are some common tropes:Feminine gay man, gay man who only serves to be a girl's sidekick
Masculine lesbian
Promiscuous, sly bisexual/confused bisexual
Frigid or evil asexual
Transgender person who is deceptive or a freak

, Liking men does not make one feminine, and liking women does not make one masculine. Fiction is filled with gay men who love shopping and detest football, and tough lesbians who play rough sports. Recognize the stereotypes and work on making your character original.


Of course, there are some feminine gay men and some masculine lesbians. If you are writing one of these characters, make sure that you are giving them plenty of unique and multilayered traits too, so that they are more than a caricature.
 Some terms have been used in degrading and dehumanizing ways, and can be very hurtful and alienating to LGBT readers.It can also suggest to readers who aren't in the know that it is okay to use these words to describe someone else. Use compassion when selecting words, and be aware of how this affects the message you send to your readers.


Always have the narrative refer to a transgender person as their correct gender (the gender that they want to be referred to as), even if others are misgendering the character.
If you have a character who uses these words, make it clear in the narrative that this character is being hurtful. For example, if somebody calls Laquisha a "d*ke," show how this upsets her, and/or have someone stand up for her.
 Some writers use LGBT+ characters as one-dimensional plot devices, used to further the development of straight and cis characters.


This doesn't mean your LGBT+ character shouldn't teach other characters anything, simply that there should be more to them than only this.
 There is no need to fixate on sex (unless you are writing erotica), nor do you need to avoid showing the characters doing anything more than holding hands.If all the mixed-gender couples are kissing when the bell tolls for New Year's, let the same-gender couple kiss too. They can have the same romantic opportunities.
 Killing gay, bisexual, transgender, etc. characters is an old plot line often meant to show that the character is "too good for this sinful earth" and other characters should have treated them better. However, this pattern can send an unfortunate message to LGBT+ teens: that suicide is the most common and sensible option.


If your story absolutely requires killing an LGBT character, make sure that there are other LGBT characters who survive and have bright futures ahead of them.
 Tell readers that Lana is bisexual, not just confused, and Richard is asexual, not broken. Labeling their identity can help readers who share the identity feel validated, and help readers who don't have that identity learn and empathize more. You may even have a reader or two who realizes they have that identity thanks to your story.

