 Baby naming books are easy to find in the library, and there are a number of online naming lists and websites. If you have a specific category you want your baby name to come from, such as nature-inspired names, classic boy names, gender-neutral names, or Southern names for girls, be sure to enter that as online search terms.


When looking through lists of names, try not to get overwhelmed by the number of choices. Just read and search until one jumps out at you and seems to stick.
 Some countries, like Iceland, only allow babies to be given nationally approved names. To narrow down your search, consider choosing an ethnic name from a pre-approved list, like those for Iceland., Skimming baby or parenting magazines, watching entertainment news on TV, and even listening to popular songs on the radio that are specific to your personal preferences might offer inspiration on the latest and greatest names.


Beware of name fads that quickly fizzle out in terms of popularity. For example, timeless names, like “Charlotte” and “Poppy” are becoming wildly popular again, but so are very modern names, like “Meadow” and “Story.”
Although “Meadow” and “Story” are cute names now, make sure that you and your partner will still find them attractive when their popularity dies out and newer naming trends take their place., This strategy definitely isn’t for everyone, but some parents desire public input. At the baby shower, guests can submit names of their choosing for your review or you can host a poll on social media, where your friends vote on your top five favorite names.


You aren’t obligated to ultimately choose the name that gets the popular vote, but be sure not to make any promises ahead of time.
You don't want those who vote to participate with expectations and then have their feelings hurt if you make an alternative choice, so be sure to let your voters know the poll is just for fun.
 Sometimes nicknames can inspire full-length baby names. If you’ve always dreamed of calling your baby by a fun or informal name that isn’t necessarily appropriate as a full-length name, you can work backwards to find one!


For example, if “Sunny” or “AJ” are nicknames you adore, “Sonora” or “Amelia Josephine” could serve as formal, full-length names that the baby can switch to when she is older.

