 There are lots of possible ways to run the "cooking" part of a cooking club, and it's something that you'll need to discuss together and reach a consensus on. Nothing is set in stone and no exact way is right over any other. Some suggestions include:



Theme cooking: Choose a theme that you are all interested in learning more about, such as national country-specific cooking (French, Greek, Chinese, etc.); party cooking; baking; candy-making, etc.







Try-something-new cooking: Have club members come with a dish from a cuisine they've never attempted before.







Cooking together: Instead of bringing a dish, bring a recipe and have everyone pitch in together to make the recipes for a whole meal.







Freezer-friendly cook-up: You get to cook one meal in enough quantities for, say 4 club members, share this meal with the others and keep their additional meals to place in your freezer for the upcoming month! For those who like the idea of freeze-ahead meals but lack the motivation, a club can help get you right into this time-saving measure.







Budget cooking: A cooking club can be a fantastic way to pool resources to pay for more expensive food items.







Making preserves: Preserves (jams, jellies, chutneys, vinegar- and oil-preserved food, etc.) are wonderful to have in the pantry but finding the motivation and adequate knowledge to make them alone can feel daunting. As part of a club, you can share lots of ideas, have many helping hands and each of you take home a jar or more after each club session!







Deconstructed store food: For those lacking in time, hold sessions where you're perfectly allowed to build on bought food and try to improve on it, rather than cooking from scratch. Even if this isn't your usual theme, this can be a good one for busier times (such as holiday season) or when lots of members are away (summer vacation time).







Parents/carers and kids cook-up: Teach your kids how to cook in a group situation––this can be great for sharing ideas around and keeping your patience intact while the mess gets cleaned up by everyone involved!







Book club-meets-cooking club: An occasional read of a book about food––chef's, restaurateur's and foodie travelers' experiences, etc. all qualify for good food reads; some cookbooks might be okay if they contain enough interest beyond a mere assembly of recipes. Have a chat about how you found the book, then head off to cook something inspired by the reading!







, While you’ll need to have one person who organizes things a bit, the fun of a cooking club is sharing the labor. The location for meetings rotates as group members take turns hosting the monthly dinners.


One possible approach: The host makes the main course, others bring appetizers, side dishes, desserts, and so on.
Another approach: The host decides on the month's theme and allocates recipes or rosters specific members onto different aspects of the meal if cooking it together.
A random approach: Don't ask, just turn up with a dish. If this means everyone turns up with snacks or dessert, that's dinner for the night!
A cleaning roster is probably helpful too––don't make it so that the host is left with all the cleaning up afterward! You might like to consider eco-friendly disposable plates and utensils, to lessen the cleaning burden.

