 Aim for something that is about 3 inches (7.62 centimeters). Remember, the image will shrink down to ½ to 2/3 of its original size by the time you are done.You can use any sort of image you like, but simple, outlines (like those from a coloring book) might be easier to work with.


If the image is on your computer, you will need to print it out onto regular printer paper.
You can resize the image using an image editing program or a photocopier.
 Use a fine grit sandpaper, and lightly buff the surface of the shrink film. This will help the paint stick better. It is not necessary for colored pencils or markers.
 Try to go over the lines as smoothly as you can. If the shrink plastic moves around too much, you can tape it down to the table.


If you can't find shrink film, you can use any type of number 6 plastic. It is usually found on take-out containers. Look for the recycling symbol on the container. There should be a number inside of it. If it is a 6, you can use it.
 Try to stick within the lines as much as possible. If you go over the lines, don't worry; you will be re-outlining the piece again. If you are using acrylic paints, be sure to thin them down first using a little bit of water. This will give you a smoother finish. It will also prevent the paint from clumping up after you back it., If you colored your design using markers or paint, wait for everything to dry first, or it will smear.
 You can use a pair of scissors or a craft knife to do this. Make sure that you cut right along the outline; try not to leave any white edges.
 If your package does not have any instructions, bake the shapes at 350°F (176.6°C) in a pre-heated oven until the pieces lay flat. This can take anywhere between 5 minutes and 35 minutes.Don't worry if the pieces start to warp and curl while baking. They will eventually flatten back out.
If you are using number 6 plastic, bake the pieces at 350°F (176.6°C) for about 3½ minutes., If you want, you can bend them while they are still warm to give then an interesting shape.
 You can use a spray-on or brush-on sealer. You can even paint on a few layers of a decoupage glue. Apply 3 to 4 layers; let each layer dry before you add the next one. This will give your pin a nice finish. It will also seal your art work and keep it from chipping., Draw a line of hot glue across the back of the safety pin. Quickly flip the shape over, and press the safety pin onto the back. Try to center it as much as possible.
