 Your backers are invested in your project just as you are. It is important that you are honest with them throughout the process. This means telling them when things are going well and when things are not going quite as you planned. Your backers will be more understanding about delays or changes to the project if you let them know.Do not oversell your project or make promises that you cannot keep just to please your backers. Be realistic, yet optimistic.
If you are honest with your backers, you will develop a good rapport with them and may even get their support on your future projects.
Your backers will also appreciate detail about how you plan to use their money. Transparency builds trust.
 You want your backers to feel a personal connection to you and your product. Avoid formal, professional language and write in a more conversational tone. You can also share any funny stories or personal information that is related to your project.Use personal touches wisely. If you are writing an update or a message, only one or two sentences should be about you.
If you and your backers come from the same profession or background, you can incorporate inside jokes or profession specific lingo to create a bond.
 A backer may express a concern or be disappointed about how your project is progressing. Try not to take it personal and avoid going back and forth with a backer. Politely respond to the backer.Some of the feedback you receive can help you refine your project or have a better understanding of your audience. Think of it as constructive criticism.If other backers see the argument, it can create a larger problem between you and your supporters.
If you find yourself irritated by a question or comment, do not respond immediately. Go for a walk or do something unrelated to your campaign and then revisit the comment.
 Invite your backers to keep in touch with you on other platforms such as YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, blog, or email. Platforms that allow you to use video and audio are especially helpful as these are more powerful than communicating through text alone.Seeing your face and/or hearing your voice can generate excitement in a way that your words do not.


A video gives you the opportunity to show your personality and give a visual presentation if you need to.Each platform has pros and cons. Using a few of these platforms provides a well-rounded approach to interacting with your backers.
Do not bombard people with information at the same time. For example, if you post a video, do not send out an email and a Facebook post the same day.

