 Ensure that the house free of any criticizing siblings that may tease you without reason. When alone, you'll be able to practice hitting those notes. Singing alone will also give you more confidence in your voice, and it will help warm you up to singing in front of other people once you're used to singing.;
, Because you are shy, you are going to want to pick quieter, softer pieces instead of loud ones that require a big and booming voice. Go online and search for your style of music to get a song that is best for you.
 Water will help your voice to sound less scratchy and keeps it smooth. It also keeps your throat hydrated before singing so that you won't have a dry throat in the middle of a song.


Avoid drinking any type of liquids that contain sugar or salt in them. Although you may believe that you're helping your throat keep hydrated when singing, you're actually making your throat scratchy. There is the danger of messing up your voice.
This step also applies for any sugary and/or salty foods (for example, pizza or candy).
 While you may not be interested in these activities, that's okay. A lot of people participate in plays to get more confidence. You don't have to have a big role, you just need to get used to speaking or now, singing, in front of others. Auditioning for a musical would be a great thing to do because you could be in the chorus. Chorus members don't sing alone. You also need to look in the mirror and tell yourself that you are a talented and fine person and that you rock!

, You never have to be solo in a choir unless you want to, so really this would be a great place to start in your case. Go ahead and have fun. Make new friends who also love to sing. You'd be surprised how many shy singers there are in choir.
 It will be just you and a professional, no need to be afraid! Yes, they are expensive, but you can tell your parents that you will work for it. Make it a goal, something you really want. You can after all do anything if you put your mind to it!

, Take the plunge and go ahead and sing within a small group of people. Once you can do this, you will be able to move on to the next stage.
 Once your confidence has reached a certain point in which you are now comfortable and familiar with your singing voice, take a video of you singing your favorite song and post it onto YouTube. This will help get your voice out there, and you'll also be able to review the comments you receive to help improve your voice and build your confidence.


Keep in mind that there are always going to be people you can't please, no matter how good your voice may be. Therefore, ignore the nasty, mean comments that attempt to put you down, for making you feel worthless and horrible is the goal of those bad comments. Instead, focus on the constructive ones that will help improve your voice and build your confidence.
 Letting your family know that you have a good voice can be helpful, and it'll start you off in being heard. Also, your family may be able to give you good advice and help you step by step. Once you've shown your family that you have a good voice, start singing in front of friends and get their opinion. That way, other people can hear your beautiful voice and your popularity may spread.


You don't necessarily have to gather your family and friends around in the living room so that you can perform for them. Simply sing for no reason when you're doing chores around your family members or doing homework with your friends. However, choose the correct opportunities and avoid disturbing needed silence. The moment when your family and friends need to concentrate on work may not be the best time to show off your voice. Use your discernment wisely.
 Congratulations! You've made it to the end of the goal. Now, keep your focus and be confident as you sing for more people. They will love you!

, Stay confident in yourself and your voice, no matter how mean or degrading other people may be towards you. Tell yourself that they're just jealous of your voice. As long as you know you have a good voice, you're all set to becoming a great singer! Remember that confidence is the important key to singing confidently and well. If you don't have confidence in yourself first, you won't be able to continue very far onto the stage. Never stop believing in yourself.

