 The number of calories that you need on a daily basis will vary depending on your age, sex, and activity level. For example, a 20 year old male who exercises regularly will require more daily calories than a 40 year old male who has a sedentary lifestyle.Consider your activity level, age, and sex to determine how many daily calories your need.
Try using an online calculator to determine your calorie needs. You can also ask your doctor or a dietitian.
There are also charts that you can consult for a rough estimate. These charts give an approximate number. For example, a woman between the ages of 31 and 50 who is moderately active needs 2,000 calories according to a chart provided by the University of Rochester Medical Center., The percentage of your daily calories that should come from fat may vary depending on your goals. However, keep in mind that the ideal percentage is between 20% and 35%.If you are trying to lose weight or if your doctor has recommended a low-fat diet, then you may require a lower fat diet, such as 20% or 25% fat calories.
If you are trying to gain weight, then you may require a higher fat diet, such as 30% or 35%.
 To get the number of calories from fat you can consume each day, you will need to multiply your total daily calorie limit by the percentage of fat calories that you can eat every day.Convert your percentage into a decimal for the equation by placing a decimal in front of it before you calculate.


For example, if you want 25% of your calories to come from fat, then you would use the decimal 0.25 in your equation. If you want 30% of your calories to come from fat, then you would use the decimal 0.30 in your equation.
A sample equation might look something like 2,000 X 0.25 = 500. In this example, your total calories from fat would be 500.
 To get the number of fat grams that you can consume every day to stay within your limit, you will need to divide your total calories from fat result by 9. There are 9 calories in every gram of fat, so dividing by this number will give you a fairly accurate result.A sample equation might look like 500 / 9 = 55.5. In this example, your total fat gram limit would be 55.5 grams.

