 While you may have to buy a heat gun to complete this method, it's still more cost effective than buying a $100-$200 vaporizer. A heat gun like this costs around $40 and the rest of the supplies you probably have around your house, or can get at the grocery store for less than 5 bucks. For this method, you'll need:


a heat gun that heats to at least 200 degrees C
paper towel and toilet paper tubes of the same diameter
aluminum foil
an oven bag, also known as a turkey bag
a tea ball
twist ties
a funnel or coffee percolator small enough to nest in the paper towel tube;
, It might help to roll the foil around a pen or a ruler, insert it into the tube, and then unroll the foil when it's on the inside. Leave enough of a lip on the foil (about an inch or so) to wrap around the outside edge of the tube and secure it.


Opinions vary among smokers regarding whether or not heated aluminum foil is actually safe, or whether it gives off harmful vapors of its own. Some studies suggest that aluminum poisoning contributes to Alzheimer's disease, though this method typically won't scorch and melt any aluminum. If you want to vaporize for health reasons, keep this in mind.
 You'll want the funnel to point outward. To make sure it creates a tight seal, you might consider using some duct tape or glue before securing it with foil.
 Fix the open mouth of the oven bag over the nozzle and wrap some twist ties around it securely. Then, fold the edges of the bag up over the ties and secure them again with another tie. Here, you're just creating a folded edge to make sure the bag nestles snugly against the nozzle.


The bag will collect the vapor as you heat it. You can pass the bag around, so it might also be smart to have something to plug the hole in the bag with. Or you can just use your thumb.
 Now you've got a bunch of strange-looking devices covered with tinfoil, but it'll come together very easily. Aiming the heat gun straight up in the air, put the toilet paper tube over the heat nozzle. Put what you want to smoke into the tea ball and rest it on the top of that tube.Next, fix the other paper towel tube over that, with the percolator or funnel pointing up. You might fit them together with some extra foil to make sure they fit together snugly. Fix the bag on top of the funnel, and you're ready to go.
 Switch the heat gun on and watch the bag slowly inflate with vapor. It may be somewhat difficult to see, but you can trust that it'll be there. When the bag fully inflates, switch off the heatgun and inhale any vapor remaining in the long tube (there may be a considerable amount--don't waste it). Take turns inhaling the vapor from the oven bag.

