 One of the best ways you can deal with an overly critical person is to foster your own sense of positivity. Avoid allowing the critical person to make you feel negative. Show him or her how to be a happier, more positive person.If someone is criticizing everything you do, give them the opposite response. This helps show them they cannot drag others into their negativity. If your girlfriend is berating you because she disagrees with your political beliefs, respond with something like, "Isn't it wonderful we live in a country where we're all entitled to our opinion?"Try to avoid placating a negative person. Many negative people thrive on complaining and may continually go on about their problems. They may refuse to listen to any potential solutions. In cases like this, cut the critical person off. You are not helping them by allowing them to complain endlessly. Say something like, "I'm not sure what to tell you, but I'm sure you'll find the solution." Then, offer a smile and back out of the conversation., It's very important you take responsibility for your own happiness. Even if you're living with a negative person, you need to make an effort to enjoy your life. Work on consciously staying happy despite your circumstances.Adopt a more positive attitude about life. This can be difficult, especially if you're met with an onslaught of negativity. However, people are generally happier when they accept their circumstances, good or bad. Try to think to yourself, "It's difficult to live with this person, but that's life. I'm still me and I can still enjoy myself."Take time away if you need it. Spend a few hours each day outside the house. Go out with friends on your own on a Saturday night. Surround yourself with positive, happy moments and people. This can help you maintain a level of happiness even while living with an overly critical person., If the criticism is extreme, you may have to question if the relationship is really worth it. This is especially true if this is a romantic relationship. It's hard to feel positive and happy with your partner when each day comes with an onslaught of criticism. If there's no change after you've made an effort to talk things through and compromise, it may be time to move on. Evaluate the relationship and consider whether or not it's important enough to salvage.