 Meeting people is helped by appearing open and willing to be approached. This includes using open body language, smiling and presenting a broadly positive demeanor.


As well as good grooming, your body language has a big impact on whether or not someone feels able to approach you. Moreover, the tone, speed and volume of your voice has an impact too.
Look and act confident. Self-doubt is noticeable by other people; prepare yourself mentally to be confident and fake it if need be!
Stay positive––nobody wants to hear a litany of woes the first time they meet you. Even if life is treating you unkindly at the moment, don't pass this on to her when you first meet.
 She may be stunning, but she won't stay near you if all you can do is stare at her breasts. Focus on her as a person; take in her face and truly listen to what she is saying. Maintain good eye contact without staring her out.


Remember her name. Use her name when talking to her--she'll feel subconsciously more at ease with you.
Value the place of small talk. It may be tiny, but it's a safe approach for getting to know one another better. Moreover, it's not what you say at this stage but how you say it: with warmth, friendliness and interest.
 Everyone is nervous when meeting someone new and wanting more than just a mere handshake from them. But it's important to settle your anxiety as much as possible by reminding yourself that you're worthy.


Avoid seeing the meeting as an audition. This causes you to put yourself on show and to treat her as being on show too. This can only end badly when things don't go according to script. Instead, relax into yourself and treat this as a fun opportunity to get to know someone without worrying about where it may or may not lead.
If you think you're good enough for the woman in question, she'll sense this and reciprocate your confident stance. If you act unworthy, you risk being treated as such. Attract the response you want by being confident and engaged in the moment.
 Try to find out what this woman really loves in the world, and let her tell you all of the things she loves about it. Then, tell her you feel just the same way about some things, but don't overdo it; it's important to show that you're well rounded by gently disagreeing with her opinions on a few non-controversial things.


For instance, "Yeah, I really like Van Gogh too, but Monet is much too simplistic." That way, she'll know you're not just saying "yes" all the time to make her like you but that you are willing to converse intelligently.
Do not tell too much information about yourself at first contact; it can make you look too desperate to get a sweetheart and too social to her liking. Act like a lonely, working man with a capable mind.
Women are incredibly sensitive to "personal bubbles." Be sure not to crowd her--a good distance is about three feet. Instead of the chair next to her, choose the one across. If she leans in, bingo.
 Going on for too long can make you seem desperate or even scheming. When this woman is someone you'd really like to see again, say something like, "You know, I would love to hear more but I have to get back to work now. Tell me all about it over salsa dancing on Tuesday." Always leave the conversation to be continued. Do not exhaust the conversation as things can turn awkward and she may lose interest.


Do not allow her to end the conversation or date; if she wants to quit, stall the ending by thinking of a few things to say and then end the meeting. She will now hang around longer at the place; if you have the chance, return. Then ask for her telephone number.
Of course, as with everything, there are exceptions. If you feel that whammy of chemistry connecting the two of you and you go on to talk all night and into the next day, let the flow take you where it will. Sometimes, this is what happens--with no rhyme or reason.

