 Round, dense objects will work best. Marbles or ball bearings are ideal. Avoid using stones. The object should be round so it shoots straight.








Marbles are among the cheapest ammo choice, and the bright colors will make it easier to track your shot.;
, Hold the base with your dominate hand. With the opposite hand, place the ammo in the center of the pouch. Do not let the ammo shift away from the center of the band.
 Use your thumb and index finger to keep the ammo in place. Your thumb should be parallel with the strap. You can curl your index finger slightly and press the other side of the pocket between your first and second knuckles.









Avoid squeezing the pocket closed around the ammo. There should be enough space for the shot to release cleanly.
 Usually, you will want to grip the slingshot handle with your dominant arm and use your other arm to pull back the ammo. When you shoot, your arm may allow the slingshot to jerk forward slightly. This can throw off your accuracy. Your stronger arm will be more adept at keeping the slingshot steady when you release the shot.
 Raise your arm to the side and hold up the slingshot. Some shooters prefer to hold the slingshot so that the forks are pointed upward, and some like to angle the forks slightly to the side. Either position works, and both can be useful depending on the shot your are taking.









Not all slingshots are the same. Some have longer forks, or and some forks will be wider or narrower than others. You may have to adjust your grip based on the form of your slingshot as well.
 The shoulder of the arm that will hold the grip of the slingshot should face your target. Raise the slingshot so it is perpendicular to your body, and slightly angled away from your body. This positioning will provide ample room for you to use your other arm and draw the slingshot band all the way back.
 Keep your feet facing forward and even with the width of your shoulders.Keeping your feet too close together will make it harder to keep perfect balance and aim your shot accurately.
 Take your time. Aim slightly above your target. You can angle your head slightly toward the slingshot to check your aim, but be sure to keep your head clear of the ammo.









Try to use both eyes. Many shooters tend to rely on their dominant eye when aiming and close the other. While visual restrictions make this necessary, you will find you perform better when you practice using both eyes to find your target., Pull until the band is completely stretched out. Make sure you see all of the triangle formed by the forks of the slingshot.
 Breathing is a big part of making accurate shots. Draw a breath into your lungs, release the breath completely, then take the shot. This will eliminate any chance that your slight body movements caused by breathing could mess up your shot. Take your shot during the body's NRP, or natural respiratory pause.
 Make one last check to make sure there is nothing that you might accidentally hit with your shot. Then let go of the ammo and watch it fly.









Try to flick your wrist forward slightly after letting go of the ammo for a better shot.
Make sure your thumb is not in the way of the projectile as it leaves the sling. This can be very painful!

, You can adjust the bands by creating more or less length in the bands. You will likely need to loosen the band from the attachment. Slide the band to create the right length, then tighten the bands again.









If the band is at full length and the ammo is still not going far enough, consider trying a band made from a different material. Flat bands usually generate more power, but they can wear out much faster than the common nylon tube material., If the band breaks, you can usually contact the manufacturer to get a replacement. Be sure to check how easy it is to replace and adjust the bands when you select your slingshot.









There are many different ways to attach the band to the base and some are easier and more secure than others. Ideally, you should select an attachment made of rubber or even string, as there is minimal risk of injury if the attachment breaks loose., Make sure there are not any cracks in the material that could affect the performance of the slingshot. You don't want to have the piece suddenly snap off when you go to pull the band back. It can cause serious injury.









If you have damaged the base significantly you will likely need to replace it.

