 When a puppy is born you should assess its physical and behavioral status. This will allow you to know if it is on the right developmental track.Look over the puppies to make sure they do not have any obvious birth defects. Check the mouth, anus and skull for abnormalities. Cleft palates, which are deformities of the upper lip shelf, and “swimmer” bodies, characterized by flattened and widened chests, are common.Make sure the puppies are breathing on their own.
Check that the puppies are staying close to the mother for warmth and that they are feeding. If they don't automatically suckle, encourage them to do so by placing them on the hind teats. If they are still having issues suckling, consult a vet--you may have to bottle feed them.;
, The neonatal stage is the first week after birth. A newborn puppy is both blind and deaf during the neonatal phase. It is normal for a puppy to have closed eyes and move around very little. In fact, it is a puppy's sense of smell that allows it to find the mother in order to stay warm and feed.In addition, the puppy will not be able to go to the bathroom on its own. The mother dog needs to promote urine and feces elimination during this phase. This is done by the mother dog licking the genitals of the puppy.
 From birth to two weeks old the dog only responds to warmth, touch, and smell. The puppy can't regulate its own body temperature, so it relies on its mother to keep it warm. If the puppy is eating a lot and keeping close to its mother, then this is a good developmental sign.You should not have to handle the puppy very much in the first couple weeks of life. It's behavior should consist of eating and sleeping mostly.
 If you do not think that your puppy is developing properly, then you should talk to your vet about it. For example, if you don't think that your puppy is suckling enough or you find that it is not staying close to the mother, and thus not staying warm, then you may need to supplement its food or warmth.
 About five to seven days after birth, the puppy should begin to crawl around. Its eyes should open between five and 14 days after birth, and its ears should open between six and 14 days after birth.During this period, the puppy will spend less time cuddled up with its mother and more time exploring its surroundings.
 After about a week, your puppy should try to stand up. It will usually take the puppy another week or so to begin walking, which will be wobbly and uncoordinated at first.Once the puppy begins walking, it will explore its surroundings even more.
If your puppy is not standing at all after a week, then you should have it looked at by a veterinarian. This could be a sign that its development is delayed and you should try to find out why.
 Baby teeth, also known as milk teeth, should begin to show up in your puppy's mouth at 14 to 21 days old.Additionally, after two weeks the puppy should be able to eliminate its waste on its own.


Also, your puppy should begin wagging its tail and playing with its litter mates when it is over two weeks old. These are good signs that show it is on a good developmental path.
 During the socialization period, which occurs between seven weeks and four months, it is critical for the puppy to be exposed to a variety of people, animals, and environments. Successfully socializing the puppy requires effort on your part, but will impact the dog's personality and comfort in new situations for the rest of its life.During this socialization phase, the puppy should be walking easily and playing with its littermates, in addition to interacting with others.
Introduce your puppy to new people, sights, sounds, smells, and textures. Have your puppy meet people of different ages and people wearing different types of clothing, like sunglasses or baseball caps. Allow your puppy to walk on different types of floors, like carpet and tile. Gradually introduce new stimuli so your puppy does not become overwhelmed.Puppy classes, dog parks, and friend’s houses are great opportunities for socialization, but avoid taking your puppy to public places like these until after it has completed its vaccination series., At four weeks old, the puppy should have all of its baby teeth, which can irritate the mother.You should gradually switch the puppy to a diet of puppy food. A slow transition is key because it allows the puppy's digestive system to adjust to digesting the puppy food instead of its mother's milk., Once the dog is about a month old, you can begin house training. This usually takes four to six months, but may take up to a year for some puppies.At this point the puppy should still be around its mother. Taking the puppy out when the mother goes outside to go to the bathroom can be good modeling for the puppy.
Note that smaller breeds have smaller bladders and faster metabolisms, and therefore will need to go outside more frequently. As a result, smaller breeds often take longer to house train. Be patient, and don’t expect too much too soon., Many puppies go to their permanent homes when they are about eight weeks old. If your puppy is fully weaned, playing and active with its littermates, and has a clean bill of health, then it is probably ready to go to its forever home. This is a point in the puppy's development that it can adjust to changes and bond with new humans.


There are some breeders that wait until about twelve weeks to send their dogs to their new homes. Sometimes, this is merely a matter of choice. Other times, puppies may need a little longer than 8 weeks to mature, especially small breed puppies.