 Plan for what? Well as an individual we all have goals just when we are getting married we need to combine the goals and re-align them as the common goal for each other. Goal of family/home. I have found two types of couple, one where one of the spouse is self sacrificing and another he/she is too bothered about himself/herself (read as dominant, ego etc). In both the cases an imbalance is created. In this relationship, i think the key is to consider both together and plan. It’s easier said than done. Always plan and expect that it will not be the same when it will come for execution.;
, It becomes easy to execute anything as individuals rather than becoming one. If planning is done then execution can be tried as one. Execution as one does not mean execute the same thing, it means as per the interest, comfort level, individual strength and weakness, execute as per the personal common goal. Love and thank each other to be on track and always have defined metrics for each one to evaluate. Evaluation is the key for any execution as it keeps us in track to our goal.
 Do not argue, criticize, condemn, fight, or yell.
 As most of us are so skeptical about everything and anything, we tend to always see what we need to do, if we are on track, if anything is missing, etc. Good things like love, hope they hide in detail, in small things which are easily missed. Fight not, because we love. Most of us love destination so much that we miss to appreciate and enjoy the present moment. "Love is all around. " We miss to see as we are too focused to watch our self right in future.
 If one individual has lost his opinion in the relationship, understand it will do harm to the relationship in the long run. Remember, most of us are busy dying, understand, think and get busy living. If this relationship is not living and is dead most chance is that you will start busy dying. "Get busy living, Get busy dying" - Shawshank Redemption

, Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. You can sleep as individuals, but never wake up as individuals.

