 This simple trick takes two face up cards (here, aces) and uses them to locate a card the participant chose. The two aces are removed and put to the side. You fan out the deck and let the participant choose a secret card at random. They then put it back and shuffle the deck. The two Aces are then placed face up on the top of the deck and cut into the middle. Suddenly, with a snap of the finger, the deck is laid back out and the secret card will be face down between the two Aces.






;
, You can use any two cards you want, but the Aces have a little symbolic value that makes them seem more important. Make sure you remember which two aces they are, but this should be easy.
 Have them pull it out and look it, then set it on the top of the deck. For this example, assume they pulled the Jack of Diamonds.
 In order to make the trick look more legit, you'll have to shuffle the deck. But you need to remember where the Jack of Diamonds is, or the trick is useless. Controls are magicians tricks to keep cards in place while appearing to shuffle them. There are many different ones to learn. If you don't have any down, try the famous "Hindu Shuffle:"









Cut the deck in half.
Place the top half of the deck underneath the bottom half, keeping them separated in the back (away from the viewer) with your thumb. This is called a "break."
Holding the break in place with one hand, use the other to pull off small stacks of cards, shuffling them to the bottom of the deck.
Keep pulling off the top stack until you get back to your break (the original top card). You're done.
Practice doing this quickly enough that a viewer can't notice the break.
 This will take some practice to pull off slickly. With one hand, slide the back corner of the top card (here, the Jack of diamonds). Use your thumb or pinky to lift the corner up, creating another small "break" in the deck, You'll need to slide one of the aces under this card.









Quickly slide the two aces around the top card to sandwich it. To do so, you'll need to have some separation between the two aces, too. To pull it off.
Pinching the deck from both ends, pick up all three cards above the break.
Using your thumb to slide off the top card to reveal the other ace. Say, "you see the first ace -- here is the second." Note, however, that you actually have two cards here.
Take the top card (first Ace), the one you removed, and slide it under the two cards. You now have your sandwich

, Tell the viewer that the work is now happening, or that you only have to snap your fingers, etc. No matter your version of showmanship, back yourself away from the deck to show them you're not involved in any way. The sandwiched aces are in the middle of the deck.
 Ask them to turn over the card between the aces. It will be theirs!








