 There are many terms used to describe skin tone, from light or dark, to pale or olive. The most accurate way to figure out what colors look good on you is to figure out the undertone of your skin. There are three types: warm, cool, and neutral. Because you’re looking for the undertones in your skin, you can’t simply look in the mirror and confirm them. Follow these steps to determine your skin tone:Look at the veins on the inside of your wrist. Do they appear blue or green? If they look blue or purple, you’re cool-toned. If they look green, you’re warm-toned. If you can’t tell what color they are, you’re probably neutral toned.
Put on your favorite pieces of jewelry, or the ones you think look the best on you. Are they made of gold or silver? If they’re gold, you’re warm toned. If they’re silver, you’re cool-toned. If you look equally good in both gold and silver, you’re neutral toned.
Think about whether you burn or tan in the sun. If you burn easily or turn pink, you’re cool-toned. If you tan, you’re warm toned.
Look at your eye color and hair color. If you have blue, grey, or green eyes and blonde, brown, or black hair, you’re likely cool-toned. If you have brown, amber, or hazel eyes with strawberry blonde, auburn, or black hair, you are most likely warm-toned.
If you dye your hair and the name of your hair color has the word ash or platinum in it, it's a cool-toned color. If the name has golden or mahogany in it, it’s a warm-toned color.;
, Look for dark blues, dark purples, and emerald-greens. Opt for an emerald dress or a purple dress shirt with neutral pants., A baby blue sweater or a long camel coat look great against a cool skin tone. Other pastels like light yellow, light pink, and mint green also complement a cool skin tone., Metallic colored fabrics like silver or copper work well with warm skin tones, especially when paired with a bright red lip color or gold jewellery.Men can integrate metallics into their wardrobe with their jewellery. But they should avoid metallic shirts or pants.
 Don’t fear bright hues, especially if you have a warm skin tone that will make these colors really pop on you. Neon green, pink, or yellow will highlight the warmer tones of your skin, but be sure to keep your accessories simple and subtle so the neon color can be the star of your outfit.Other bright colors like cobalt blue and teal can also look great against a warm skin tone.
 These bright, warm colors will really sing against your warm skin tone, and help you sidestep a washed out or ashy look., Technically white and black are neutral colors, so they can arguably look good on any skin tone. But the right shade of gray can create a whole new spin on your look. Warm skin tones should go for a dove gray, while cool skin tones should go for a more charcoal gray or a very pale gray., Neutral skin tones are unique in that you can wear almost any colors, from jewel tones to neon. But a neutral skin tone really pops when you wear bold warm or cool colors like cobalt or camel.