 This person goes first and may play a single, double, triple other combo as long as the 3 of Spades is included. For example: 3-4-5, double 3s, etc., will work fine.The next person will try to beat the previous person's hand.









If this isn’t the first game, then the winner of the previous game goes first.
 Play the same type of card. For example, if the player before you places a pair on the table, you have to play a pair that has a higher value than that pair. If the person plays a single, then you must play a higher ranked single.
 The turn will go to the next person. Once you skip, you cannot play another card until the round finishes. If everyone skips, the last person who didn't play a card can play any card he or she wants.
 If you have three pairs, or something greater like four of a kind, now is the time to play them. (Remember you want to get rid of as many cards as possible.) A bomb refers to four of a kind. To get rid of your cards, you could play a set of six that forms a triple straight (e.g. 3, 3, 4, 4, 5, 5) or four of a kind. Four of a kind beats all triple straights, which is beaten by a higher ranking four of a kind sequence. So, four aces would beat by four kings.









When you play cards with such a high value that no one can beat, nearly everyone has to skip. Runs and straights cannot contain 2s even though they are the highest cards.
 If no one can beat the high cards that you are playing, then you can play the cards you want since no one can beat them even if they are not the highest cards -- or even a bomb. You could play a pair of the highest twos, for example.
 Once you have played all your cards except for your last one, you should declare your last card to the group. Remember that you can only play a single on top of another single. However, you also could end the game with a pair, triple or straight. No matter how many cards are in your hand, always try to get rid of them as quickly as possible. So, think in terms of pairs, triples the game may end on a double or straight card play. Try to be the first one out of cards, as this is how you win the game.








