 People are attracted to those who know who they are, are confident about that, and who have passion about something. Passion about things (like sports, or rock climbing, cooking, or writing) can translate into passion for another person, which is an attractive quality.


Having things that you're passionate about gives you something to talk about. It's one reason why nerds are big right now, because nerds aren't afraid to be passionate about the things that they like.
Figure out what it is that you enjoy. This means giving lots of different things a try to pursuing the things that you love. Don't be afraid to screw up or not be good at something when you first start out (very few people can make a flan on the first try, for example). Being able to make mistakes without letting it upset your equilibrium is an attractive quality.
 This will help you push the limits of your comfort zone, which in turn makes you more confident in handling the things life pushes at you. It also means that you're more likely to be able to talk to a girl you want to attract. Doing things, being game for trying things out is a quality that can attract a girl.


Take a dance or cooking class. If you want to know where girls are, they often take dance or cooking classes. A man who can dance or who can cook is a big catch among the ladies. It also shows that you don't really care what people think about you, which shows that you're confident.
You’ll meet new people and have interesting experiences to talk about. Being a good conversationalist, telling interesting stories, having a life can all attract a girl.
 Listening, real listening, is a lost art. People are so busy wanting to talk about themselves, or checking their phone, that they have a tendency not to really listen. If you show that you care what other people have to say, you'll show that you're a good bet as a partner.


When someone is talking to you, make sure that you give them your full attention. Make eye contact, avoid checking your phone. If you don't feel comfortable making eye contact, try to look over one of their shoulders, or at their forehead, because it will look like you're making eye contact, without actually having to do that.
Listen to all people, even girls you don’t find attractive. This shows that you respect people and that you think all people are important and you're not just listening to someone because you want to get into her pants. Unless she's only looking for a one-night stand, a girl doesn't want to feel like you're only paying attention to her because you want to have sex with her.
 All people. When you're at the grocery store make sure that you thank the clerk. When you're at a restaurant, tip the waiter or waitress well. Look people in the eye and make them feel like you've seen them, that they aren't invisible to you.


This doesn’t necessarily mean be a pushover. If someone says something rude or disparaging towards you, you have every right to call them out.
Treating people well means holding the door for that little old lady, or helping carry her groceries. It means offering rides to your friends because they can't afford a car, and so on. If you get into the habit of treating people well, girls will notice that.

