 If you seem fake or insincere, no one will be inspired. They would never be impressed with you if you are trying to be someone. They have to think that you believe what you're saying and you have your own concept in life which you believe in living it. If you don't believe, if you're just peddling snake oil as it were, then why should they believe you? The best way to be real, and show that this matters to you to is to make it actually matter to you. Be enthusiastic and throw yourself into what you do. After all its your life.;
, Try not to use yourself as an example when inspiring people. This tends to make it seem like you're making things all about how cool you are. Instead, leave it at a simple "I know where you're coming from" or "I've done this before" and then turn it immediately back around to them. Only share your experiences if they ask.
 Never let the people you're trying to inspire see you get really angry or really upset. Stay strong. People get nervous when undertaking difficult tasks, and they need to know that someone is in control of the situation. If you can't handle the pressure then how can they?

, Don't set the bar low. Don't disrespect them by acting like you think they can't accomplish anything. Expect and show them that you expect that they can do great (but not impossible) things.


It is important to only ask for things that they can achieve, and the bar is usually best set right above goals they have previously accomplished.
 If there are hurdles, acknowledge them. Identify what they are. But you should also identify how those hurdles can be handled. Emphasize that they are surmountable. This will give your audience confidence that you are prepared.
 Once you've acknowledged the problems that you may face, make those problems seem not only insurmountable but small. Compare them to other problems that have been faced or talk about why they may not even be problems at all.
 Examples from popular culture or history are a great way to inspire people for all sorts of purposes. You can use inspirational movies, historical figures, quotes, or even hurdles that they themselves have overcome in the past.
 Hope is the most important thing for inspiring people. You have to give them hope. They need to think that there is a goal, a light at the end of the tunnel, a reward for the struggles that they'll face. How you do this will depend on your situation, just make sure not to end on a down note.

