 Do this by switching your amp to standby mode without any input for at least two minutes before hooking up your guitar. Once the amp is warmed up and ready to rock, you can plug in your guitar and switch your amp to its active mode., Changing the volume on your amp can also change the tone of the sound it produces.Set your amp to its optimal volume, and if loudness is an issue, make sure you have the proper sound dampening measures in place.


If you have decided on using a power soak, tie this into your sound line as instructed in its accompanying directions.If you plan on making use of a sound closet or chamber, make sure your amp is in its proper position.
 Wear and tear might require you to finesse some of your cables or connectors into the right inputs or outputs. In particular, be sure that your guitar, amp, microphone, and DAW/audio interface are properly linked.
 Audio equipment can draw a considerable amount of current. In some cases, when too much current is drawn on an electrical circuit, a circuit breaker will be tripped and the power supply cut off. To prevent this from happening mid-recording:


Test your electrical supply by taking some time to warm up. Be sure that all the equipment you plan on using is switched on, warmed up, and set the volume at which you will record.
 Double check your tuning. If you notice that your guitar sounds too "honky," meaning that it has a kind of country twang to its tone, you can change this by reducing the Mid knob. If it sounds too thick, or isn't very clear, increase the Mid knob., With everything in place and properly adjusted, all you need to do now is set your DAW/audio interface to record and begin playing. Once you have finished playing, stop the recording and check your handiwork.
 At this point, you can polish your recording through your DAW/audio interface. In many cases, this will be your computer. Once your recording is complete, you can apply filters to it to highlight certain aspects, like:


Clarity and focus. A high pass filter at 100, 150, or 200Hz can reduce the muddiness of the bass in your recording while focusing the sound.
The body of your sound. This can be emphasized or reduced by cutting or boosting your recorded sound by about 700-800Hz, setting the grit to about 3-4Khz, and changing the boxiness to 300-400Hz.
Softer high frequencies. A gentle low pass filter at 12Khz can help to reduce piercing high frequencies.

