 This virus is transmitted through mosquitoes and was recently declared as an emerging global health threat.


How the virus affects the body is not fully known, however, chikungunya and dengue have almost identical symptoms and disease processes.
Chikungunya infects the muscle cells of the body. From there, it reproduces until the cell dies, and then replicates and finds a new host cell to infect.
 The incubation period of the chikungunya is 1 to 12 days. Chikungunya usually attack the muscles, joints, skin, connective tissues, and even the central nervous system.
 Because chikungunya is a systemic infection, it is usually accompanied by fever and skin rash.


The skin rashes are almost identical to the rashes that are present in a case of dengue, and is a result of damage to the blood vessels.
Fever occurs as the body raises its temperature in an attempt to kill the infectious agent.
As a consequence of the fever, you may suffer from headache, nausea and vomiting.
 Because the virus destroys cells in the muscles and joints, you will experience muscle weakness and joint pain.


Joint and muscle pain can be severe and acute.
 Partial loss of taste is reported by many chikungunya patients.


This happens because the virus attacks nerve endings on the tongue and desensitizes the taste buds.
 Acquiring an accurate diagnosis is very important to get the right treatment.


A virus isolation is the most conclusive exam used to diagnose chikungunya. However, it takes 1 to 2 weeks before it is completed and should be done in a biosafety level 3 lab, which is not available in many developing countries where chikungunya is prevalent.

The technique involves acquiring a blood sample from the patient and then introducing the virus to it. The blood sample will then be observed for specific responses.


RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) makes the genes of chikungunya more pronounced and shows evidence of the disease. The result can be obtained in 1-2 days.
An ELISA assay can be used to measure the levels of immunoglobin to identify the chikungunya virus. Results can be obtained within 2-3 days.

