 For example, on the envelope addressed to Judge John Matthew Pool, write "The Honorable John M. Pool."You will need to include a second line with the judge's title, so do not write the court address yet.


In the United Kingdom and many Commonwealth nations, judges are often addressed on envelopes as "(His/Her) Hon Judge (surname)" or "(His/Her) Hon (Mr/Mrs) Judge (surname)" instead.If the judge is a United States Supreme Court justice, instead write "Justice (surname)." If addressing the chief justice of that court, currently John Roberts, write "The Chief Justice of the United States" without a name., If you do not have this information already, search for "judge (name)" online. You can also search for the name of the courthouse online to find its website. Some local telephone books may have a government section with the title and address of local judges or a phone number you can call to learn the address.


You can look up the court of employment for U.S. federal (not state) judges by name on the Federal Judicial Center website.
If the court address is not available online, call or visit a law school library and ask the librarian for assistance.
 The judge's title is usually displayed on the court website or telephone directory listing, but you do not necessarily need to write the exact title. Use the following guide to determine how to write the title for U.S. judges:Chief Justice: the head of a state supreme court
Justice: other members of a state supreme court
Chief Judge: the head of any other court
Judge: any other judge of any other court, regardless of title
Skip this step if writing to the federal Supreme Court. The title is included already in the first line.
 Here are some examples of how to format the names of various U.S. courts, along with the judge's title:


Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit
Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas
Judge of the Superior Court of Alameda County
Justice of the Louisiana Supreme Court

, Use the postal address of the court, formatted as usual with the street address on one line, and the city and zip code on a line below it. Here's an example of the final address:


The Honorable John M. Pool
Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals, Fourth Circuit
1500 Oak St.
San Francisco, CA 45095

