 Your altar can be anywhere. Some have a natural altar outside or take portable altar items into their garden. This gives you a close connection to mother nature. However if you don't have a garden or this is impractical you can have an indoor altar. If your altar will be indoors, choose a room to have it in. Many choose a bedroom because this is a private room that is easy to relax in.;
, East facing altars are common because east is where the sun rises. You can also have your altar in the direction of your element. So air for east, fire for south, water for west, north for earth and center for spirit.
 You can keep your altar on a dresser or table if you want a permanent one or one with lots of heavy items. Other places are drawers, bookcases (though this means you can't have candles under the wood), trays, tree stumps and windowsills. You can also have an altar box, so your objects are kept safe and private from others if you live in a busy household. You can take the items out and place them on top of the box when in use. Choose somewhere that feels right for you. Use your intuition.
 If you are heavily influenced by Celtic paganism then maybe you will use Celtic deities like Brigid. If you have native American beliefs with your Wicca practise then you may choose some of their symbolism on your altar. Consider your personal practise and how your altar reflects you and your spirituality.
 The goddess side represents the moon, divine feminine, left brain, unconscious and night time. Items used for the goddess may be:


A semi large candle with a color you best think represents the Goddess. Cold colours like blue, green, purple and silver are often used.
A statue that represents the Goddess. This can be any goddess: Isis, the moon goddess, or statues from a Greek goddess like Hestia; it depends on what goddess calls you. You can also use totem animals of the goddess like a hare, cat, owl or other lunar animals.
Something that may represent feminine elements. For example, water = chalice or bowl of water, seashell, cauldron, sea glass or mirror, earth = green/brown coloured objects, stones, plants (leaves, flowers, etc), salt, soil, bones or pentagram.
Crystal ball or divination tools.
A few objects that are sacred and special to you.
 The god side is symbolic of the divine masculine, sun, elements fire and air, yang, daytime, conscious and right brain. Things that you might want to put on the God side would be:


A semi large candle which color you think bests represents the God (e.g. warm colours like yellow, gold, red, orange)
A statue which represents the God, such as the green man, Lugh, Osiris, herne, solar imagery, or masculine totem animal like a stag or goat
Object for the 2 masculine elements. For example, fire = red/orange colours, wand or athame/boline (if you have a wand for fire than your athame would be for air and vice versa), candle, incense, teeth, claws (but don't hurt animals to obtain it!), ash or oil burner; air = yellow/white/silver colours, Athame, Boline, wand, incense, feathers.
Any divination tools
A few other objects that are sacred and special to you

, You can have:


Your matron/patron deity you work most with. If you don't know your deity yet then you can just put the ones you are currently working with.
Spirit element. White/purple/violet/rainbow colour. Crystals, skulls, candles can be used. Choose something powerful and very important.
Pentacle (put on goddess side if it represents earth or middle if symbolic of all 5 elements)
Book of shadows
Athame (can be put on god side)
Wand (can be put god side)
A candle (red, blue, yellow, or green, depending on your zodiac/element sign)
Stones or Crystals.
 You could also have:


Loose herbs or potpourri. This can be nice to use special types for Sabbats and to sprinkle on altar. You can make this yourself.
Crystals.
Tarot/Oracle cards. These have pretty images on them and are good to use in meditation.
A spell/altar box. If you have a big altar you can put a small box on there and put rites or sacred things in it.
Spell objects. Witches ladders, witches bottles, puppet magic, etc.
Talismans and Amulets. Magickal jewellery!
Anything meaningful and divine to you.
If possible you could hang a charm, dreamcatcher or witches ladder for good energy and protection above your altar.

