 An applicant for a real estate salesperson license must be 18 years of age.;
, Before you sit for the MI state licensing exam (through the Michigan Real Estate Commission testing vendor, PSI), you must:


Complete 40 clock hours of a Real Estate Fundamentals pre-licensure course.
After completing the Pre-License course, your school should submit your certificate to the State of Michigan (note that not all schools will though).
Note: Online courses offered for pre-license credit must include a timing mechanism to ensure seat time; this means you will have to stay in this course for a total of 40 clock hours. View your candidate handout to view more information.
 After completing your required pre-licensing education, you must:


Apply for your license. Visit the Michigan state/iCOLA (internet Commercial & Occupational Licensing Application) website at https://www2.dleg.state.mi.us/cola/Main.do?chooseOption=3 to get started with your application. You must apply for your license within 36 months of completing the required pre-licensing education.
If you do not have an employing broker at the time you fill out your license information at the Michigan state/iCOLA website, as soon as you do have an "employing broker" fill out a form so that your status will be updated.
 Before you submit your application for licensure to the Michigan Real Estate Commission, you will need to have an "employing broker". For a number of reasons, it is important to research potential brokers in your area. The employing broker is responsible for ensuring that you meet and maintain the requirements for a Michigan Real Estate Salesperson License. The state examination will remain "pending" until a broker is confirmed.
 After you apply for your license you must:


Contact PSI at http://candidate.psiexams.com/index.jsp to schedule your exam. After completing the licensure application, you'll receive an email with your Michigan Real Estate number to schedule your exam. This is not your license number.
To pass the state examination, you will need to receive a score of 70% or better.
Note: You must pass the state exam within one year of applying for your license, or the license fee paid to iCOLA expires.
 When your state exam score is received by the Department and the broker is confirmed, the state will send your license and pocket card to your broker's main office.

