 If you decide to add felt to your greeting card and venture off to a craft store, you’ll notice there are several different kinds of felt. These are good for a variety of different purposes, so choose the kind that will work best for the craft you want to create. You certainly don’t need to buy any special felt, but it doesn’t hurt to have a few types of felt in your craft drawer.Ordinary acrylic felt is the most common felt you will find – you’re probably familiar with this type of felt. It’s cheap and works great for creating shapes and designs and gluing them to your paper.
Stiffened felt is a sturdier, more rigid type of felt. If you want to create your entire card from felt, the stiffened felt can work as the background. It can also be used to create three-dimensional forms on your card, because it holds its shape.
Shapes and felt with adhesive backings make crafting easier. You can purchase pre-cut shapes to save you from having to cut your felt, and felt with an adhesive backing doesn’t require any glue.;
, Luckily, you don’t need any special tools or fabric scissors to cut felt. Your regular scissors will work fine. Use a pencil to mark or trace what you want to cut, and use your crafting scissors to cut it out. If you are working with stiffened felt or very thick felt and want to create a perfectly straight border, you can use a straight edge and an X-Acto knife to create it.Place your straight edge where you want your border to be. Then, drag the X-Acto knife along the felt (against edge of the straight edge) until you’ve cut through the felt.
 When decorating a greeting card with felt, you probably have two scenarios: gluing felt to paper or cardstock, and gluing felt to felt. For these two cases, it’s good to have two types of glue on hand. To glue felt to paper or cardstock, you will be fine with everyday white glue.To glue felt to felt, you will need something a bit more intense. Purchase special felt glue for this task, or use a hot glue gun if you have one available.