 Coconut oil can get a little drippy, so put on an old t-shirt or drape a towel around your shoulders to prevent it from getting on your nice clothes. It's best to start the conditioning treatment in your bathroom, but you'll be able to move around while you let it soak into your hair for a few hours.;
, You can use a plastic shower cap, a large sheet of plastic wrap, or a second old t-shirt to wrap up your hair. Choose something you'll be able to keep in place for several hours, or even overnight.
 The amount of coconut oil you'll need depends on the length and thickness of your hair. If you have long, thick hair, use 5; if your hair is shorter and thinner, you only need 3 or 4.


Use unrefined, cold pressed (not refined or solvent extracted). Refined coconut oil has additives and is put through processes that remove some of the natural compounds that make it so healthy for your hair and skin. Unrefined coconut oil is complete in its natural, healthy goodness. Similarly, solvent extracted oil usually contains traces of the hazardous hexane solvent.
Make sure not to use too much; focus the oil on the middle section and bottom of your hair. If too much is used, especially near the scalp, this can cause the hair to look greasy even when washed out thoroughly. Your hair produces its own natural oils that come from the scalp.
 Avoid the microwave oven as it can destroy the bio-active compounds.


You can melt coconut oil with your hands. Melt one tablespoon at a time by holding it between your palms and gently rubbing them together. Coconut oil melts with very little heat.
Heat a small saucepan or bowl on the stove. Remove from flame and pour the oil into the bowl. Let it melt and get warm.
You can also heat up coconut oil on the stove. Scoop it into a small saucepan and heat it up over low heat until it has just melted.
You can also heat up coconut oil by running the jar under hot water in a sink until it melts which will only take a few seconds.
 Pour the coconut oil into your hand and then start applying it to the ends of your hair first. Use your fingers to massage it in and smooth it down your hair shaft all the way to the strands. Avoid applying the oil to your scalp. Continue massaging it into your hair until your hair is completely drenched in coconut oil.


You can use a comb to help you distribute the oil evenly. Pull it down from your roots to your tips.
You may just want to condition the ends of your hair, rather than the roots. If that's the case, apply the coconut oil to the ends of your hair instead of pouring it over your scalp. Massage it in with your hands.
If you have fine hair, then only apply the oil to the tips of your hair.
 Place your shower cap, plastic wrap, or old t-shirt over your head and wrap it up so that your hair is completely covered.


You can secure your hair with a loose hair band to help it all stay wrapped up on top of your head.
Use a towel to wipe away drips that might have gotten on your face during the wrapping process.
For fine hair, wrap your hair before piling it on your head to avoid getting the oil on your roots.
 The longer you keep it in your hair, the more conditioned your hair will be. Wait as long as you can manage for best effect.
 Use a sulfate-free shampoo to wash out the coconut oil. Wash it two or three times, until your hair no longer feels oily.
 Let it air dry or blow it dry to see the effects of the conditioning treatment. It should be soft, shiny and gleaming after this special coconut oil application.

