 In classes that require reading aloud, be alert. If you get called on several times and don’t notice, you’ll start the reading off flustered, which is not what you want. Stay sharp and be ready.
 You will seem prepared and confident if you react promptly. Smiling will hide a look of surprise, if you’re worried about that. Not only that, but smiling will make you feel just a bit more confident--the movement fools your body into thinking it's happy.Also, you probably want to get this over with as fast as possible, so get started fast., Don’t make a gasping noise. Just make sure you’ve got a nice flow of air coming into your lungs. Stressed-out people tend to breathe more shallowly, but if you do that, your voice will sound choked. If you’re getting scared, try to breathe in for three to five seconds, then exhale smoothly., Check that you’re at the right place in the book, and go for it. As you keep reading, you will probably feel yourself growing in confidence, which is great! Focus on the words, and check in with yourself every so often.


Monitor the volume of your voice. Make sure you can hear yourself speaking, but don’t scream.
Check your speed. Do you tend to talk really fast when you’re nervous, or slow to a drawl? Try to even it out a bit if so.
You can throw in some emotion if you feel ready to do so (and there’s emotion happening in the text).
 You’ll have to look down at the book, of course, but if you feel up for it, looking up at your classmates can make you seem more confident.If you can't handle eye contact, go ahead and focus on the text.


Read to a friend in class who knows you're nervous. They can nod, smile, and give you other clues to assure you that you're doing a good job.
 Once you’re all done, you can sit back down. Try not to flop into your chair or heave a sigh of relief, if you can. Just be proud of yourself for accomplishing something you found scary before! Reading out loud is good practice for all kinds of public speaking, and you just did an amazing job with it.

