 In some instances, excessive sweating may be due to an underlying medical condition, such as menopause, heart disease, hyperthyroidism or some types of cancer.


It is important to identify this underlying cause as soon as possible so treatment can begin. This is particularly true since some of these causes can become potentially life-threatening if they are left unchecked. Once the underlying problem is successfully treated, the patient can effectively reduce the excessive sweating as well.
It is also important to consider whether any medications you are currently taking could be causing the problem. Some medicines can contribute to excessive sweating, such as drugs used to treat psychiatric conditions or high blood pressure. Antibiotics and some types of supplements can also lead to the problem.
This is of particular concern if the sweating appeared after the medication was started, or if the sweating is a generalized, rather than a localized, variety.
 Laser hair removal is often recommended by doctors to curb excessive sweating and eliminate bad odors.


The reason this works is fairly simple - hair is present to keep the body warm, but sometimes it causes it to sweat more. Bacteria also cling to hairs much more easily, which leads to bad odors. By removing the hair, the area will sweat less and hold onto fewer bacteria, resulting in reduced odor.
Laser hair removal works by targeting hair follicles with pulses of laser light which destroy them. The treatment is relatively non-painful, but may require several sessions to complete. From then on, hair growth will be significantly reduced. Laser treatment can be somewhat pricey, but the results are permanent., Several drugs exist to control excessive sweating. They work by blocking nerves in the brain from communicating with sweat glands.


These pills have been found very effective in some patients, so if you're interested, talk to your doctor about a prescription.
Some reported side effects of these medications include blurred vision, bladder problems and a dry mouth., This FDA-approved procedure is typically performed by a dermatologist and uses electrical impulses to "turn off" the sweat glands temporarily. It is particularly effective in the hands and feet.


Most patients require multiple sessions to see positive results. These sessions are typically performed once a day for up to 2 weeks. After that, maintenance sessions can be done on an "as needed" basis.
Few side effects are reported with this procedure and some patients eventually perform maintenance sessions as needed in the comfort of their own homes. Machines can be purchased from R.A. Fischer Co. and generally cost around $600. Patients must be trained by their doctor to use the machine properly.
 While typically considered an anti-aging treatment, these injections have also been proven effective in treating hyperhidrosis. The procedure works by temporarily blocking the nerves that stimulate the sweating process.


This procedure is also considered relatively safe, with few unpleasant side effects and no downtime afterward.
Results usually last around 4 months and repeat sessions are needed to maintain positive results.
 In extreme circumstances, surgical action may be taken to remove or deactivate the sweat glands. If successful, this can stop excessive sweating for good. The two main treatments offered are:


Sweat gland removal. This is performed using liposuction, via small incisions in the skin. This treatment is only possible for sweat glands in the armpits.
Nerve surgery. This treatment is performed in order to cut off, clamp or destroy spinal nerves which activate excessive sweating, particularly on the palms of the hands. Unfortunately, it may accidentally trigger excessive sweating on other parts of the body.