 You can find them in the arts and crafts store. You can use real autumn leaves, but you will have to rinse them, pat them dry, and then press them for 4 to 5 days. Alternatively, you can print out pictures of autumn leaves, cut them out, and use them instead.
 You will need something to cover the backing of your picture frame. You can use rustic things, such as linen or burlap fabric. You can also use sheets of scrapbooking paper, but make sure that the design is not too distracting. Consider something simple, such as dark brown or bronze scrolls on top of a cream background, or black calligraphy on top of an ivory background.


The background needs to be the same size as the backing of your frame, or a little bit larger.
Consider laying two or more different backgrounds to create a collaged effect.
Avoid anything with a autumn leaf print, or that is red, orange, or yellow. While these are great fall themes, they will blend in too much with your autumn leaves.
 Flip the frame over, and undo the hooks on the back. Pull out the backing and the glass. If your frame came with a scrape of paper behind the glass (such as a fake picture), discard it.


Choose a simple frame, preferably one that is wider and angled, so that it forms a "tray" when you set it down.
 You can leave the frame blank, or you can paint it a new color using spray paint or acrylic paint. Choose a neutral color that goes well with the autumn theme, such as gold copper, bronze, brown, ivory, or cream. If you can, you can also try using a dark red or rusty orange. Let the paint dry, then add a second layer, if necessary.Remember to paint the sides and back of the frame as well.
 This will help make your paint last longer. Choose a finish that you like best (glossy, satin, or matte), and spray the front, back, and sides. Allow the sealer to dry before applying another coat.


If you painted your frame a metallic color, such as gold, be sure to use a glossy sealer. A satin or matte finish will dull down the shimmer.
 Take the back part of the frame, and flip it over so that the smooth side is facing you, and the stand is on the back. Apply the glue in a thick, even layer using a paintbrush.You can also make your own decoupage glue by mixing together equal parts of water and white school glue.
 Position one side of the background with the edge of the backing, then slowly lower it down, smoothing out any ripples, wrinkles, or bubbles as you go. Don't worry if the backing is too big. You will fix that shortly. #* If you have several different backgrounds, layer them to create a collaged effect.
 Brush the back of each leaf with your glue, then press it against the backing.If you want, you can make some of the leaves extend over the edge of the backing; you will trim them off later. You don't have to cover the entire backing with leaves either; experiment with using your positive and negative space. Also, don't be afraid to overlap the leaves.
 Once the glue has dried, flip the backing over and place it onto a cutting mat. Run a sharp craft blade along the edges of the backing, cutting away any excess paper and leaves.
 Most frames will have a stand on the back that folds out so that you can stand the frame up on your table instead of hanging it. Since you are making a tray, you will no longer need this stand. Simply slide an ice pick or a sturdy butter knife under the hinge, and carefully pry it away.


If some of the backing tears away, and this bothers you, you can paint over the revealed cardboard with some matching paint.
 Choose two cabinet or drawer handles, and place them against the shorter sides of your frame; make sure that the handles are positioned on the top part of the frame, and not the narrow edge. Use a pen or pencil to make a mark where the screw holes are.


Choose handles that match the colors on your serving tray. Bronze, gold, or copper go well with warm, fall colors.
 Take the handles away, and drill some holes over the marks you make. Place the handles back on top and insert the screws. Twist the screws into place with your screwdriver.If your frame is very thin, the screws may poke out the back. In this case, consider attaching the handles to the frame using some strong, industrial-strength glue or epoxy.
 Flip the frame over so that the back is facing you. Clean the glass with glass cleaner, then carefully insert it into the frame. Place the backing on top, and slide the hooks back into place.
 Because this tray is topped with glass, it is very durable and resistant against spills. Despite this, it would not be a good idea to stick the tray into the dishwasher. If it gets dirty, simply wipe the surface clean with a damp cloth.

