 Your hair usually becomes frizzy because it’s dry, and shampooing too often can dehydrate it even further. Instead of washing your locks every day, limit it to every other day or less if you can.If your roots are starting to look a little greasy in between washes, use a dry shampoo product to help soak up the excess oil. It can also help boost volume and texture if your hair is looking a little flat.;
, When you do wash your hair, you can help cut down on frizz by applying the shampoo only at the roots, near your scalp. That’s where most the dirt and grease in your hair usually is. Applying shampoo to the length of your hair can also rough up the cuticle, so it looks frizzier once it dries.Choose a sulfate-free shampoo when you’re washing. Sulfates, which are ingredients that help shampoo suds up, can be very drying, so they’re a bad choice for frizzy hair. Look for a formula with glycerin instead.Avoid using too much shampoo when you wash too. A quarter-sized amount is usually enough. If you have very long or thick hair, though, you may need to double the amount., Frizzy hair needs hydration, so it’s important to moisturize your hair every time you wash. Follow up with a deep conditioner, which contains intensively hydrating ingredients such as oils and butters, each time you shampoo.Allow the deep conditioner to sit on your hair for at least 5 minutes to ensure that it really penetrates and coats the strands.
If you have very fine or thin hair, using a deep conditioner every time you wash may be too much for your locks. Instead, aim for once or twice a week to cut down on frizz.
 Using a regular cotton towel to dry your hair after washing it can rough up the cuticle, leaving it more frizzy. Instead of drying with your usual bath towel, choose a microfiber towel. The material is extremely absorbent so you can just squeeze it around your hair to help dry it.Press the microfiber towel over your hair. Don’t rub it.
If you don’t have a microfiber towel on hand, you’re actually better off using paper towel to dry your hair than a regular cotton towel. It will absorb the excess water more easily than cotton, and won’t rough up your cuticle.