 People like people who smell good. Think about the last time you exercised and didn't shower. It doesn't feel very good, does it? Shower everyday, but do not wash your hair every day. This will cause your hair to become brittle and dry, even if you do use a conditioner. Wash your body, though.;
, Ask hair stylists, beauty store employees, or friends with your same type of hair (thick/thin, curly/wavy/straight) to find something ideal for your hair. Don't spend too much money on salon brands, though, they really aren't that different to the store brands.
 There is nothing worse than plaque covered teeth and bad breath. Consider using a liquid mouth wash. Carry around breath mints and sugar-free gum to refresh your breath between meals

, Start at the bottom of your locks, and work your way up. If you have curly hair, use a pick. Even if they look as if they are for Afros but honestly they are great for getting tangles out and reducing frizz.
 Wash under them, clip them, and file them about every week. Put on clear nail polish for a natural look, or paint on a subtle pink shimmer polish. It will make you look neat and well groomed. Wash EVERY time you go to the bathroom, surprisingly , many people don't.
 It gets rid of dead skin cells, and can get rid of whiteheads on the spot. It reduces your acne, which is a wonderful bonus. Only use once a week though, because it could irritate your acne.
 Use a medicated acne wash if you need it, but get advice from your nearest shop's beauty counter. Tone, moisturize, mattify. Acne can be the most horrible thing in the world, but it can be reduced through an airtight face regimen.
 It is hygienic and a gives a clean look. If you hate shaving, try waxing with a honey and brown sugar mix. It only sticks to your hair , so it causes less pain.
 Wearing lip balm keeps them soft and hydrated. Gently brushing your lips with a toothbrush is like exfoliating your lips and leaves a clean "canvas" for your balm, clear gloss or subtle lipstick.
 No one likes a smelly Nelly.
 Drinking water keeps your skin softer and makes acne less likely. Also, drinking a glass of water before every meal can be a healthy way to lose weight, because it takes the edge off your appetite.
 It makes other people smile, and makes you look like a beautiful and confident person. If you are self-conscious about your teeth, try Invisalign, or try whitening strips.
 No one likes it if you wear wrinkled, smelly clothes. Bring your own style into it, to make it more fun. Wear a cool set of bangles, or a cute belt. Anything goes!

, A false appearance will do you no good. Improve upon the real you, but don't go overboard.

