 Choose a spot that is out of the shooter's visual field and that can provide protection if shots are fired your way. Ideally, your hiding place should not trap you and make you a "sitting duck." An ideal hiding place should have adequate space for you to move and escape if you need to.Be quick in deciding where to hide. Try to secure a place to hide as soon as you can.
If you can't find a room with a door that can lock to hide in, try to hide behind something that can conceal your body, like a photocopier or filing cabinet.
 Turn off the lights if there are lights, and be silent. Be sure to turn off both your phone's ringer and its ability to vibrate.Resist the urge to cough or sneeze, and do not try to talk to anyone else who may be hiding near you.


Remember that if you're hiding, the last thing you want to do is have the shooter notice you.Don't call the authorities, even though you may be tempted. If you're in a populated place, like a restaurant or school, chances are that some people escaped or heard the gunfire and will alert law enforcement.
 If you are in a room, lock the door, or block it with something heavy, like a filing cabinet or sofa. Make it as difficult as possible for the shooter to enter the room.Making it difficult for the shooter to get into a room keeps you safe and also buys you time. If you or someone else has called the police, they should respond in a matter of minutes. Even just two to three minutes is a significant amount of time in an emergency situation., Lie on the floor, face down with your arms near but not covering your head. This facedown position protects your internal organs. In addition, if the shooter comes across you in this position, he may assume you're already dead. Laying low to the ground also reduces your chance of being shot by a stray bullet.Keep away from the door. Some shooters will just shoot through a locked door, rather than try to enter it or break it down. Since bullets can go through doors, it's best to stay away from that area.