 The word echo in te echo de menos is the first-person conjugation of the verb echar, which has a variety of meanings. Some translations of echar include "to send forth," "to send away," "to throw out," or "to place."To say "I miss you" in Spanish using the verb echar, you'll use the first-person present form of the verb.
If you wanted to say "she misses you," you would use the third-person present form of the verb, echa. The full expression of this phrase would be "te echa de menos." The third-person plural would be "te echan de menos" ("They miss you").
To say "we miss you," use the first-person plural form: "te echamos de menos."

, If you're going to say "te extraño," you're using the verb extrañar, which means "to miss." The way you conjugate this verb depends on who is speaking, and the tense in which they're speaking.If you want to say that another person misses the person to whom you are speaking, you would say "te extraña," which would mean "he (or she) misses you." Note that the direct object pronoun, te, does not change. The person to whom you're speaking still is the object of the verb, but the conjugation of the verb indicates that another person is doing the missing.
Perhaps you want to say that you and another person are both missing the person to whom you're speaking. You would say te extrañamos," which means "we miss you."

To say "they miss you" in Spanish, use the third-person plural conjugation of the verb: "te extrañan."

, When you use the phrase "me haces falta" to say "I miss you" in Spanish, you need to conjugate the verb hacer, which means "to do, make, or cause." When conjugated as haces, it means "you make" or "you cause."The verb conjugation should agree with the pronoun for the person being missed, not the person doing the missing. For this reason, if you want to say "we miss you" using this phrase, the verb conjugation stays the same ("haces"), but the object pronoun would change: "nos faces falta."Note that this phrase is constructed differently than the direct English translation, and you're using the second-person present tense conjugation of the verb. If you said "te hago falta," which seems like a direct translation (hago is the first-person present tense conjugation of the verb hacer), you would actually be saying "You miss me." This construction is similar to the French phrase for "I miss you," "tu me manques," which more literally means "you are being missed by me."