 Your credit score will have the largest impact on your ability to get a loan, so you should obtain a copy of your credit report.You are entitled to one free credit report each year from the three national Credit Reporting Agencies (CRAs). You shouldn’t contact the CRAs individually. Instead, you can get your free copy from all three using one of the following methods:Call 1-877-322-8228 and request a report.
Visit http://www.annualcreditreport.com and submit the requested information.
Complete the Annual Credit Report Request Form, which is available here: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/pdf-0093-annual-report-request-form.pdf. Once completed, submit the form to Annual Credit Report Request Service, PO Box 105281, Atlanta, GA 30348-5281.
 You should closely look at you credit reports to find any errors that might lower your credit score.If your score is below 740, then you will probably have to pay more to borrow.For this reason, you should do whatever you can to increase the score. Look for the following errors:credit information from an ex-spouse
credit information from someone with a similar name, address, Social Security Number, etc.
incorrect payment status (e.g., stating you are late when you aren’t)
a delinquent account reported more than once
old information that should have fallen off your credit report
an account inaccurately identified as closed by the lender
failure to note when delinquencies have been remedied

, There may be negative information on your credit report that you want to fix. For example, you might want to pay an old collections account. However, you should think carefully before fixing certain problems.


Negative information must fall off your credit report after a certain amount of time. For example, an account in collections should fall off after seven years.If the account is six years old, you might want to wait and let it fall off rather than pay it off.
If you need help considering what to do, then you should consult with an attorney who can advise you., You can correct errors by contacting each CRA online or by writing a letter. To protect yourself, you should probably do both. Mail your letter certified mail, return receipt requested.


The Federal Trade Commission has a sample letter you can use: https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0384-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report.
See Dispute Credit Report Errors for more information on how to fix errors.

