 You may want to suggest that the person contacts a gambling hotline as a starting point to getting help. This can help them come to terms with having the gambling problem and help them admit it or realize the negative consequences.The United States has a national gambling hotline that a person can call at 1-800-522-4700. Most states have a gambling hotline that a person can call to talk anonymously to someone about their gambling addiction. Gambler’s Anonymous lists all state hotlines by state. There are also hotlines provided for those who live outside of the United States. In Great Britain, you can call the National Gambling Helpline at 0808 8020 133.Search online for a hotline in your area.
 You should encourage the person to get treatment for their compulsive gambling. Gambling is an addiction and can be managed and recovered from using various therapy techniques. It is very difficult to overcome compulsive gambling without the help of a mental health expert.Keep in mind that they must recognize their own addiction before treatment. If they don't think that they have a problem, treatment may not be very effective.
Therapy sessions help the person figure out why they gamble or diagnose any underlying conditions. In therapy, the person can learn how to cope with triggers and stressors that may lead to impulses and relapses.
If the gambling is severe, the person can go to inpatient treatment.
Say, "I'm proud that you have acknowledged that you have a gambling problem. Compulsive gambling is a treatable condition. Here are some numbers for therapists who can help" or "I think you should get help for your compulsive gambling. Here are some places that treat your condition."

, Self-help groups are helpful for people with gambling addictions. Support groups help the compulsive gambler meet with others who have experienced similar things. They can learn from each other, and share difficulties, successes, and coping techniques.Gamblers Anonymous is a popular self-help group for those addicted to gambling. You can talk to your doctor or therapist about where to find a good self-help group in your area. You can also contact local hospitals or clinics about support groups. Search online to see if you can find any groups in your area.
You may say, "Many gamblers find it helpful to connect with other recovering gamblers. You should try going to a Gamblers Anonymous meeting" or "I think you would benefit from going to a support group meeting. You can talk to others who understand what you are going through."

, You may tell the person to consider medication to help treat their compulsive gambling. Medication can treat any underlying or related disorders, such as bipolar, depression, OCD, or ADHD.The doctor may prescribe antidepressants, narcotic antagonists, or mood stabilizers.

