 Check the way that your state or country certifies body piercers. You will likely have to submit the certificates for your blood pathogens and CPR/First Aid classes, as well as prove that you have completed an apprenticeship. You may have to pay a small fee to get certified.
 Now that you are certified, you’re ready to work as a body piercer! The easiest way to find a job is to check in with the studio you finished your apprenticeship with and see if they are willing to hire you. This is a great first place to work since you are already familiar with their procedures and their staff., If the studio can’t hire you, you will have to apply to other studios. Before you do, put together a print portfolio that has pictures of your past work. This is a good way for studios to make sure that you are an able and qualified piercer, and will improve your chances of getting hired. Also ask the mentor or shop owner at the studio your were an apprentice at for a letter of recommendation., Research studios that interest you. Now that you know more about piercing, you should be able to look at galleries of their work online and see if they do high-quality work. Make a list of studios that you want approach and apply to.Some studios are very polished and professional, while others are more grungy and alternative. Try to pick a studio that aligns with your own personality.
 After assembling your portfolio, go door to door and speak to the managers of the studios. Explain that that you have recently finished your apprenticeship and are eager to get a job as a piercer. Show them your portfolio and tell them why you are interested in their particular studio. It’s always best to go and talk in person instead of calling on the phone. This gives studios a better idea of your image and your personality.
 After you have approached studios that interest you, go online to sites like Craigslist and see if there are studios that are actively looking for piercers. Many of them will likely request that you come in person to apply. Even if they don’t, assemble your portfolio, resume and letter of recommendation and go in to express your interest.
 After you have found a job, keep track of your work. Take pictures of your finished piercings and save them for whenever you look for a new job in the future. Recording your work is important for building your career, and for reminding yourself of how far you’ve come!

