 Reed diffusers use reed or bamboo skewers to spread aromas around the room. Buy a reed diffuser bottle and reeds or bamboo skewers. Place water in the reed diffuser bottle. Add two tablespoons of vodka and then lavender essential oil. Place 12 drops of oil in each ¼ cup (60 mL) of water. Mix together.Place the reeds into the essential oil mixture. Let it soak into the reeds. Then put the reeds upside down with the other end in the solution.
Flip the reeds each week.;
, Mix one teaspoon of baking soda with 12 drops of lavender essential oil in a bowl. Pour the baking soda mixture into an empty spray bottle. Fill the rest of the bottle with distilled water. Shake to mix together.Spray around your house to deodorize and give your house a pleasant lavender smell.
 Gather lavender essential oil, powdered gelatin, salt, food coloring, and heat proof jars. Boil one cup (240 mL) of water on the stove. Pour one ounce (28 g) of gelatin in the boiling water and mix together until it dissolves. Add one tablespoon of salt (14 g) and one cup (240 mL) of cold water to the mixture and stir. Take off the heat.Put 12 to 20 drops of lavender essential oil in the jar. Then, add any food coloring. Purple is a common color for lavender-scented items.
Pour the hot gelatin mixture into the jar. Stir until mixed together. Let it cool uncovered.
This gel air freshener should last around a month before it starts to mold.
 Lavender is soothing and can help you sleep. Plus it smells great. You can mix a baking soda and lavender oil mixture to place on your mattress. Mix ½ cup (114 g) of baking soda with 12 drops of lavender oil. Sprinkle this on the mattress and let it sit for a few hours.Vacuum up the powder before you put the sheets back on.
 You can use lavender to freshen up your carpet when you vacuum. Try making a lavender-scented carpet powder by mixing 12 drops of lavender oil with ½ cup (114 g) of baking soda. Sprinkle this over your carpet an hour or so before vacuuming.You can also try adding lavender oil to cotton balls. Drop two to three cotton balls in the vacuum bag to spread the scent of lavender.
 Make a room scent by dropping a few drops of lavender essential oil on the light bulbs in any room. Make sure to do this when the light is off. When you turn on the light bulb, it will heat the essential oil and disperse the scent., Clothes that stay in drawers and closets can get musty and stale. To help with this, put lavender oil on cotton balls. Place the cotton balls in each of your drawers and in your closet. This will help freshen the clothes., If you have a humidifier or diffuser, you can spread the scent of lavender through your home with it. Drop up to 10 drops of lavender oil into the water. Turn it on and let it disperse the scent through the room.