 Credit card arbitrage is a way to manipulate the workings of low or zero interest credit cards to make a small amount of money.


The process is relatively simple. You take out a low-interest loan from a credit card company, invest it in a savings account that promises a high yield, and then make the minimum payments on the cards while keeping the difference. However, experts warn that it is highly unlikely that a savings account will pay more than the interest charged by a credit card company, even as a promotion. Any potential profits could be minimal and hardly with the effort.This is not a high-earning investment or a long term means to make an income.
 In order to make money with credit card arbitrage, you need to find a card that offers low or zero interest. Remember, you're only paying the minimum balance each month.


Oftentimes, low interest rates are temporary. Credit card companies often use initial low rates to entice people to spend more, so make sure the low interest rate lasts at least six months.Make a spreadsheet tracking payment due dates and when, if ever, interest rates will increase. You need to stay on task to make a profit with credit card arbitrage, so make sure you know all possible information going into the investment., Once you've selected an offer, you need to take a loan out using your credit card.


Decide how much money you can reasonably take out while still paying the minimum balance to avoid penalty fees. Write a check to yourself for that amount.Deposit the money in a high-yielding savings account. Aim for an account that will earn 5% or more in interest.Unfortunately, this will be nearly impossible to find in today's environment as the savings account rates have been lately been between .90% and 1.05%.
 While you're waiting to withdraw your investment, make all minimum monthly payments on your card.


Invest in paying via direct payment from your checking account. This way, you won't risk late fees and end up losing more money than you gain.Once you pay off the entire balance, and make sure you do so before the interests go up, pocket the money you earned in your savings account via interest., Credit card arbitrage is a risky investment in that it's easy to slip up and end up losing money in the process. Be aware of the risks going in and really take time to consider if this is the right path for you.


If you're habitually late on bills, credit card arbitrage is probably not a great option. Slipping up on payments can lead to credit card companies canceling their low interest offers, which your profit depends on.Maxing out credit cards can severely damage a credit score, which can take a great deal of time to repair. Unless you anticipate high financial return on the investment, if you already have a mediocre score this might not be the best route for you.Credit card arbitrage is time-consuming and requires a lot of knowledge of finances, banks, and interest rates. Make sure you have the time and knowledge necessary for the task before attempting arbitrage.