 Sometimes it is more difficult to deal with someone who doesn’t even seem to know or care you exist, as opposed to someone who seems directly interested in being hurtful. Take time to think about possible reasons for their seeming indifference toward you.


Modern technology has brought us the dreaded “person-who-never-texts-me-back,” and this version of being ignored can be quite frustrating to some. Consider, however, whether this thoughtless person may just in fact be very busy with work, family, or something else, or simply not a gung-ho texter like you.Sometimes, what appears to be indifference is really just the result of a misunderstanding. Maybe your grandmother doesn’t seem to care about your acting on your dream to become an internet entrepreneur because she has no idea what it is you are doing (and thus how important it is to you), even though you explained it to her., Before turning a blind eye to someone who seems to be doing the same to you, think about ways to resolve the situation favorably for both parties.


Raise your concerns tactfully. Don’t accuse or blame the person (“You’re a phony,” or “You’re self-centered and inconsiderate”). Instead, let them know how you feel.
For instance, say “I feel unimportant to/ignored by you” or “I’m sad you’re not interested in friendship with me.” If necessary, however, establish your limits: “I’m going to stop initiating contact with you.”The other person may not respond favorably even to a tactful approach; if so, remain calm and reiterate your view, then let things end at that. Feel secure that you have done what you can.
 Not caring what someone else thinks (or doesn’t think) about you requires a conscious decision and ongoing effort on your part. Not caring, however, is not the same thing as being uncaring.You can stop being concerned about someone’s actions or views without losing your compassion for their well-being as a fellow person. You’re doing what you need to for the benefit of your own health and well-being, not to harm or punish them.
Ignoring some people is going to be more difficult than others, of course. You may not be able to dissociate from a co-worker or relative. Instead, you’ll have to emotionally detach; in other words, practice a “cognitive reframing” whereby you interact superficially without letting the other person impact you., As mentioned before, no one can be universally liked, and life is too short to be overly concerned about how others feel about you.


Being ignored hurts, and choosing to ignore someone in return, even when done as kindly as possible, may hurt both of you. In the end, however, you have a responsibility to do what is best for you.Living life for you doesn’t mean you can’t let others in, or be caring, compassionate, or loving. It does mean you should live without fear or regret.
As mentioned previously, take the opportunity to try something new, or do something you’ve always wanted.
Whether others care about you or not, you should always care about you. This is all you can control.

