 This can make it less a shock for all involved by gradually introducing the appearance.;
, Take it all off before you go to bed the night before the first day you're living in your-skin -- but, you might use an acne coverup, if desired directly on pimples only.
 Skip putting on makeup. Finish your regular morning routine without time to spare.
 Try to get some of your sisters/friends, and your mother to go to school and work without a smear of makeup on. The more bare faces you inspire, the more accepted it will seem for women to be sporting bare lips, natural eyes and eyelashes.
 Brave the school/work peer pressure: Go to school/work made up lightly and then one day without makeup! This is what you have prepared for easing into and through! Now all you have to do is walk into the classroom dressed your favorite way, and watch for your classmates reactions if any.



Smile and laugh: Let people (whoever) just happen to see you "as is" without saying "hey look at me..." or any other prompting or coaching.
, Act as you would, same as ever, all day. Follow your regular schedule, bravely, without makeup! At some point you may feel embarrassed or exposed. Don't cave in.
 Just because you don't have long lashes to flutter, a bright lipstick or gloss smile doesn't mean that you can't be the life of the event.


Be more social than ever and even make extra fun. Talk to people.
Another possibility is that you and other people who typically wear showy makeup might be more humble, less showy, when the makeup facade is gone.
While you eat, realize the benefits of going bare faced: No makeup smears, no lipstick to make eating difficult, no nothing! Just you and your bare, naked face.




Keep encouraging your friends and family "secretly" at first. Help yourself by telling them to "be brave and start tomorrow" and finish the challenge for the week. It will be nice to see your friends natural faces, especially if they usually wear heavy makeup. Sometimes the change is drastic. Sometimes they will look a bit younger/older, but definitely more themselves.
Dare your makeup addicted teen sister and her friends go bare faced on a date, or your mother to venture out sans lipstick and eyeliner to the big business meeting.
 Got a big day coming up? Be bold and unique by showing up without heavy makeup. School picture day -- hmm? You could show the world what you really look like by "wearing" your honest, happy face. Have a date next week? Get over the awkward first time you're seen without frosting/layers of icing.
 You may realize that you are more beautiful than you ever thought, without makeup. Peace, you might realize that you don't need "warpaint" anymore and decide to go fresh for another week or a month,...


Ask your friends and family about their experience barefaced. Do they now feel more comfortable with their natural looks? If everything went well, then you might not be the only bare face seen in the hallways at school.
 Even, ask your principal if your school can announce a day where the look is "real". You might get to see students', teachers', and even the principal's bare faces.
 She looks just as natural and real as you without makeup. Compliment your teacher that always wore a ton of makeup! Tell her "You look good!" (or say "really fine" or "okay") -- without the old heavy makeup!

, Tried and tested: Hopefully you are more confident -- enjoy your new-found face.
 Don't go out of line, unnecessarily.
 Dress as the most prestigious or popular leaders do or should do, in you type of work.
, Do not drag yourself around, leaning on every possible object, nor flop and sprawl around. Have some standards of conduct.
 -- How? -- by exhibiting the desire to learn the new programs, equipment and procedures so you appear to be a quick learner.
,,


Be humble and kind to the masses of those confused and even to the "all knowing" of humanity. Realize "this too is a passing event".

