 Few people are able to switch from carnivore to vegetarian overnight, much less when you've eaten a lot of meat in your diet. If you are really used to using meat for most meals, easing in will help you to take your time and to find alternative dishes and meal options that work best for you and your lifestyle.


There are some people who can stop eating meat just like that. However, most people find this a challenge, so don't be afraid to take small steps towards a bigger overall goal.;
, It's really helpful to have support when you make changes, and dietary changes are not different. Find people who are already vegetarian or even vegan and learn from them. Ask questions, watch how they prepare food and share their meals. (Just be sure to return the favor.)

, From here, switch to seafood and fish only, along with the increased amount of vegetables, beans, grains, etc.

Expect to feel full but not weighted down at this stage.
 The knowledge of how animals are treated and how unhealthy some of the meat products end up being can help you to grasp the importance of changing your diet. This can be a big perceptual shift that helps you make an entire lifestyle shift. However, not everybody wants to be a vegetarian spurred on by this reason; it is your right to choose to eat no meat for a variety of reasons, so read whatever inspires you.


There are some good books on "Speciesism", namely how we keep some animals for pets, kill some that enter our house unwanted or for scientific testing (mice, snakes, chimps), and feel justified in killing and eating others, and the inherent hypocrisy underlying that commonly accepted point of view. Once you start questioning things, vegetarianism/veganism will start making sense to you, and you will see this not as a diet change, but as a full-on lifestyle change.
At least only buy from cage-free facilities in which animals can graze freely before they produce your milk or eggs.
 At first you will be likely feel hungrier because your body isn't used to the different foods making up for the meat. Use the best sources of plant protein you can get, as this will ease the transition.


Be aware that there is a lot of protein in beans, grains and vegetables. Meat analog products are good, along with soybean fermented products. Use online charts to help you decide which ones sound the most tempting to you.
 Every time you feel like you want meat, try eating a morningstar, boca burger, meat analog products or tofu. Tempeh, with its tough texture, makes a fantastic substitute for meat. Try it with barbecue sauce. Seitan is very meaty but made from wheat; it's a great substitute for steaks and stews.


Eat alternatives, not only when you crave it, but just to eat them. They taste really good.






Only eat alternatives you like. If you don't like tofu, then you do not have to eat it.
, You are really helping to save animals (and the environment).

