 Sheds, garages, porches and crawl spaces are susceptible to skunk denning (nesting). If you have gaps in your foundation or between your paneling, cover them up now, before a mother skunk dens and has a litter.


It is especially important to check your outbuildings in the fall. Skunks usually look for safe, dry places when the weather turns cold. Create an “L” shaped barrier near decks and porches. The lower portion will deter skunks from digging below the porch to access a denning space.;
, If you have a beetle or June bug infestation, skunks may look for fat larvae in your lawn. Water your lawn minimally while grubs are in their larval stage, because soggy areas cause grubs to rise to the surface.


Look out for skunks when you lay fresh sod. Skunks are smart, and they will roll back the sod to access the grubs.
Small holes in the lawn can be signs of skunks.
 These are sources of food for a skunk and her babies.
 Place all garbage in a metal bin. Open-air garbage and compost is also attractive skunk food. , If you start to smell a musky smell, you may have a fox or skunk nearby.
 Allow the skunk to pass by in the night, if the smell has only been around a day or 2.
 If a skunk is trapped in a garage, open the door at dusk, and close it in the late evening. Since skunks are nocturnal, you can close the door behind it and it will find a new home.


Check your window wells. Skunks occasionally fall into these deep wells and cannot climb out.
You can try making a wooden and chicken wire ramp and setting it at a 45-degree angle in the well. It may have enough traction to walk out on its own. If that doesn’t work, you should call animal control immediately.
Do not try to pick up a skunk.
 If you find a lingering sour and musky smell near an opening in the ground, under a porch or in another area, you must first decide if it is an active skunk den.


Fill the top of the den with leaves during the day, while the skunk is most likely sleeping. Don’t push the leaves in too far or too tight. You don’t want to trap the skunk inside.
Return in the morning and see if the leaves have been disturbed.
 Increase the noise and light in the area, so the skunk is disturbed when it is trying to sleep. Placing a bright light near the hole and turning on a radio may cause the skunk to relocate. Test the den again with leaves packed into the top of the hole. If they are not disturbed for several days, the skunk has probably moved out.
 The ammonia smell may also be uncomfortable for the skunk to bear.


These methods are best for use in a hole. If the skunk is living in a crawlspace or larger area, you will want to use the 1-way door method.
 Then, cover the entrance with wire mesh. If you fail to cover it, another animal may move in.
 You will need to place a 1-way door in each entryway to ensure it cannot get back in.
 You will need to ensure the mother is bringing her babies outside of the den, or they will starve and die on their own. Once you see a mother and her babies walking in a line, you can safely set up a 1-way door.
 If the entrance to the area is larger, you may need to board up part of it or buy a larger 1-way door from a manufacturer.
 Make sure there is a lot of extra fabric on the sides and bottom of the entryway. The fabric must be heavy enough that you cannot push it in the door. You may need to bore some holes in the fabric before screwing it into place under a wooden deck or crawlspace.
 However, the fabric should fall on top of the ground and be impossible to burrow under or push through the door.


Opt for a wooden or plastic 1-way door. These are available from pest control experts or online.
 Look for signs of digging to indicate that it has tried and failed to reenter the den.
 If you cannot see footprints, it has moved on.

