 If you explain Crohn’s disease to a room full of sixth-graders, you should use clear and simple language. If you explain Crohn’s disease to a room full of medical students, your explanation can be much more complex and detailed. Before explaining Crohn’s disease, identify your audience and determine the best way to reach them.For instance, you could explain Crohn’s to a room full of third-graders by asking, “Have you ever had a stomach ache? Can you imagine what it’s like to have 100 stomach aches at one time? That’s what it feels like to have Crohn’s disease.”
If you’re explaining Crohn’s to a room full of medical students, you might say, “Crohn’s disease is one of several inflammatory bowel diseases that affect the gastrointestinal tract.”
Generally, you should present ideas as simply as possible., When speaking about Crohn’s disease, use proper terms as much as possible. For instance, when talking about symptoms of the disease, avoid saying things like, “It causes diarrhea and abdominal pain.” Instead, say, “Crohn’s disease causes diarrhea and abdominal pain.” Otherwise, there’s a chance that the meaning of “it” will become lost or muddled., Your listeners may have additional questions about Crohn’s disease that you do not know the answer to. In this case, you should simply admit as much and offer to find the answer for the person. For instance, you might say, “Great question, but I don’t know the answer. Why don’t I get your email address and I can email you later with an answer to your questions?”, If there are certain terms or things that you anticipate might cause confusion for your audience, go an extra mile to describe and differentiate them as soon as you introduce them. For instance, if you anticipate that your listeners will confuse immunosuppressants and corticosteroids since both suppress the immune system, spend extra time during your explanation on how the two classes of drugs differ.In such a case, you might explain, “Immunosuppressants and corticosteroids both suppress the immune system, but corticosteroids have an added benefit of reducing inflammation.”

, Before beginning your explanation, say, “If you have any questions, please raise your hand and I will do my best to answer.” If you are speaking to only a single person or a small group, ask “Does that make sense?” or “Do you have any questions?” when you’ve concluded your explanation.Try to be direct and succinct when answering questions. Avoid jargon and technical details, unless it is appropriate relative to your audience. For instance, avoid saying, “I will now describe the pathophysiology of Crohn’s disease” unless speaking to a learned audience of medical professionals. Instead, explain, “These are the symptoms of Crohn’s disease.”

