 One of the easiest ways to express your wishes is to give the person in question a greeting card. Greeting cards typically have their own “good luck” messages written inside, but you can express more personalized wishes in a blank card, as well.


Personalize the message by expressing your wishes in further detail or by saying “good luck” with another saying or in another language.
If words are not enough for you, consider taping a small good luck charm—a penny, a four leaf clover, etc.—to the inside of the card.
 Some people that jar or boxes filled with spices, herbs, or symbols can “attract” good luck. Fill a container with small, inexpensive tokens and give it to the person to whom you want to express your wishes. In essence, you are handing over a care package of luck.


The package can include an excess of one symbol or a variety of several. For instance, you could hand someone a jar of shiny pennies to wish him or her luck. Alternatively, you could pack a small box with a lucky bamboo plant, three skeleton rings looped on the same key-ring, a plush dolphin toy, a few star decals, and a few acorns—or any other assortment of symbols.
Herbs that go well in these jars include chamomile, clover, dandelion, mistletoe, rose hips, sandalwood, spearmint, anise, and thyme.If giving small trinkets or herbs does not appeal to you, write out your wishes on slips of paper and tuck them into a jar. You can then give this jar to those needing a bit of extra luck. Instruct them to open it and draw out a slip whenever they need a dose of well wishes. Write different expressions meaning “good luck” on each slip.
Similarly, you can write your own specific wish on each slip. Vary these expressions, as well.
 A cute, whimsical way to wish someone good luck is to send them a product with “luck” in the name or description.


One of the easiest, most inexpensive examples is the “Lucky Charms” cereal.
 Since many good luck symbols are difficult to give in their true forms, jewelry manufacturers tend to use these symbols and their likenesses in metal charms. You can give a piece of jewelry with a single charm on it or give a charm bracelet adorned with many symbols of luck.Birthstones are also considered lucky, so giving someone an accessory with his or her birthstone is another way to wish good luck.
For someone who doesn't wear jewelry, you could still give an an accessory—like a key chain—with a symbol of luck attached to it.
 Some gestures, while not exactly wishing good luck, try to ward off misfortune. These are called “avoidant actions” and, some people think, are effective ways to ensure neutral or good luck. Studies show that they really do bring people peace of mind.One avoidant action is to “knock on wood.” Knock on a nearby piece of wood is meant to avoid “tempting fate” – that is, jinxing an observation about one’s fate or a desired outcome.
Throwing salt over one’s left should plays on the association of salt with lies and treachery. It is supposed to “blind” the devil waiting behind you.Keeping your fingers crossed, as said, is another way that people “avoid” undesired outcomes.

