 Sometimes friendships can get rocky or friends can have a hard time dealing with their own personal problems. Though it may not be fun, these are situations where a real friend has to step in and be there.


Demonstrate your support. Tell your friend, "I'm here for you. Just let me know what you need and I'll help you out."
Offer to listen. If there are personal or family problems going on, tell your friend that you are always there when your friend needs to vent.
Provide distractions. If your friend is going through a breakup, come over and spend time with them so they don't feel alone. Take them out to do things that will take their mind off the problem. You can go out to eat, see a movie, or even just go for a walk.
 If you know your friend is struggling, do what you can to help! Even small gestures to brighten his or her day can make a big difference.


Call or drop by to check in on your friend regularly if they are having a hard time. Make sure they don't feel like they're alone.
Let your friend use you as a shoulder to cry on. Just let them get it all out and hand them tissues when they need them.
If your friend is sick, bring over soup, a good book, or fun movies that they can watch while they're in bed.
 When you and your friend have a conflict, don't lash out and yell at them. Instead, talk about your problems calmly and listen to both sides of the story.


Don't raise your voice or storm out when you're having an argument. Sit down and talk through the problems.
Don't complain about your friend to other people, especially before you've talked to them about the conflict. If they have no idea that you're mad at them, it will be confusing if they hear that you're talking about them behind their back.
Use "I" statements when you're talking to your friend. For example, you might say, "I feel left out when you invite all our friends out to dinner but don't include me." This makes the statement about your feelings instead of blaming them.
Apologize if you've done something wrong. If you have hurt your friend's feelings, take responsibility and say, "I'm sorry I hurt your feelings."

, If one friend moves far away, keep in touch. People often move far away to go to different schools or pursue a new career. That doesn't mean the friendship has to end.


Call your friend regularly. If you don't see each other often, it's important to check in so that you know what is going on in your friend's life.
Schedule video chats online. Use video chat to talk to your friend and see their face. You can even use it to show each other your apartments or homes and to introduce each other to people in your lives.
Try old-school letter writing. It might take longer to send than an email, but sending your friend letters or care packages in the mail will make him or her feel special. They can serve as mementos of your friendship.
Visit whenever you can. When you are in town, make the time to see your friend. Plan a day of fun sightseeing together, or ask them to show you their favorite things to do.

