 A good amount of girls is three to six. There should be an alpha, beta, and other loyal chicks. After you find your perfect girls, befriend them, and invite them to a sleepover.


Do not have more than six girls in the group; after that, it is not very manageable as a clique.
Make the sleepovers weekly (or if your parents don't allow that, monthly), and you should have a chatty group of friends.;
, If you are on the wealthier side, wear designer labels. If you don't have that much money, shop at good basic clothing stores or vintage stores for designer looks.


Buy pretty, eye-catching jewelry. Get a signature piece of jewelry and gradually update every month or so. Have great accessories.
Always carry around a stylish purse that has your money, gum, wallet, cell phone, lip gloss, and notebook.
 If you like your natural hair color, stay with it. To change things up a little, get highlights. A drastic cut or complete color change can be pretty shocking, so really make sure you think it would look good if you decide to do it.


Wash your hair every day, with good shampoo and conditioner. Hair sprays, cremes, and mousses are great to use too.
For hairstyles, wear your hair half up, with a headband, or in a messy but preppy bun.
Buy cute but not tacky clips for your hair, and express your style with them.
 Massie uses lip gloss, eyeshadow, eyeliner, mascara, blush, and concealer. Since Glossip Girl isn't real, find your own signature brand. Buy a few different kinds of makeup and alternate each day.
 Have one of your siblings, parents, or drivers (if you can afford it) drive you to school. On the car ride to school you can dish gossip, play games like "Would You Rather," or simply study for an upcoming test.
 Really have the works! Massie has an iPhone, iPod, iMac, Palm Pilot, and a TV. If you want something but your parents won't buy it for you, save up and get their permission to buy it with your own money. It's really worth it!

, Have a Facebook, AIM, iChat (if you have a Mac), an email, and accounts on other social media websites.
 Your room should be a place where people - including you - want to hang out! Pick a signature color, and make most of the things in your room that color (don't go overboard, though!). Buy a cool bedspread, lamps, bean bag, and a mannequin like Massie.

