 Women tend to develop fibromyalgia more often than men. The symptoms can develop slowly or they can begin after some form of trauma, either physical, mental, or emotional. The causes of fibromyalgia are unknown. There appear to be genetic and gender factors.


The immune system may be involved, because fibromyalgia often presents after infections and is often associated with autoimmune disorders like lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis., There are a few symptoms that you can look for that might be a sign you have fibromyalgia. Widespread pain is the most common symptom. This pain is most often described as a constant dull ache. Fibromyalgia may be diagnosed if the pain has lasted for at least three months and is on both sides of your body. The pain also has to be both above and below your waist to be diagnosed as fibromyalgia.


Those diagnosed with fibromyalgia have significant fatigue, at least partly because of sleep difficulties. Sleep can occur for long periods, but is often disrupted by pain, restless legs syndrome, and sleep apnea. Even if an individual with fibromyalgia has slept for a long time, they may still wake up tired.
People with fibromyalgia report ‘’fibro fog’’, which is a condition that disrupts the ability to focus, to pay attention, and to concentrate on any mental tasks.
Other symptoms can include depression, headaches, and abdominal discomfort or cramping., Diagnosing fibromyalgia can be difficult and a serious problem because there are no specific diagnostic lab tests for fibromyalgia. The American College of Rheumatology (ACR) has a set of criteria necessary to diagnose fibromyalgia. These criteria are similar to the list of symptoms given above. However, the symptoms need to have caused pain for over three months and without interruption for the week prior to the visit. The doctor will also count how many out of 19 areas on your body you are feeling pain. He or she will also assess the severity of your other symptoms and see how well they are affected by your pain.


The doctor will also rule out any other possible condition that might be causing your symptoms.Many physicians still have doubts.If a physician is doubting your symptoms, the best advice is to find a physician experienced with fibromyalgia. You may need a referral to a rheumatologist in your area if you can’t find one on your own.
 Although the cause of fibromyalgia is not known, what is known is that there are drugs that affect the activity of some brain neurotransmitters, which are brain substances that act as chemical messengers between brain cells and nerves, that can be of some benefit for patients with fibromyalgia. There are three drugs approved to treat fibromyalgia. These are Duloxetine (Cymbalta), milnacipran (Savella), and Pregabalin (Lyrica).


Drugs can also be used to treat other symptoms, such as sleep issues. These include cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), amitriptyline (Elavil), gabapentin (Neurontin), or pregabalin (Lyrica). Other drugs to help with sleep, such as benzodiazepines or Ambien, are not recommended.