 For the safest and most comfortable detox experience, complete your detox in a hospital or residential treatment center. Inpatient treatment means that you live in the clinic and are provided with meals and medical services. There, doctors will supervise your transition and prescribe you medication to ease your withdrawal symptoms. You will also receive counseling from professionals who will help you cope with the emotional impact of coming off of opiates.Inpatient care is especially advisable if you have been using heavily for a long time.
Inpatient care typically combines detoxification and rehabilitation.
You may stay in an inpatient center from one to three months.
Find a center here: https://findtreatment.samhsa.gov/locator/home


, Outpatient care means you'll meet with your care team regularly, but you won't live in a treatment center. It can be effective if your withdrawal symptoms are mild. Outpatient care is cheaper, and it might be more practical if you have responsibilities at home or if you have a strong support team who can look out for you throughout the day and night.


You may be prescribed drugs like buprenorphine-naloxone (BUP/NX) or clonidine and naltrexone.
Outpatient detoxification may take one or two weeks.
After detox, consider intensive outpatient treatment, in which you spend the day in the hospital but go home at night.
 Methadone is still the most common method of treating heroin addiction. Methadone is a mild opiate that can take away the cravings for, and the enjoyment of, heroin. You can take methadone to detox, or you can take it as a lifelong sobriety practice.Detoxing on methadone tends to take 21 days. Your clinician will start you with a regular dose and slowly taper it down.
Methadone detox does involve an uncomfortable withdrawal period.
 Discuss the various FDA-approved medications available with your doctor. Not all doctors are aware of the most recently approved options, so it's a good idea for you to learn the possibilities yourself.


Buprenorphine helps with withdrawal, and can help you detox faster. Combined with naloxone, it can block the effectiveness of opiates. Buprenorphine alone may be called Subutex. Buprenorphine combined with naloxone may be called Suboxone or Zubsolv. These may be taken as a pill or as a tablet that dissolves under the tongue.More recently, an implant version of buprenorphine has become available. Called Probuphine, this drug can be implanted in the skin and remain there for six months.Naltrexone prevents relapse by blocking opiates. It can be taken as a pill or as an injection three times a week. There is also a slow-release injection that helps for several weeks.
Clonidine does not reduce cravings, but it can help with symptoms like agitation, anxiety, muscle aches, sweating, nose running, and cramping., Rapid detoxification is a medical procedure in which you are under general anesthesia while doctors inject you with various opiate blockers and anti-nausea medications. It is called rapid detoxification because it only takes four to eight hours, but it is often considered to have too many risks for most patients. Ask your doctor about this procedure if you have made several attempts at detoxification and if your withdrawal symptoms are severe.Other versions of rapid detoxification include ultra-rapid detoxification and stepped rapid detoxification.
These are all expensive and risky procedures, and your doctor may advise against them.They are typically not covered by US insurers, nor by the NHS in the UK because of the high costs, risks (including death) and uncertain outcomes.Patients are typically discharged afterward, so make sure you have a follow up plan to maintain your sobriety.
 Most self-directed detoxes result in relapse.However, if you are unable to access inpatient or outpatient treatment, you may try to get off opiates on your own. It is a method that many people attempt, and some, perhaps those more recently addicted, find it to be all they need.Rally a committed support team. Arrange for friends and family to check in on you, make sure you aren't abusing the medications you're using to detox, and encourage you in your efforts.
Detoxing can lead to suicidal thoughts, so you need people who will check on you and also come to you quickly.
Use over-the-counter drugs like ibuprofen for muscle aches.
For bowel control, you can use Imodium, which contains a mild opiate.
Use the over-the-counter drugs exactly as the instructions say — do not take more or more frequently than the manufacturer's instructions.
 Withdrawal might make you feel queasy, sleepless, sweaty, anxious, and otherwise unwell. Inpatient programs are equipped to help you through the day, but you'll still have to work on your own to recognize your body's needs.


Stay close to bathrooms. Opiates make you constipated, and detoxing can make your bowel movements frequent and unpredictable.Get help sleeping. You can ask your inpatient or outpatient doctor for medicine to help you sleep at night, as withdrawal can make this difficult.
If you are experiencing severe symptoms, such as vomiting or aspiration (breathing stomach content into the lungs), call a doctor or visit a hospital for treatment there.
Do not hesitate to go to the hospital. Deaths during opiate withdrawal have occurred, and you are at particular risk if you are also detoxing from another substance, like alcohol. Err on the side of safety and get professional help.

