 General rules for equipment apply to shortnose, Florida, and spotted gar as held for the longnose. These fish will give you a good fight, so don’t underestimate them when preparing your rod, line, and tackle.


Keep in mind that fishing for these types of gar will be rather more easy than fishing for alligator or longnose gar, mainly because their snouts are broader. This should allow you to set a hook with more ease.
Go again with a 6 foot spinning rod with a good quality reel.
14 to 30 pound test line will work well, as will a superbraid line.
 As with other kinds of gar, many fishermen will go with either live or cut bait like shiners, perch, or scad. However, gar might also attack worms or grasshoppers. In general, they are voracious eaters and will tend to attack anything, live or dead.If you go with bait, use smaller fish or cut larger ones into smaller chunks.
Rig the bait on a treble hook. Some fishermen might recommend using a Kahle hook, but gar will sometimes swallow these whole. Removing a hook from the fish’s throat will do a lot of damage and probably kill it.A treble hook, on the other hand, will more easily snag the gar’s snout.
Another option is the Lambo lure spinner. These spinners are made specifically for gar and are smooth, so that they will not get caught up in the fish’s teeth and thus not set properly. Change the spinner’s hook to the treble to increase its effectiveness.
 The best time to go for shortnose, spotted, and Florida gar is the high summer. During this period you be able to find spots where gar congregate – look for them resting just under the surface of the water.


Cast just in front of or beyond the gar. Reel in the bait slowly with the rod held upright so that it passed just in front of the fish.
When the gar takes your bait, wait as with other varieties. The fish will swim away to swallow the bait, so you do not want to try to set the hook too soon.
Give the fish anywhere to a minute or more to swallow the bait. Then, reel in all of the slack line and give it a firm tug. Set the hook hard!Reel the gar in slowly until it is within reach of your boat. A net may be useful to land the fish and bring it aboard your boat.

