 Eating the same meals consistently can affect the way we taste.Get out of this rut and actively try to experience different foods. A great way to start this process is by seeking out renowned foods from different cultures. Whether it’s Indian Curry, Lebanese Humus or a Pad Thai, try to find restaurants that prepare genuine cultural specialties.
 Strong tastes can linger on your taste buds and affect the way you taste each course. As such, you essentially have to “reset” them between courses. You can do this in a few ways:


Sip lukewarm water.
Suck on an orange slice.
Snack on a soda cracker or bread stick., Don’t go slathering all your meals in hot sauce. Even if you might not be a master chef, you should consider expanding the contents of your spice rack, which will liven up your meals tremendously. A great start is with a classic marinara sauce. You can add oregano one week, swapping it for thyme or basil in the following weeks.Once you understand how different spices affect your meals, you can branch out and perform the same experiment with different foods.
 Your sense of smell plays a vital role in how you taste different foods. As you eat, chemicals are released that reach olfactory receptors in your nose, which combine with your tastebuds to create the flavors you know.Here are a few ways to improve your sense of smell:


Exercise. Our sense of smell is most attuned right after exercise, this will make you more sensitive to the way your food tastes.
Eat only when you’re hungry. Your sense of smell is much more sensitive when you are at your hungriest., Long-term smoking can damage the nerves that detect smells. Do this gradually, and ask your doctor for recommendations on how to quit smoking.
 Wine and cheese tasting are the most common, as they are known for having strong tastes with subtle differences. For instance, you might be able to tell the difference between a Cabernet Sauvignon and a Pinot Noir, but might not be able to describe each flavor accurately. Attending these types of events exposes you to people with refined palates, which will let you learn the language used when describing flavors, as well as letting you experience them for yourself. You can find these events through a quick online search through directories such as Local Wine Events.

