;
,, Position the hoop square so the bottom aligns with this mark and it is in the center left-right. With the pencil, trace around the hoop's square. Remove the hoop.
 Leave about an inch above the top of the backboard so you can see and measure on the 4" x 4". Using the yardstick or tape rule, find the middle of the 4" x 4" (it won't be exactly at 2", so measure carefully). Make marks on the 4" x 4" above and below the backboard, and line up all the marks so the backboard is centered on the 4" x 4".
 Don't put any screws in the area where you traced the hoop's square. Use 4–6 screws, placed evenly up the backboard and 4" x 4".
 Remove the hoop. With the power drill and the 1/4" bit, drill a hole in the middle of each tracing. (Note: The lag screws you are about to put in will mostly miss the 4" x 4", so don't worry about that; the lag screws will hold the hoop to the backboard, and the other screws you already put in will hold the backboard to the 4" x 4".)

, Repeat for the other three lag screws. Make sure they're tight and the hoop doesn't wobble.
, One person will hold up the backboard in position, one person will measure the rim height with the tape rule, and one person will mark the 4" x 4" with the pencil and yardstick. Climb up the ladder next to the pole, and raise the backboard up alongside the pole until the rim is 10' from the ground. (Place it on one of the ladder's steps and lean it against the pole to help stabilize it. Be careful! It's very top-heavy!) Lay the yardstick across the top of the pole and alongside the 4" x 4" and mark the 4" x 4" there. This is how far into the hollow pole the 4" x 4" will go; you put stops here to keep it in place. Carefully bring the backboard and yourself down.
 (See photo.) Using the exterior screws, screw it to the 4" x 4". Repeat for the other three gusset angles, making sure they're all even with each other. Be careful that the screws don't hit each other; you may have to angle them a little bit. The gusset angles make a little shelf to stop the 4" x 4" so the rim of the hoop will be at 10'.
 This is the hardest part; the backboard is very top-heavy! Climb the ladder again and carefully raise the backboard up and slide the 4" x 4" into the hollow pole.
