 Grief is the feeling of sadness that comes when you lose something or someone you value. How individuals grieve differs widely, but grief is a natural reaction to loss. Some common types of loss include:Losing a loved one, such as a friend, relative, or romantic partner
Knowing a loved one is experiencing serious illness
Losing a relationship
Losing a pet
Scoring less in any test or exam
Leaving home or moving to a new home
Losing a job or a business
Losing important or sentimental objects
Losing physical abilities

, Everyone reacts to grief and loss in their own way. There is no one “right” way to grieve. Some reactions to loss include:Disbelief. It can be hard to accept that the loss has occurred. You may experience thoughts such as “This can’t be happening” or “This doesn’t happen to people like me.”

Confusion. You may have trouble concentrating immediately after a loss. You may also experience forgetfulness or have trouble expressing your thoughts and feelings.

Numbness. You may experience feelings of emotional numbness early in the grieving process. This may be your brain’s way of keeping you from feeling overwhelmed.

Anxiety. It’s natural to feel anxious, nervous, or worried after a loss, especially if the loss was sudden.

Relief. This emotion can cause people a lot of shame, but it is also a natural response. You may feel relieved that a loved one who had suffered through a long, painful illness is finally at peace. Do not judge yourself for this feeling.Physical symptoms. You may experience a variety of physical symptoms after a loss. These could include feeling breathless, headaches, nausea, weakness, and fatigue. You may have trouble sleeping, or you may feel like sleeping all the time.
 It is common for people who have lost material objects or pets to feel embarrassed, as though they “shouldn’t” grieve these losses.Avoid these “should” statements and accept your grief. It is never wrong to grieve a loss of something or someone you value.


Some research has shown that the death of a beloved pet may hurt as much as losing a family member.The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has a “Pet Loss Hotline.” They can help you with issues including when to euthanize an ill pet, how to handle your grief, and how to love a new pet. Their number is 1-877-GRIEF-10.
 Almost everyone experiences grief in five stages: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance.Not everyone goes through the stages in this order. For many people, grief forms a cycle of stages that gradually lessens over time.These stages are not prescriptive. They should not tell you how to feel. Use them as a way to recognize what you’re feeling and deal with that. Never feel guilty for how you experience grief.
The stages may not occur as separate stages. You may experience several stages overlapping. You may not experience some stages at all. There is no single normal experience of loss. Your experience of grief is natural and unique to you., Denial is usually one of the first reactions to a loss or bad news.It often manifests as a feeling of numbness. It may also include thoughts like “This isn’t real,” “I can’t handle this,” or even “I feel fine.”


A common thought while experiencing denial is wishing that it was “all a dream.”
Don’t confuse feeling numb or in shock as “not caring.” Denial is your mind’s way of protecting you from intense emotion as you adjust to your new situation. You may care very deeply about someone and still react with numbness or denial., Anger is another natural reaction to loss. This feeling may manifest as thoughts such as “It’s not fair” or “Why did this happen to me?” You may look for someone or something to blame for your loss. Anger is a common response to feeling as though you have lost control of a situation. It is also a common response to feeling like you have been harmed.


Talk with a grief counselor and/or support group as you experience anger. It can be difficult to manage anger on your own.It’s important to talk with people who will not judge your anger but can help you through it.
 Bargaining thoughts and feelings may occur some time after the initial loss. These thoughts may be about what you “could have done” to prevent the loss. You may feel extremely guilty. You may fantasize about going back in time and doing things differently to prevent this loss.It’s important to seek help during this stage too. If you cannot resolve your feelings of guilt, you may not be able to help yourself heal. Talk to a mental health professional or find a grief support group., Depression is a very common reaction to loss. It may last for only a short time, or it may take a long time to recover from. It’s important to seek professional mental health help as you work through depression. If left untreated, depression usually gets worse. Symptoms of depression include:Fatigue
Disturbed sleep patterns
Feelings of guilt, helplessness, or worthlessness
Feelings of fear and sadness
Feeling disconnected from others
Headaches, cramps, muscle aches, and other physical pains
Loss of enjoyment in things you used to like
Changes in your “normal” mood (increased irritability, mania, etc.)
Disturbed eating patterns
Suicidal thoughts or plansIt might be very difficult to tell the difference between sadness during grieving and clinical depression. People who are grieving could experience all these symptoms. However, a person is more likely to be clinically depressed if the person is thinking about suicide or has a plan for suicide. If you are having suicidal thoughts, seek immediate medical help.
 It may help to talk about your grief with people who are close to you. Sharing feelings of sadness with others may help them feel less intense., The sadness from a loss may take a long time to heal. Be patient and kind with yourself. It may take awhile for you to achieve “acceptance,” the final stage of grieving.