 Seafood does not live in fresh water, and will not survive in it. Do not store live seafood such as a lobster in fresh water. You run the risk of killing the creature and ruining the meat.Live seafood does require some moisture, but instead of placing water in your storage container, place damp paper towels or even moist seaweed in the container. This will provide additional moisture without risking the creatures’ lives.
 Unlike already-deceased fish, you want to store live seafood in an open container to facilitate oxygen circulation. A sealed container cuts off oxygen, and will kill your dinner well before you’ve had a chance to cook it. Whether you use a cardboard box, an open cooler, or a paper bag, make sure your live seafood has a means of getting air.If the prospect of having a lobster in an open container makes you uncomfortable, you can also place live seafood into a cardboard box and cut holes in the top.
 Although bacteria will not accumulate on live seafood, seafood is accustomed to cold temperatures. To thrive, live seafood does best in temperatures under 40 degrees F (4.44 C). To make sure your seafood is not harmed, place a thermometer in your fridge and make sure it reads less than 40 degrees F (4.44 C).

Most refrigerators are set to temperatures below 40 degrees F (4.44 C). If this is the case with your fridge, a temporary solution such as an ice-filled sink, or ice-filled cooler will work.
 Live seafood is sold that way for a reason. Avoid the temptation to freeze the critters you are set to imbibe, and keep them alive and healthy until the time to cook them has arrived. Freezers are best for already-frozen fish and seafood, as the packaging and freezing method have been tailored to keep these items fresh and moist., Live seafood is not meant to be kept for extended periods. If you know you are not going to be able to get too cooking one day, save lobster for another time. You cannot effectively store live seafood for extended periods.Although some seafood can last for 2-3 days after purchase, you will experience the best taste and texture if your seafood is eaten the same day as it is purchased.

