 Kate Middleton has gorgeous peachy skin with nice definition around the eyes. She has a very natural but glossy appearance.;
, Use a hydrating moisturizer and add a bit of illuminator for a nice sheen on the skin. Prep the skin with a little bit of foundation over the top. Keep the tones warm, for creaminess and "peachiness"

, This will remove any sort of redness or tiredness. You can use it on its own or it will help to make eyeshadow stay on better.


Add a tiny bit of concealer under the eyes. You want it to be nice and bright, and you don't need to use too much.






Put it just right in the corners and just blend down into the darkest point of the eye. Simply dab that on and blend it in smoothly with your fingers. Create a gorgeous skin, bright and fresh.
 You want it to look quite glowing still, so dab a little bit of a cream blush and that just gives that real dewiness to the skin. The best way is if you just smile and just go for the apples of the cheeks; blend that up like you would if you were applying a normal blusher but just working that all the way around and blending that until all the colours disappear, until the edges are blended in, and that just gives a dewy, peachy effect.


If you’ve got slightly oily skin, you can still do this but just add a little bit of powder to set it. This will ensure that your lovely peach is a colour that’s very natural-looking. Blend it in using a slightly smaller brush in circular motions working your way up.
 Put a little neutral base around here. Work both the eyebrows to have gorgeous full eyebrows like Kate's. If you’ve got a nice shape already, then get an eyebrow pencil and fill in any little gaps to really define the eye and give it a nice shape.


Do it in a little sort of feathery strokes – you don’t have to go too much but make sure that any little gaps there are filled in and that the line comes down.
 Use a nice liner all the way around the eyes, with little flicking motions all the way round the eye; it’s quite a thick line and you can work that upwards. Most of the time Kate wears a sort of black eyeliner but she has also defined her eyes using a blue liner to match her royal blue dress.


Make it a bit darker and put a bit of blue over the top.






Look up, and add quite a thick line underneath. You can coat that with a little bit of mascara to define the lashes a bit more. Then, clean it up.
 It can be a little bit smudgy, so if you make a mistake, you can use a water cleanser on a cotton bud and just gently dab over the area; you’ll see that it will slowly disappear. If you dab it in the area, it will disappear. Clean up so you don’t have to do the whole thing again. If you prefer a softer line, this is also a good way of blending the line down a little bit. And that’s how you get a Kate Middleton makeup look.

