 Individual cognitive therapy has been shown to help people change maladaptive behaviors and beliefs. While CBT appears to have little direct impact on the symptoms of schizophrenia, it helps many patients stick to their treatment program, and has a positive impact on their overall quality of life. Group therapy can also be effective.CBT sessions should be scheduled once per week for 12-15 weeks for best results. These sessions can be repeated as needed.
In some countries, such as the UK, CBT is the most widely-prescribed treatment for schizophrenia other than antipsychotic medication. In other countries, CBT may be difficult to access.
 This is a form of therapy that primarily serves to better educate you about your symptoms and the way they affect your life. Research suggests that learning about the symptoms of schizophrenia will help you develop better understanding of the way these symptoms affect you, and empower you to manage them better.One of the characteristics of schizophrenia is lack of insight, impulsivity and poor planning. Learning about your diagnosis may help you make better choices regarding situations that negatively impact your life.
Education is a gradual process, not a short-term goal. This form of therapy should be an ongoing part of your work with a therapist, and may easily be combined with other forms of therapy such as CBT.
 Research suggests that ECT may have certain benefits for patients with schizophrenia. It is generally prescribed for people suffering from chronic depression. This is a treatment more commonly practiced in the European Union, and there is little research to support its use to treat people with schizophrenia. However, there are case studies in which people whose symptoms have been resistant to other treatments have responded favorably to ECT.ECT is usually given three times a week. A patient may require as few as three or four treatments or as many as 12 to 15. Modern ECT methods are painless, unlike the versions practiced decades ago in the early days of ECT.
Memory loss is the primary negative side effect of ECT. Issues with memory usually improve within a couple months after the last treatment., This is an experimental treatment that has shown some promising results in several studies. Data on this treatment is still limited, however. This treatment may be specifically used to treat auditory hallucinations.Studies show most promise for people with severe, persistent auditory hallucinations, or "voices."
The treatment consists of application of TMS for 16 minutes per day for four consecutive days.

