 One of the most natural locations to sport sexy swimwear is around your own home. You can adjust the temperature yourself to whatever is comfortable when you and your friends lounge around wearing sexy beachwear. Who says you have to necessarily be in water to walk around in swimwear engaging in great conversations and light foreplay? Plus, what better way to keep the romance alive in your relationship than treating your mate to a private showing of you wearing a hot bikini. It's private and there's no telling the kinds of creative activities you can dream up when romping around on the sofa or bed for that matter.;
, When it's time for others to be jealous and adore you in your sexy bikini, there are plenty of spots to hit when the weather turns cool and crisp. If you want to remain local, check out an indoor spa. Indoor spas are a dime a dozen in any small or large town. They're clean, safe and filled with plenty of people who love being in warm climate all year round. Just like you, they want to display their latest swimwear fashion along with their slim bodies. You can make new friends who have much in common with you plus feel secure knowing you're not the only one who enjoys being on cloud nine twelve months out of the year. The best thing about indoor spas is that you can be in the North Pole and walk around in them like you're in Mexico.
 If you're looking for out of the way locations during these cooling months, consider a cruise. Most of the ports they depart from are tropical all year round so you can enjoy time on the boat and the island sights. This time of the year, they're practically giving tickets away so you don't need to plan to far ahead. A spontaneous trip is always an extravagant self treat. The cruise lines pride themselves on having the most upstanding indoor spas and swimming facilities. You can lay around all day long in your alluring and tempting bikini not even knowing or caring what the real temperature outside is. Even better is since most ports are warm weathered, taking a walk out on deck in your skimpy swimwear isn't a problem either. More importantly, since cruises are about a week long, you'll need to have at least a new bikini to wear for every day to show off your fantastic work of art. For more adventure, of course, you can always book a flight to Hawaii or any town in South America where it's mostly hot all year round. But the moral of the story is no matter what the weather is outdoors, you can still achieve grandiose status wearing a tiny bikini basically anywhere and anytime you want.