 By now, you should have figured out what you like to wear. Stick to those tried-and-true combos that work for you-- whether it’s jeans and a t-shirt or a suit and tie -- and don’t bother trying to follow every seasonal trend. Additionally, you can finally enjoy the freedom of wearing clothes you want without worrying about what others think.Do your own thing.Get a wild haircut. Being forty means that you don’t need to conform to traditional ideas about acceptable haircuts. Try a mohawk or dreadlocks to shock your peers and be the person you always wanted to be.
Get a tattoo. Some people think that when you’re forty, you’re too old to get a tattoo. They’re wrong.Choose an image that really matters to you and sums up the wisdom you’ve accumulated during your forty years.
 If a pair of jeans or shorts feel cheap or have noticeably inferior stitching and design, don’t buy them. Forty is a great age at which to go through your closet and find the things you won’t wear again, things that no longer meet your quality standards, or things which don’t fit you anymore.Distribute them to interested friends and family, and give the rest to goodwill.


Learn to identify clothes that flatter your body type. Don't try to wear clothes in a size that doesn't work for you., Excess sun can lead to wrinkles and cancer later in life. If you are nearing forty and still hit the beach regularly, you should limit your exposure to the sun and use a high SPF suntan lotion when you do go out in the sun. Even when you’re just out shopping on a sunny day, use sunscreen on your face and arms. Try to cover your skin as much as possible.
 However, don’t feel pressured to try to cover up signs of aging, which are beautiful in their own way. Excessive makeup can actually accentuate wrinkles. Wear makeup that accentuates your face, not the face you had twenty years ago.


Use foundation in a way that doesn’t accentuate lines and wrinkles. After you reach forty, your skin becomes thinner, leading to a duller, paler complexion.With foundation, you can add some depth to your skin.
As estrogen levels start to drop at forty, your skin will become drier. To prevent drying out, use a hydrating liquid foundation.

