 "Cat" means there is a only one cat. "Cats" means that there is more than one cat. This covers most words in the English language.


An "-s" without an apostrophe is also used to show the plural of an acronym in all capitals (such as "POWs" for "prisoners of war" or "RBIs" for "runs batted in") or for decade labels such as the 1880s or 1950s. (When the decade label is abbreviated, such as "'50s" for "1950s", an apostrophe is used before the number 50 to show the truncation.)
An apostrophe -s may be used to indicate a plural for single lowercase letters, abbreviations with periods or other abbreviations where the "s" alone would be confusing such as "x's". Generally, apostrophes are only used for lower-case letters. Capital letters and numbers, such as used in "MP3s," do not require an apostrophe. In general, an apostrophe is not used to indicate a plural.Abbreviations for units of measure do not have plural forms, while abbreviations used to indicate parts of writing either take no plural ("ch" for "chapter" or "chapters") or a single letter for the singular and a double letter for plural ("p" for "page", but "pp" for "pages").
 Certain compound words require identifying which word is the word being pluralized. For compound words such as "daughter-in-law" or "attorney general", the first word is pluralized ("daughters-in-law" or "attorneys general").
 For example, the plural of "ditch" is "ditches", the plural of "brush" is "brushes", the plural of "fox" is "foxes", the plural of "fuzz" is "fuzzes" and the plural of "dress" is "dresses."


If the word already ends in "-e", the plural is formed by adding an "-s": the plural of "judge" is "judges", and the plural of "phrase" is "phrases."
Some plurals of words ending in "-s" double the final "s" before adding the plural suffix. The plural form of "bus" may be written as either "buses" or "busses", depending on whether "bus" refers to a vehicle ("buses") or an electronic component ("busses")., The plural of "tomato" is "tomatoes", and the plural of "zero" is "zeroes."


Words ending in "-o" followed by a single consonant that English gets from another language typically form their plurals by adding "-s". The plural of "piano" is "pianos".Some words ending in "-o" preceded by a consonant can form their plurals using either "-es" or "-s." The plural of "tornado" can be written either "tornadoes" or "tornadoes", and the plural of "volcano" can be written either "volcanoes" or "volcanoes".
 First, however, you need to change the "-y" to an "-i." For example, the plural of "berry" is "berries", and the plural of "lady" is "ladies."This rule does not generally apply for proper names that end in "-y": the plural of "Tony" (the man's name or the theater award) is "Tonys."
A few words ending in "-y" preceded by a vowel also change the "y" to an "-i"; the plural of "money" can be written as "monies."

, You will need to change the "-f" to a "-v." The plural of "calf" is "calves", the plural of "knife" is "knives" and the plural of "leaf" is "leaves", except when referring to the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team. However, the plural of "proof" is "proofs", not "proves", which is a form of the verb "to prove." Some words ending with "-f" can form their plurals by either adding "-s" or changing the "f" to a "v" and adding "-es", such as "hoof" ("hoofs" or "hooves") or "staff" ("staffs" or "staves"). For some words, the preferred form depends on usage; the plural of "dwarf" is "dwarfs" when referring to short real people and "dwarves" when referring to a race in fantasy literature.
It is helpful to consult a dictionary if you aren't sure whether you need to convert the "-f" to a "-v".
 Mutated plurals have irregular plural forms. For example, “children” is the plural of “child” and “women” is the plural of “woman.” Latin and Greek words are another form of mutated plurals. These nouns maintain their Latin and Greek form when they are plural. For example, "criterion" or "phenomenon" form their plurals by dropping the "-on" and adding an "-a" ("criteria", "phenomena").
Other unusual plurals include "mice" (plural of "mouse"), "geese" (plural of "goose"), and "feet" (plural of "foot"). "Sheep" and "moose" are the same as singular or plural nouns in English.
 Collective nouns are singular when they refer to a group and plural when they refer to an individual. Some common collective nouns are “group,” “staff,” “team,” family,” “audience,” committee.” Staff is singular in this sentence because the the group is acting as a unit: “The staff is very satisfied.” Staff is plural in this sentence because the sentence is referring to what individuals are doing: “The staff are working in different locations this week.”


Names of companies ,organizations and sports teams are considered singular. The sports team, the “Tennessee Titans,” is singular even though there is an “s” on the end.
American and British English conventions differ on whether to use plural verbs with collective nouns. American English usually uses singular verbs with collective nouns, such as "The crowd is going wild for this team." British English may use a singular or plural verb with collective nouns, such as "The crowd are going wild for this team."