 Safe Mode is typically activated because of a serious error with an app, or with because a system function on the device crashed. In Safe Mode, you can't run any apps that didn't come installed on your device. If your device is in Safe Mode, a quick restart is usually enough to fix the problem.;
, Some versions of Android have a Safe Mode notification that you can tap which will automatically reboot your device and exit Safe Mode. This is the quickest way to get out Safe Mode if you have this option.
 When the Power menu appears, select Restart or Power Off. Allow your phone to reboot, or turn it back on after it powers off. Your device should boot normally. If it doesn't, read on.
 If your device is still booting into Safe Mode, this button combination may help. Turn your device off again, then press and hold the Power and Volume Down buttons simultaneously. Many users have reported this combination as useful for getting out of Safe Mode.


Note: If your device has a broken Volume key, this could be forcing a boot into Safe Mode every time it starts up. You may need to send your device in for warranty service or attempt to open the device and fix it yourself.
 As long as your device allows you to remove the battery, you can try pulling the battery out to get out of Safe Mode. Power your device down and then remove the battery. Wait at least one minute for the capacitors in the phone to completely discharge. Reinsert your battery and then try turning your device on again., A bad app is the most common reason that a device is kicked into Safe Mode. Uninstalling your recent apps may be able to fix your device and allow you to boot normally., You can find the Settings app on your Home screen, in your App Drawer, or in your Notifications panel.
 This will pull up a list of installed applications. Switch to the "Downloaded" tab if it is not selected already.
 Even though you can't run downloaded apps while in Safe Mode, you can uninstall them. Remove any apps that you have downloaded recently and then restart your device using the steps above.


Open the Settings app on your device.
Select "Apps" or "Applications" and then select the "Downloaded" tab.
Tap an app that you want to remove and then tap "Uninstall". Repeat for each app that you have installed recently.
Restart your device. If you still boot into Safe Mode, remove additional apps that you've installed. If uninstalling apps does not solve your problem, move on to the next section.
 If restarting and uninstalling apps is not getting your device out of Safe Mode, you may need to wipe and factory reset it. This will erase all of the data on the device and return it to it's factory settings. When you are finished, it will act as if it was just taken out of the box. This means you'll need to backup any data that you may want to save while in Safe Mode.


You can connect your Android device to your computer and copy important data over to back it up, or you can upload everything to a cloud service such as Google Drive.
Your app purchases will be saved so you can quickly redownload all of your apps again after resetting the device.
Your contacts will be so that you won't lose them during a reset. You can still export them to a file for extra security.
 If you can access the Settings menu in Safe Mode, you can perform the factory reset from here. If you can't use the Settings menu, or this doesn't work, see the next step. Note that the following steps may vary a little depending on your version of Android and phone manufacturer.


Open the Settings app and select "Backup & reset".
Select "Factory data reset" and confirm that you want reset your device.
Wait for the reset to complete. This may take up to twenty or more minutes. Skip down to Step 4 if you've successfully reset your device.
 If you can't reset from Safe Mode, you can use your device's Recovery Mode to perform the reset.


Press and hold the Power button on your Android and turn the device completely off.
Press and hold the Recovery Mode buttons. This combination varies depending on the model of device you are using. Common combinations include Power+Volume Down (LG, HTC, Motorola) and Power+Volume Up+Home (Samsung). You can find your model's combination by searching for your model plus the phrase "recovery mode". Press and hold the button combination until you see the Recovery Mode menu appear on the screen.Use the Volume buttons on your device to highlight "wipe data/factory reset" and press the Power button to select it.
Scroll down and select "Yes" to confirm that you want to reset the device. Use the Power button to select "Yes".
Wait for the factory reset to finish. This will likely take several minutes to complete.
 Once you've finished the factory reset, you'll be able to setup your device. You can either sign in with the same Google account you were using before, or you can setup the device with a new Google account. Signing in with your old account will allow you to access all of your Google Play purchases, as well as link your Gmail, contacts, and any other synced data. Click here for information on setting up your Android device.

