 The reverse crunch is the opposite of a traditional crunch, and it can help not only strengthen the abs but may also work to improve posture. Include reverse crunches in your ab workouts to help strengthen your core. To do a reverse crunch:Start by lying on the ground with your back flat, arms straight by your sides with your knees bent at 90 degrees and held close together. Place the soles of your feet flat to the mat.
Press your back into the floor and pull in from the area around your belly button to lift your feet up off the floor. Keep your knees together.
Use your core muscles to pull your knees toward your chest, maintaining the 90 degree bend in your knees and keeping the heels of your feet away from your butt and your shins parallel to the ceiling. This should raise your tailbone off the ground. Bring your knees in as close to your chest as possible, using your core to control your motion.
Do not push up on your arms. Only use them for balance.
Hold the pose for a second before bringing your legs back down to the start position in a controlled motion. Repeat for the recommended amount of reps, typically eight to ten per set.;
, Side planks are a great exercise for strengthening the core. They target some of the smaller core muscles that are easy to neglect, and thus help you build more complete strength in this part of your body. Side planks are more difficult than regular planks, so you won’t be able to hold them as long. Instead, aim for short holds starting at around 10 seconds and work your way up.Start by lying on your side with your feet together and one forearm directly below your shoulder.
Contract your core and raise your torso up off the ground until your body forms a straight diagonal line from your head to your feet.
Hold this position for your set interval of time. Avoid letting the hips drop or sag while you hold.
Once time is up, allow your body to come back to the ground. Then, repeat the motion on your other side.
 Windshield wipers help to strengthen the external obliques, a set of muscles that run from your hips down to your pelvis. They also add a bit of lower back strengthening to help keep you in good form during your sit-ups.Lie on your back with your arms out to your sides. Lift your legs straight up into the air.
Slowly lower your legs to your left, being careful not to let your upper body twist from it center position. Bring your legs over as far as they will go and hold for a second.
Slowly bring your legs back to center.
From center, lower your legs as far as they will go down to your right side. Hold for a second before returning to center.
Use a bent leg if necessary to make the exercise more achievable, and work toward a straight leg as you progress.
 Cobra is a yoga pose, or asana, that can help stretch out and lengthen the core muscles. It can be practiced on its own as a stretch during core workouts, or can be incorporated into a regular yoga flow.Start by lying face down on the mat with your arms bent so that your palms are flat on the ground near your chest.
Breathe in and lift your head, shoulders, and chest up and away from the mat, pulling your shoulder blades together and toward your heels.
Hold for two to three deep breaths, then let your body slowly return to its starting position.
Repeat eight to ten times if performing the movement as a stretch.
 When you start a sit-up, you should be lying face-up on the ground with your knees bent and your feet flat. Arms should be bent with the fingers just touching the side of the head.Remember to keep your feet flat throughout the exercise. If you notice your feet coming off the ground, it might be necessary to adjust their position.
Your hands should not be holding your head, as they could be used to exert force on the neck, which can lead to injury. Instead of placing the full hand under your head, place just your fingers to give some support to the neck without pulling on your head.
 It is easy to recreate the look of a sit-up by lifting with your shoulders and legs, but a true sit-up should come predominantly from your abdominal muscles. As you sit up, take note of where in your body the lift is coming from. If you feel greater strain in your neck, shoulders, or legs than you do in your core, focus on engaging your abs.As you sit up, focus on contracting your core. Check core contractions by placing a hand just below your belly button. When you come up, you should feel a gentle tightening in the area. Pull your body weight up from this area as you sit up., Just as it was necessary to engage your core to bring your body up, you need to use your core to lower your body down to the start position again. Coming down too fast or too hard may force you to work harder to get back up, thereby exhausting you sooner.Lower yourself back down to the starting position, instead of letting gravity simply pull you down. Keep your lower back relaxed, and slowly release your contracted core muscles to lower yourself.
 If you want to do more sit-ups overall, it is first important to make sure you can do sit-ups well. Without proper form, you may not get all the benefits of the exercise, and could increase your risk of injury. Dedicate time during your weekly workout routine to focus on doing multiple sets of sit-ups slowly to improve form.Take ten or so minutes one or two times a week and use that time to do three or four sets of sit-ups slowly. Focus on your form, making sure your body is in the correct position and that you are engaging your abs.Taking time to focus on form can help build muscle memory, which will aid you in being able to do more sit-ups in a beneficial way later on.
 Building the strong core muscles necessary to increase your sit-up count requires both exercise and nutrition. While it is not necessary to eat extra protein to build muscle, getting adequate protein is very important. Generally speaking, to build muscle, you need around 0.8g of protein per pound of body weight.As a general rule of thumb, around 15 to 20 percent of the calories you eat daily should come from protein.
Try to incorporate lean protein foods such as chicken, turkey, fish, legumes, and quinoa into your daily diet., Even if your goal is to be able to do more sit-ups, you will get more out of a holistic exercise routine than you will focusing on a single exercise. Develop a routine that incorporates strengthening your core, strength training other parts of your body, and building up endurance through activities such as sports or cardio.Try to not focus everyday on building up your core. When you build up your core, your exercises exhaust the muscles, and they require time to rebuild. Give yourself two to three days in between major core workouts to allow your muscles to recover.When you are not focusing on building your core, turn your attention to building endurance through a sport or cardio exercise, or improve strength in other areas that help support your abs, such as your back and chest.
 In addition to diversifying your workout, allow one or two days a week for your body to completely rest and recover. These days serve an important role in allowing the entirety of your body to recover. Build rest days into your workout schedule and stick to them.Rest days don’t mean no activity at all. Instead, try a fun activity like a bike ride through town or an easy hike, or work on stretching and recovering your muscles.