 You'll very quickly figure out why tri shorts are so popular: if you try to run in your bike shorts it feels like you are wearing a diaper, and biking in your running shorts is no better. A good pair of tri shorts will be well suited for all three stages of the race, keeping you equally comfortable in each without necessitating changes., Goggles will help protect your eyes and make it easier for you to swim quickly with your eyes open. Choose goggles for fit, and consider getting a few pairs with different lens colors to wear when you need more or less shading from light.Wear a swim cap to help reduce your drag through the water and can keep your hair dry. You'll likely receive a free cap from race organizers at your first triathlon.
 Most running shoe companies pretty much produce the same three kind of shoes: a neutral shoe, a stability shoe, and a cushioning shoe. If you are thinking about motion control/stability shoes, work on your running form along with the shoes, although they will help. Having good form and using proper technique while running will save your body a lot of strain. If you're unsure about what kind of shoes to get, visit a local running store. Employees there are generally very knowledgeable about the pros and cons of each type of shoe. They can also help you choose shoes to fit your particular feet.
 New triathletes find this to be the most significant and cost-effective way to save yourself some time.Stretch laces make for a much easier transition off the bike, and you won't have to worry about your shoelaces coming untied during your run.
 If you're just starting triathlons and will be doing no more than a few a year, get a good road bike first - this will carry you through your training as well as your triathlons and be a little cheaper. If you want a triathlon bike, get a good entry-level carbon bike like the Felt B16. While the carbon frame is a significant investment, it offers a huge weight difference from other frames and absorbs much more shock, making for a more comfortable ride. As you get more serious with your triathlons, you can upgrade the components for just a couple hundred bucks, and because you started with such a light frame, smaller upgrades like this can keep your bike competitive for years.
 When you're powering through your bike stage, the last thing you want is to be stranded with a flat tire. Be sure to keep spare tubes and a flat kit on your bike so that if you blow a tire you aren't left stranded. A CO2 cartridge, a lever, and a multi-tool to do on-the-fly seat adjustments or small repairs are also helpful. Keep this kit stocked and ready during your training rides as well as your races.
 As in any sport, safety is your top priority. Get a good helmet to keep yourself safe during the bike stage. There's no need to break the bank - you can get a high-quality helmet for a moderate price - but make sure to get something well-ventilated so that you can stay as comfortable as possible.
 The stiffness and shape of bike shoes will make riding much easier, and using shoes and pedals that allow you to clip into your pedals provide the best pedaling efficiency. Try a couple different styles of shoe and clip before making your purchase, and practice using the clips to get comfortable with them before your first race.
 This might seem unnecessary at first, but it makes all the difference in training. Many training programs use heart rate to monitor effort and stamina, particularly over long distances. You can use this to make sure you're pushing your body enough and training with enough effort to actually get faster, so having a watch or bike computer that measures this can significantly improve how you train. Additionally, monitoring your daily heart rate is a great way to tell when your body needs rest. The bike computer can also help you keep an eye on your speed, which can optimize both your training and your racing.
 Get a couple of cheap water bottles to throw on your bike so that you can drink while you ride. For longer rides, add sodium supplements like The Right Stuff to your water bottles for increased hydration, and make sure to pack some electrolyte drinks for when you are recovering or transitioning between stages of the race.
 If you're uncomfortable, you won't compete as well and you certainly won't enjoy it nearly as much. Use an anti-chafing product like Chamois Butt'r to lube your body and any gear that will be rubbing against you at each stage of the race - for longer races, this can make a huge difference.Pay attention to hot spots in the swimming and biking phases, especially while training, and treat blisters before they become a significant problem.
 Rather than taking time to mess with safety pins at each transition, get a simple clip-on belt that will display your number. Clipping this on is much faster, and this way you won't have to poke holes in your tri kit.

