,,, Press Enter., Press the right arrow once and under option #3, there will be "Disp". This stands for Display. It should go back to the main programming menu., Afterwards, type "Volume" by pressing "2ND" and then "ALPHA" to lock typing mode. Then put another quotation mark after that. Hit Enter. The screen should look like this: PROGRAM:EXAMPLE  :Disp "Volume", Put another quotation mark and then type "1 CYLINDER". It should be the same as the example above, only with ":Disp "1 CYLINDER"" below that., If more formulas are needed, follow the same steps just put the objects name instead of cylinder and put the numbers in order. Press Enter. Push the "PRGM" key at the menu to bring up another menu. Scroll down to #9 and select it. #9 should be Lbl. After that is done, type in K so that line should look like this: ":Lbl K". Press Enter., Scroll down and select #1 which should be "Input". Then put "W" after the space in between "Input" and "W". Press Enter.,), and then hit enter, which will select "If". Type "W=1" after "If" to get "If W=1". Press Enter and find "Then" in the CTL menu section of the "PRGM" key. Yet again, press Enter., Press Enter. Put in "Disp "Radius"". Press Enter. Then select "Input" and type "R" after it to look like "Input R". Press Enter. Select "Disp" and type in "Height". Press Enter. Find "Input" again, and type "H" so it will look like this: "Input H". Press Enter yet again.,, In this last line, find "End" in the "PRGM" button menu and it is #7 in the first section which is "CTL". Then press "2ND" and then "MODE" right next to it to exit., On there should be the name of the program that was just created. Highlight it and press enter. You should go back to the very first calculator screen and it should say "prgmEXAMPLE(obviously the name of the program, not Example)". Press enter again and watch the program unfold!, at the bottom of the screen, and it will show a menu that asks for the radius, put it in, then it will ask for the height, put it in, and it will give the answer. Congratulations, the program is now finished!