 Print out your own copy of the writing and make notes in the margins about problems, possible solutions, and even parts people like. This will help tremendously when you sit down for revisions. It also shows other people that you are listening and taking their critiques sincerely and graciously.
 Are there certain comments that most people are making or agreeing on? Is there one spot where almost everyone gets confused or caught up? Chances are good that you are not some solitary genius who understands what no one else does, you simply have a spot that needs improvement.
 Once you feel confident that something needs fixing, you may consider opening the floor to suggestions. A good way to do this is to make your own suggestions and ask what people think -- "would this paper benefit from more historical research?" or "would the story work better in the 3rd person instead of the 1st?" This can help you find a direction for revisions. Even if you don't go with any ideas, this gets the ball rolling and helps you start thinking about criticism in a productive manner., Let any negative feelings of anger or worry dissipate for a few days while you mull over your criticism. You'll be surprised what things you eventually agree with, or what criticisms you think are ill-founded. When you return to the work, it will be with a fresh set of critical eyes, and you can try and tackle the problems you've deemed need work., Criticism means nothing if you don't do anything with it. After a little time to clear your head, highlight the sections that need work and tackle them head on. You may realize that the criticism is spot on, and you need to overhaul the writing. You may also realize that it is better than you thought, or that one quick sentence or clarification is all you needed. But you will never realize these things unless you take the time to rewrite.


All writers rewrite. Even Ernest Hemingway is noted for saying that "The first draft of anything is s--t!", Reading a review/comment of an essay, story, or poem you've already published will do you little good. While you may get some tips for future projects, ultimately you can't do anything to correct the "mistakes" of an already published work. Even if you aren't published, sometimes the best thing to do with a piece of work is to leave it alone and write something new. If you feel attached to the current version and rewrites feel unbearable, then let it be. Ultimately, the most gracious way to take criticism is to just keep writing.