 If you are still adjusting to new hair loss, you might be able to subtly conceal it with the right haircut. Talk to your barber or stylist and ask for their opinion. Keep in mind that this is not a long-term solution, and that the wrong hairdo can emphasize rather than hide hair loss.Go for a textured crop. This short hair style adds layers and tousle to the top of your head, making for a more substantial look. Think Matthew McConaughey.A more messy style can work also, in that it can both conceal and draw attention away from a thinning pate.
Get a Caesar cut. This very short style creates a vertical fringe for styling the hair forward, which will help to conceal a receding hairline. It was made famous by one of history’s great bald men, Julius Caesar.Avoid long hair. A longer length can actually draw attention to the fact that your hair is thinner.
Beware the comb-over. One of the worst styling mistakes is the comb-over, where the hair is grown longer and combed over the head to hide baldness. The problem is that the comb-over exaggerates hair loss rather than disguises it – the hair loss is too severe for a strategic haircut.
 There are certain non-medical hair products that you can try to hide a bald spot or receding hairline, as well. These too are temporary fixes. Still, they can help in cases of early hair loss.


Some products like Toppik use “electrostatically charged microfibers” made from keratin that intertwine with your own hair, giving a more full appearance. They come in an array of different colors and washes out with shampoo.Other products like DermMatch are designed to color your scalp so that it more closely resembles your hair, which will help to conceal thinness, and also coats the hair for a fuller look.
These products are of course temporary. They do not actually increase the amount of hair on your head or stop the balding process.
 Contrary to popular belief, wearing hats has no effect on balding. They do not cause the hair to fall out by rubbing or “straining” hair follicles.In fact, wearing a hat might be a good choice is you are self-conscious about hair loss while out and about.


According to legend, Frank Sinatra started wearing his trademark fedora to hide his receding hair line. Not only was it the height of cool, but he also angled it to convey different moods. Pushed back conveyed accessibility; tipped forward gave a sense of mystery; and slightly tilted up meant no-nonsense.You can choose any variety of hat, depending on your personal style. A fedora exudes cool, while a homburg is more debonair and a ball cap more casual.

