 As soon as you notice that your cat is not feeling 100%, make a call to your vet and get an appointment. During the visit your vet will ask about your cat’s recent behaviors, and may take another look at any notes associated with recent surgeries. Be as honest as you can and be prepared for the possibility that the vet may ask to keep your cat overnight for additional testing., This is one way to tell if your cat is undergoing a heat cycle (or estrus). The vet will take a cotton swab sample from your cat’s vagina and then examine the results under a microscope. The presence of particular reproductive cells will indicate the presence of estrogen in your cat’s system, as a result of ovarian remnants.Be aware that most vets will not make an ORS diagnosis on the basis of a vaginal cytology test alone. This is usually just one of the first steps in the diagnostic process.
 This involves your vet drawing blood and then looking for baseline hormone levels. On a more advanced level, your vet can conduct a hormone stimulation test to see how your cat’s body responds when she is given a synthetic hormone. A blood sample drawn up to a week later will indicate if ORS is a possibility., Most vets can do an ultrasound or CT scan in their office on the same day as a visit. These scans may show the location of any remaining ovarian tissue, but they do have some limitations. If the tissue is rather small, then the result may be inconclusive., If your vet determines that your cat’s medical history and physical/clinical signs correspond with a diagnosis of ORS, then they may suggest performing an exploratory surgery to locate any remnant tissue. These surgeries have some risks, such as infection, so make sure that you discuss the procedure and recovery in detail with your vet.Exploratory surgery may have the best success when performed at least two weeks after your cat completes her heat cycle.
 If your vet suggests multiple tests or exploratory surgery, it might be a good idea to consult with another vet as well. Compare what these two professionals say about your cat’s diagnosis and treatment options. Choose the vet who you think has the best odds of treating your cat successfully.