 A doctor will administer a Complete Blood Count (CBC), which will show the health of red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. In order to be considered normal, platelets should be between 150,000-450,000 per microliter of blood.Symptoms of a low platelet count include excessive or easy bruising, and superficial bleeding that appears as a rash on the skin. Additional warning signs include:Bleeding that will not stop after 5 minutes of pressure
Nose, rectum or gum bleeding
Blood in your urine or bowel movements
Unusually heavy menstrual flow
Feelings of dizziness or lightheadedness
Fatigue
Jaundice

, Because many causes of low platelet count are caused by diseases or medical conditions, your doctor will prescribe the appropriate treatment route for you to treat the condition. This is more effective than merely treating the symptoms.For example, if your low platelet count is a reaction to a medication, your doctor may prescribe a different medication to see if this helps bring up your platelet count., Your doctor may prescribe corticosteroids, such as prednisone, which help slow your body's destruction of platelets.This is usually the first-choice treatment drug.Your immune system may also be overfunctioning, and could be suppressing your platelets. In this case, your doctor may prescribe immunosuppressants.Eltrombopag and romiplostim are medications that can help your body produce platelets.Your doctor may also prescribe oprelvekin (brand name Neumega) or another medicine that has been approved to stimulate the production of stem cells (and thereby platelets). Many cancer patients take this drug as a preventative measure because it is easier to prevent low platelets than build them back up.
There's a risk of side effects with this medication, so your doctor will determine whether to prescribe it based on her assessment of your risk of developing a low platelet count. The doctor will also consider whether you have any heart issues, because Neumega's side effects include fluid retention and heart palpitations, which can exacerbate heart conditions. Additional side effects can include diarrhea and other digestive issues., Consider this particularly if you are often anemic or you are going through cancer treatment. Many hospitals help you to give your own blood, to be stored in case you need it to prevent low platelets in the future. Ask your doctor if this is a good preventative measure in your case.