 If you’re worried about not having anything to say to people, practice a few basic conversation openers ahead of time. Good topics to chat about include the weather, food, work, or school.For instance, you could open a conversation by saying, “This weather is so beautiful! It doesn’t feel like November at all,” or, “Have you tried the new burger restaurant down the block? I’ve heard such good things about it.”
Avoid talking about touchy subjects like religion, politics, or personal issues until you know someone well.
 Almost everyone loves to talk about themselves. Being interested in others is a simple, pressure-free way to keep a conversation going.Good topics to ask people about include their work, school, and kids. You might say, "Well, hello, Bill. It's been awhile. How are Nancy and the kids? They must be teenagers now!"
Don’t ask questions that are too personal unless you know somebody well.
 You have probably been in a taxing conversation in which it felt like you were pulling teeth (or were having your teeth pulled) just to get answers. Generally, if you make use of open-ended questions and answers, you can keep a conversation going longer and gain more insight about the other person.For example, it might not be a good idea to ask, "How was work?" There's a chance the other person could respond with "fine" and the conversation falls flat. If you ask, "What happened at work that was exciting this week?" there's much more room to expand the conversation.
The same goes when providing answers. If someone asks you a closed-ended question, challenge yourself to at least offer back a full sentence. For instance, if you are asked "How was work?," respond with "Work was pretty stressful this week." That way the other person has something (i.e. the fact that you were stressed) to keep the conversation alive.
 Making eye contact indicates that you’re paying attention to the person you’re talking to. It also gives others the impression that you’re open and trustworthy. Try to match the level of eye contact the other person is giving you.The amount of eye contact you should make depends on your culture. In North America and most of Europe, making eye contact is considered polite. However, in Asia, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East, eye contact can be seen as aggressive, flirtatious, or impolite., Being asked to repeat yourself can be awkward, so work on maintaining a good volume level when you talk to people. If you’re not sure whether you tend to speak too quietly, ask a friend or family member what they think.If more than one person has told you to speak up more, you probably need to work on being louder.

