 Grab her attention with soft, kind eye contact. Hold here eyes for longer than a second or two, until there is a breathless, timeless space that surrounds you. The world disappears, and it's just the two of you. To get her attention, keep it minimal and subtle:


Touch her shoulder, upper arm, or cheek and say her name.
A simple, quiet "hey" is still the most effective way to get her attention.
"I need you for a moment" or "just one more thing" is a great, noncommittal way to hold her attention for an end of the date kiss.
Move in for a big, full-body hug to see if she's feeling equally romantic.;
, Polite, simple, and to the point, these lines get right to the point and put it in her court. Keep eye contact when talking, and keep your head close enough that you can both move in when she says yes.


"Can I kiss you?"
"Can we kiss?"
"Is it okay if I kiss you right now?"

, Honesty, in all things, is the best policy. So just tell her you want to kiss her -- it's not forceful or rude, just confidently romantic.


"I want to kiss you right now." Unless she says "no," move in slowly after you say it.
"I'd love a kiss before I go."
"Let's kiss."
"Write her a note saying "kiss me?" or "I want to kiss you," if you think she'd like the cute, romantic gesture. Then move in wordlessly., Don't dive for lips, just move in slowly. Give her the chance to move in or gracefully bow back out. If she isn't feeling it and doesn't want to kiss, she'll say no and lean away.


Move in slowly.
Half-close your eyes
Let her come part way, meeting you for the kiss.
Hold her close with a hug, keeping your faces close together. If she keeps eye contact, move in.
 There are a ton of reasons she might say no, but none of them need to be returned with rudeness. She just might not be ready yet. Be sure to politely apologize for misreading things, then move on -- she'll appreciate it.


"I'm sorry. I had a wonderful time tonight-- I'll see you around.
"I misread things, I'm sorry. Have a great night."
"I didn't mean to put you on the spot like that, I'm sorry.", If this is the first time that you're kissing this girl, you'll want to make it special. Take her to a place that is meaningful to both of you. Kiss her somewhere with a beautiful view: the top of a hill, mountain, building, bridge. Kiss her under the stars, or when the sun is setting. Most girls will really appreciate it if you take the time to make a first kiss special.If you want to make this a romantic kiss, pick a setting that matches the mood. Don't just kiss her at the mall, or at a mundane moment. Plan ahead for something special.
 The moment will be more intimate, if you're alone, and your timing may seem much more natural. Don't ask her for a kiss in front of your friends or family, nor in front of hers. An audience, however small, will put her under unfair pressure. Even if she does want to kiss you, she might shy away if she feels uncomfortable with the setting.


You may also find that it's much easier to ask this girl for a kiss if you're alone with her. Take the pressure off of yourself as well as off of her!

, Flirt with her, and make playful banter. Make plenty of eye contact, and casually touch her to loosen the physical boundaries.Smile at her, and make her feel comfortable. Even if you already know that you like each other: a bit of flirtation can set the mood up for a kiss.


Don't touch her too much, at first. Put your hand on your shoulder or your hand when you talk to her, or put your arm around her, intentionally brush your arm against hers. Find a reason to sit close to her, so that your shoulders and thighs are touching.
 If the two of you have been flirting, then you should be able to tell. Look out for classic signs of attraction: laughter, touch, and eye contact.If she pays a lot of attention to you, and she seems to make a point of being around you, then there's a good chance that she's interested.


Try not to make this assumption unless you're reasonably sure. It is good to be confident, but try to keep a level head about the situation.
 Make your move during a slow song at a dance, or when you see a shooting star. Wait for the end of a date, when you're saying your parting words. Kiss her after you make her laugh, or after you tell her that you like her.


Imagine that you are in a movie. The "right moment" might feel like the scene when the hero kisses the girl. Don't build it up too much – but keep the ambiance in mind.
 If you are alone with her, and the mood is good, and you think that she wants you to kiss her, then there's a pretty good chance that the time is right. If you feel an overwhelming urge to kiss her: do it. There is no definitive "best" time to ask a girl for a kiss. You'll need to read the situation, be bold, and make your move. Seize the moment when it comes.
 It might be tempting to leap at the first chance that you get. Read the contextual clues, however, and consider whether there is any reason that it'd be inappropriate to ask her for a kiss right now. Don't force the situation. If you're going to ask a girl for a kiss, let the moment blossom naturally.


It's better to wait than to kiss her at the wrong time. If she is sad, or angry, or otherwise bothered by something, a first kiss may not be the way to distract her. Kiss her when she's in a good mood and receptive to being kissed.

