 To stop the green beans from cooking after you boil them, you need to place them in an ice water bath. Find a bowl that’s large enough to hold ½ pound (227 g) of green beans and fill it with cold water and some ice.Make sure to place the bowl close to the stove so you can quickly place the green beans in it after you’ve finished cooking them.;
, Add 2 cups (473 ml) of low-sodium chicken broth to a large saucepan. Heat the broth on the stove over high heat until it comes to a boil, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.You can use homemade chicken broth in place of a store-bought version if you prefer.
 Once the broth comes to a boil, place the ½ pound (227 g) of trimmed green beans into the pan. Let the beans cook until they are tender, which should take approximately 5 minutes.If the pan seems like it might boil over, lower the heat slightly to reduce the boil.
 When the beans are cooked, use a slotted spoon to lift them out of the boiling water. Immediately, place them in the bowl of ice water to stop the beans from cooking., Allow the beans to cool completely in the ice water, which should take 10 to 15 minutes. When they’re cooled, drain them in a colander and gently pat dry with a clean towel.When the green beans are dry, place them in a bowl and set them aside for the moment.
 Add a large egg and ½ cup (118 g) of milk to a shallow bowl. Whisk the two together until they’re completely blended.It’s best to use whole or at least 2% milk in the batter.
 Place a second shallow bowl beside the egg and milk mixture. Fill it with ½ cup (50 g) of instant flour.Instant flour is a finely milled flour that helps give the green bean fries’ coating a flakier texture.
If you don’t have instant flour, you can substitute all-purpose flour.
 In a third shallow bowl, combine the remaining ½ cup (50 g) of instant flour, 1 cup (90 g) of breadcrumbs, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of onion powder, 1 teaspoon (⅓ g) of garlic powder, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Stir the ingredients together with a fork so they’re well blended.You can use plain or seasoned breadcrumbs depending on your preference.
You can add other spices or seasonings to the breadcrumb mixture if you like. Paprika and chili powder are some options to consider.
 To have a place to set the green beans down once they are coated in the batter, place a baking sheet beside the stove. Line it with parchment paper so the beans won’t stick to it.You can substitute silicone baking mat for the parchment paper.
 When you’re ready to start coating the green bean fries, place the beans in the bowl with the plain flour. Mix the beans with the flour until they are fully coated.Make sure to shake off the excess flour from the green beans so you don’t get clumps when you add the rest of the coating.
 Once the green beans are coated with flour, dunk them in the egg mixture. Next, toss them in the breadcrumb mixture until they are well coated.Allow the excess egg mixture to drip off the green beans before coating them with the breadcrumbs.
 After the green bean fries are coated, place them on the lined baking sheet. If you plan to fry the beans, cover the cookie sheet with plastic wrap and chill them in the freezer until the coating is set, which should take approximately 30 minutes.If you plan to bake the green bean fries, you don’t need to chill them. You can go right to cooking them.
 Fill a deep, heavy-bottomed pot with 3-inches (8-cm) of peanut oil. Heat the oil on the stove over medium until a deep fry thermometer registers 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius).You can substitute vegetable oil for the peanut oil if you prefer.
If you don’t have a deep fry thermometer, you can use a candy thermometer.
Be careful when heating the oil. If it gets too hot, it can splatter and burn the skin.
 Once the oil reaches the right temperature, add the green bean fries to the pot in batches. Allow the green bean fries to cook until they are golden brown, which should take 1 to 2 minutes.Use a wooden spoon to gently move the beans around as they’re frying to ensure that they cook evenly.
 When the fries are finished cooking, use a slotted spoon to carefully remove them from the oil. Transfer them to a paper towel-lined plate to absorb some of the excess oil., When the green bean fries are drained, place them on a serving platter. Pair them with ranch dressing or your favorite dipping sauce, and serve while they are still warm.Simple ketchup also works well with green bean fries, as do spicier dipping sauces, such as sriracha mayonnaise.
 To ensure that the oven is warm enough to bake the green bean fries, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully preheat., Place the baking sheet with the fries in the heated oven. Allow the fries to cook until they are crispy and golden brown, which should take 15 to 20 minutes.Halfway through the cooking time, turn the fries over to ensure that they bake evenly.
 When the fries are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Place them on a large platter or plate, and serve while they are still warm.Any leftover baked green bean fries can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 4 days.

