 White fabric scraps of all sorts can be easily transformed into ghosts. You don’t even need to sew them: you can just cut out squares of fabric and drape or tie them into your desired shapes.



One popular method is to scrunch up newspaper into your desired ghosty shape, drape a piece of felt or fabric overtop of it, tie the fabric with twine to form the ghost’s “head”, and then draw a ghosty face on it.
Use white fabric scraps to make ghost cut-outs to turn into pictures or bunting. You can also sew little white scraps of fabric into finger puppets, or stick them on to empty toilet rolls to make ghosts.
 Use card stock, construction paper, or simple white printer paper and transform it into ghosts of all sorts, including ghost pictures or cut-outs, ghost collages, and ghost bunting or garlands.


You can also cut out a large ghost shape from cardboard and use it as the base for a collage.
 Drape white or off-white bedsheets over objects around your house to give the impression of ghosts.


You can also make your room look like a room in an old haunted mansion by covering nearly all of your furniture in sheets and then putting spiderwebs in the corners.
You might even add a skull and/or a crystal ball to a table, and play some creepy Halloween sounds in the room.



Start by creating a frame for your ghost’s shape. Stack two cups vertically end to end (with the rims facing out), and place a small balloon on top. Lay down some newspaper or a plastic bag beneath this to catch any liquid that follows from the cloth as it dries.
Cut 8 inches of cheesecloth. If the ends are ragged, all the better, as this will make your ghost look more creepy and old. Off-white and beige cheesecloths are good choices.
Soak the cheesecloth in fabric stiffener. Use a bowl for this. Make sure the cheesecloth is well coated before you take it out.
Remove the cheesecloth from the bowl of fabric stiffener and immediately place it over the balloon-cup frame. It should take roughly 10 minutes to dry.
Once the cloth is dry, pop the balloon by poking a pin through the cheesecloth. This will leave you with a hardened ghost shape.
Now you can decorate your ghost in any way you want. When you’re happy with it, pull some fishing line, thread, or twine through the top of the ghost and hang it up.



Bend the hook of the hanger so that it’s straight, then gently push the styrofoam head down onto it. Now it’ll look like a head sitting on top of shoulders.
Drape white fabric over the head and hanger, and then adjust the fabric until you’re happy with how it looks, cutting it to make it look more ragged, or bulking it up in places to make it look more like a person’s figure.
If you want you can add long wire arms to the hanger and then put stuff white latex gloves at the ends of the “arms” to make it look more like a person.
Once you’re happy with how it looks, hang it up by tying fishing line around its neck and fastening it to your ceiling or anywhere else you like.
You can find styrofoam heads at most Halloween supply shops, but also some beauty supply and craft shops.

