 For this pattern, you need a single color to make up the base of the bracelet and one additional color to add the polka dots. The bracelet base will be created using the “striped bracelet” method and the polka dots will be sewn on afterwards.
 Cut your string into four pieces measuring 24” long. Tie these in a knot at the end, and then braid a section 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) long to act as one tie for the bracelet. Make a second knot at the end of the braid, and then tape or pin the strings to a table or your pant leg.
 Lay your strings out flat, leaving a bit of space between each piece. Start on the left side and tie basic knots across each string by laying your first string in an “L” shape over the string directly to the right. This should create a “4” shape. Take the end of this string and loop it underneath the string to the right, pulling the end through the center. This should create a loop around the 2nd string, which you should pull taut to the top of the strings. Repeat steps to finish the knot.
 The string you started with should now be on the right hand side. Take the second string and repeat the same pattern that you started with the first. Create a “4” shape on the string to its right, thread the end through the center, and pull the string taut to the base. Do this with the second string all the way across the remaining strings until there are none left. Continue the pattern by rotating the strings from the left to the right by tying knots.









Keep the pattern up until the bracelet has reached a length long enough to wrap around your wrist. Then, tie a knot and braid 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm) of the remaining string before tying and additional knot and cutting off the excess string.
 To give your bracelet polka dots, you will be using the French knot style from embroidery. Thread a needle with the color of string you’ve chosen for your polka dots. Tie a knot at the base, and pull it up through the bottom of the bracelet where you would like your first knot to be.









Pull the thread all the way through, and then bring the needle back to the base of the string. Wrap the needle around the string (as it is being held taut) so that it spirals around the needle 3 times.













Place the needle at a point in your bracelet very near the origin of your thread, but don’t pull it through. Then, pull the spiral of string tight to the bottom of the needle and pinch it above the fabric while pulling the needle all the way through. Finish the knot by tying it off on the underside of the bracelet. Add as many polka dot knots as you would like.
 Tie the bracelet around your wrist and show it off.








