 If your loved one agrees to treatment, it may not be easy for them. Many people with ASPD have no empathy or a lack of feelings. This can make it difficult for them when they start getting in touch with their feelings or trying to navigate emotions. Offer love and support for your loved one as they go through this process.Treatment may be challenging for your loved one at times. They may get overwhelmed or upset, or they may get frustrated and want to quit. Continue encouraging them and being there as much as you can.
 As your loved one tries to uncover emotions and become more comfortable feeling them, they may go through a lot of emotional cycles. Be supportive of all these emotions because any emotion that isn’t anger or irritation is a good thing.For example, many people with ASPD end up feeling depressed for a short while. Help them to understand and identify that these emotions are connected to depression or sadness.
Be supportive of them during this time by understanding, listening, and helping them in any way they need to.
 One thing that may be done to help your loved one is to work on building an emotional connection. Most people with ASPD have few emotionally significant relationships in their lives. You may try to build an emotional connection with your loved one.You may need to work with a therapist to find ways to connect emotionally with your loved one.
You cannot make your loved one feel emotions or start to address their emotions. This has to be done with the help of a therapist. Once your loved one starts to embrace their emotions, you can start to try and connect to them.
 One way you can help your loved one learn to cope and accept their condition is to help them face the consequences of their actions. For a person with antisocial personality disorder, this is often extreme, like jail or through the legal system.


Make your loved one aware of the destructive behavior they are engaging in, like lying or stealing, getting into fights, or hurting their loved ones.

