 Of course, you know you can get this vitamin from places like oranges and other citrus, but it's in a wide variety of other foods, too. Try to include these healthy foods in your child's diet.Kale, collard greens, and spinach are excellent sources. Try putting them in a smoothie if your child won't eat them straight up.
You can also try bell peppers, strawberries, and papayas.
Vitamin C, as known as ascorbic acid, is a cofactor in a number of enzymatic reactions, is involved in the synthesis of collagen, and acts as an antioxidant. Linus Pauling, the famous Scientist and Author, popularized the use of Vitamin C as a holistic approach to boosting the immune system.;
, You'll find this vitamin in nuts, oils, meats, and eggs as well as green leafy vegetables like spinach and broccoli are also a good source., A deficiency in zinc also has an effect on the immune system, so incorporating it into your child's diet is important. Supplementing with zinc when you have a cold also decreases cold symptoms severity and duration. Meats are a good source of zinc. Oysters, in particular, are high in zinc, though if your child's palate isn't refined enough for oysters yet, you have plenty of other options.Meats, fortified cereals, crab, lobster, and baked beans are all rich in zinc.
Other sources that have some zinc include dairy products, cashews, chickpeas, almonds, and oatmeal.
These foods are also a great source of iron, another essential nutrient for your child's immune system. Broccoli, kale, and other dark, leafy greens also have iron. Pair vitamin C with iron to help your child’s body absorb it better.
Try zinc syrups and lozenges as well to supplement your zinc intake.
 Selenium can also play a vital role in keeping up the immune system.Beef, eggs, seafood, kidney, liver, and other types of meat are all good sources of selenium, so if your child is getting enough protein, they are likely getting enough selenium.Other good sources of selenium include cheese, oatmeal, brown rice, enriched pasta, spinach, baked beans, whole-wheat bread, and fortified cereal.
Selenium acts as an antioxidant and serves as cofactor in the production of thyroid hormone. Selenium is found to be in high concentration in immune system organs such as the liver, spleen, and lymph nodes. It is believed to have an immune function.
In one study it was found that CD4 positive T cells had a linear relationship with selenium. These results show that the progressive deprivation of serum selenium in HIV-infection is associated with loss of CD(4+)-cells and with increased levels of markers of disease progression and inflammatory response., You've probably heard that vitamin A plays a role in maintaining good eyesight. You may not know that it's also helpful in maintaining your child's immune system because it provides antioxidants.Carrots, butternut squash, pumpkin, cantaloupe, and sweet potatoes are good sources of vitamin A.
Supplementation with Vitamin A is recommended by the WHO because of its beneficial effects on immunity. Further, research has been conducted to focus on the immune dysfunctions that are a consequence of vitamin A deficiency and that predispose people to further infection.
 Vitamin B6 is essential to many systems in your body, as it is one key to the numerous chemical reactions that keep your body functioning. One of those essential functions is helping to maintain you and your child's immune system.Good news! Bananas are high in vitamin B6. Other good sources include tuna, chicken breast, baked potatoes, and chickpeas.
 Folic acid helps boost your child's immune system response.It's found in foods like beans, peas, and dark, leafy greens. Whole grains are also usually high in folic acid, as well as fortified foods like cereals., Basically, the key is to create a balanced diet for your child. Incorporate dairy, beans and peas, fruits and veggies, and protein sources. Don't forget to focus on whole grains as much as possible, such as whole-wheat bread, whole-wheat pasta, oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, bulgar, and buckwheat.