 One way to deal with someone who fact checks during your conversation is to just ignore it. Letting it go may be the easiest way to deal with it since you won't have to confront someone. Accepting that the person is going to fact check may help you move on from your frustration and ignore them.


Whenever you are around the person, repeat to yourself, "Let it go. It doesn't matter that they fact check. It has nothing to do with me and my part of the conversation.";
, Sometimes, people fact check to prove others wrong, especially if they believe others are always providing incorrect details. To help the other person feel confident in what you say, only provide information that you know is correct.If you know you are going to have a conversation about current events, history, pop culture, or other topics, do some research beforehand.
If you are unsure about whether your point or idea is true, consider not voicing it around the person who fact checks everything.
If you do introduce a subject that you're uncertain about, make sure to let the other person know that you are not completely familiar with that topic. You can say something like, "I've heard some people say this before, but I haven't looked into it much myself."

, If you feel uncomfortable suggesting that the other person put away their phone, try setting an example. Make a show of putting your phone on silent or slipping it into your pocket or bag.This gives the other person a cue that you are not on your phone, so maybe they will be less likely to be on theirs.
 You may want to make a show of leaving when the person gets on their phone. You can make it a habit to excuse yourself whenever they get on their phone to show you think that being on the phone is a private not social activity.For example, if you are talking to the person and they pull out their cell phone, say, “I see you’re busy on your phone. We can pick this conversation up later.”
If they say they are just checking facts, you can still end the conversation. You might say, “When you finish your business on your phone, you can find me and we can finish our conversation.”

