 You need to research where you are going, the flight times and prices for airlines, and which documents you need to take with you. Plan out your itinerary carefully. Some cities, like London or Paris, really need a week to see what they have to offer. Travel times also need to be taken into consideration. Traveling by train can take longer than traveling by car.;
, Fodor's, Rick Steves, and the Michelin guides are all excellent places to start. Make sure you have the most up-to-date guide book for the area of the world you intend to visit. Some are updated every year. Others are updated every other year, or every few years. A good guidebook is a $15-20 investment that can save a lot of headache.


Don't be afraid to rip it up and staple together only the pieces you need. A well-kept guidebook might make a nice souvenir, but it may not be worth the extra weight of carrying around information that you don't need.
 Before going on the trip, research what is and is not acceptable in your destination. When you arrive, observe how others act in person. Remember: some things are okay for locals to do, but not for tourists to do.
 This is just polite. Even if you struggle with it, the locals will appreciate that you've at least tried their language instead of rudely asking "Do you speak English?" (Or whatever your native tongue happens to be.) If you use the native language to ask for something, expect the reply to be in that language and at normal conversational speed – which is going to be faster than the audio lessons you learned. This is not to say that you shouldn't learn some basic greetings and questions. You should, however, be ready for the responses.
 Memorize it and note each of the places you will be visiting. Keep your map safe and dry. If you have access to a laptop or a smartphone (with data), you may not expressly need a physical map – but it is still usually smart to carry one as a backup.
 Examples include the "dropped ring" scam, the "fake petition," and friendship bracelets tied on your wrist by aggressive vendors. Also be aware of other common crimes, especially pickpocketing. TSA approved travel locks and money belts are both helpful, especially in areas where pickpocketing is extremely common.


The infamous #64 bus in Rome, for instance, is popular with pickpockets because it's the only bus in Rome that hits all of the popular tourist destinations. It's usually packed with tourists, and thick with thieves.
Know what each local coin and bill is worth. For example, in Panama, everything is tied to the US dollar, so money comes in the same size, denomination, and material. In the UK, you'll find 1p, 2p, 5p, 10p, 20p, 50p, £1, and £2 coins, as well as 5, 10, 20, and 50 pound notes. By knowing your denominations and specifying how much you are handing over, you can help avoid another common scam: intentionally incorrect change.

