 Consult a friend or teacher who speaks Spanish fluently, and have them help you pronounce the words. Have him or her say "escuela secondaria", or whichever term for high school that you are learning, slowly, several times.


If you do not have access to a native Spanish speaker, go online to Google translate. Type in the words "high school". "Escuela secondaria" or "el liceo" will appear on the right hand side. Under the words, there is a black speaker. Hover your mouse over the speaker, and it will say “listen”. Click on the speaker to listen to the correct pronunciation of the words. If you are giving a presentation in Spanish, use the above resources to learn how to talk about high school in complete sentences.
 Try to imitate the Spanish speaker or recording. Start with the first word: "escuela". This is the word for school. It is pronounced, es-que-la.


Practice saying the word a few times, aloud, at a normal volume. Get feedback from the teacher or native speaker as to whether you are pronouncing the word correctly. If you do not have an expert to work with, work on your pronunciation in front of a friend. Have them listen to the recording and tell you whether your pronunciation is correct. They will be able to hear more accurately whether your pronunciation is correct.
 "Secundaria" means secondary, in English. "Secundaria" is pronounced how it is spelled: sec-oon-dah-ree-a. Repeat the above steps with the word secundaria.
 If you have trouble pronouncing particular sounds, watch and take notes on a Youtube video that goes through all of the sounds in the Spanish alphabet. This can be a great refresher for anyone who is practicing their pronunciation. Additionally, this will help you prefect your understanding of separate sounds in Spanish.
 Write down what you want to say in Spanish. Practice aloud with another person.


Practice with someone who also speaks Spanish. Go back in forth in conversation about high school until you feel comfortable speaking about high school in Spanish.

