 Your advertising will be most effective if you can create a good first impression with those who call. Good preparation should also show through in your ads.


Choose the subject(s) you will tutor. If possible, select subjects relating to your own expertise, subject of study, or professional experience.
Consider the age range with which you'd like to work. Second graders and high school juniors will have widely varying levels and needs.
Get some experience tutoring, formally if possible. See if your local library has an adult literacy program. Look for volunteer tutoring opportunities in your area and find out whether any offer tutor training. Or, tutor somebody you know, such as a neighbor or family member.

Write a resumé of your tutoring experience and related education. Don't forget volunteer experience, such as helping a classmate, sibling, or child. You can show this list of qualifications to prospective customers or their parents. Even if you don't show it to them, it will help to prepare you to promote your services and answer calls.
Consider taking classes or training in how to teach. There is more to it than knowing the subject you'll teach. You also have to know about how to motivate students and explain things.
Decide how much you will charge. Evaluate your credentials and experience, and find out what others in your area charge.
;
, If you will go to the students, don't forget to factor in travel time. If the students will come to you, make sure you are comfortable having them at your home.
 Besides being a simple and inexpensive way to spread the word, personal contacts and word of mouth are very powerful and persuasive advertising tools. People tend to trust people they know. Also send these cards and brochures to school counseling offices to let them know about your service. Often they will mention your service to teachers, especially if you mention recommendations from parents and students.
 Depending on the agency, be prepared that you may have to demonstrate at least basic academic credentials, such as having a college degree. Also be aware that these agencies take a cut, so you will make less per session than you might freelancing. Also find out what they have in their contracts for non-competition clauses. That said, they can be a good way to build your tutoring experience. But you must also keep in mind that many of these agencies take a very large percentage. You might be much better striking off on your own.
 This and various other on-line services match up tutors and students. If you go with such a service, read the fine print and find out what the fees and restrictions may be. Keep in mind that you may not meet your students personally this way, nor necessarily have long-term contact with them.
 Notice what gets your attention and what doesn't. Notice what's persuasive and what's just ho-hum. Also, if you can, try to get an idea of what other tutors with similar credentials are charging for their time.
 Aim to catch attention, then demonstrate value. Mention your credentials and focus on results. Don't forget to include some information about what subjects and ages you can teach. One approach might begin: "'Jessica' raised her math grade from C to A; you(r child) can, too. Ask me how!"

, A classified ad will read differently than a flyer, for instance. Have somebody proofread your ads. Even if English is your strong point, you can still miss things in your own writing, and you want to come across as professionally as possible.
 Try these options:


The local classified ad pamphlet that comes around in the mail once a week
The classified section in the newspaper

Flyers at local supermarkets, libraries, campuses, etc.
You can advertise your services FREE on local.yahoo.com.

