 This is the least common form of attempting to extend a patent. Congress may not grant your request unless you have very convincing evidence for doing so. You also may need strong support from the community or a special interest group with persuasive lobbyists on your side.


Congress extended the copyright of works to 95 years over the original 75 in 1998. This was due mainly to influential corporations like the Walt Disney Company lobbying for the modification.Keep the kind of influence you may require in mind when you decide to send a bill requesting a patent extension through Congress on your behalf.
 Do some research on representatives in your area or someone you think would want to sponsor you in extending your patent. You will need to convince him or her that there is a very important reason you must extend your patent. It is best if they have a record of supporting the type of invention you have or are connected in some way to that field.


Only a member of Congress can propose private legislation to the legislative body.
 It’s a good idea to do as much of the legwork as possible before approaching your representative. Your bill should be written in legal language and go over the reasons your patent should be granted an extension. You can check existing bills on the Congress website to get an idea what a bill looks like. It might be helpful to consult with a patent attorney when you're writing this as legalese can be difficult to master.Create a preamble. This is an introduction and general overview about your patent, the date it will expire and an explanation of why you need an extension on your patent.
Write up a body clause. This is the meat of your biIl and contains clauses that show what action needs to be taken—in this case, you want your patent to be extended.
Finish with an enactment clause. This tells when you want the bill to take effect. This will be the day your patent is due to expire.
Know that bills which need to take effect in 90 days or less will need 2/3 majority vote, while those that take effect after that time period will only require a majority vote. Send your bill in as early as possible., Contact your representative by phone or email. Many have websites where you can fill out a form to submit your case. Be sure to ask what the process is like and when you can expect to hear back.
 If your patent is important to certain groups or not extending it could cause harm, then look for someone with contacts to represent you. Lobbyist groups can put pressure on Congress to extend your patent. In order to do this, you need to have a good cause with far-reaching effects if your patent is not extended.
 The legislative process can take time. It must go through multiple committees before the house will vote on it. After that, it must be signed in. The length of time this will take varies and is something you should discuss with your sponsor.

