 This is increasingly becoming the standard in ATMs at bank branches, and it is becoming more common in other locations. Look for notices on the screen or on the machine itself.No-envelope ATMs usually have clearly-marked, separate slots for checks and cash.
Insert your card, enter your PIN, and follow the prompts to make a deposit. The ATM will verify at some point whether you can make no-envelope deposits.
 You will not need a deposit slip for a no-envelope transaction.


You may want to add up the total dollar amount of your check deposits beforehand, in order to compare to the total tabulated by the ATM. You will be able to go through deposited checks individually if there is a discrepancy.
 Many machines can read the checks regardless of orientation, but it can’t hurt to stack your checks neatly and facing in the same direction.


You do not need to feed the checks individually at most newer machines. The maximum number of checks you can feed at once should be displayed on the screen or machine; one national bank chain states a maximum of 30 checks at once., You should be able to go through checks individually and make corrections if needed.


Many machines offer the option of printing an image of the front of your check(s) on your receipt. Use this option if you’d like an added layer of proof of deposit for your records.
Rejected checks -- those with unreadable printing or handwriting, for instance -- should be returned to you at the end of your transaction. Contact the bank if this does not happen.
 One common maximum for a stack of cash is 50 bills.Again, the machine should be able to read cash in any direction, but a neat stack can only speed the process.
Unlike envelope deposits, where they can be deposited together, cash and checks will need to be deposited in separate transactions. Deposit one, indicate you’d like to make another transaction when prompted on the screen, then deposit the other.
 This will vary by financial institution.


One advantage of non-envelope cash deposits is that the money is immediately available in your account because it has been scanned and confirmed. Envelope cash deposits, on the other hand, need to be opened, counted, and entered. If you need to add funds to your account right away and don’t have access to a bank branch, a non-envelope cash deposit may be your best bet.
Check deposits will still require time to clear after being posted; one national bank considers non-envelope check deposits made by 8 pm to be posted that business day, and it should clear on the second business day after (posted Monday, cleared Wednesday, for example).