 Make a list of the clothing already owned. Combine all exceptional outfits to come up with new looks.


Match existing casual outfits and mix with jackets, enabling these to be worn to work as well as to an event.






Jeans and a t-shirt are sufficient for errands and housework. Jeans with heels or elegant shoes suddenly look more up-market.






Create three different outfits for evening wear using existing clothes. Challenge yourself to doing this.





;
, Improve how they look by adding embellishments, making them fit better or removing sleeves or legs from them. If you have the time and skill, make some new accessories from materials already owned.


Make a scarf, hat and mittens from a sweater.






Make a purse, cosmetic bag, lunch bag and tote bag.
 Research online before shopping at a mall.
 Buy things that are out of season (not necessarily out of fashion). They will be cheaper as no one will need them during that season.
 Not only is it simple and more affordable but it will mix and match with many items, with ease. Additionally, buy some cool scarves that can be worn with anything, to dress up plainer clothing.
 Choose black or brown with a slight heel.
 Accentuate with earrings or a necklace. Bracelets may not always be needed.
 When you feel good, you will look good too.


Look for durability. Double check a clearance price.






Buy what suits you and not the latest fashion.






Buy the right size. Clothes should glide over your body. Try a larger size. Generally, we all increase in size as we age.
 A person needs at least one coat in their wardrobe, now if you're going to go for just one then black would certainly advised. It is elegant, and you could always wear it to those important events.


Try either a single button or double breasted buttoned coat. If you want to stand out from the crowd, then change the buttons. You can totally transform a look by changing the buttons. For a smart look, gold buttons are great, or silver antique finished ones.






Experiment with colors. A great thing about winter coats is that there are so many awesome colored coats out there that can make you stand out from the crowd.
 This totally depends on you, as there are different jackets that suit different people. So, if you wear tunics or dresses and you want to go for a classic look, then a "boyfriend blazer" would suit you.


Alternatively, shop for a faux leather jacket. Black would be the best option for color, it suits everything. This will add a rocky edge to any outfit.


If you wear tee shirts, choose plain but good quality ones.






Find one piece of nice knitwear. Long cardigans are very nice. These look great teamed up with a simple t-shirt or tunic/dress.
 Buy formal wear that coordinates well with less informal items in your wardrobe.


Buy a matching top and skirt.






Buy a matching top and sweater.






Buy a matching vest and pants.







