 Hydrochloric, or muriatic, acid, is a strong, corrosive acid. In high concentrations, it can be used to remove chrome plating from metal objects. For removing chrome, an acid solution of about 30-40% concentration should suffice. Proceed as below:


Mix 1/3 part hydrochloric acid to 1 part water in a vat used for chemical mixtures (like a heavy-duty plastic bucket, etc.) to produce a 30% acid solution. Alternatively, purchase a pre-mixed acid solution of sufficient concentration.
Submerge the chrome-plated object in the solution until chrome strips off.
Wash the object thoroughly in soap and water, and rinse before drying.
 Sodium hydroxide, commonly called lye, is a caustic, highly basic chemical. It can dissolve several types of metal plating, including chrome, but reacts dangerously with water and aluminum, corroding the aluminum itself and producing flammable hydrogen gas. Thus, it should only be used on items that do not use aluminum as a base material. Proceed as below:


Mix 8 to 12 fl ounces (about 227 ml to 355 ml) of sodium hydroxide with 1 gallon (3.785 L) of water in a vat made of neutral material (like a heavy-duty plastic bucket).
Soak the chrome-plated object in solution until chrome comes off. This may take a fairly long time, so frequently check on your item's progress.
Wash the object thoroughly in soap and water, and rinse before drying.
 Chrome is affixed to metal through the process of electroplating, in which electric current is used to bind chrome to the metal at a molecular level. By reversing this process, chrome plating can be removed extremely effectively. However, doing so can be extremely dangerous. Not only does the process involve a live electric current, but also produces several toxic, carcinogenic chemicals as products of the reaction. Hexavalent chromium, for instance, is one extremely dangerous product. Thus, this process is best left to professionals - the steps below are for informative purposes only.


Mix chromic acid and sulfuric acid in water in an approximately 100:1 ratio. For example, you may add 33 oz. (936 grams) of chromic acid crystals and .33 oz. (9.36 milliliter) of sulfuric acid fluid to distilled water to make 1 gallon (3.79 liter). Mix solution in a proper immersion tank used for electroplating, materials testing, and/or chemical treatments.
Heat the solution. Keep the temperature of the solution from 95 to 115 degrees Fahrenheit (35 to 46 degrees Celsius) for decorative chrome. Keep temperature from 120 to 150 degrees Fahrenheit (49 to 66 degrees Celsius) for hard chrome.
Run a negative charge from a DC power source through the chromic plating solution via wire.
Attach the positive cathode to object intended for stripping and submerge the object into the solution. The positively charged exterior chrome metal will be pulled from the object.
Rinse object in agitating running water, then rinse again. Have waste products professionally processed and disposed of.

