 (http://www.spreaker.com/) Create an account (it's free for basic, you have to pay for premium). Before you choose a username think about it. Use your own name, or your DJ Name or The podcast's name.;
, You are able to connect to your facebook account (optional) if you wish to share your episodes to your friends. You are ready to record. Click the 'Broadcast' tab at the top to start. Name the episode you are going to play for example my podcast plays metal music, so I come up with names like 'LOUD NOIZE'. Catchy names are best if you want to get spotted. You can choose what show you want then. Always click the more options before you broadcast. This Involves adding tags (key words so people can find it when searching), the description (mention famous artists you're gonna play on the show e.g Pop music; Kanye West, Rihanna or Rock music; AC/DC, Iron Maiden), and you can change the show you want the episode to appear in. (An episode is part of the show.) The default name for the show is 'My First Radio Show'. If you want to change this you can click add new show. You can use an image for this to make it look interesting!

, Once you've filled out your details and description you have a choice to upload a recorded podcast you recorded recently or broadcast live. If you want to upload make sure the full podcast is a full .mp3 or .wav. If you are uploading make sure you select the 'Upload Podcast' button next to the 'Create An Episode' Title. If you are broadcasting live then you won't need to do this and can continue to the big 'Broadcast' button below your options.
 This is like software but online instead of installing anything. This is easier and quicker. Hardware you will need. A Microphone if you wish to talk in the episode will obviously be needed. Most laptops have their own built in mic. You must obviously find this and speak into that. This is not as clear as plug in hardware so separate hardware is recommended.If you own a copy of the game 'Rock Band TM' or 'Guitar Hero TM' then they might have come with these microphones in the packs. If you don't you would be able to buy then in gaming or electronic stores for a reasonable price. If you have a different mic at home that connects fine you are free to use it. NOTE: Connect the mic before you click the 'Broadcast' button.
 NOTE: The one disadvantage of the basic mode is that broadcasting live can only be up to 30 minutes and your music library must be under 1 hour. (The 30 minutes does not count if you are uploading a podcast, only if you are live). Upload the necessary music (make sure the site supports the format) for one episode. When finished recording, delete the songs in your library and upload new ones for the next episode. This won't affect anything. Upload the music files straight from your drive or if it's not your laptop or computer, plug in your mp3 player of music and upload from that (the files you upload to Spreaker are not uploaded to your drive). Getting back to the point of it being 30 minutes long, if you upgrade to premium you get 3 hours but the basic is free and you get 30 minutes.


Spreaker have deals though! If you do certain things like invite friends from facebook to spreaker you'll get premium free for 1 month.
 Once all has been uploaded go to the 'Latest' tab on the adding music area and add the songs you've uploaded. Now you are ready to go on air. Drag the song you want onto the decks provided and test your mic.
 Speak into the mic and then introduce the song. Then click play on the deck. Make sure you mute the mic deck while playing a song! You don't your listeners to hear people talking in the background.
 This is optional but for more listeners it's recommended. You also add sound FX for comedy while you talk. There is a chat box too in the bottom right hand corner in the tool and when you listen so you and your listeners can chat.
 If you want to stop the podcast all together just click the 'record' button.


When recording live the timer will come to the limit of the break and stop recording and play the commercial break, then go back to you. Watch the timer and make sure the times are evened out.
 When you've clicked the 'record' button to stop (or your time runs out), you will exit the tool and be brought back to the normal looking site. It will let you preview, edit the details, download or delete the podcast. Remember to click save (if there is a save button) or all your work will go to waste!

, First visit other people shows or accounts who play similar music to you and follow them. Then go to the chat box of there episode and say to all the listeners..'Come Listen to my show, I Play similar music to this guy!' and eventually people will see and say yeah this guy is good. They will follow you and listen more often.

