


Recommended: a new snow blower scraper and new drive belt. They are usually sold as part of a kit with the rubber paddles and are essential to satisfactory snow removal.
A friend or family member is not required, but they can be very helpful when working through some of the more tedious steps.
Make sure to have the safety glasses and rubber gloves on at all times to prevent any particulates from getting into your eyes and/or from getting into cuts in your skin.;
, It is important to keep your hands and feet away from the rubber paddles until you remove the spark plug, even when it is turned off.


Turning the key to the off position may temporally disable the snow blower, but it does not guarantee the snow blower is safe to work on because it can still easily start up while you are working on it.
 Unscrew the three bolts that hold on the snow chute on. Use one wrench to hold the nut still while using another wrench on the head of the bolt to unscrew it.
 Unscrew the bolts holding on the control panel. Then gently pull the entire control panel backwards and swing it off to one side to rest.
 Locate the two or more screws holding the cover on and use the Philips head screw driver to remove them.
 Unscrew the gas gap and gently lift the engine cover off the frame of the snow blower. Be sure to go back and securely screw the gas cap back on before going onto the next step.
 The spark plug wire is the black wire prominently located on the ribbed part of the engine, gently disconnect the spark plug wire from the spark plug.


The snow blower can cause serious harm if starts up while you are working on the paddles. Disconnecting the spark plug wire helps prevent the engine from accidentally running while your hands are near the paddles.
Do not yank on the spark plug wire, if it is stuck take the snow blower to a professional.
 Do not skip this step! Using the spark plug socket and 3/8 socket wrench carefully unscrew and remove the spark plug.


There are many documented cases of engines with only disconnected spark plug wires sputtering on for just long enough to dismember the individual working on it, therefore to make the snow blower safe to work on it is crucial that you remove the spark plug.
 Making sure the gas tank engine cap is on tightly, place the handle of the snow blower on the ground to tilt the rubber paddles upwards.
 Use one wrench on the bolt head to hold it still while using another wrench to take the nut off.


If they are stuck on try using some WD-40. Spray it onto the bolts and wait five minutes before coming back to break the bolts free.
 They are the black "star" shaped bolts located at each end of both rubber paddles. Use the torx 25 bit with bit socket wrench to unscrew the torx bolts while holding the nut still with the appropriate wrench.
 Be sure that the solid rubber side of the paddles is facing the side that will be in contact with the snow before placing them into their assembly.
 Being sure to keep the nut on the side that will not be touching the snow, insert and tighten down the center attachment bolts as tight as you possibly can. Attach and secure the other new rubber paddle according to the last step and this step before going onto the next step.


If you do not believe you can tighten the bolts down enough get a friend or family member to help you do it, it is better to be safe then sorry.
 Spray WD-40 onto the threads of each torx bolt and then work them into their respective holes on all the rubber paddles.
 Align and place the torx bolts into their respective holes so that you can then clamp a vice grip down in between those two torx bolts.
 Keeping the torx bolt nut to one side of the other vice grip, secure the vice grips down onto the nut.


Doing this "arbitrary" step prevents a lot of difficulties when trying to line up the torx bolt with the nut in the next step.
 Initially threading the torx bolt onto its nut can be difficult but using the nut held into place with the vice grips instead of a wrench makes this step much easier.
 While using the torx bit in the bit socket wrench use the appropriate wrench on the nut to tighten the torx bolt down as much as you can. Make sure for the rest of the torx bolts your secure the end of the paddle you are working on, initially threading the torx bolts with the vice grips, and tighten down each torx bolts using the wrench.


If you are having a hard time getting the bolts tight it would be wise to have a family member or friend do it for you, it is better to be safe then sorry.
 The scraper is located on the bottom of the snow blower, just underneath the rubber paddles, and all you need to do is remove three screws to pull it off.


It is recommend that you replace the scraper at the same time as the rubber paddles, they work in tandem and it will allow for a much better snow removal when you are done.
If they are corroded on, try spraying some WD-40 onto them. Spray it onto the bolts and wait five minutes before coming back to break the bolts lose.
If they break off while removing them get some replacement ones at your local hardware store.
 After attaching the new scrapper onto its guide rail, use the appropriate screws and nuts to tightly attach the new scraper.
 It is usually located on the left side of the snow blower and is secured in place with bolts located at each corner.
 Push down on the belt idler pulley, the brushed metal plate that holds the belt on and gently pull the belt off biggest pulley before taking it off any other pulley.
 Wrap one end of the new belt around the smallest pulley in the compartment, making sure the white letters are facing outwards. Then place the other end of the belt underneath the idler pulley, the wheel in the middle, before wrapping it around the largest pulley. Make sure to put the belt is under the belt idler pulley, the brushed meal plate, before going onto the next step.


Make sure the lettering on the belt is facing outwards. Doing so ensures that the fibers in the belt take the stress and not the rubber, preventing the belt from snapping under stress.
 Be sure that all bolts are securely in place.
 Do so by lifting up on the handles so that rubber auger paddles are resting on the ground.
 Be sure to that it smoothly follows the threads as it goes in.


If you feel the spark plug get stuck, gently screw it back out and try again. If you forcefully thread it on it will jump threads and you will never be able to get the spark plug out again.
Consider cleaning the spark plug with a metal brush before putting it back in, cleaning the electrode of the spark plug can make the engine run smoother.
 Use the spark plug socket with 3/8 socket wrench to snugly, but not forcefully, tighten the spark plug down.
, After removing the the gas cap, place the engine cover back on the snow blower and then thread the gas cap back on before going onto the next step.
 Using the appropriate screws, screw the engine cover back down, though be careful not to forcefully tighten them down.
 Using the same nuts and bolts you took off, attach the snow chute back onto the snow blower.
 Place the control panel back in its framework and secure it in place by snugly screwing the bolts you took out back into it.
 Congratulations on the the improved snow blower, it is ready to get back to work!

