 Before getting into chair pose, you may want to stretch your shoulders. You'll be relying pretty heavily on your arms during chair pose, so loosening up your upper body may be helpful.Stretch one arm across the front of your body, using the other hand to pull your arm further. Then switch sides to stretch the other shoulder.Hold a towel behind your back, with one arm holding the towel above your shoulder and the other arm holding the towel at the small of your back.
Try to pull the towel up so that your lower hand's shoulder reaches up, then pull down. Switch sides so that each arm gets to be the top hand and the bottom hand.
Hold each stretch for as long as you comfortably can. A good rule of thumb is to hold stretches for 15 seconds and aim for two to four repetitions., Your glutes will likewise get a workout during chair pose. Holding a yoga position without first stretching the relevant muscle groups could cause discomfort or soreness, so make sure you stretch your glutes before you begin.Lie on your back and pull one knee towards your opposite shoulder until you feel the muscles in your buttocks stretch. Hold the stretch for 15 seconds and then switch, repeating two to four times for each side.Sit on the floor with your legs stretched out in front of you. Lift one leg over the other, planting the foot of the elevated leg just to the side of your straight leg (the knee of your elevated leg should be near your chest).
Pull the knee of your elevated leg closer towards your chest and hold it for 15 seconds. Then switch sides, repeating two to four times for each side.
 In addition to the muscles in your shoulders and glutes, your back and hips may also need to be warmed up. You'll want to make sure you're as limber as possible before you begin mountain pose or chair pose.Try to hold each stretch for 15 seconds and repeat so that each side gets two to four repetitions.


While sitting on a chair or bench, cross one ankle over the opposite knee and hold it with the opposite hand. Pull that knee up towards the opposite shoulder while turning your back into the stretch, then switch sides.Kneel on one knee, with the other foot placed ahead of you (with knee bent) for stability. Keeping your back straight, lean forward until you feel the front of your hip stretch, then switch sides.Stand a few feet behind a chair and hold the back of it for stability. While keeping your back straight, try to lower your body until you feel a stretch in your upper back (near the armpits).

