 You can get either single-page checks or duplicate checks. The duplicate checks give you a copy of the check you just wrote for your personal records, while the single-page checks offer only a single check without a copy for your records.Single page checks are usually best if you’re writing checks for most personal reasons, such as paying bills. Additionally, most banks offer a digital version of your check on their website, so you should be able to get an image of the check online if necessary.
Duplicate checks may be a better option if you have a business account. Your bookkeeper may want copies of the check so a hard copy of each check is filed away.
 You can get a variety of images on your checks, including characters, pictures, or different fonts and styles. It’s important to choose a check image and style that matches your checking needs.


If your checking account is mostly a personal account, you can have more fun with your check’s image. You may want to have images of your family members, logos of your favorite sports teams, or famous movie or television characters on your checks.
When choosing checks for a more professional account, you’d want to choose something that is personalized, but a little more professional. An embellished, but polished font or style may be a better choice than a cartoon character in this case.
 This way, you will be able to see how many boxes you should order. The final price is generally lower for larger quantities.If you write checks a lot, you may want to go ahead and order a large quantity of checks. They won’t go to waste and you will save money by ordering more.
For people who don’t use checks often, it may be a better idea to use smaller quantities. You can order checks in quantities as low as 100 if you don’t think you’ll use them up quickly.
 Before completing the order form for your checks, you’ll need to have these numbers available. You cannot order checks without these key identifying numbers.Your routing number should be at the bottom left-hand corner of your check. It is a nine-digit code on any checks. If you don’t have any checks from your initial set, you can contact the bank to get your routing number.
The account number should be to the right of the routing number. This account number should also be in your checkbook or written down somewhere else so you know what it is at all times.
 If you’re ordering checks online, they’ll need to be shipped to you. Most of the time, the shipping and handling charges should be relatively minimal or even free.Some online retailers will offer free shipping and handling. However, you want to verify that your check ordering company is reputable even if they offer an especially great deal.
If you are ordering checks through the third-party vendor from your bank, you can occasionally get the vendor to deliver directly to your bank. You may be able to pay less or even nothing in shipping and handling charges this way.
 Most likely, you will need to pay for your order online using a credit or debit card. This is especially true if you are out of checks and do not have a check available from a different account.


If you’re purchasing checks from your bank, you can usually pay for your checks out of your account. Check costs vary, but are usually not very expensive.
When buying from a vendor, you’ll have to pay for the checks directly, usually with a credit or debit card. Additionally, many first-time orders are given a discount.
A few banks refuse to honor checks printed by outside print houses. Inquire with your bank before ordering from someone else to verify whether this is the case.
 Some check and stationery printing firms will share your information with the direct mailers that send junk mail. You want to make sure that your information is not shared outside of the check company.


Many outside check companies have a small padlock icon on the check or on their website. This tells you that your personal information, as well as your checking account information, is usually secured.The Check Payment Systems Association (CSPA) also has a list of authorized check printing companies that are secured. Make sure your company is on this list before ordering checks from them.