 Talk in a calm, polite manner, but be firm in your voice and posture. Look straight ahead to enforce it. Tell the guests the activities that you will be doing, and any options they may have. Let them know what they can and can't do. Offer to answer questions.;
, Include rules that prevent destruction and frustration such as, "No hitting or pushing, no name-calling, no painting on the walls ,etc." Your list can be altered depending upon the nature of your guests.
 Include board games too. They are time consuming but interesting and fun.
 They can help to supervise. For example, set up a situation like: You take care of them for half an hour, and then we shift. The little kids can play other games, like games of their choice or organized games such as duck-duck-goose and, "house", or Monopoly. Meanwhile older kids can do something else.
 Never overreact. Instead, inquire what the problem is and take the right action, making the conflict end by forcing the fighters to make up. If particular people complain too much, ask them to stop.
, The best way would be to use them on a tile floor or covered table. Provide smocks for people to wear or ask them to bring old clothing.
 Ask everyone to line up and wash their hands. Now seat the guests as a table or on the tile floor so spills can be cleaned up easily.
 If they need help, offer to help them. Help them one by one, asking them what they would like. Much hassle will be saved this way.
 Let them take pictures with you. Talk to them nicely. This will make them feel better.
 While one or two of them supervise the little kids or they are close enough that you can all keep an eye, do things you would like, such as gossip, make up, singing contests, etc. The possibilities are endless.
 After everyone has brushed their teeth, inquire if they are hungry and tell them what to do if they need anything in the night. Make sure everyone is in bed so as to minimize distraction and play the movie.
 Serve the breakfast carefully, away from a carpet that can get stained easily and quickly.
 What were the good things you did? How could you improve? What were some problems? Make sure to improve.

