 Remember that people are quite busy and may not be able to make certain times for a prayer meeting. For example, It may be difficult to get people to come to an early morning or Friday night meeting. Try choosing a time that is convenient for people such as a Sunday afternoon or weekday evening.


Think about choosing a time when there is usually a mass scheduled. That way it’s a time that would normally be convenient for people.
A prayer meeting usually lasts about an hour, although you can adjust the time if desired.;
, Even if you want to host a prayer meeting outside of church you should keep the pastor involved. While others can lead the prayer meeting, it is important to keep the church leadership involved so that people respect the legitimacy of the prayer meeting.
 Usually prayer meetings will be held in a prayer room or other room at the church. You can also host small prayer meetings in other locations such as homes if you choose. Whatever the location, make sure it is ready to host the meeting and is a clean space for hosting prayers.
 Announce the meeting to the members of the congregation. Make an announcement at mass or send out letters and emails. Try to get as many people involved as you can to strengthen your prayers.
 Sometimes people are hesitant to join or try something new. Speak to people individually and encourage them to come to the meetings. Sometimes people need just a little push to join in.
 You may keep the entire group together for prayers. If you are a big group you can also split into smaller groups for prayer. Other options include asking specific individuals to pray for specific issues or asking two or three people to pray for a specific issue and then asking another two or three people to pray for a different issue.


You can also do a combination of formats such as beginning with everyone praying together and then allowing people to pray for personal issues in smaller groups.
 Planning will determine the difference between a vibrant, effective prayer meeting and a dull, ineffective one. People need guidance, categories for prayer, models for prayer and boundaries for prayer. You need to keep people’s interest by planning the prayers in advance.
 Choose specific issues to pray for during the meeting. These issues should be relevant to the people praying and have a clear objective. This is important so that people maintain their motivation for coming together for prayer.
 Beginning with a short period of silence can help people connect to God through themselves. Encourage people to completely focus on God during this time.


Alternatively you can sing two or three worship songs before prayer begins.
 It can help to give a few instructions about prayer before beginning the prayers. People need guidance and direction in order to feel comfortable during the meeting. This way they will also be more open and willing to participate actively.
 Sometimes it is nice to allow people to request certain prayers or topics to pray for. However, be careful that this discussion does not take more than five minutes. It is very easy for a prayer meeting to turn into a discussion about prayer rather than a time for actual prayers.
 This is not required but can help get people into a spiritual mode. Make sure this passage is short; it should be about 5 minutes long and definitely no longer than 10 minutes.
 The point of a prayer meeting is to pray. If you let people speak about their own personal prayers or read verses for a long time then it is no longer a prayer meeting. Make sure you keep the focus on prayer throughout the meeting., Make prayer meetings different from one another and use different prayers within the prayer meeting. Try different forms for the meetings such as singing prayers, changing between small and large groups, being led in prayer, praying through confessions and taking prayer requests.
 Allow people to pray when they feel they want to rather than going around the circle and having everybody pray. Going around the circle is time-consuming and people end up composing their prayers as the circle gets closer to them rather than fully joining the prayers.
 Choose an issue and stick to it for a time until you are finished praying for that topic. Only once you have finished praying for that issue should you move to another. Keep prayers focused on one topic to keep the people focused and thus make those prayers strong., Praying for an hour can seem difficult but if you break it up into shorter prayers, including silent prayer, led prayer, read prayer, large group prayer and small group prayer then you have broken it into smaller pieces. Keep the prayers moving and over time an hour of prayers will no longer seem like a long time.


On the other hand, don’t be afraid of silence. Give people a time to let the prayers sink in and connect with their hearts.
 One good way to end the meeting is with a Bible reading relevant to the meeting topic.
 Praying out loud is difficult for some people and praying for 30-60 minutes can feel awkward at first. It takes practice. Keep working at your prayers and the group will grow together and become stronger., You want people to feel comfortable praying so the meeting should be flexible and intentional. Create an open environment for those who attend the meeting so that they can pray with their whole hearts and minds. This will also help to get everyone to participate., Even though children may have shorter attention spans they can be easily included in prayer meetings. Oftentimes children will pray out loud and fully participate in the meeting, bringing energy to the prayers in their youth.
 When God answers your prayers you should be grateful and express thanksgiving. Always express these feelings as a group as part of your prayer meetings.
 Spend some time together after the meeting. You can have snacks or dinner such as pizza and ice cream. This brings the group together and gets the kids excited.

