 You can always change these through the options menu. You can also choose an option that makes your mouse click without pressing the clicking button.


The 'W' key moves you forward, the 'S' key moves you backward, the 'A' key moves you left, and the 'D' key moves you right.;
, You will be able to break most blocks, but some require tools.
 Do you feel trapped? Is there simply no way to walk out of the little hole? Just press the W key and the space bar to jump out.


To sprint, either hold the control button or double tap the 'W' key.
 From here, you can change the controls and edit other settings such as the music volume.
 Now press the E key to access your inventory. This is where you items will be stored. However, you can only carry so many items, so you will need to make some sort of storage unit.
 This will make it small so only you and a few other things can fit inside. Now you won't have to worry to get torches so monsters won't spawn!


Build it exactly where you spawned, or if you don't, make a trail from where you spawned to your house so you can get back to your shelter.
 Punch with your left mouse button (hold) and get wood. Get at least two trees in case you cannot find coal anywhere.
 Open your inventory with the I or E key and place the half of your wood in to wooden planks. With those, fill the crafting area with wooden planks, so that you get a crafting table to make bigger and better things.
 Right click your crafting bench to make the following.


Stick (used to make other tools): two wooden planks on top of each other
Pickaxe (used to mine rock and ores): three wooden planks on the top row and two sticks in the middle of the next two rows

,,, On mountains you can often see rock with blackish spots on it—mine this. If you cannot find coal go to step 11.


Do not mine in your shelter space.
, This holds your stuff. Create it with eight wooden planks in a square 3x3 without the middle square.
 The door it to keep monsters out. Make one with six wooden planks in a rectangle.
, A bed is used to spend the whole night in one shot. Place three wool horizontally and three wooden planks below the wool horizontally. The color of the wool does not matter. Note that you can only sleep once the sun touches the horizon. Sleep as soon as possible to minimize mob spawning.
 Put your coal (or charcoal) on top of a stick to make four torches.
