 Bikes are expensive, and you don't want buy a new one simply because you felt like saving money on the first one. If you're serious about biking, whether it is mountain, road, touring, or commuting, spending a little extra on a good bike now will save you money in the long-term. Ask yourself-- what is your fitness level now, and what do you want it to be? You should get a bike somewhere in the middle.Beginner or intermediate mountain bikers might start with gentle trails that don't require good suspension, but if you love the sport you will quickly want to move up to harder trails that require a better bike.
Road riders might be fine to start with a heavier, cheaper bike, but you'll suffer on group rides or races as you get more experienced.
The frame is the most expensive part of the bike, and should be your first concern. Brakes, gears, wheels, and handlebars can all be swapped out or upgraded later. That said, good components resist wear and tear and lead to smoother riding.
 These bikes come in a variety of shapes and purposes, but they share one thing in common -- they aren't made for long distances. If mountain or road bikes seem too specific for you, you should try out the following bikes instead. They usually come in standardized measurements (S, M, L, XL), so pick one that lets you comfortable reach the handlebars. Your knee should be slightly bent at the bottom of your pedal stroke.Fixed Gear: Simple, light bikes made almost entirely for urban cruising, they offer you no extra gears. They are easy to maintain and ride, though they perform best on flat terrain.

Cruiser: Also known as "beach bikes" or "comfort bikes," these bikes are made for comfort, with high handlebars that let you ride almost completely upright.

Hybrids: Great commuting or urban bikes, hybrids have bigger tires than road bikes but similar geometry, keeping them light and speedy while allowing you get over bumps and cracks with ease.
 Shopping for bikes online is a great way to get the perfect bike for you and potentially save money, but you should never by a bike online without testing it out beforehand. Once you've narrowed down your search to 3-4 types of bike, call you local bike shops and see if they have them in stock. Head down and try them out to make sure they fit you well and ride comfortably before buying.


Online reviews are a great place to get a feel for a bike. Check out online bike blogs and magazines and see what they think of the bikes, and read customer testimonials to see if there are any persistent issues with the bike that you want to avoid.
 Gearing may seem confusing, but you should remember that it comes down to two factors. First, more gears means more options when riding, allowing you to find the perfect resistance going up or down hills. Gears, however, add to the weight of the bike, which is not desirable if you are racer or mountain rider heading uphill a lot.


The classic gearing for both road and mounting bikes is 3 gears in the front and 9 in the back, resulting in a 27 speed bike.'Compact cranks are smaller, lighter gears in the front, giving you only two big chainrings to get into but cutting down on weight.
 There are two large subdivisions of brakes -- rim brakes and disc brakes. Almost all mountain bikes, aside from entry level, use disc, while road bikes have much more variety.



Rim Brakes come in many forms, but they all function by clamping onto the rim of your wheel and holding it in place to slow you down. There are two big pads on either side of both wheel the squeeze when you let go. They are cheaper and easier to fix and maintain than discs.

Disc breaks rely on a separate steel disc attached to your wheel that the brakes grab in order to slow down the entire wheel. They are often more sensitive than rim brakes, and the tight space between the breaks prevents sticks,leaves, etc. from catching on the brakes and ruining them mid-ride. They are, however, harder to manage and calibrate without prior knowledge.

