 Start by saying “sssssss” several times. Then, say “zzzzzz” several times. Do this 10 to 20 times for each sound in front of a mirror so you can watch your mouth. Try to keep your tongue behind your teeth and off the roof of your mouth.You can also practice saying “s” and “z” sound words like “recess,” “bicycle,” and “zipper.” Repeat these words 10 to 20 times so you can work on saying “s” and “z” sounds properly.
While these speech therapy exercises are designed for children, they can be used by adults as well.
 Place an “s” in front of a vowel like “a.” Then, say “s” and “a” separately. This is a broken syllable. Try it again by saying the “s” and the “a” together. This is a blended syllable. Repeat broken and blended syllables 10 to 20 times to help improve your speech.For example, you may say “s” and then “a” or “z” and then “a.” You can then try saying “a” and the “s” or “a” and then “z.”
Try blended syllables by saying “a” “s” “a” in a row, followed by “a” “z” “a” in a row.
You can also say words like "sax," "pass," and "lease." Break them up into syllables and say each syllable slowly.
 This technique requires your tongue to imitate the position of a butterfly, where the sides of your tongue tilt upward like butterfly wings. This will allow the sides of your tongue to touch your teeth while air travels down the center of your tongue. Do this by saying “ee” like in “key” or “i” as in “him.”Words like “bin” and “fin” are also good ones to practice the butterfly technique with.
Practice this technique 10 to 20 times. Try to maintain the butterfly shape to your tongue.
 Doing this will force your tongue to pull backward, rather than forward. Drink water and other liquids from a straw between your speech therapy exercises to train your tongue to go back in its proper place.You can also try to drink all liquids through a straw on a regular basis to help train your tongue to pull back and to improve your lisp.
 Working one on one with a professional speech therapist can help you cope better with your lisp. The speech therapist can show you exercises you can do to improve your lisp. They can also focus on your specific speech needs based on the type of lisp you have.Ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a professional speech therapist.
You can also look online for a professional speech therapist.

