 If you want your colleagues to like and respect you, you need to make sure that you are doing your job well. No one appreciates a co-worker who shirks their responsibilities. Make a point to finish your work on time.


Be sure to demonstrate that you are responsible. If you agree to do something, make sure that you complete that task. For example, if your cubicle mate asks you to attend a meeting for her, make sure that you show up.
Acting responsible includes taking responsibility for your actions. For example, if you make an error, don't try to hide it or shift blame to someone else. Acknowledge your mistake and make it clear that you will fix it.
 One way to excel at your job is to show others that you are someone they can depend on. There are many ways that you can demonstrate your reliability. It can be as simple as showing up on time every day, or as big as volunteering to lead the team on a new project.Make sure that your co-workers know that they can trust you. For example, you can update them on your progress by saying, "Sam, I just wanted to let you know that I've followed through on those e-mails you wanted me to send. Let me know if you'd like me to do anything else to help you out."

, Sometimes it can be difficult to be in a good mood when you're at work. After all, there is usually something else that you would rather be doing. But remember that no one likes to be around negativity. Try to display a positive attitude, even if you are feeling stressed or unhappy.


Smile. The simple act of smiling shows that you have a good attitude. Bonus: when you smile, you will actually start to feel happier.
Take a deep breath. Instead of expressing your frustrations with anger, take a few moments to breathe deeply and find something positive about the situation.
 Unfortunately, you will sometimes have to deal with conflict in the workplace. If you handle it well, you can still build positive work relationships. When a problem arises, make sure to actively listen. Also, make sure to only address the situation after all parties have had a chance to cool down.Be proactive. For example, you could say, "John, I know there's been some tension between us lately. I wanted to know if there was anything I can do to make the situation better."

