 Sequins are amazing. They make you sparkle and give you all of that Mae West drama in a nice modern package. Are you wearing sequins? That's nice. Wear more. Sequin dresses are the best. Don't ever let anyone tell you that they're out of fashion because they just don't know what they're talking about.;
, Who wants to live a dull life of grey and brown? NOBODY. Bring color into the lives of everyone you know by wearing bright outfits. Be daring in your color choices and don't be afraid to bring more than one bright color in at a time.
 Not social drama though, who wants more of that? When we say drama we mean something like a feather or (faux!) fur stole. You know you can bring it like Marilyn Monroe, so bring it!

, To your heels, we mean! Jeez. Take those boring kitten heels and add some drama. You're hitting fabulous around the 3.5" mark.
 More hair, piled higher, with more volume: that's fabulous. Get extensions or even a fun wig. You can add even more drama by adding color to your hair. Just make sure you look super-model perfect all the time. The fabulous look is less Beach Bum and more LA runway.
 What are you listening to us for? The whole point of dressing fabulous is to follow your own mind. You've got fabulous taste, naturally! The most important thing is to dress in a way that makes you happy and makes a statement about who you are. If you are tweed coats with elbow patches, that's fabulous too and don't let anyone tell you different.
 Don't ever be ashamed of the person you are or that body that you have. Why would you be? You're fabulous just the way you are! Rock what your mamma gave you and embrace who you are. Wear the best clothing cut for your shape and wear clothing styles that match your personality.
 Do not let anyone tell you who you are. Explore the things that you want and pursue the things that make you happy. Why would you spend time trying to be someone you're not and doing a whole bunch of stuff you don't like doing? It's a waste of your life! You should find who you are and what makes you happy and forget about everything else. Don't worry. You'll find a place for you.


A good way to go about discovering yourself is to volunteer. Help people that are in a really tough situation that you identify with. This will go a long way towards helping you discover yourself.






Another way to learn about yourself is to travel. Go somewhere really far away where people are very different than you and you'll learn a lot about who you are as a person. It will also make you more confident!







, The really fabulous people aren't laid back, hang out on the couch and watch Jerry Springer kind of people. They are the get out there and enjoy their life kind of people! Drink a couple shots of espresso and you'll be ready to party your way through life.
 The truly fabulous are not afraid to express their emotions Share the experience of being human with everyone around you, revel in the ups and downs of life, by never being afraid to show exactly how you feel about what's going on. Humans are emotional creatures and holding all that in can be really unhealthy.
 Your clothing should always be fab-u-lous! Dress loud and proud, choosing colors and styles that make you happy and express who you are. The brighter the colors, the better! You should use your clothing to announce to the world that you are here and ready to be worshiped.
 No one is going to think you're fabulous if you don't think you're fabulous. You need to start by leaving behind all of the self-critical behavior and self-doubt. You're an awesome person, even if you don't always feel like it. Give yourself a hug, buy yourself a nice present, and take yourself on a date to that sushi place, because you are worth it!


If there's something you really don't like about yourself and it's a legit problem (like maybe you're kind of a jerk sometimes), then fix it!







, You can't rock the world with your awesomeness if you're tired and haggard looking! Beauty sleep really does make you more beautiful, so get in your 8 hours. In the mean time, you can strut your stuff in Dreamland.
 If you really want to be fabulous, you have to like people. And you have to spend time with people. You need to give them the opportunity to enjoy everything you have to offer in life, so get out there and be sociable. Go to parties, host parties, hang out with friends, go to clubs, and find other great ways to spend time with people and make new friends.
 As a fabulous diva, you will be expected to watch out for your friends, family, and others among your subjects and peers of fabulosity. Help people, defend them against critics, and let them discover their own inner divas. Bring out the best in them, because that is the most important job of The Fabulous One.
 You wouldn't want anyone to miss a single moment of the performance that is your life. What a terrible fate for them! Command attention no matter where you are in order to be sure that you are in control and driving the show. This doesn't mean making a scene and throwing a tantrum. No, you should command attention by being vocal (but not loud), making eye contact with people, and bleeding confidence out of every pore.
 You're too fabulous for people to waste your time with stupid ideas, hateful speech, or whiny attitudes. If someone around you is really negative and going around starting drama, stop hanging out with them. Ain't nobody got time for that. There're places to be and things to do!

, Your way is the right way, so get it. Usually you can get your way simply by being stubborn and standing by your principles and ideas. However, it can't hurt to get really good an arguing and convincing people of things. Sounding confident and like you know what you're talking about will also help you get your way.
 Don't be a slut (we said date, don't sleep around), but do feel free to date whoever you want to, as long as you aren't in a relationship. Why? Because it would be a shame to keep all this fabulousness to yourself! Get out there and show people what you've got to offer.
 Another important duty of The Fabulous One is to keep everyone happy and stress free by bringing the laughs. Help people by finding the humor in tough situations. Practice your snappy comebacks and clever one liners, so that you're ready when the time comes.
 You want your life to be as fabulous as you are so get out there and do things. If you don't want to work some 9-5 in an office, find a job that better suits you. Go to school for the things you love and get a career you won't hate in 20 years. Travel! See the world and learn fab from the best!


Great nightlife can be found in LA, New York, Las Vegas, Paris, Milan, Berlin, London, Bangkok, Buenos Aires, and São Paulo (Brazil).
 If you really want to live a fabulous life, it's going to mean living without fear and a healthy willingness to take risks. You can't just sit around doing the same things you always do. The best things in life are achieved when you get out there and do things that might not turn out. Forgo the sure bet in favor of the new experience.
 Instead of just following all the trends, you want to try to set them. This means being original and unafraid. Use those unique experiences you got while taking risks to bring new experiences to others. Be unique but wonderful and tasteful in everything you do and you will start trends.
 Being fabulous means apologizing to nobody, so don't be afraid to take things a little further or go a little more over the top than people would normally go. This will help show people who you are and also let you enjoy your life more. Life is short, so don't hold back!

, Cultivate a playlist that is the soundtrack to your life. Listen to songs when you are happy, sad, or angry, and have a go-to song for when you want to make yourself feel even more awesome than you already are.


Fabulous theme songs for your life include Natasha Bedingfield's "Strip Me", Miley Cyrus' "We Can't Stop", Janelle Monáe's "Q.U.E.E.N.", and Beyoncé's "Single Ladies".
 Have a sweet pad to go with your fantastic personality. You have to have an equally great place to bring friends and lovers back to, right? It doesn't have to be big, but it should be flashy and flawlessly designed. Spend big bucks on designer furniture, or mimic the look with cheap vintage finds: whatever works for you!

, You don't need to be a jerk to people but you should tell it like it is. Avoid being super insulting but call people out when they're being jerks or doing things that are bad. Politeness isn't going to help anyone if people are doing harmful things.

