 If you want to observe tiger sharks, find a position from which to observe them. They hunt at night or on cloudy days near the coastline of tropical water. Since they prefer areas where other wildlife gather, such as coral reefs, river estuaries, and wharves, look for ways to observe these areas. To be safe while watching for tiger sharks, stay out of the water. Sit on a dock, on the beach, or in a large boat.
Keep your eyes on the water. Look for a dorsal fin that is near the upper tail fin. , If you are trying to avoid coming in contact with a tiger shark but still want to observe it, you might need binoculars. A telescope could also be helpful. You might be quite a distance from the tiger shark location, especially if you are playing it safe.


Don’t try to snorkel in an attempt to observe tiger sharks.
Other things you might bring include a camera and a phone (and first aid kit) for emergencies. Bring along phone numbers for local emergency personnel, the Coast Guard, etc.
 Tiger sharks are nocturnal, rising to the surface to hunt for food either at night or on days that are overcast. They swim close to shorelines to do their hunting.If you are trying to observe a tiger shark, it is best to do so on a cloudy day.
 Tiger sharks usually hunt and live on their own, although they will sometimes join in with other sharks. Usually pods of tiger sharks don’t get larger than six members.If you’re trying to spot a tiger shark, look for a dorsal fin that is all by itself.
 Tiger sharks love coastlines. In fact, they patrol them. Studies have shown that tiger sharks swim up and down the length of land masses to hunt for prey.They also prefer river estuaries, lagoons, harbors, wharves, reefs, anywhere in the water where smaller animals congregate. They tend to live in warm water.Tiger sharks are predominantly located in the warm waters of the Atlantic Ocean in the southeast U.S. area and in South America along the coast of Brazil. They also have a strong presence in the Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea.
 Tiger sharks are carnivores, known to eat pretty much anything they can find. They eat other sharks and fish as well as sea turtles, birds, sting rays, dolphins, squid, and crustaceans.They are good scavengers due to their keen senses of sight and smell.Researchers have found all kinds of things in tiger shark stomachs, including antlers and trash.