 Clean the top edge of the truck bed behind the cab with some rubbing alcohol on a rag. Cut weather strip with scissors to the correct length to reach across the area you just cleaned. It should go from just inside the side rail across to the other side rail.
 Drill 1 and 1/4 hole with the hole saw through the plastic factory plugs located near the bottom corners of the truck bed behind the cab. Now push the drain hose through the holes you drilled., Have someone help you place the canister across the truck bed side rails behind the cab. Center the canister with the same distance from each side. It should be approximately 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm)., The side rails kind of lock into the canister ends. Place in and push forward. Now go to the back and lift the side rail slightly and close the tailgate. Hold the side rail down and make sure there is a slight space between the bottom of the side rail and the tailgate so the side rail does not interfere with the tailgate closing. Do the other side rail the same., Measure the cover across. Use this measurement plus approx. 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) for clearance. Place shims provided, between the underside of the cover side rail and the pickup truck side rail to achieve this measurement all the way from front to back. Use the clamps and tighten them as you go. Three clamps per side starting from back by the tailgate end., In the center of the canister under the cover there is a small bracket. Pull the cover ahead and lock it there. Remove the nut where the bracket should go, turn the bracket up and replace the nut you removed., Make sure there is at least an inch of hose sticking through the holes you drilled in the plastic plugs. Leave enough hose to reach the drain nipples under the canister on each side and cut the hose off and connect it to the nipples. In addition to the canister there are also drain nipples back near the tailgate in the side rails.

You need to drill holes in the rib of the truck bed side just under the drain nipples in the side rails. Place the rubber grommets provided in the hole and place drain hose on the nipples and out through the grommets.
 Place the cover on the canister and thread in the four 10mm bolts and tighten them down. Place the plastic caps provided in the holes to cover the bolts., There is an adjustment to finish off the install that you should watch at the end of the video. You finish the adjustment by drilling a 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) hole and using the screws provided to secure it.