 Ask yourself what kind of food you cook (or what kind of food you'd like to cook, if you're new to the kitchen) and what tools you use most often. A good set of basic equipment might start with a 10-inch (25 cm) sauté pan, a 4-quart (3.8 liters) saucepan, and a baking or roasting pan.;
, Nonstick coating, such as Teflon, keeps food from sticking to the pans as you cook. This allows you to use less fat to grease the pan, and also makes cleanup easier. However, non-stick surfaces aren't particularly oven-safe (as they can burn and emit harmful fumes), and they make it harder to prepare certain types of sauces which call for deglazing.
 Look for pots and pans that are thick and heavy; the thicker the pan, the more evenly it will conduct heat. It will also retain heat better when cold foods are placed into it. Aluminum, stainless steel and copper are all good material choices. When selecting cookware, go for quality instead of quantity. Remember, if treated with care, good cookware will last you a lifetime.
 A basic set should include wooden spoons, a set of tongs and a spatula. Only add other items (such as a whisk or ladle) as you begin working in the kitchen and recognize a need for those items.
 Don't make the common mistake of thinking you need a knife set that comes in its own block. You really only need 1 or 2 knives, and it is far better to spend your money buying a single quality knife than a whole set of lackluster ones. To start, buy a chef's knife and a serrated knife. The chef's knife is your all-purpose knife, and a serrated knife is excellent for cutting bread and soft fruits like tomatoes.
 A whetstone is a great option, as they are small and very gentle on your knives. Many larger knife sharpeners can actually damage your knives over time.
 You only need 1, and it should be made from wood or plastic. Do not buy a glass cutting board, as these will make your knives dull very quickly.
 You don't need a rice cooker, for example; rice can be cooked perfectly well in a saucepan. Also avoid small appliances (like blenders, toasters and food processors) unless you really need them; they tend to create kitchen clutter very quickly., As you start working in the kitchen with a basic set, buy additional equipment as your needs arise.