 As stated above, if your dog is vaccinated, or you have an unvaccinated dog that you refuse to euthanize, then the dog will have to be quarantined. Many animal hospitals have designated areas for quarantine dogs. The length of the quarantine will depend on your dog’s vaccination records and the animal that bit the dog.


If your dog is vaccinated and was bitten by another cat or dog, he will have to be quarantined for 10 days.If your vaccinated dog was bitten by a wild animal, he will have to be quarantined for 45 days.However, some states in the United States may require different lengths of time.
If your dog was unvaccinated, he will have to be quarantined for six months,although newer guidelines recommend reducing the quarantine period from six to four months.Check the current laws in your state.
 In some cases, you may be able to quarantine your dog at home if it seems that there is a low risk that he contracted rabies. However, the vet will have to make that call. If you would feel more comfortable having your dog at home and have the means to quarantine him, talk to your vet.


The extent to which you must quarantine your dog is listed in the following step.
 You will have to keep your dog in an isolated area where no other animals or people can accidentally interact with him. This could be a room that you designate for his quarantine. He will have to be kept in a cage inside the quarantine room, however, you can get a large cage to make him more comfortable. Requirements for the room and cage include:


Cage: The cage must be large enough so that the dog can move around easily. It should also have a sturdy lock with small openings where you can put food and water bowls in. These openings are meant to prevent you from getting bitten.
Room: In the room, you must have a bright light that you can turn off at night. The light will be a help to govern your dog’s sleep patterns because when the light is turned off, the dog will be able to sleep more easily. If you have children, make sure that you can lock the room so that your children cannot get in.
 The quarantine period used to make sure that your dog does not develop any symptoms of rabies. If you spot several of these symptoms, call your vet immediately. If you are able to quarantine your dog at home, you should look for symptoms that include:


Aggressive behavior where the dog suddenly tries to bite or attack you.
Irritability.
Anxious and alert posture, hair standing up, drawn back ears, and dilated pupils.
Unexplained paralysis where the dog can’t seem to move parts of his body.
Howling or noises that do not sound like your dog’s regular voice.
A lack of interest in food (however, this can also be a sign that your dog does not like being in the cage).
A fear of water, bright lights, or breezes.
Foaming at the mouth or excess salivation.
Inability to swallow and the dog’s jaw seems to drop or become ‘unhinged’.
A sharp change in behavior where a passive dog suddenly becomes aggressive, or vice versa.
Begins to attack inanimate objects.
Restlessness (again, this could be due to being kept in a cage).

