 Men's bodies can be broadly categorized into certain types. The kind of suit you select should compliment your body type by accenting its strengths and minimizing its weaknesses.


Bulky men should choose fitted suits with lightweight fabrics that make them look slimmer, with dark colors in either solid or vertical pinstripes. The suit jacket should have 2 buttons and a single vent (slit) in the rear.
Tall and skinny men, in contrast, should choose light-colored suits with heavier fabrics that keep their shape while adding weight to the wearers' frames, such as a tweed or worsted wool. The suit jacket can have 3 buttons and either a single vent or no vent at all. (Tall men can also wear double-breasted suit jackets if they wish.) The pants should have a longer rise (distance between the waistband and crotch) to balance the proportion of their legs to their upper bodies.
Short men can choose whatever suit fabrics they wish but should avoid loud patterns. Vertical stripes, however, make them appear taller by drawing the eye upward. The suit jacket can have either 1 or 2 buttons, but with a vent on either side to add the illusion of length. The pants should have a low rise to make the upper body appear longer by comparison.;
, Suits can be defined in 1 of 4 basic types: the double-breasted Italian suit; the single-breasted, regal-looking British or English suit; the relaxed, young-looking American suit and the Oriental-styled Mandarin suit.
 There are other suit fabrics, such as cashmere or linen, cotton and silk for hot weather, but for most conditions, most of the time, you'll want a woolen suit.


Suit fibers are rated by a "super number," which represents how fine the fibers woven into the suit are. The higher the number, the thinner the fibers, the thinner and smoother the fabric, and the more expensive the suit is. Too fine a fiber wrinkles and wears faster than a thicker fiber, however.
 Suit patterns can be classified as 1 of 5 types:


Solid color suits are all one color, with no discernible pattern.
Pinstripes are thin, vertical, evenly spaced lines in a color contrasting that of the suit, usually lighter than the background color. Their actual width may vary from suit to suit, but they usually convey an air of authority on the wearer.
A window pane pattern is a square or rectangular pattern made using widely spaced horizontal and vertical stripes to provide a stylish look.
A check pattern suit is like a window pane pattern but has the horizontal and vertical lines more densely packed.
Plaid is a check pattern with usually bolder colors. Plaid suits often cost more because of the material and tailoring required for the pattern to look right on the wearer's body.
 To insure the suit you buy fits you, you need to know several important measurements. You can either be measured in the store or by a friend with a measuring tape.


For the suit jacket to fit correctly, you need to know your chest and sleeve measurements. You can obtain the chest measurement by sticking your arms out to your sides and having someone wrap the measuring tape around your chest, just above your nipples. You can obtain your sleeve size by measuring from your shoulder to your wrist.
For the pants to fit correctly, you need to know your waist and inseam measurements. You can obtain the waist measurement by wrapping the measuring tape around your waist. You can obtain your inseam size by measuring from your crotch to your ankles, or by measuring from your waist to your ankles and subtracting 11 inches (28 centimeters).
 If you're shopping in a brick-and-mortar store, try on several suits that interest you and look at them in a full-length mirror to see how they hang on your body.


The suit collar should hang such that a quarter inch of your shirt collar shows when you stand. The shoulders should be padded only enough that your shoulders slope naturally when wearing the suit, not so that they droop or dent the suit material.
The jacket's armholes should be positioned so that you can raise your arms over your head without the jacket riding up, and its sleeves should let half an inch of your shirt sleeves show.
The bottom button is only for decoration; it should never be buttoned when you wear the suit.
Pants should sit at the waist and fit the crotch without bulging. The pant legs should cover the legs without bulging, resting at the top of the shoes with only a small gap.
If you can't try the suit on, you can measure it for fit. In addition to taking the same measurements you took for chest, sleeve, waist and inseam, you'll also need to measure the shoulder width and vertical length of the jacket.
 A good suit should be made with quality materials and workmanship. You should be able to squeeze the fabric without causing more than minimal wrinkles and gently tug the buttons without them feeling loose.

