 To attract an agent or other clients, make a website and build a social media presence. You need to be easily located and well represented online.Make a professional-looking website that showcases your work. Your website should include examples of your work, your artist CV, and a list of events (gallery shows, performances, etc) that you have participated in.


If you are a performer, include headshots.
If you are a visual artist, you should have online portfolios of your work.
Consider getting a Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, Facebook page, or other form of social media. Post examples of your work and updates on your progress. This can be a great way to connect with other artists, as well as with talent agents.;
, Whether you are a musician, a writer, an actor, or a painter, you can benefit from the help of a professional who represents talent. Read your contract carefully, however, especially if you are a musician. You should retain the rights to your own work.


. Look up agents who represent other artists you admire and ask for an interview. If you get an interview, ask how many clients they represent-avoid agents who are overbooked.
Get a gallery to represent you. Visit galleries and talk to the curators. If you like the art they show, they might like your art. Galleries will show your work in exchange for a cut of the profits.
. Send a demo to record labels you like. Consider getting a manager to facilitate this process.
 If you are a visual artist, exhibit your work at art fairs. In some cases you may already need gallery representation to do this, but in others you can show and sell your work for an entry fee. If you are a performer, put on amateur shows and invite friends and other artists to watch.


If you are a writer, connect with local reading series and ask to be included in a lineup.
If you are a musician, send demos to local music venues and ask them to book you for a show.
 Collaboration is a great way to become known in your community, which can open up doors for you over time. Consider forming or joining an artist's collective, making collaborative work with other artists, putting on a show with a group of artists you admire, or otherwise working to promote (and become known to) your peers.

