 They should be about the length of your forearm, the distance from your elbow to your wrist, or about 3⁄4 to 1 inch (1.9 to 2.5 cm) thick in diameter. If you want, you can paint them black or another color to make them look a bit more threatening. But keeping the wood bare can be nice, too. Each dowel should be about a foot long, if you're shorter than 6 feet (1.8 m), and about 16" if you are taller, because the Nunchaku should be able to go around your body. If they're too small for you, you won't be able to use them effectively.


If you cannot find two dowels that are about this size, you can get a larger dowel rod and use a hand saw, jigsaw, or a band saw to cut it into two pieces.;
, The rope or rawhide string should ideally be around 2 feet (0.6 m) long, or a bit longer if you're taller than 6 feet (1.8 m). Your best bet is to procure some 3/16 nylon braided rope. You can also buy more rope and just cut it to meet the length requirements you need. This doesn't mean you'll have 2 feet (0.6 m) of rope between the nunchucks; you'll have less because you'll have to tie each end of the rope to the dowels.
 The hole should be wide enough to place the rope into, and should go at least 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) deep into each top of the stick. Use a 3/8 drill bit, or an even thinner one, depending on the diameter of your Nunchaku.
 Now, you should drill a smaller hole through one side of each dowel, so that the rope can be looped through this hole and the top hole so you can tie it in place. This hole should reach the main hole so that the rope can go through it easily. It should be at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) from the top of each dowel; if the hole is too close to the top, the rope may open up the hole and come out of it after frequent use.
 Then, tie it securely to hold it in place. Make sure you leave enough room (at least a few inches) for you to be able to securely tie the end of the rope in place.
 Now that you have secured one end of the rope to the wooden dowel, you can secure the other end of the rope to the other wooden dowel.
 Use regular glue or crazy glue to add stability to the Nunchaku and to secure the rope in place.
 Just wait a few minutes for the glue to dry, and get ready to use those nunchucks! You can even begin to learn some nunchuck skills.

