 Browning works best if the chicken is at room temperature. Before you begin cooking, remove your chicken from the refrigerator and spread it out on a plate. Allow 20-30 minutes for the chicken to sit before you begin cooking.Bacteria begins to grow if raw chicken is left unrefrigerated for more than 2 hours.;
, The next step in preparing your chicken is to trim any fat using a sharp knife, and discard the fat. Then rinse your pieces of chicken under cold water.
 Your pieces of chicken need to be dry in order to properly brown. Using paper towels, carefully blot each piece of chicken on both sides until it is dry.
 To brown your chicken, you’ll want to use either olive oil, canola oil, corn oil, or butter. Measure out 1-2 Tablespoons of your chosen oil and add it to a heavy skillet. Then heat this over medium-high heat until hot.








Non-stick pans are not designed to be used for high-heat cooking.Instead, use a stainless steel or iron skillet.
 If your recipe asks you to season the chicken, now is the time to do so. Sprinkle salt, pepper, or other seasoning on each side of each piece of chicken.
 Use tongs to place the chicken in a single layer without crowding it. If the chicken is too crowded in the pan, it will steam rather than brown. If you have more chicken than will fit in your skillet, brown your chicken in two or more rounds.
 Leave the chicken to cook in the pan on medium-high heat for 8-10 minutes. It is important not to flip, turn, or stir the chicken during this time.
 Using a set of tongs, carefully flip each piece of chicken. If the chicken sticks to the bottom of the pan, give it another minute before flipping. After your chicken is flipped, give it another 8-10 minutes to brown on the other side.
 After the chicken has been browned on each side, remove each piece of chicken using tongs. Place your chicken on a clean plate and set it aside.
 If you were not able to fit all of your chicken into your skillet without crowding, you’ll need to repeat this process with the rest of your chicken. Begin by adding 1-2 teaspoons of fresh oil to your hot pan, then add your chicken. Cook it on each side, then remove it from the pan.
 Now that all of your chicken has been browned, you can continue with your recipe. Bake, braise, or simmer the chicken according to your instructions. Chicken is fully cooked when it is no longer pink in the middle and an internal thermometer reads 165 F (73.8 C).