 Be confident in who you are. You don't want to lose a sense of yourself.Remember, you have lots of great qualities that the guy you like will be attracted to.
Self-confidence will attract others. Having self-confidence doesn't mean go out and do stupid things in front of everyone. This will make you seem like a foolish attention seeker. It also doesn't mean to think you're better that everyone. Confidence is being nice to those around you, and not letting the opinions of others consume you. Be comfortable in your own skin, and love your body.
Don't be afraid to be your own person. You have your own interests and preferences.
You don't have to make yourself into a clone of your crush to get him to like you. Being different might make you seem more interesting to him.
Maintain your own friendships even though you have a crush on a guy. Inviting him to do things with your group of friends might be a good way to break the ice.
For example, if you are going to a sports game or ice skating with your friends, invite him to join in. Ask him to bring a friend or two if its awkward at first.
 Find out some of the things he likes and surprise him.Find out what type of cookie or snack he likes. Bring them to school and put them in his locker with a nice note.
Make him a playlist of his favorite music and send it to him.
Give him a jersey from his favorite sports team or a band t-shirt.
 If he plays a sport or is in a school club, find ways where you can join in the fun.For example, if your crush plays a sport try to volunteer to help out during team events.
At the very least, show up to his sports games or other extracurricular events to show support.
Taking an interest in the same activities will let him know you are interested in him.
If you can't outright join the clubs or activities he is in, offer to help out with an event.
For example: "I am really good at artwork. I could help your theater group make some scenery for your play this month" or "I heard your team is having a charity bake sale. I would love to bake some cookies to help out."

, Always be friendly and casual around them. By blending social groups, you might be able to spend some more time with your crush or learn things about him.
Being nice and friendly to his friends will let your crush know that you can spend time together with his social group.
For example, if you know they are going to an event, ask if you can tag along.
Invite his friends to do things when you are going out with your friends.
Don't engage in gossip or rumors about him or his friends. Gossip can be very off putting to a guy.
 Wear clothes that fit your body type. Make sure your outfits look put together and tidy.Keep your hair in good condition. Make sure it is nicely styled for school and other events.
You don't have to wear it in any particular style, and you can even experiment with different looks to see what he likes.
Keep your makeup simple. Wearing heavy makeup can make you look like you are trying too hard.
Go for a natural look that plays up your eyes and lips. Try a simple mascara and some neutral lipstick or lipgloss.
Although dressing nice is a good way to get your crush to notice you, DON'T OVERDO IT. If you come to school with 50 pounds of makeup on, this will make him think you're seeking attention and fishing for compliments. Consider wearing a nice blouse and cute jeans. There is no need to wear 8-inch heels and a skin-tight minidress with sequins covering it. This will not only make you look like a Barbie doll, your crush will think you are trying to get other boys to like you.
Making an effort in your appearance might get your crush to notice you, but you don't have to dress in a style that isn't "you". Go for a neat appearance in a style that fits your personality.
You don't have to change your entire style. If your crush is into sports, consider wearing a sporty shirt or jersey the next day.

