 Barbecue season generally lasts for about 3-4 months depending on your local climate. It's not wise to indulge without moderation at each event or picnic. Otherwise, you may gain weight.


You'll need to indulge in moderation during barbecue season. If you go to or host a barbecue on a weekly basis, there are multiple chances for you to eat to much or go over your calorie budget.
To prevent this, determine what moderation is for you. It'll be helpful to have a definition and guideline to follow during this season.
For example, if you're going to indulge in a dessert, the rule is to split it with a friend or family member. Or, allow yourself to have one sweet drink or alcoholic beverage.;
, Since barbecues may make it more difficult to stay on track with your diet or regular eating plan, make sure you pay close attention to how you're eating during the week.Staying on track with a diet or healthy eating plan 100% of the time make not be totally realistic - especially at a barbecue.
To keep yourself in check weight-wise, concentrate on making the other days during the week more healthy and nutritious.
This means sticking to your exercise routine and making smart diet choices as well.
Also, save up "treats" for your planned barbecue. For example, if you're in the mood for a sweet treat during the week, skip it and save that indulgence for when you're at a barbecue that weekend.
 One important component of your lifestyle that you should always keep consistent is your activity and exercise routine. Falling out of your exercise routine in addition to eating higher calorie foods is a recipe for weight gain.


Aim to continue to meet the goal of 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week. You should aim to do activities that are moderate intensity like walking, jogging, cycling, swimming or dancing.Also do 1-2 days of strength training each week. Do 20 minutes of activity and aim to work every major muscle group.
Increase lifestyle activity if you can as well. Barbecue season is usually during the warmer months, so that means you can be more active outside. Increasing your lifestyle activity can help burn even more calories during the day.
 It's not only diet and exercise that will determine your weight. Adequate sleep is equally important in the equation for healthy weight maintenance.


During barbecue season, you may find yourself going out more often to parties, picnics and outdoor events. These might have you staying up later than normal and be cutting in on your valuable sleep time.
When you're sleep deprived, even a little bit, you end up feeling more hungry the next day. In addition, you may crave foods that are higher in fat and carbohydrates.This can make sticking to your definition of moderation more difficult when you're at a barbecue with tempting treats.
Aim for at least 7-9 hours of sleep each night. Try going to bed earlier or getting up later to get in those necessary hours of rest.
 If you want to keep your weight in check during barbecue season, one of the most essential things you need to do is weigh yourself regularly.


Studies have shown that those who weigh themselves and track their weight on a regular basis lose more weight and are able to keep it off long-term.If you avoid getting on the scale (maybe because you've been to a lot of barbecues), you won't notice small weight gains. However, if you avoid it the whole barbecue season, you may have gained 5 or 10 pounds in that time frame.
To avoid unwanted weight gain, get on the scale regularly. It's typically recommended to get on the scale about 1-2 times per week.
Track your weight in your phone or on a piece of paper. If you notice that it's starting to get higher, watch your diet more closely, revisit your definition of moderation and consider how much exercise you've been doing.
 One of the worst barbecue foods is the protein. Whether it's a hamburger or ribs, many of these tasty foods are seriously high in calories and fat.Foods that should be limited and only eaten in moderation include: ribs, pulled pork, fried chicken, hot dogs, hamburgers and sausages.
These meats in particular are not only high in calories, but are also very high in saturated fats.
If you do indulge in some of these foods (when it fits into your definition of moderation), make sure to measure the portion sizes. This can help keep the overall calories in check to some degree. Protein should always be portioned to 3-4 oz or about 1/2 cup per serving., Another common diet downfall are the appetizers and snacks at barbecues. Not only is it easy to overdo it on these items, but many times they're also higher in calories.Appetizers and snacks that you should limit include: potato chips, crackers, dips, chicken wings, sliced cheese, sliced dry salami or cocktail sausages.
Since it can be difficult to only have one serving of some of these foods, consider filling a small salad or appetizer plate with just a few pieces of these foods. Don't go back for seconds.
Try not to just grab handfuls of these items. It's easy to have a few too many handfuls which can blow your total calorie intake way too high.
 Creamy coleslaw or potato salad are other foods that can completely overdo it with fat and calories. Since these are common barbecue foods, limit your intake of these items.


Potato salad, coleslaw, macaroni salad and other creamy dishes are laden with calories and fat.This is because they are typically made with mayonnaise, sour cream, buttermilk and sometimes even added sugar.
These foods can pack a big calorie punch even for a small serving. Always measure portions to keep the calorie content in check.
A serving of these items would be about a 1/2 cup.This is about the size of half a baseball or half the size of a woman's fist.
Also, don't go back for seconds on these salads. Stick to one small serving of these items.
 Other common foods that can get you calorie-wise are desserts. Barbecues are known for delicious desserts, but these can also push your weight up during this season.It's common to see cupcakes, pies, ice cream, s'mores, cookies or fruit bars for dessert. Most of these are high in sugar and fat which causes them to be higher in calories.
If you're going to have a dessert, split a portion with a friend or family member. That way you can enjoy a sweet treat in a portion controlled serving.
Also see if there are some lower calorie treats you can have. Fruit salad or sliced fruit is a great sweet alternative.
 Whether it's sweet tea or an alcoholic beverage, these drinks can get really high in calories. Keep your calories in check by limiting how many of these sweetened items you enjoy.Drinks to be mindful of include: sweet tea, lemonade, Arnold palmers, beer, wine spritzers, juice cocktails or frozen mixed drinks.
If you have one of these beverages, stick to one only. It'll keep calories in check and if its an alcoholic beverage, will keep your total alcohol consumption in check as well.
Also, if you do drink more than one alcoholic beverage, it may make you more susceptible to overindulging in foods. Prevent that from happening by only having one beverage.
 Since burgers, fried chicken or ribs can be way too high in calories, choose leaner cuts of protein. These are still tasty, but help keep you on track.


Lean protein sources are naturally lower in fat and calories. Plus, they can help fill you up and keep you feeling satisfied longer.Look for lean protein options like: grilled chicken, grilled porkchops or pork loin, burgers made from ground turkey or lean beef, grilled fish or shellfish.
Still measure the portion sizes of these foods to 3-4 oz total per serving.In addition, if you want, make half of your protein choice lean and half a little more indulgent so you can have the best of both worlds.
 Both fruits and vegetables are also common barbecue contenders. Instead of going for creamy salads or snacks, try filling up on these items instead.


Fruits and vegetables are great foods to fill up on if you're trying to watch your weight. Not only are they naturally low in calories, but they help provide bulk to your meals so you feel more full with less food.Whenever you're serving yourself food at a barbecue, start with fruits and vegetables before putting anything else on the plate. This will help make sure they actually make it onto your plate.
Find a variety of items you and enjoy. Aim to fill about half of your plate with these nutritious and low calorie foods. This will physically limit how much other foods you can add to your plate.
 Although it may be difficult to say no to seconds, it's important to try to avoid this. Since some foods may be higher in calories or you may have indulged more than you should, keep your calories in check by only having one serving.Many times you can stick to a relatively good calorie range or choose relatively good foods. But it's when you go back for seconds, that you push yourself too far.
To prevent yourself from getting seconds, throw your plate, napkin and utensils away (or put them away) after you're done.
Also, move away from the area where the food is being served. Socialize and chat with friends or family members, play outdoor games or sit and relax while you enjoy the nice weather.
 Another trick that can help you stick to smaller portions at barbecues is by using a smaller plate. Pick up one of these instead to help you stay on track.


If it's available, look for a small appetizer or salad plate. These are usually much smaller than dinner plates. They will physically limit how much food and therefore how many calories you're able to eat.If you cannot find a smaller plate to use, try to only fill up the center of a regular sized plate. Avoid filling it completely as this is usually way too much food.
Even with a smaller plate, make half of it a fruit, vegetable or both. That way half of your smaller meal is still lower in calories.
 It can be tempting to sip on sweet tea and lemonade or a cold beer at barbecues. However, stick to hydrating fluids during these warmer months.


Most of your fluid intake should be coming from clear, sugar-free and decaffeinated beverages. These are the most hydrating which is important during the warmer months.
Stick to items like: water, sparkling water, flavored water, decaf and unsweetened iced tea or iced coffee.
You should aim to consume about 64 oz of these fluids. However, you may need 80 oz or more depending on your age, gender and activity level.Drinks like sweet tea or alcohol will not count towards your 64 oz. They should be consumed in addition to all your clear fluids.

