 The majority of electrical fires stem from faulty electrical wiring or poor maintenance of electrical systems. To stop an electrical fire before it starts, do not overload electrical outlets and ensure that all electrical work is performed to code by a licensed electrician.Also keep electrical systems clear of dust, trash, and spider webs, which can all lead to fires.You should also use circuit breakers and fuses as often as possible, which are easy steps to take in order to stop a power surge from starting a fire.;
, If an electrical system begins sparking or a fire ignites at a wire, appliance, or outlet, then cutting the power to the system is the first, best step to take.If the source is only sparking or the flame has not yet spread at all, this step alone may be enough to extinguish the flame.


You should cut the power at the breaker box rather than turning off the wall switch connected to the outlet.If the problem stems from wiring or an appliance, do not simply pull the plug on the device. The electrical problem occurring could very well be creating an electrocution hazard as well.
 The acceptable type of fire extinguisher in this situation depends entirely upon if you are able to cut the power to the source or not. If you don’t know where the breaker is, the box is locked, or it would simply take way too long to access, then you must use a Class C-rated fire extinguisher.Class C extinguishers are either carbon dioxide (CO2) or dry chemical extinguishers, and they will specifically include “Class C” on the label on the canister.To use the extinguisher, pull any pin stopping you from depressing the handle, point the horn at the base of the fire, and hold down the handle.As you see the flames shrinking, approach the source and continue spraying until the fire is fully extinguished.If you cannot extinguish the fire within five seconds of using the extinguisher, then it’s too large.Evacuate to a safe place and call 911.
Since the faulty wiring is still receiving power in this case, the fire can reignite. You should still cut power to the source as soon as possible.
You must use a Class C extinguisher because they contain non-conductive substances. A Class A extinguisher will only contain highly pressurized water, which conducts electricity and can create electrocution risks.Another way to identify CO2 and dry chemical extinguishers is by their red coloring (water extinguishers are silver). CO2 extinguishers also have a hard horn at the tip instead of just a hose, and they lack a pressure gauge., If you are able to cut the power to the source completely, then you have turned the Class C electrical fire into a standard Class A fire.In this case, you can use a water-based Class A extinguisher in addition to the previously mentioned extinguishers.


Class A extinguishers and multipurpose dry chemical extinguishers are actually recommended in this scenario because CO2 extinguishers run a higher risk of the fire smoldering and reigniting once the CO2 dissipates.CO2 extinguishers can also cause respiratory problems in confined spaces such as houses or small offices., Alternatively, you can use a fire blanket to smother the fire, but this step is only applicable if you were able to turn off the power to the source completely. Though wool (most fire blankets are chemically treated wool) is a good insulator of electricity, you still don’t want to get close enough to the source and risk electrocution if the power remains on.


To use a fire blanket, remove from its packing, grip the unfolded blanket in front of you with your hands and body protected by it, and drape the blanket over the small fire. Do NOT throw the blanket at the fire.
Not only is this very effective in the early stages but does not damage surrounding area or objects.
 If you don’t have any type of fire extinguisher or fire blanket around, then you can use water; however, ONLY use water if you have 100% turned the power to the source OFF. Otherwise you not only risk electrocution, but also spreading around the electricity, which can spread the fire much more quickly. Throw the water at the base or seat of the fire.


Water at the speed you can draw it from a sink will only be effective if the fire is very small and contained. Otherwise, it will spread faster than you can douse it.
 Even if the fire is out, you should still call 911.Smoldering objects can reignite, and proper firefighters will be able to isolate and remove any risks completely.

