 In some cases, salpingitis causes no noticeable symptoms. Therefore, you may not discover that you have the condition until your reproductive organs are examined for another reason, such as infertility.;
, Some vaginal discharge is normal and healthy, but if you notice any changes in the amount, color, consistency, or smell, you should make an appointment with your gynecologist. Heavy or otherwise unusual discharge can indicate infection and a number of reproductive ailments, including salpingitis.
 If you bleed between your normal menstrual periods, schedule an appointment with your gynecologist. As with abnormal discharge, abnormal bleeding can indicate a number of possible problems, one of which is salpingitis.


Changes in hormonal birth control can sometimes cause spotting between periods. If you have recently started a new birth control pill or gotten an intrauterine device (IUD), that may be the reason for your spotting. It is probably safe to wait a few months to see if the issue resolves itself, especially if you have no other symptoms of salpingitis.
 Most women experience some degree of cramping before and during their periods, but if yours are especially painful, schedule an appointment with your doctor. Very painful menstrual periods (also called dysmenorrhea) can sometimes be caused by salpingitis (as well as by endometriosis, pelvic inflammatory disease, fibroid tumors, and other conditions). See your gynecologist for a complete exam.


This symptom is especially concerning if your menstrual periods were not always so uncomfortable. If the pain is new or has increased dramatically in severity, you should definitely consider it a warning sign that something is wrong. Seek treatment as soon as possible.
 Some women with salpingitis have noticeable abdominal pain, which can range in severity from mild to severe. This pain may be accompanied by nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.
 Salpingitis can cause the urethra to swell (this condition is known as urethritis). As a result, you may experience painful or frequent urination, and you may feel like you have a urinary tract or bladder infection.
 Many healthy women experience some pain or discomfort when they ovulate (this condition is sometimes called “mittelschmerz”). If you begin experiencing this problem suddenly, or if it occurs in conjunction with other symptoms, make an appointment with your gynecologist.
 Back pain can occur for many reasons, but if yours becomes severe, or if you have any other troubling symptoms, you should see a doctor. Some women with salpingitis experience lower back pain.
 When salpingitis leads to a serious infection, it can cause fevers and chills. If you have a fever along with other symptoms of salpingitis, you should see a doctor immediately.


In some women, this fever is accompanied by back pain that shoots down the legs. If you experience this symptom, seek treatment immediately and mention it to your doctor.
 Women with salpingitis often notice that their symptoms appear during certain parts of the menstrual cycle – frequently after their periods.

