 The game will complain, but as long as you do not lose them (then you have a big problem because without the bike they do not get a marker on the map), you will be fine. Switch cars under the freeway intersection (where your homies stop) so that you do not catch fire.
 Getting into a car raises enemy accuracy (obviously) and it stays high even after getting out of the car (I do not know when it turns back to normal though). If you switch from the car to a two-wheeler, their accuracy drops by a factor of 3! (proof: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2Z-62GSk9E) This fact applies to (afaik) every single enemy in the game: if you get into a car after he has spawned, he will become very accurate; if you then get onto a bike, his accuracy is back to normal. In many missions, this 'bug' is not an issue because the enemies are spawned after CJ has left his vehicle but for the rest, keep it in mind., They should be as accurate as if you had been in a car (see "Sweet's Girl") so do not underestimate them.^^, The race will be SO much easier if you do. Another good option is a Savannah (although not as fast with as good of steering as a Voodoo.) Some speed runners use the Remington which drives away from the meet in the mission "Cesar Vialpando" instead., Else they are probably going to spin or crash into you which cost a lot more than one second., And gradually work your way to the right lane, for the 1st real turn. Watch out for the poles. The Voodoo has very good top speed, so it will be easy to lose the competitors on the straights., This will make it easier for your car during the turns., Don't crash, look at what's ahead of you. Don't hit any poles, etc. And it should be easy to win the race by a large margin. Also, you can use the right stick to look around corners, to see farther, etc., or the left stick (push forward on it) to see farther ahead. This makes safe driving at fast speeds much easier., This will make the motorcycle handle much better, and will let CJ lean forward for more speed, if you want. OG will magically appear at the end., It's much easier to know where to go if you've seen the route before. It may help to watch some videos to learn where to turn, etc. The turn off of the highway is right after the billboard or overhead street sign., You don't have to catch Jeffrey, and there are some places where he stops and waits (but he doesn't stop and wait once on the highway.) So the main thing is to not crash., the downhill before the highway,) release the accelerator, to slow down, and to get more control over the bike, etc., The following is the 'pro' strategy: twitch.tv/tduva/c/4053924?t=17m0s In the two areas he is shooting him, he is not invulnerable for a short period of time after the short stop (where normally he waits for you if you are far away), so you memorize the first stopping location, drive straight there (it won't fail the mission), wait for him and then you can kill him using auto-aiming with a good gun. Try the AK or maybe the shotgun., That will let Big Smoke shoot the gang members without hitting the train instead. Most people drive too close to the train., That will make the mission easier. Also in general, line up Big Smoke with the gang member he's shooting. That will make it easier for him to hit the target., Skip the cars that get taken out automatically by the rig., The bikes always take the same path, so you can make shooting and aiming much easier by pre-aiming the gun.