 Reading the green means trying to figure out what your ball will do as it travels along the green toward the hole. Start your read by crouching 3 feet behind the ball. Look at the surface of the green, seeing where it dips and rises., If you are facing a putt that is going to go downhill, it can be helpful to read the green by looking “up” towards your ball. Looking down the green can make the hole appear farther away than it is, which will lead to you striking the ball too hard. Stand behind the hole and look towards your ball to get a sense of the downslope., While you want your reading to examine as much of the putting line as possible, you want to pay special attention to the last part of the putt. When you first strike the ball, the break of the green matters less because your ball is moving fastest. As it slows down, the slope will have a greater influence.One way to get a closer look at this part of the green is to stand between your ball and the hole so you can get closer to the area you want to examine.
 When you look over the green, try to find a flat line in the background to judge the green’s slope. This can be anything you see on the course, including eaves and windows on the clubhouse, benches, or bodies of water. This horizontal line will give you a reference point when tracking the break of the green, especially left to right.If you can’t find a natural horizon in the distance, use the brim of your cap or visor. Even more effective can be curling your hands around your face, fingers above your eyebrows, which will help block out your peripheral vision.
 When you start visualizing the break on the green, imagine how you see the ball rolling into the hole. Consider the hole as a clock face, with “12” being the back of the cup and “6” at the front. As you start to address the ball, turn your body so that your putt will aim in that direction.The way edge that the ball will roll into is dependent on a variety of factors, particularly the lay of the green. Use the sloping of the green to inform your prediction of how the ball should fall into cup.

