 Although it might sometimes be difficult to find the time to read, you should make it a point to read to your child every day. Ultimately, all you need is you, your child, a book, and a few minutes.Don’t stress about finishing an entire book.
If you’re short on time, five minutes may just do the trick. If you have more time, try to read for fifteen to thirty minutes.
 Make sure your child has been fed, has a fresh diaper, and has napped. If your child is alert and in a good mood, they'll get a lot more out of the experience.


While you may want to make reading part of your bedtime/naptime routine, you should also schedule reading time when your child is alert., When it’s time to read, find a good and relaxing location – like the baby’s nursery. The location should be relatively quiet, have sufficient light to read, and should have a comfortable space for you and your baby to sit. Avoid places where you or your baby will be distracted.Let other family members know that it is reading time.
Secure pets in another room so they don’t distract you or the baby from reading time.
Put your cell phone on mute.
 Situate your baby so they’re sitting or lying in your lap or against your body. This way, you’ll be able to hold the book in front of them at their eye level. This is important, so the baby will be able to sense your closeness and see the book as you read it., An important part of reading is making sure you have an age appropriate book. Ultimately, not all books work best for all ages. As a result, consider the stage of your child is in and then pick a book that works for your child.


Choose a book with little to no text and big, contrasting pictures for children 0 to 6 months old. Good books for this age group include ‘’Twinkle, Twinkle,’’ ‘’The Baby’s Lap Book,’’ and ‘’The Three Bears Rhyme Book.’’
For children 7 to 12 months, you can choose books that have vocabulary they might use every day. For example, books that reinforce words like “mommy,” “daddy,” “milk,” or “reading.”
Pick books that have a sentence or two on each page for children age 13 to 18 months., Once your baby has demonstrated that they’re done reading, you should quit. If you force reading, you’ll build a negative association and turn your child off to it in the future. Ultimately, if your child seems to be hungry, has messed their diaper, is crying, or is otherwise distracted, stop reading.