 Fashion is an excellent place for a new start, and a great way to experiment with new personas. Reinvention is all in the individual elements that you choose to alter - going from long hair to a short pixie cut, for example, is very transformative. Try playing around with some other style details, such as:the color of your wardrobe (e.g. going from colorful clothing to all black clothing, or vice-versa)
the cut of your clothing (like moving from baggy, shapeless garments to more tailored, sleek-looking pieces)
your signature jewelry (for instance, wearing a bold new necklace instead of a modest charm necklace)
footwear (switching from sneakers to tall boots, for example)

, Finding new people to spend time with at school can greatly improve your mood and perspective on things. To do this, try reaching out to acquaintances that you see irregularly and reconnect, or approach a social group at school to see if you can hang out with them. In both cases, be friendly, upfront, and proactive - ask ice breaker questions like, "Hi, how's your day going?" and let conversation unfurl from there.To expand your friends circle, try sitting at a new table at lunch and strike up a conversation.
 To truly reinvent yourself, you should spruce up the things that you see on a daily basis. Change and positivity are key factors in reinvention, so taking steps to improve your physical surroundings can help your personal development. This could mean redecorating your living space, updating your wardrobe, or anything else that will be a visual aide with brightening your perspective., Maintaining your mental and physical health is an important part of reinventing yourself, as going through this period of transition will require you to be at your best. Regular exercise can provide you with relaxation, better sleep and mood, and stronger immune function, all positive changes for a better you. Make a point of getting active as much as possible, with easy to schedule exercise like:walking or jogging
jumping rope
working out on a treadmill, elliptical machine, or fitness stepper

, Reinventing yourself means venturing into the unknown and trying something new, so make the most of any opportunities that come your way. Travel is a great way to explore, but even simple actions like trying new restaurants, listening to new music, or shopping at new stores can freshen your perspective and open your mind. Make a list of new things you would like to try and hold yourself to crossing at least one thing off your list per week (e.g. “eat at an Afghan restaurant.”), Learning is key to self-growth and personal improvement, and should be a vital part of your reinvention. Learning new skills can prompt the brain to release dopamine, a neurotransmitter that is directly related to feelings of pleasure; the long term effect of gaining a new skill, on top of the dopamine kick, can provide a lasting sense of fulfillment and self-esteem. Look at your community newspaper, local classified ads, or online listings to see what lessons are available near you (e.g. swimming, guitar playing, swing dancing).As a bonus, opt for lessons in an activity that you can continue at school once it begins, such as swimming or playing an instrument).

