 The first thing to consider when looking at food packaging is the product itself. Questions you need answers to include:


Does it have a place on the market?
How will it stand out from other foods already out there?
What sort of shape and consistency is it?
What sort of packaging will best contain it? 
Who is your target audience and how will you get this across?


Once you have this information sorted out and understood, you can begin to look at your packaging.





;
, Failure to do so could lead to prosecution or fines and a dent in your brand's reputation. Make this is a priority. At the most basic, the packaging should include:


The manufacturer's name and contact details
The name of the product
A description of the product
The weight of the product
A list of ingredients in the product
Instructions on how to cook/heat the food
Storage instructions
The shelf life of the product
The product's place of origin
Allergy information
Nutritional information
A bar code.
 Foods come in all sorts of shapes, sizes and consistencies, so choosing packaging that is appropriate to your product is essential. For example:


If you are selling a liquid based product such as soup, you will need to ensure that the packaging is leakproof and sturdy, in order to avoid spillages.
Any products that you intend to be microwavable will need to be placed in packaging suitable for the microwave so that it can be handled accordingly. 
Dry foods such as cereals and pasta can be packaged in cardboard and plastic, depending on your preferences.
 The packaging you choose for your product should be able to protect the food whilst being transported. Some foods are transported for very long distances, particularly if they are being distributed across the world. To ensure that your food is protected, the chosen packaging should be strong, flexible, durable and weatherproof. This will ensure that your food is delivered in one piece when it arrives at its destination.
 As mentioned earlier, this aspect is vital for the successful selling of your product. The design will need to be bold, eye-catching, representative of the food and like nothing else already on the market.


If your target audience is children, the design should be bright and colourful, fun and easy to read. 
Organic produce tends to be advertised in earthy colours to advertise the fact that the food is natural.
 These are all things that will need to be discussed and taken seriously. In some cases, the food will determine the transparency or opacity of the packaging, as it may need to be protected from light or it may not present well if seen.

