 Consistency in bedtime helps to optimize your child's sleeping routine, training her brain to recognize when it is time to fall asleep and when it is time to wake up.


In addition to consistent bedtimes, you will also want to have consistent wake-up times (again, within half an hour or so).
Sleeping in on weekends (on non-school days) is not a good idea, especially if your child is having trouble sleeping through the night, as you don't want her to be over-rested.;
, This helps to get your child in the right frame of mind before bed, increasing the chances that he will sleep through the night without disturbances. Many parents will read one or two stories before bed, and some will give their child a warm, relaxing bath.


The important thing about before bed activities is that you ideally want them to be relaxing, and ones that put your child in a positive frame of mind (i.e. activities that help to soothe your child's mind before putting him to sleep).
It is also ideal if before bed activities involve connection time between you and your child. Giving him this attention before he goes to sleep can help to prevent nighttime disturbances or crying out that may result from your child's longing for additional connection time with you.
 Studies have shown that time spent in front of a screen — be it a television screen, a computer, a cellphone, or a video game — diminishes the natural production of melatonin in the brain (a chemical that helps with sleep and circadian rhythm). Therefore, screen time before bed has been linked to troubles falling asleep, as well as troubles staying asleep. If possible, establish alternative pre-bedtime routines with your child from a young age, such as reading stories together or giving your child a bath.
 A dark environment signals the brain that it is time to sleep, so it can help your child both with falling asleep as well as staying asleep through the night.


Also, if you live in a home or neighbourhood that is noisy or has disruptive sounds, consider installing a source of white noise or playing a tape with white noise on it in your child's room. This may help to drown out some of the noises that may previously have contributed to awakening your child during the night.
Make sure the room is a comfortable temperature — not too warm or too cold.
 She also miss out on learning the important life skill of falling asleep (and the self-soothing skills that accompany this). Therefore, it is best to put your child to sleep when she is drowsy, and to let her be alone as she actually falls asleep.


On a similar note, it is important not to cut down on your child's daytime naps until she is sleeping through the night.
Contrary to popular belief, cutting down on naps too soon has a negative impact on a child's sleeping pattern.
Once your child is sleeping through the night, you can cut down from two naps to one, and then from one nap to zero; however, be sure to only make these changes once sleeping through the night is not an issue.
 You don't want to feed your child sugar-filled foods right before bed. This will contribute to what is commonly known as a "sugar high," which is when your child has excess energy due to a sudden spike in his blood sugar levels. Needless to say, this is an effect you will want to avoid at bedtime.


On another note, you also don't want your child to go to bed hungry. Insufficient food may cause him to awaken in the middle of the night out of hunger. Therefore, ensure that your child has had enough calories before bed to get him through the night.
Try not to feed your child within the 30 to 60 minutes leading up to bedtime (unless he is an infant).
 This will serve two purposes: it will first of all give your child a sense of company while falling asleep, and secondly it can provide a sense of happiness surrounding the idea of going to sleep if your child feels like she will be accompanied by a "little friend."

, One of the reasons for this is that the older child may feel "second best," and have a heightened desire for parental attention, leading to potential outbursts and crying during the night. If you are planning to have a second child, make sure your first child is transitioned to his new sleeping place at least two months prior to the arrival of the new child (if this change will require your older child to move rooms or to go from a crib into a bed).


You do not want to the older child to feel "displaced" with the arrival of the new baby.
Also, as this transition is going on, be sure to involve your older child in your baby's life in an age-appropriate way. This will help to give your older child a sense of responsibility and importance, and it will allow him to still feel valued in your eyes.

