 Not every state allows people to sue for public disclosure of private facts. In New York, for example, you cannot bring this claim.You should research your state law. You can visit your local law library, which is probably at your courthouse. Tell the librarian that you want to read the law on public disclosure of private facts. There should be a statute on the books.
You could also meet with a lawyer for a consultation. Many lawyers now offer free consultations. To find an experienced attorney, you can visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program.
Summaries of some laws are also available at the Digital Media Law Project website.;
, Your privacy has not been invaded if the fact disclosed was generally made available.In other words, if you publish something to a Facebook or Instagram page, then it is not private.


Common examples of private facts include medical information, sexual orientation, and financial difficulties., Instead, you should meet with a lawyer to discuss the law in your state. Your lawyer will research the case law to see if courts have allowed people to recover for publication of facts similar to yours.
 You will need to prove that the private fact was disclosed publicly. This means that the defendant released the information to the general public or told enough people that he or she reasonably could anticipate that it would be made public.Private facts can be publicly disclosed in a variety of ways:


On a blog. Print off pages of the blog and keep them as evidence.
Spoken publicly to people. Get names and witness statements of people who heard the disclosure.
Published on a website. Print off pages from the website and note the dates on which it appears.
Sent by email to several people. There is no magic number the email must be sent to, but make sure it is more than one person. Save the email or otherwise print off a hard copy for your records.
 You also need to calculate how much you have been injured by the disclosure of private facts. You are entitled to compensatory damages for the harm caused you. Plaintiffs who bring lawsuits for public disclosure of private facts can recover for the following:Emotion and mental stress. You can recover for the stress and humiliation of having private facts divulged. There is no standard way of deciding how to value your mental health. Nevertheless, many states have now capped non-economic damages.These caps can range from $350,000 to $750,000.Economic compensation for any harm you suffered as a result. For example, if you lost contracts with clients because of the disclosure, then you can sue for the value of the lost contract.
Profits unlawfully earned by the defendant. If the defendant made money by publishing your private facts, then you can seek to disgorge him or her of the profits. For example, if someone published a magazine article about you, then you could recover the amount the writer was paid.
Punitive damages. Some states allow you to punish a defendant. Punitive damages go above and beyond what is needed to make you whole. For example, a California court awarded a plaintiff $525,000 in punitive damages because a newspaper revealed that she was a transsexual. This punitive damages award was double the amount of compensatory damages she was awarded., Depending on the amount of your claim, you can file in small claims court or in regular civil court. Small claims courts have limits on the amount you can sue for. These amounts vary by court, but typically run between $5,000 and $15,000. You should check with the court clerk.


There are many advantages to bringing your lawsuit in small claims court. Generally, you can represent yourself and do not need a lawyer. Indeed, in some states, you can’t even have a lawyer represent you in small claims court.As a result, suing is more affordable.
Also, small claims cases can be resolved faster. There is not a long, drawn-out fact-finding phase called “discovery.”

, Regardless of which court you bring your claim in, you need to start the lawsuit by filing a complaint. A complaint alleges the factual circumstances of the dispute and the legal theories supporting your case.


Your court will probably have a form complaint that you can fill out.You should ask the court clerk.
 Once you have completed your complaint, you need to file it with the court clerk. Make several copies. One will be for the defendant and one will be for your records. Have the court clerk stamp all copies with the date.


You will probably need to pay a filing fee, which will vary by court. Be sure to ask the court clerk when you pick up your form complaint.
If you cannot afford the fee, then ask the court clerk for a fee waiver form and fill it out.
 After you file your lawsuit, you need to serve notice on the defendant. You will send him or her a copy of the complaint and a summons, which you can get from the court clerk. The summons will command the defendant to respond to your lawsuit. It will also provide the deadline.


Generally, you can make service in a variety of ways. For example, you can have someone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit serve notice on the defendant.
You can also hire a professional process server or pay the sheriff to make service. This option usually costs between $45 and $75 per service. You can find private process servers in the phone book or on the Internet.
You also might be able to have the clerk mail notice to the defendant.Ask the court clerk for specific methods that are acceptable.
 The defendant should respond to your complaint by filing an answer with the court. In the answer, the defendant responds to each allegation. He or she can admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny. You should be served a copy of the defendant’s answer. Once you receive it, read it thoroughly.


The answer should also contain the defendant’s affirmative defenses. In a lawsuit for public disclosure of private facts, the defendant can argue that the information is of legitimate concern to the public, i.e., it is “newsworthy.”

In some states, newsworthiness is a defense that the defendant can raise affirmatively in his answer. In other states, you will actually have to allege that the private fact was not of legitimate concern to the public in your complaint. Check your state law to see if you must allege it in your complaint.


Realize that truth is not a defense to this legal claim.Public disclosure of private facts differs from defamation. With defamation, truth is a complete defense.
 This area of law is very vague. Many parts of the law turn on what a “reasonable” person would think. Accordingly, you might need a lawyer’s expert opinion on whether you have a legitimate legal claim. You can set up a consultation with an attorney to discuss the facts of your case. Even if you don't retain the lawyer, a short consultation could be beneficial. You can ask the lawyer for advice on how to proceed with the case.


You might be worried about costs. However, you should realize that in many states you can hire a lawyer to coach you or to look over your complaint to make sure that it is sufficient. This is called “limited scope representation.”To see if a lawyer offers this service, you should call and ask when you set up your consultation.
 Some courts have self-help service centers. The staff at these centers can answer your questions and look over your paperwork to make sure that you have filled it out correctly.


To check whether your court has a self-help center, you should call the courthouse and ask.
 If you are low-income, then you might qualify for legal aid. Legal aid organizations provide free legal help to people who are economically disadvantaged. To find a legal aid organization near you, you can call your state’s bar association. They should have referral information for legal aid organizations.


You can also check the Legal Services Corporation's website at www.lsc.gov. Click on "Find Legal Aid" in the upper right-hand corner and then enter your address.
You can call any legal aid organizations in your area and ask if you can meet for a consultation.

