 The lemon oil will remove chalk dust from your chalkboard, leaving it smooth and clean and free of residue.


Lemon oil comes from the rinds of a lemon, and some people use it to clean guitar fingerboards as well. It’s anti-bacterial, and who doesn’t love a fresh lemony smell!Place two teaspoons of lemon oil on a dry cloth. Fold the cloth into a square, and put it into a sealed plastic bag. Lemon oil will also make your chalkboard shinier.After letting it sit for a day, remove the cloth from the plastic bag, and wipe the blackboard with the lemon-oil covered cloth. Try putting two cloths in the bag so you have another one for the next day as you should clean the chalkboard daily.
 Coke sounds like it would make your chalkboard sticky and unusable, but a lot of people have used the soda product as a cleaning agent, and they report that it cleans chalkboards more thoroughly than water.Pour a half cup of Coke into a bowl. Take a damp cloth, and dip it into the bowl, getting some of the Coke on the cloth. Any brand of soda should work, though, including Pepsi or diet soda.
Take the Coke-covered cloth, and wipe it on the chalkboard. People who have tried this report that it dries without leaving behind chalk dust.
It’s also probably not going to make your chalkboard sticky unless you use too much. Dab the cloth into it. You don’t want enough Coke on the cloth that it’s dripping from the cloth. The soda may actually make it easier for chalk to adhere to the board.
 Try mixing water and white vinegar together, and use a cloth to wipe the chalkboard with it. Not only will this concoction smell good, but it will also prevent streaks.White vinegar is the best choice because other vinegar (such as balsamic) has coloring that can harm the blackboard’s appearance.
Add half a cup of vinegar to four cups of lukewarm water before putting a cloth into the mixture. Wipe the board down. Wring out the cloth before wiping the board so it’s not dripping wet.
It’s best to let the chalkboard air dry when you’re done removing all of the chalk dust from its surface. It’s possible to use only water to wipe down a chalkboard; the vinegar increases the cleaning power.

