 This will give you time to get ready, pack your backpack and eat breakfast.;
, This will keep you well rested and will prevent under-eye bags and is the recommended amount of sleep by doctors.
 Be sure to do it for two minutes twice a day, or after every meal. Consider using a whitening toothpaste if your teeth are yellow.
 Mouthwash will further freshen your breath and help fight cavities.
 You don't have to have the trendiest or most expensive clothing out there. Just make sure it fits you and it's clean. Try to avoid wearing the same thing everyday.
, This will clean any dirt, makeup, and oil off your face.
 Don't curse, swear or flip people off, not even in different languages.
 Take showers every day, but don't wash your hair every day, your hair will get greasy and oily. Use a good smelling body wash, put on deodorant. Brush your teeth twice a day (recommended 3 times a day if you have braces.) and floss. Make sure to keep a lip balm on hand so your lips will be extra soft.
 Make sure jeans hug your body, because baggy ones make you look filthy and you don't look your best. Wear shirts that fit. Wear clean underwear everyday and you most likely need to wear a bra, if you're a girl. Make sure the bra fits, when you bend over it shouldn't hang off your breast and it shouldn't suffocate your chest either. A lot of kids in 6th grade go to stores such as Aeropostale, Justice, American Eagle, and Forever 21.
 You're very likely starting puberty or already have and you will start getting acne. Washing your face can keep it from getting too bad and fight off the problem a little bit before it starts.
 If you aren't allowed, skip this step. If you are, don't go overboard. Wear mascara, a little eyeshadow, and a light blush. If you have acne then use concealer, but don't go crazy with it or you will look fake. Just go natural.
 Get involved in sports, drink water and don't skip meals. This will keep you healthy inside and out.Also get a lot of sleep. It reduces the dark circles under your eyes and if you don't get enough sleep than your grades will start to drop.

