 Different stainless steel watches require different bracelet detachment methods. Some will need only a simple click of a button to detach their bracelet from their watch head. Others will need a specialized screwdriver to release the bracelet from the watch head. Consult manufacturer directions for more information about how to remove the watch from the bracelet., Submerge it in a small bowl filled with soapy water or rubbing alcohol. Soaking your watch bracelet in this way will loosen the grit and grime that it has accumulated. The length of time you allow your watch to soak depends on how grimy it is.If it is quite dirty, leave it submerged for a few hours.
If it is not too dirty, leave it submerged for about 30 minutes.
If your watch’s head doesn’t detach from the bracelet, wrap paper towel or plastic wrap around it, and bind it in place with string or a rubber band. Alternately, take your watch to a jeweler for a professional cleaning.
 Dip a soft-bristled toothbrush in rubbing alcohol or soapy water. Remove your bracelet from the liquid and use the toothbrush to gently scrub away discoloration or dirt that has collected within the gaps of the watch band., Some chemical cleaners contain benzene or similar substances that can ruin stainless steel. They might also cause skin irritation, even when they’ve been cleaned off. Therefore, stick to soapy water or rubbing alcohol when cleaning your stainless steel watch., Use a damp cloth to gently wipe away any sticky or yucky spots on the watch head. Wipe both the front and back of the watch head.Do not remove the cover over the watch face. The cover exists to prevent dirt and rust from affecting the watch face.
 Unless you know for sure that doing so is appropriate for your watch, do not dunk your watch head directly in soapy water or another cleaning agent. Even water-resistant watches often need to be tested or have their seals changed before being exposed to water.Consult manufacturer directions to learn more about your watch’s water-resistant properties.
 If you feel your watch head is still unclean after being wiped down, you can give it a deeper cleaning with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Dip a soft-bristled toothbrush into soapy water. Apply the bristles of the toothbrush to the watch face and move the brush in a gentle, circular motion across the face of the watch. Repeat on the back side., If your watch face has markings or crystals on it, use a cotton swab to clean it. Dip the cotton swab in rubbing alcohol or soapy water and move the tip of it in a gentle, circular motion across the watch face., This will prevent liquid from getting trapped in the watch band, limiting your watch’s risk of rust and corrosion. Use another soft, lint-free cloth to wipe down the watch head.Wipe your watch down regularly, especially after you work out or get caught in the rain.
 Even after patting your watch band down with a dry cloth, it’s possible that some liquid remains between the links and crevices of the watch. To ensure your watch is totally dry, air dry it by laying it on a dry towel for an hour or so., If you have trouble getting your watch clean, send it to a jeweler. Jewelers have the tools and expertise necessary to clean your stainless steel watch. It’s an added cost, but doing so will save you time, and could prevent you from damaging your stainless steel watch accidentally.You should also utilize a jeweler’s services when you wish to clean a stainless steel antique watch.