 There are many different invisible illnesses. You can’t treat each one the same. To help with this, you should work closely with your physician to develop a management plan. This can help management symptoms, pain, and fatigue.For example, Multiple Sclerosis, depression, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, and chronic pain are common invisible illnesses. Treating and managing each one is different.
The management for the same illness also varies from person to person. This is why it is important for you to work closely with your doctor to develop a personalized treatment plan.
 People who suffer from invisible illnesses sometimes end up with doctors who do not believe they are sick. The doctor may believe your symptoms are in your head or that you are trying to get pain meds. Stop seeing doctors who think like that and find a doctor who will believe you.Finding a doctor who believes that you are ill ensures that you receive proper treatment.
Start by looking for doctors in your area that specialize in your condition. You may also want to visit official illness web pages, message boards, and forums to ask for suggestions of doctors in your area.
 You should to talk to a mental health professional who can help you learn coping strategies for your invisible illness. Invisible illnesses can lead you to many negative feelings, like depression or self-doubt. Your self-esteem can be impacted as well.Sometimes these illnesses have a psychosomatic element. That is not to say you are faking your illness or that it's "all in your head," but that it may be connected to a psychological and/or emotional condition. Addressing these components may help alleviate some of your symptoms.
A mental health professional can listen to your concerns and help you find ways to accept your limits, deal with others, and manage negative feelings.
 Living with an invisible illness can be difficult. To help you cope, you may want to find a support group of others with your illness or an invisible illness. This may be a group in your area or one online.Ask your doctor or local hospital if they know of a support group that meets in your area.
You may want to find a group online. There are many websites dedicated to invisible illnesses or specific conditions. You may be able to find an online support group through them.

