 Decorating your bunk is a time-honored tradition. However, because many cabins are old or delicate, your camp may have specific rules about what you can and cannot do to embellish your space.Make sure you know these, because it’d be a shame to have to abandon a cute decorating idea after you’ve already packed it.


Candles and incense are never okay. Save it for the campfire!
Some other frequently forbidden items are electrical items (like fans or string lights) and tapestries.;
, You don’t need to have a ton of perfectly matched bunk accessories straight out of a PBTeen catalog. However, keeping your decor to one theme can keep it cohesive and cool. You can use your favorite colors as a theme, or celebrate your favorite interests (like your favorite bands or comics)., If you have an old-fashioned traveling trunk, you’re lucky: it’s a storage unit and a cute piece of furniture at the same time.It can also add a lot to your decor if you want it to.


Ask your parents if you can decorate the trunk with stickers, glitter, or paint. If they’re concerned about damaging the trunk, try using vinyl stickers--these are great because they peel off easily. You can find them in stores marked as “wall art” or “mirror art.”
If your parents don’t want you to use stickers or paint, add a sweet touch to your trunk by threading ribbons in your favorite color through the handles. These will also make it easier to identify your belongings in a sea of black boxes.
 Photos and posters add a lot to your space, and because they’re flat, they’re easy to pack. Pictures of your friends and family remind you of home, a flyer from your favorite band can be a talking point with new friends, and a print of your favorite Monet painting is soothing and pretty.Make sure you know how you plan to attach these items to the wall! Masking tape and painter’s tape hold well and come away easily.
Vinyl mirror stickers or art can be used on the walls.
For extra cuteness points, make bunting in your favorite prints.
Colorful ribbons are a nice way to add texture--you can tie them to pretty much anything.
 Some camps provide sheets and pillows for you, and you can often bring extras if you really want to. Camp bunks usually have twin mattresses, so if you have a twin at home, those sheets and blankets will fit.


A couple of throw blankets (like the kind you put on your couch) can dress up your bed, just like layering an outfit makes it look better. Fold them neatly to add a sophisticated touch. Throw pillows are also adorable, but they can take up space when you pack.
If you want to bring your favorite stuffed animal, go ahead--it will look cute sitting on your bed.
 Some camps have a spot where campers traditionally sign their names and the years they attended camp. If (and only if!) your camp has such a tradition, a Sharpie is the perfect pen to use. You can also use pens for artwork, t-shirt signings, and writing down your contact information for new friends.
 Lots of camps ban electronics, so you won’t be able to Instagram your s’mores. However, instant cameras are usually allowed.The pictures you take with one will make excellent decorations when you’re at camp and great memories when you’re done., Different camps have different policies for how to choose your bunk. You might also have a bed assigned to you. Don’t worry too much about it, though. Whether you end up with the top or bottom bunk, you can still make it cute.The top bunk is nice because it’s fun to be so far off the floor, and you don’t have to worry about banging your head on the bunk above you.
The bottom bunk is also good, because it’s easy to get up in the middle of the night or convert it into a changing room. Just tuck a big dry towel into the top bunk’s mattress, and it will act like a big curtain.
 Your bunk itself is the most important place for you in the cabin, so set it neatly when you move in. Use hospital corners to keep your sheets smooth. Once you’ve put all your pillows and blankets on your bed, you can start with the fun part: arranging your other belongings.
 Before you start decorating, store important stuff like a clock, flashlight, lantern, or sunscreen on the shelf or cubby closest to your bed. This way, you can grab them easily before you go off on camp adventures. You can survive a few hours without your posters up, but forgetting bug spray even once might make you itchy for days., This is the fun part. If you have any favorite pictures or posters, put those up first, then arrange smaller pictures around them. Use masking or gaffer’s tape to securely attach your decorations. Tie bunting or colorful ribbons on the posts of the bunkbed.


Take off your shoes if you’re sitting on your bed to put up your pictures. Otherwise, you’ll be sleeping under a dirty blanket for all of camp, which is not cute.
If your bunkmates ask if they can help, say yes. It’s a great way to bond.
Don’t be shy about helping them out either--lend out your tape if you have extra, or offer to hang high pictures if you’re tall.
 If they are thick and close enough to you, they can be extra storage or a new surface for ornaments or flags. If it’s okay at your camp, they also look amazing wrapped with string lights. What could be better than a bunk that looks good literally from top to bottom?

