 You may use mason jars with lids and rings or recycled glass jars that previously held tomato sauce or other food items. If you're using used jars, scrub out the jars with soapy water and a scrub brush to remove all food particles, or run them through the dishwasher. Sterilize the jars, lids, and any utensils you're using in the following way:Place them in a large pot and fill it with cold water.
Bring the water to a boil and boil for 10 minutes.
Remove them with clean tongs and allow them to dry on a clean towel.;
, Ideally, beetroot will have been harvested about one month prior to preserving it. This gives the vegetable time to cure and finish ripening, resulting in the best flavor. Look for beetroot that's firm with no visible bruises or soft spot.


Though ripe beetroot is best, since preserved beetroot gains flavor from the pickling liquid, you can use beets that are on the older side or aren't quite ripe yet.
 Fresh beetroot is often caked with dirt. Take a vegetable brush and scrub it on all dies to remove the grit. Rinse thoroughly under cold running water. If you find blemishes under the dirt, slice them off with a paring knife., Slice off the greens with a sharp paring knife. Beetroot greens are tasty in their own right. Consider stewing them up after you're finished preserving your beetroot.
 Place it in a large pot and cover with water. Sprinkle a teaspoon or so of salt into the water, then turn the heat up and bring it to a boil. Boil the beetroot until you can easily stick one with a knife, about 30 minutes. Then remove the pot from heat and drain the water.

If you have beetroot of varying sizes, place the larger vegetables in the water first. Let them boil for about five minutes before adding the remaining beets. This will ensure that the largest beets cook all the way through and the smaller ones don't overcook.
 When the beetroot is cool enough to touch, simply slide off the peels with your fingers. After boiling, it the beetroot peels should easily slip off. Help them along with a knife if necessary. Discard the peels when you're finished.
 Many choose to pickle beetroot in discs suitable for sandwiches, but you can cut the beetroot into any shape you'd like. Cutting the beetroot into smaller pieces allows you to pack more into the jars.
 Do this while the beetroot is hot so that the liquid will also be hot when the beetroot is ready. Combine all of the ingredients in a small saucepan and bring the mixture to a boil, then reduce to a simmer for two minutes.
 Distribute it evenly among the jars you have set out. Pack in the beetroot to within a few inches of the tops of the jars.
 Pour it over the beetroot to within half inch of the top of each jar. It's important to leave a bit of headspace at the top of the jar to prevent too much pressure from accumulating there. Place the lids on the jars and tighten them.


If you see air bubbles in the jars, tap the bottoms of the jars lightly against the counter top to make them float to the top and pop.
 Set them on the counter and let them cool overnight before storing.
 During this time the pickling liquid will penetrate the beetroot to add flavor and change the texture. You may enjoy the beetroot at any time after one week has passed.


Beetroot preserved this way will keep up to three months in a cool, dark place.
Once you open a jar, store it in the refrigerator.

