 Instead of a lot of things that are fried in oil, eat things that are baked. Instead of cooking with real sugar, replace it with a sugar supplement. Thinking about what you're eating and how you could make it healthier will automatically boost your health and decrease your weight.;
, If coffee is your fix then have a cup of that. Not eating breakfast puts your body into a state of hunger called "starvation mode," which causes your body to store fats and carbs and actually cause you to gain weight. What you eat during breakfast is usually what your body is going to be burning up throughout the day so try to make it healthy and full of vitamins. There is so many options that you shouldn't have a hard time finding something healthy to eat for breakfast that you also enjoy. What many people usually have is either two eggs, toast, and handful of raspberries or muesli with yogurt. It keeps you full and gives you the energy boost you need to carry on throughout the day.
 For all the chocolate bars you can count there is also a much better replacement. What choices you make during lunch define how you feel the rest of the day, and how much energy you have before dinner. During lunch opt for water as main drink instead of juice. What are some healthy options to eat? There is a chicken salad, which is not only healthy and green but also delicious and full of protein. Another popular health snack is a veggie burrito. You can make one easily at home. Just buy some pita bread and spread your favorite spread on top, and throw in your favorite veggies (Add avocado for an extra dash of vitamins) and you're done!

, Exercising isn't actually what you would think it is. Instead of being forced to do countless of laps in P.E, when you are your own personal trainer you are your own boss. Hit the gym a few times a week, and just do whatever you feel like doing. If it is walking ten minutes on the treadmill then so be it! If you do it long enough you will come to find enjoyment out of those ten minutes, and I can promise you that you will find yourself taking those ten and turning them into twenty, thirty, even forty minutes. You might start jogging, biking, and a door of healthy exercising opens up to you if you are willing to just try.

