 Since barre routines are new and trendy, they can come with a big price tag. If this isn't in your budget, consider doing some of these exercises at home.


Check out videos online or blog or magazine articles for different moves or entire barre routines that you can do at home. There are many out there that require minimal equipment.
There are also some barre DVD's that you can order. Be sure to check whether or not these require equipment.
Lastly, even if paying for a barre workout three times a week isn't in your budget, consider going once a month to ensure you're performing the exercises correctly.
If you need equipment for an at-home barre routine, it should be minimal. Most require a very light set of hand weights and a sturdy high-backed chair or table.;
, This barre exercise tones your inner thighs and the bottoms of your feet.Start this exercise by:


Stand behind a sturdy chair with feet hip-width apart and toes pointing away from your body at a 45 degree angle. Hold onto the back of the chair with both hands.
Rise to your "tippy-toes" and then slowly bend your knees out away from your body at a 45 degree angle (in a plié motion). Only lower about half way down.
Straighten your legs back up and then lower down to flat feet. Repeat this exercise 20 times or as many times as you're able.
 This particular barre exercise works the back of your legs, your glutes, and your feet.Start this exercise by:


Stand behind the back of a sturdy chair. Place your hands on the top of the back of the chair and keep feet hip-width underneath you.
Lift yourself up onto your "tippy-toes" and begin to squat down by lowering your hips down towards the floor.
Keep your inner thighs and knees pressed together as you lower your hips. Slowly raise back up to the starting position.
Repeat this exercise 20 times or as many times as you can.
 This barre exercise will help strengthen multiple areas of your body including your arms and legs.Start by:


Stand next to a sturdy chair so your hip is perpendicular to the back of the chair. Place your right arm on the top of the back of the chair. In the left hand, hold a light dumbbell. Feet should be hip-width apart.
Slowly lift your right leg (leg closest to the chair) behind you keeping your leg straight and your toes pointed.
As you do this, slowly bend your left knee slightly and hinge forward at your hips so your face and torso are facing the floor. Lift your left arm with the dumbbell out to the side.
Lower both your arms and return to the standing position. Repeat 20 times on each side.
 This particular barre move focuses on toning and strengthening your triceps in addition to working on balance.Holding one dumbbell in each hand, bend your arms behind your head at a 90 degree angle. Your feet should be hip-width apart and toes point at a 45 degree angle away from your body.
While holding your abs tight, push up through your toes until you're on "tippy-toes." As you push up, also lift your hands up towards the ceiling until your arms are straight.
Slowly lower your arms and legs back down to their starting positions. Repeat this exercise 20 times total or as many times as you can.
 If you're interested in trying a barre workout, the best place to start is to find a barre studio in your area or a local dance studio that offers barre classes. Ask friends, family, and coworkers for recommendations.


Although there are ways to do barre workouts at home, these moves are not your traditional exercise or strength training exercises. It'll be beneficial to go to a class to watch other students and to get guidance from the instructor.
Also, barre classes can be pricey. Research a couple of studios to see the range of prices. In addition, some studios will offer discounts if you purchase a longer-term membership instead of individual classes.
Consider looking for barre studios that have classes tailored to your needs. You may find specific barre classes for: beginners, women who are pregnant, those who are senior citizens or those who are advanced practitioners.
Ask the studio about the style of classes they offer. ask the studio or facility about the style of the barre class they offer, whether it is fast paced or slow paced, and whether the instructor has a dance background. Knowing the type of music that is played can give you a good idea of how the class will feel and whether it suits you.
 If you're new to a barre workout, or any workout, consider getting to the class or studio a little early. This can help you get yourself set up and prepared for the workout ahead.Many instructors recommend that beginners or first time barre practitioners arrive to the studio early. They usually have some forms or waivers for you to fill out.While you're there, talk to the instructor. Tell her you're new and haven't done this workout before. Don't be embarrassed about this! She will be able to help you and give you additional guidance during class.
The instructor may also be able to give you a little tour of the studio. She will show you the barres, mats and places where you'll be doing the exercise.
In addition, ask for a run-down of the routine so you can get an idea of what to expect from the class.
 Like many different types of exercise or fitness routines, it's important to be prepared with the right type of clothing.


For barre classes, there is a specific wardrobe recommended. It's recommended to wear fitted pants, leggings or capris to class. Shorts are typically not allowed. Also wear a fitted shirt that covers your mid-drift. Sports bras or tank tops showing your stomach are typically not permitted.Barre workouts also require some specialty socks. It's recommended to wear sticky socks to help prevent your feet from sliding during the workout. Also, remove your shoes prior to walking through the actual studio.Wearing the right type of clothing will help you be as flexible as possible and keep you comfortable and safe.
 As with any workout or exercise routine, you want to stay adequately hydrated.Even if you don't think barre will work up a sweat, be prepared to work hard and need some fluids.


It's a good idea to have a water bottle with you during your barre workout to help keep you hydrated during this routine. In addition, follow up your workout with more water.
Bringing a 16–30 oz (0.5 to 1 litre) water bottle to an hour barre workout should be sufficient. In addition, you shouldn't need any type of sports drink or electrolyte drink for this particular exercise.
Also, make sure you stay adequately hydrated throughout the entire day. In total, you should aim for about eight to 13 glasses of water daily., Although barre classes are a great workout, they're not considered aerobic exercises or cardiovascular exercises. Make sure to include more cardio in addition to your barre routine.


Health professionals typically recommend doing about 150 minutes or 2 1/2 hours of cardiovascular activity each week.Aim for moderate-intensity exercises. This should get your heart rate elevated, breathing pace faster and cause you to sweat.
Exercises that can be included are: walking, jogging, using the elliptical, hiking, dancing, swimming or doing an aerobics class.
 Barre workouts do help you tone and strengthen your muscles; however, this type of exercise does not provide the same benefits as more traditional forms of strength training.


Strength training exercises like squats or lunges are considered compound exercises, not isometric exercise like barre moves. Compound exercises help build more strength than isometric exercises.If you want to tone and build strength, do a combination of traditional strength training exercises with your barre classes.
 Barre classes might not seem like a hard or intense workout, but you'll be feeling all those little subtle motions the next day. Plan for rest days to help your body recover.


There are a variety of reasons to include one to two days of rest during the week. The biggest reason is that your muscles actually grow in size and strength while at rest — not when you lift weights or work.Never taking a rest can also lead to burnout and fatigue. Take a break for your mental and physical well being.