 Avoiding candy, baked goods and other treats laden with sugar may be the toughest part of following a low-carb diet, but it’s also the most important. Sugar is a simple carbohydrate that causes your blood sugar to spike and leads to weight gain.Most low-carb diets prohibit sugar in all its forms.


White cane sugar is just one form of sugar to avoid. You should also remove other sugars like high fructose corn syrup, maple syrup, and honey from your diet.
Check ingredient labels to see if products contain a form of sugar. Sugar is often a “hidden” ingredient in foods like tomato sauce and salad dressing.
 Wheat, oats, rice, corn and other grains also contain high amounts of carbohydrates. If you’re going low-carb, you’ll want to avoid both processed grains - like white flour - and “whole” grains, like whole wheat and steel-cut oats. That means that almost all bread, pasta and other grain-heavy foods are off limits.


Just because a food is gluten-free, doesn’t make it low-carb. Baked gluten-free items don’t contain wheat, but they may contain rice or another substitute grain that is just as carb-heavy.
If you’re not concerned with eliminating carbs entirely, whole grains are a better choice than processed grains. Unlike processed grains, whole grains have not been stripped of healthy vitamins, minerals and fiber., Fruit is generally considered a healthy food, since it’s loaded with essential vitamins. However, that doesn’t mean it’s low in carbs. Fruit contains fructose, a form of sugar, and should be eaten in moderation. Limit your fruit consumption to 1-2 servings a day when you’re on a low-carb diet.

Eat whole, fresh fruit, preferably with the peel. Fruit contains high amounts of fiber and water, but you lose those benefits when you process fruit by juicing or drying it.
Some fruits are higher in sugar than others. Choose strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, and kiwis over bananas and apples.
 Cow’s milk contains natural sugars, so it’s not a low-carbohydrate food. Skim and reduced-fat milk are even higher in sugar than whole milk. If you’re looking for a low-carb alternative, try soy, cashew or almond milk.


Make sure you buy unsweetened milk substitutes. Chocolate and vanilla-flavored milk almost always has high sugar content.
You can make your own nut milk at home: soak a cup of raw cashews or almonds in 3 cups of water overnight. Drain the nuts, blend them well, then strain the liquid through a piece of cheesecloth. The resulting milk can be used in place of dairy milk in recipes., Nuts and legumes, such as black beans and chickpeas, have a moderate carbohydrate content in addition to being high in protein and fiber. If you want to cut carbohydrates significantly, avoid nuts and legumes. However, nuts and legumes can be a healthy part of a low-carb diet when eaten in moderation.

Limit your nut intake to one handful per day, as a snack.
Have legumes as a small side dish, rather than making them the centerpiece of a meal.

