 You can use a lock or clip. A bag that is not easy to grab is less likely to be stolen.;
, Pack it to make it as comfortable as possible. Clip it to your wrist or to the seat.
 It also helps to have bags that look ordinary instead of flashy. Be discreet.
 Don't draw attention to yourself by wearing touristy clothes such as shirts emblazoned with slogans or white sneakers. Thieves will be less likely to target you if you blend in.
 Avoid letting others see you accessing it if possible as skilled pickpockets can get to just about anything.
 Thieves often jump on, grab a bag, and jump back off.
 Never leave your bags unattended while you go to the toilet or the dining room. If you are alone, take them with you. Always keep your bags in front of you while waiting at train stations. It only takes a thief a second to grab your bag and run. You can even try positioning your bags between your feet for added safety when waiting for the train.
 Avoid sitting or sleeping alone, especially during overnight jaunts. If you are a woman, look for a compartment with other females.


Try to get an upper berth in a couchette, or sleeping compartment. This makes you and your bag less easy to access.
Secure your bag to the storage rack or sleep on it.
Insure the door to the compartment or couchette stays locked overnight. Make sure the others in the compartment understand how important it is.
 If your passport gets stolen, it's easier to get a new one if you have a copy. Consider emailing these to yourself so you can access them electronically.
 The fewer bags you have and the lighter they are, the easier it is for you to keep your belongings safe. Also, you won't be struggling to drag all your heavy stuff around with you which can lead to multiple distractions.
 Part of the fun of traveling by train throughout Europe is meeting interesting people. But be cautious of people who are too forward or "helpful." Strangers who offer to help carry your bags or purchase tickets may be thieves.

