 Pour ½ cup (120 milliliters) of water into a small saucepan. Add in 2 tablespoons (10 grams) of agar agar flakes. Set the saucepan aside. The flakes will absorb the water and gel up while you prepare the rest of the recipe., Pour the granulated sugar into a saucepan. Stir in 2 tablespoons (20 grams) of sweet rice flour. Whisk in ½ cup (120 milliliters) of water. Bring the solution to a boil over medium heat., As soon as the mixture starts to boil, reduce the heat to a gentle boil (low to medium-low). Allow the mixture to cook for 5 minutes. Stir it occasionally with a whisk so that lumps don't form. This will eventually be your syrup/

Prepare the marshmallow base while the sugar water is cooking.
 Pour the soy isolate powder into an electric mixer fitted with a whisk. Add in the xanthan gum, guar gum, cream of tartar, and salt. Lastly, stir in the remaining ½ cup (120 milliliters) of water using a low-speed setting. This will be your marshmallow base.

You can also use a food processor fitted with a whisk instead.
 Once everything is combined, turn the speed up to high, and continue mixing until the marshmallow base triples in volume and forms stiff peaks. Scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often. This will take about 5 minutes.

If you are using a food processor, you will need to pause it from time to time, and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula.
 Do this when the sugar water is almost done cooking. Stir the agar agar often to help the flakes dissolve., Turn your mixer on to a high-speed setting. While the mixer is running, pour the hot sugar water into the mixer, focusing on the sides of the bowl. Keep beating until you get thick ribbons. This will take about 4 to 5 minutes., Pour the vanilla extract into the marshmallow base. If you don't like vanilla, you can leave it out entirely, or use a different type of extract, such as peppermint. Choose one that you think will taste good in marshmallows., Do this while the mixer is still running at high speed. Keep beating the marshmallow base for another 1 to 2 minutes. Stop when the marshmallow base is thicker than before but still warm., Grease the inside of an 8 by 8-inch (20.32 by 20.32-centimeter) square baking pan. Dust the bottom and sides of the pan generously with sweet rice flour. You can also use cornstarch and/or powdered sugar instead of the sweet rice flour., Use a rubber spatula to help spread the marshmallow base across the bottom of the pan, from corner-to-corner. If the marshmallow mixture is sticking to the spatula, lightly coat the spatula with cooking oil. Lightly dust the top of the marshmallows with more rice flour., Once the base has set, it will be firm and somewhat springy. Turn the marshmallow base onto a cutting board. Use a sharp knife or pizza cutter to cut the marshmallow base into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) squares., Fill a rimmed baking sheet with more sweet rice flour. Roll the marshmallow cubes in the flour until they are coated; this will keep them from getting sticky. Dust off the excess flour, then store them in a sealed container in the fridge. They will last up to 1 week.

You can use cornstarch and/or powdered sugar for this step.

