 Use a metal file to take off burrs, rough edges, and loose shavings on your pipe. This is especially important if you have cut the pipe to fit a plumbing project.


When the jagged edges of your pipe have been filed down, wipe away any remaining fragments with a clean rag.
If you don't have a proper file, substitute fine grain sandpaper, emery cloth, or steel wool to smooth rough edges on your pipe.
If your pipe didn't cut cleanly and has jagged edges or burrs, wear work gloves when filing to prevent cuts and slivers., In most cases, you can do this by tipping the pipe upside down to force the water out one end of the pipe. If this is impossible, use a dry, clean cloth to absorb all water or liquid near where you'll be applying the solder.


Water can interfere with the soldering process and create a weak bond in it. Be thorough when drying your pipe., A shiny pipe will solder more easily than ones that are not. Use a wire brush on the part of your pipe you will be soldering. Brush the pipe until it shines brightly, and do the same to the joint you will be soldering.Use a clean rag on your pipe after shining it to wipe away any dirt or particles that have been loosened when shining.
 Insert a drain plug, available at your local hardware store, into the pipe to prevent the flow of water. Water can remain in the line if the pipe is still attached and run to where you are soldering, negatively impacting the bond.


Generally, pipe plugs come with an applicator. Use this applicator to push the plug up the pipe. Dissolve the plug when you are done by briefly applying the torch to the area the plug is., Be sure you're wearing gloves and goggles when doing this. Flux that has not been treated with heat can be harmful in your eyes, mouth, or open cuts.Use the applicator that came with your flux to apply a thin layer of it to the outer surface of the pipe you'll be soldering.


If this is your first time soldering pipe, you may apply to much flux initially. Wipe away excess flux with a clean cloth.
 Light your torch and hold it 2 in (5.1 cm) from the part of the pipe with flux on it. Pass it back and forth over this area for about 10 to 20 seconds. First the flux will become shiny, but then the pipe should darken. When the flux sizzles and smokes slightly, the pipe is ready for solder.


Be cautious when handling heated pipe. Touching this could result in accidental burn in the same way touching the flame of your torch would.
Keep the flame of your torch set to a moderate or low setting when heating flux. You only need a relatively low temperature to melt it., Use caution when assembling pipe components so as to not burn yourself on the heated part. Slide the pipe into the fitting until it can go no further. Twist the pipe back and forth in the fitting to spread the flux on the inside of the joint. Then use your torch to reheat the assembled components.


Pass the flame of your torch evenly back and forth over the pipe components. Failing to heat these evenly could cause your solder to melt unevenly, allowing water to leak., Hold your solder to the heated pipe. If the solder runs, your pipe components are sufficiently hot enough to begin soldering. If your components glow or turn a blue color, you've applied too much heat.


If you've applied too much heat to your pipe, wait for it to cool completely. When the pipe is cool, try again by repeating this process from the beginning., While the pipe is still warm but the solder solid, brush another thin layer of flux on the solder. After that, use a clean cloth to wipe the soldered joint clean. Do not try to cool the joint rapidly. Doing so could cause damage to it.Avoid tightening the fixture or moving the joint around until the solder has completely cooled. The solder will remain soft until it is cool.

