 Get a piece of paper and have you and your partner each write down names you like. From all the names written down, you can choose which among those are the best or consider combining your choice for a name with your partner’s choice.;
, Your child will be carrying their name wherever they goes, and will be writing and spelling their name on their IDs and other important documents such as their diplomas, their certificates, their resume, their passport/visa, etc. Think about how people may react upon hearing your child’s name or reading their name on paper.


Your child’s name will likely affect how other people perceive them and will create a first impression in most people’s minds, so give your child a name they can be proud of.
 For example, a name like King means someone who is a “ruler”. A name like Emma, which is a very popular name in the Western world, means “whole” or “universal”.


Choosing names that have positive or optimistic meanings can create a positive or optimistic mindset for your child.
 For example, Suzanne can be changed to Cezanne as both have the same pronunciation. Keira that can be changed to Kyra, as you substitute the “e” with a “y.” Or you can change the letter “c” into a “k”, such as Ciara into Kiara.


You can also add a second name to your name. For example, adjust Suzanne to Cezanne Grace or Keira to Kyra Lee.
 You can use contractions by abbreviating your name, hyphenating, or adding an apostrophe to your name.


For example, Xtian for Christian, Just’n for Justin or Cath’rine for Catherine.
Hyphenated names are popular in France, and something you can try doing to come up with a name for your child. For example, Frances-Jacque or Anne-Marie.
 You can combine both you and your partner’s name and insert a hyphen in between two names. For example, if your name is Sara and your partner’s name is Michael, you can combine both of your names to come up with Sara-Michelle.


You can also take the first half of one parent’s name and combine it with the end of the other parent’s name.For example, Mark and Anna can be combined to make Mara.
For a more detailed combination, you can write each syllable of each parent’s name on separate slips of paper and arrange the slips until you come up with a unique combination. This technique opens you up to more options, as you can take a middle section of one parent’s name and combine it with the beginning of the other parent’s name.
 The most famous example of this is probably “Martin Luther King, Jr.” When using the “Jr.”, you usually add it to the name of the child’s father or mother, rather than the name of the child’s grandfather, grandmother or other relative.
 You can change the letters around in the baby’s father’s name to create a new name, based on the gender of your baby.


For example, if the baby’s father’s name is Nicholas, you could use Nika for a daughter or Niccolai for a son.
You can also try switching names around to form a new name. So if the baby’s father’s name is James Alexander, you can reverse this to Alexander James, or modify it for a girl to be Jaime Alexandra.
 You can change the letter’s around in the baby’s mother’s name or switch the mother’s names around if she has more than one name.


You can also choose to use the mother’s maiden name for your baby, depending on the gender. For example, the maiden name Jackson and Smith can be used for baby boy’s name. There are also some maiden names that can be used as unisex name such as, Brook, Gray, or Corey.
You can also modify the baby’s mother’s names to create a new name. For example, Nanta as a mother’s name can be transformed into Nathan for baby boy and Nathalie for the baby girl version.
 Names don’t always have to fall on a certain gender line. Some popular unisex names include Jack, Sydney, or Sloane.
 Once you and your partner have both written down or suggested your favorite names, see if you can put them together to form a new name.


For example, Wayne and Diane can be turned into Duanne. Or, Elizabeth and Annie can be combined to form Bethanie, Eliza, Lizanne, etc.
Combining names will help you come up with many different name possibilities and rare or unique names.
 For example, a father named Michael could name his daughter Michaela or a son Micah. While the names aren’t exactly similar, they definitely have a similar connotation to one parent’s name.


Finding similar sounds is easier if you focus on just one parent’s name. Look for names that feature the same vowel sound or similar beginning or ending sounds.
 “The Best Baby Name Book”is a great reference to find similar sounding names or to check the meaning behind a certain name.


Determine the meanings behind your name or your partner’s name and look for names from other countries that have the same or a similar meaning. For example, the name Peter means “rock”. A father named Peter could name his son Piers or his daughter Petra to pass on the similar meaning to his children.
 After trying out several different spellings, pronunciations, and combinations or alternative meanings, you still may not hit on a satisfactory name for your baby. So use online tools like a baby name generator. These sites will usually ask you to enter your name and your partner’s name, or two names you are trying to combine, and then provide a list of different possible combinations.You can also customize your search by choosing a specific gender, male or female, and origin, such as English, African, Australian, French, Russian, etc.There are also sites where you can find out the meaning or meanings behind certain names., Look at a variety of names, and if you prefer, go for names that are interesting or unique over names that are more conventional or possibly considered boring. Make sure both you and your partner have input on the name of the child. With enough collaboration and research, you can both come up with the right name for your baby.

