 Regrowth is Malfurion’s Q ability, which instantly heals your target while simultaneously applying a secondary heal over time. This skill does wonders for keeping the health of your teammates up in the long run as it’s the secondary heal over time that recovers the most damage. Your teammates could literally walk out of a big fight bruised and battered only to re-engage the enemy team with most of their health restored.;
, Moonfire is Malfurion’s W ability, which does minor damage to enemies within a small radius while simultaneously revealing them for the next two seconds. Moonfire may not deal a lot of damage straight-up, but its low cooldown and low mana cost make it a very real threat against heroes that cannot recover their health fast enough. If you have a keen eye for spotting the slight shimmer of invisible heroes, you can use Moonfire to reveal your targets and make it easier for your teammates to focus them down.
 Entangling Roots is Malfurion’s E ability, which creates a large circle on the ground. A patch of grass will appear in the center of the circle and will radiate out towards its edges over three seconds – damaging and rooting all enemies caught within the affected area. This skill is devastating when cast on areas you don’t want your opponents going. Cast it behind them if you want to prevent them from fleeing, or cast it in front of them if you don’t want them chasing. Enemies will then be forced to either stay rooted for 1.5 seconds or stay away from the circle – hopefully zoning them so that they’ll end up where you want them to be.
 Tranquility is Malfurion’s first ultimate ability, which gradually heals all nearby allies in a large radius for the duration of the ability. This ability is what allows Malfurion’s teammates to survive large engagements, especially when coupled with Regrowth. The heal over time is relatively slow though, meaning that Tranquility won’t save a hero who’s out of position and is being focused down by the enemy team. Still, this ultimate ability serves as a beacon that can restore just enough health for your team be more aggressive since they’ll have much more survivability during and after the initial clash.
 Twilight Dream is Malfurion’s second ultimate ability, which after a short delay damages enemies in a large radius and prevents them from using abilities for the next three seconds. If Tranquility’s weakness is heroes that can burst down you or your teammates with abilities, then Twilight Dream squarely patches over that weakness by silencing all affected heroes. Casting Twilight Dream just as your team clashes with the enemy team will shut down their abilities; giving your teammates a short window of opportunity to penetrate the enemy lines and land their own hard-hitting abilities before the enemy has a chance to react.
 Innervate is Malfurion’s trait, an active ability that will restore 15% of the target’s maximum mana over a short period of time. This skill is obviously worthless against heroes that don’t use mana (e.g. Murky, Illidan, Sonya, Abathur, The Lost Vikings and Chen) but it is an absolute godsend for heroes that do use mana (everyone other hero) Couple Innervate with Regrowth, and Malfurion becomes the perfect hero for sustaining his allies on the battlefield., This build is all about maximizing your ability to keep your allies as healthy as possible. Using it is relatively simple: spam Regrowth on the targets that need it the most, then spam it some more to keep everyone’s health maxed out. Serenity is typically the better choice at level 20, but Storm Shield is an equally useful talent if your teammates are fragile and the enemy team is filled with high-damage heroes. Just remember to stay in the rear and avoid getting into combat, especially when you want to keep your health up so that Hardened Focus will take effect.


Talent Build: Scouting Drone > Rampant Growth > Enduring Growth > Tranquility > Life Seed > Hardened Focus > Serenity OR Storm Shield

, The Refresher combines Malfurion’s innate ability to heal allies with a more diverse set of skills. You sacrifice some healing potential to keep your allies’ mana reserves up with talents boosting Innervate. Calling down a MULE will also help your structures survive longer against enemy heroes that tend to push a lot, while Cleanse can save your teammates from devastating disables that would otherwise have isolated them and made them easy kills. Again, choosing Storm Shield over Serenity is ideal only when up against an enemy team capable of putting out a lot of damage in a short span of time.


Talent Build: Shan’do’s Clarity > Versatile > Calldown: MULE OR Cleanse > Tranquility > Life Seed > Hardened Focus > Serenity OR Storm Shield

, If your team is lacking in the damage department, you can help add in a few hard hits with the Burner - a build that focuses on improving your damage output through Moonfire-related talents. Stand back in the rear, unload Moonfire after Moonfire, watch the enemy team’s health steadily tick down and punish any aggressive maneuvers with Strangling Vines and Twilight Dream. This build is also effective at defending against heavy minion and mercenary pushes since Moonburn doubles Moonfire’s damage against the aforementioned units.


Talent Build: Moonburn > Elune’s Grace > Strangling Vines > Twilight Dream > Full Moonfire > Lunar Shower > Nightmare

, The Controller is all about forcing the enemy team apart with slows and roots. The added range from Elune’s Grace makes it easier for you to land Moonburn and position Entangling Root, while Shrink Ray is reserved against heroes that deal most of their damage using basic attacks or against heroes that stray too far from their teammates and are ripe for the kill. Coupling Tenacious Roots with Rewind is great for punishing enemies that clump up too tightly by hitting them with Entangling Roots, while Hindering Moonfire with Nightmare gives you even more options to isolate solitary targets with consecutive slows.


Talent Build: Scouting Drone > Elune’s Grace > Strangling Vines > Twilight Dream > Shrink Ray > Tenacious Roots OR Hindering Moonfire > Rewind OR Nightmare

