 Always shower and wash your face. Keep your skin and hair greaseless. Brush your teeth at least twice a day with whitening toothpaste for clean pearly whites. Clean hair, skin, teeth and nails are a must.;
, It is important to wear as little makeup as possible while still maintaining a feminine look. The best way to do this is the "no makeup" makeup look. Apply brown gel eyeliner to the upper lash line following your eyes' natural wing. Next, apply one coat of brown or soft black mascara. Swirl a bit of light pink powder blush on the apples of your cheeks. Using a translucent powder, brighten under your eyes by applying a small amount on your dark circles. Still using the same powder, highlight your cheekbones and the bridge of your nose to give a healthy glow. Finish with some lip balm or natural pink lipstick.
 Your hair should always be clean, shiny, and cut in a stylish way. Choose a low maintenance hairstyle that does not require hairspray or gel. Natural hair color is best but subtle highlights can be refreshing.
 Think fun and functional, clothes you could run around town in and still look put together for school or a semi formal occasion. Jeans are the classic American fashion item - wear them with layered tops, a cute jacket, or your favorite sport team sweater. Don't go too saggy or skin tight. You want to look like a girl who is ready to have sensible fun.
 It is a big part of being wholesome. Partners want a girlfriend who can keep up physically - someone to work and play with. Find a sport or a solo activity that gives you the exercise you need.
 Smart about school, work, whatever. You have a brain, and this shouldn't be something that people wonder about so don't play dumb. Do your schoolwork and offer to help others with theirs. Think before you speak, and take time to consider your decisions. Don't be a brainless droid following the trends of society! The American spirit is one of independence, adventure, and intelligence! So study hard.
 Refrain from having sex. If you get really drunk you might say or do something embarrassing or harmful to yourself or others - not a desirable characteristic of a wholesome person. Same rule goes for drugs; do your research on the effects of drugs and see if the benefits are worth the risks. Avoid smoking. Wholesome girls smell clean and don't have black lungs or brown teeth, all of which are adverse effects of cigarettes.
 If you want to make good friends, or date a guy that is worth your time, try to cultivate healthy relationships with real people who share your interests and goals. People, for example, that don't stop to inspect their butts one hundred times a day, or try to start fights with chicks in the hall. Stay away from the chronic Myspace drama queens too - what you do online will inevitably come back to haunt your real life. Try getting a Facebook and befriend some college kids. That will help you seem cool and more mature.

