 If your small dog can stay in its crate for 30 minutes without getting anxious or scared, try leaving it crated while you leave the house for a short period of time. Crate the dog between 5-20 minutes before you step out, and try to be discreet about getting ready to go. Keep your departure and arrival home easy going to avoid making your dog hyper. Continue the process of crating your dog while you are home as well to prevent associations of loneliness or abandonment with the crate., Start nighttime crating with the crate in your bedroom; this way, you can let your small dog out if it whines to go to the bathroom. Lead the dog into the crate with praise and a treat, as already established, and close the door. Once your dog is comfortable spending the night in its crate, you can move it to a better location, or choose to keep your pet near you.It may be difficult to distinguish whether your dog is whining because it needs to relieve itself, or because it wants to be let out. In the case of the latter, avoid reacting negatively or positively; letting your dog out (for any reason other than to eliminate) will encourage it to whine in the future.
 If you are expecting guests who are uncomfortable around your dog, put your dog in its crate before they arrive. If this is not the case, simply have the crate ready in the event that your dog gets overexcited – if this happens, calmly bring it to its crate, and place treats and toys inside to make things more comfortable. Note that this should not be a punishment – dogs pick up on the behavior of people around them, so even well-behaved dogs can become rambunctious around a lively group of guests. Bringing your dog to its den is simply allowing it the opportunity to calm down and prevent problem behaviours., Crate training is important in preparing your dog to be transported, which will occur at various junctures in its life (e.g. trips to the veterinarian’s office). Make a point of taking practice trips with your dog in its crate; this will ensure that your dog doesn’t associate being transported with events that may cause it stress, exclusively. Dogs who have never been crated are more likely to be anxious during such trips and uncomfortable being confined.