 You will have to operate this to put a cartridge in the chamber, clear stoppages and clear the weapon (make it safe).;
, Load it with cartridges, and insert it into the magazine well. Make sure it latches, or locks into place.
 A round (cartridge) should feed up from the magazine. Release the handle, and the bolt should slam home, feed a round into the chamber, and lock into place. If you are not immediately about to fire, engage the safety catch. DO NOT touch the trigger until you are about to fire.
 Next, retract the operation rod and inspect the chamber visually (look to see it is empty) and physically (put a finger into the chamber to check it is empty). It is usually a good idea to lock the bolt back if possible, to show at a distance that it is empty. Not all rifles are able to do this. AK/Kalashnikov rifles for instance cannot, though AR/AR15/M16-style ones can.
 If you are not sure of what is behind the target, do not fire. Ideally, you will be doing this at a shooting range, or a quarry with a high bank to shoot toward to stop stray bullets.
 This will probably be a lever or button on the side of the action, but this varies considerably according to the rifle in question.
 DO NOT touch the trigger until you are ready to fire.
 Note that the closer your off hand is to the front of the barrel, the more steady your support will be. (support hand)(if you're right handed use your left hand; if you're left handed use your right hand).
 If this feels awkward, move your support hand down the barrel or towards you until it feels right.
 Place this eye where it can see past the rear sight but not to the sides of it (don't put your eye right next to the sight, but make sure you are not looking over the sight). If you are pulling the trigger with your right hand the left side of the butt/stock should be firmly pressed against your right cheek below the cheek bone (this is called a gun mold).
 You will want to put the front sight in the 6 o'clock position, in the center of your sight picture, aligned with your target.
, when you have just breathed out. U.S. Marine training tutorials advise that single shots should be taken while holding ones breath for no more than 3 seconds.
 If you determine that your round went right, correct to the left, if it goes left, correct right. This adjustment is called "windage". If you are shooting high, aim lower, or if you hit low, aim higher. This is known as elevation.
 Plan your next target or method.
 Most legal versions of assault rifles in the United States are semi-automatic, so they only fire once each time the trigger is squeezed, but by holding the rifle and rapidly squeezing and releasing the trigger, you may be able to achieve a faster rate of fire.
 Whenever possible, always clean the barrel by inserting the cleaning rod into the breach (back) of the barrel, not the muzzle (front). Depending on how the gas system is designed to operate, you may or may not need to clean the gas tube. Check for cleaning instructions specific to you rifle before you start, and beware small pins and springs. A magnet can help to keep track of these small parts, which are more common on modern AR designs.

