 One of the best ways to share how you feel and learn how to address certain ways of thinking is talking to those going through the same thing. Look online, or contact a local psychiatrist office to ask for information on support groups near you.Attend meetings with two goals in mind. On one hand, it will be helpful to express the thoughts and feelings about inadequacy and uncertainty. On the other hand, make sure to listen to advice others offer. They will likely have tried things that helped them overcome similar problems.
Sometimes simply admitting that you feel like a fraud from time to time, and recognizing that others do as well, can help diminish the negative effects of these feelings and help you push them away.
 Especially in high achieving environments, it’s worth developing a personal relationship with someone in a senior position. This can be especially helpful if they have had similar life experiences, such as climbing the rungs of academia or working as a female in a male dominated industry. Think of a mentor as someone who can provide knowledgeable support.One of the roles a mentor can help with is better recognizing your value, as well as your individual accomplishments. They will also likely wind up pointing out that everyone has doubts from time to time, and that struggle is a part of reaching your full potential.
Start meeting with a senior colleague or even a boss you get along with well as regularly as is convenient for both of you. If possible, drop into their office once a week.
 One great way to better recognize your own expertise is by helping others learn about things you’ve mastered. An example is volunteering to teach those a bit less experienced than you about your profession. For instance, if you’re a photographer, consider volunteering to hold photography lessons once a month at a local high school for anyone who would like to attend.Not only does it simply feel good to help others, you can develop your own skills, and better recognize your own expertise, by sharing them.
 Whenever a mental burden or discomfort begins to negatively affect your life, it’s worth seeing psychologist or other therapist. Imposter phenomenon in particular often goes unaddressed, and this can keep people from living happier, healthier lives. If you mind is frequently occupied by anxiety and worry of any sort, schedule a meeting to talk about it with someone soon.Since imposter phenomenon is not treated as a mental disorder, you will likely be advised to take steps similar to those mentioned in this article.
For instance, establishing a stronger or more open relationship with a mentor or trusted colleague, writing about any symptoms you experience, and continuing to meet with a mental health professional are all likely recommendations.

