 It might be even cleaning the back yard or washing the car or simply word search. The idea is to have fun and not be stressed.;
, He becomes more confident and subsequently, learns to express clearly with delight. It doesn't matter what the child is speaking about. Your listening ears motivate your child to share his experiences with you in the future. You are his confidante!

, Here the idea is an ultimate endeavor to understand each other deeply.
 Its okay to convey to the kids the fact you can't be right all the time. Parents don't have answers all the time and they can go wrong. As you say 'sorry', it does wonders to your child's self-esteem and he learns to be humbly responsible for his actions and thoughts.
 Hug him for being part of you and tell him you have no regrets about it. Appreciating his sincere efforts for that cause, even in that moment of sadness, will motivate him to move on with even greater force and tranquility.
 Even though momentarily, it subsides with a continual laugh on a joke! Allow your child to let out this negative energy by either talking to himself in front of the mirror or running laps. The idea is to drain away your child's negative energy and then engage the positive energy towards constructive purpose like painting or legos. The less retaliated your child feels, he will have more potential for getting encouraged.
 Your child will be receptive to attempting new interests and hobbies.
 They religiously feed, clean and play with them. Allowing them to do so and other normal chores like picking trash, preparing their favorite meal, makes them feel as if they are more in control of their own world, which in turn aspires them for bigger and better goals and interests in life.
 They will carefully observe their progress over the years and feel motivated to continue getting better. Kids doing it alone might do the magic too!

, Let him know that he has done a good job, either by hugging, giving thumbs up or treating him to his favorite delicacy.
 The purpose is two pronged: older sibling develops leadership qualities and motivates the younger child to involve himself actively in those acts. Your older child acts as a change agent encouraging your younger kids.

