 Many dogs get rehomed because they are more rambunctious than their masters can handle. However, there are exercises you can do with your dog to manage their behavior that are easy on you. Think about working with your dog on his behavior before you get rid of him. Exercise your dog more. You can exercise your dog’s brain by buying food puzzle toys, playing hide and seek, or doing obedience training with your dog. Also, teach your dog how to play fetch or Frisbee to wear him out without having to go on long walks. Buy appropriate chew toys for your dogs. This can help keep your dog from tearing apart your shoes and furniture.
Do basic obedience training with your dog. For example, teach your dog to sit when visitors come over or you are out and about. Reward your dog with treats, games and praise when he obeys you, and take those rewards away if the dog does not obey you. Do both rewards and take-aways immediately after the behaviors. These basic obedience tactics can help you train your dog. , Many owners feel like they have to get rid of their dogs when they are moving, because it can be difficult to find a new place that will allow pets. However, there are several agencies that specialize in finding you a home that will accept your pet. Go online and search for housing agencies that specialize in that very thing. Make your own dog “resume” for your potential landlord. Give information about your pet including references or letters of recommendation from trainers, veterinarians etc. who can confirm that your pet is well trained. Include your dog’s picture, description of his personality, and likes and dislikes to let your landlord have a chance to see what your dog is like.
Leave your dog with a friend or family member for a few months while you find new housing. It may take a little more time to find a place that will allow dogs; however, if you put your dog with someone you trust, looking will pay off.
Keep your dog at a kennel or the veterinarian while you are looking for housing. This option is more expensive and should be used as a last effort. However, doing this may save you the costs of getting a new dog if in a couple of years you want a dog again.
 If you or someone in your house has allergies, there are a variety of things you can do to ease the allergies. If you do a combination of cleaning, using medication, and creating an animal free zone might mean you can keep your dog. Wash your dog on a regular basis. Use a shampoo specifically for dogs and wash your dog on a weekly basis.
Go to your doctor and tell him or her about your allergies. They can give you shots or pills that can help you with your allergies.
Keep the dog out of a designated space in the house. This should probably be the bedroom of the person with the allergy. Use a HEPA air filter to clean the air, and do not allow the animal into that room at any time.
Use HEPA air cleaners throughout the house and clean regularly. Wash any couch covers or pet beds and other fabric materials that will catch hair and dander.

