 This will give you a written inventory and help you determine how much packing material you need.;
, Things you will need for furniture will include sofa and mattress covers, packing tape, bubble wrap, plastic wrap, sheets of cardboard, furniture blankets and old towels and rags.


Speak with salespeople at moving supply stores. Explain the type of furniture you will be packing up, and ask for recommendations on what you will need. On moving day, you will find you are much better off to have too much than not enough.
 Dust and polish everything you plan to move. It makes no sense to pack up dirty furniture and bringing it into your new home, and you will not want to spend time cleaning it once you move.
 This will make it lighter and easier to transport.


Empty all dresser drawers. Remove anything in china cabinets, bookshelves, entertainment centers and other furniture pieces. Those items inside your furniture should be packed separately.
 For example, remove legs from sofas and tables, take out dining table leafs and remove the headboards and footboards from beds.


Check any manuals or materials you may have for your furniture. These booklets or pamphlets should contain instructions on how to properly take the furniture apart.
 Label the bags so you know what they are and what the pieces belong to. For example, your bags might read "nuts and bolts from kitchen table" or "bed screws."


Tape the bags to the corresponding furniture if that will help you keep everything together. Some people prefer to pack them away together, and others use masking or packing tape to attach the bags of hardware.
 Use bubble wrap, stretchable plastic wrap, towels and blankets to protect table legs, bed rails and other detached pieces to your furniture.


Securely tape or tie the bubble wrap, plastic or other materials. You want to make sure no part of your furniture pieces becomes exposed during transit.
Label the boxes clearly. For example, a box might say "dining room table legs," "drawers from kids' bedroom" or "desk shelving."

, You can also use thick furniture blankets or towels.


Place your glass pieces in telescoping boxes. These are boxes that fit inside one another, offering extra support to heavy things such as glass. Add newspapers, rags or other packing materials to the boxes to ensure the glass does not have room to move.
 These covers will protect your furniture against rips, damage and moisture.


Purchase these covers at moving supply stores such as U-Haul, or online through discount retailers like Amazon and Ecobox.
, Similarly weighted objects should go on each side of the truck to keep everything balanced.


Take advantage of any hooks or paneling inside the moving truck to keep everything steady.

