 Allow others to speak more than you and let them dominate the conversation. Make eye contact with the person and nod to show that you are listening. Ask open ended questions during the conversation to encourage the person to talk. People love talking about themselves.Try to talk to people without revealing too much about yourself.
To keep the conversation focused on the other person, you may say, “That’s interesting. Could you tell me more about that?” or ask, “What did you do this weekend?” instead of, “Did you have a good weekend?”

, A person with a low profile is unlikely to engage in debate and be more willing to keep strong opinions or beliefs on certain topics to themselves (subjects like religion, politics, etc). A low-profile person isn't one to engage in political debate or try to persuade someone to change their stance on an issue. If people are debating or discussing one of these sticky, often controversial subjects, you may want to listen but not engage in the discussion. Don't try to change people's minds or tell them they are wrong — adopt a "live and let live" stance. They have their beliefs, and you have yours, and that's okay.
 If you have a small circle of friends, you are more likely to have deeper relationships and more trust. If you have a large circle of friends, you will be invited to more events and activities. It is difficult to maintain a low profile if you have a super active social life.

Do not neglect your friendships just because you are trying to keep a low profile. Friends are important for your happiness, health, and well-being.Interacting with a large number of people also means that more people know your business, and there is a greater likelihood of your business being shared with others.
 Focus on the things that you can control instead of other people. Stay away from gossip and negativity. Only give advice when you are asked. By demonstrating how you like to operate, other people will be less likely to bring gossip or drama your way.You can politely tell someone, “That’s none of my business,” or, “I like to stay away from drama.”

, Any time you are out in public, do what the other people are doing. If you are on the subway, in a restaurant, or at a store get behind another person in line and watch how they behave. When it is your turn to pay or place an order, you will know what behavior is expected.


Do not push through people, make sudden movements, or be rude to other people.Also avoid making eye contact with other people. If it is sunny outside, sunglasses are a great way to avoid this; however, do not wear sunglasses if they are not weather appropriate. You may stand out more.
 While a low-profile person likely won't experience too many conflicts with other people — especially if the person is going with the flow and avoiding hot-button topics — but sometimes it is inevitable. Try to maintain kindness and calm during a disagreement. Be open to compromise, or even appeasing the other person. This is fine, so long as you are comfortable with it and it is not violating any of your beliefs or values.
 If someone asks you a question or you need to speak, only say what is necessary for the conversation. Do not provide any extra details about yourself and stick to the topic at hand. This allows you to interact with others without revealing too much about yourself.Focus on general comments and answers instead of providing details.
For example, when asked what your weekend plans are, you may say, "I'm going to explore the city with my friends," instead of, "I'm going to hang out with Michael and Ashley. We are going to see that new Marvel movie and then go to dinner."

