 Cockatiels do not need as much upkeep as other pets, but they are very social. Be aware of the daily needs of a cockatiel so you can understand how they will fit into your life.The cockatiel will need food and fresh water at least once a day.
You will need to clean the food and water bowl at least once a day. You will need to wash and disinfect the cage at least once a week.
Cockatiels need at least an hour of free flight around your home a day. You should be able to supervise them during these exercise periods.
You may need to have two or three ten minute training sessions a day to help tame your cockatiel.;
, Caring for an exotic bird like a cockatiel can get pricy. Before you buy a cockatiel, make sure that you afford a cage, toys, food, and veterinary care.You may spend between $250 to $650 on a cage. You will also have to factor in the cost of toys, perches, and food bowls.
A veterinary visit for a bird can cost between $50 and $200. Tests and bloodwork may cost more.The cockatiel itself may cost between $40 and $130., Cockatiels like plenty of room to roam. They will need a large metal cage that is at least 36 inches (91 cm) long, 18 inches (46 cm) wide, and 24 inches (61 cm) high. Before you buy a cockatiel, measure a space in your home where you can put this cage.Cockatiels are very social, so you should find an area where there is plenty of activity. For example, a living room is a great place to put the cage.Cockatiels like to spend time outside of the cage. When they roam around your home, make sure that windows are shut, ceiling fans are turned off, and electrical wires are not exposed.Do not get a wooden cage because the cockatiel may chew the bars.
 Cockatiels are generally quiet birds, but they still like to sing and talk. If you are out of the room, the cockatiel may try to loudly call to you. If you prefer a quiet home, a cockatiel may not be the right pet for you.While cockatiels can learn to talk, most will prefer to whistle instead. If you want a talking bird, look into a different type of parrot.
Male cockatiels tend to be louder than female cockatiels.