 This can be done on the Internet or in a cattle breeds book.;
, Note the following:



Coloration: Beefmasters can be any color, and may have white mottled colouration on their head, and even have a little white over their shoulders, in front of their hips, but mainly on their bellies. There really is no set colour pattern like what you'd get with Hereford cattle.

Body type and characteristics: Beefmaster are moderately-framed, beef-type cattle. They are built much like Santa Gerts are, with the loose skin, squarish body and defined navel areas.

Head characteristics: Beefmasters have "a lot of ear" on them, meaning they have larger ears than the European breeds do. However, the ears are not as large and floppy as what Brahman cattle have, but more or less in between that of European type and Zebu-type cattle. Beefmasters can be polled or horned.

Other characteristics: This breed is the first composite breed created in America. Beefmasters were first established on the Lasater Ranch, then in Texas, in 1908 when Brahman bulls were purchased to use on Ed C. Lasater's Hereford and Shorthorn cows. Following his death in 1930, Ed's son Tom continued the breeding operation and creation of this breed. He combined the breeding of Brahman and Hereford cattle with some registered Shorthorn bulls, and after making crosses with Brahman-Hereford and Brahman-Shorthorn cattle, only then was he satisfied with the result enough to call them Beefmasters. These cattle were put under and handled under range conditions that were often adverse, and a culling program was put in place based on disposition, fertility, weight, conformation, hardiness and milk production. Very little emphasis was put on colouration and horns.

Consequently, those six essential traits are what make this breed the way it is today. It is referred to as a "dual purpose breed," with excellent maternal traits and traits for growth and carcass quality. They are also heat-, drought- and insect-resistant. Cows are excellent mothers with good milking ability, fertility and hardiness, and raise growth calves that excel both in a feedlot and in a grass-fed environment. They are gentle cattle which make them a pleasure to work with.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Beefmaster cattle, and compare them with pictures of Beefmasters on the Internet and in your Cattle breeds book.

