 The substance of your dispute will determine what you should do. Consider the following common landlord-tenant disputes:Your landlord won’t make necessary repairs. For example, your toilet might be backed up, or your apartment might lack sufficient heat. Landlords need to keep their apartments in a habitable condition.
Your landlord enters your apartment without permission. Typically, your landlord must give you written notice of when they will enter.
Your landlord has damaged your property. For example, your landlord might not have kept the roof in good repair. If it caves in and damages your property, you can sue.
Your landlord’s carelessness has injured you. The legal term for carelessness is “negligence.” For example, your landlord might have allowed the stairs to rot. If you break a leg climbing the stairs, you can sue for your injury.
Your landlord is retaliating against you for exercising a legal right. For example, they might not renew your lease because you tried to form a tenant's union or because you complained to the housing authorities about your landlord.
Your landlord isn’t following the lease. The lease is a binding contract, and your landlord made promises to do certain things. You can sue if your landlord fails to live up to their promises.
Your landlord has discriminated against you. It’s against the law to discriminate against someone because of their gender, race, color, religion, national origin, familial status, or disability.In some states or cities, it’s also illegal to discriminate because of sexual orientation.;
, You’re an important witness to any dispute. As soon as possible, write out your memories. Try to be as detailed as possible and sign the paper.


For example, if your landlord enters your apartment without permission, then note the dates and times.
If your landlord won’t make repairs, then write down the date you first noticed the problem.
Also summarize any oral conversations you’ve had with your landlord. Write down what they said and what you said.
 Visual evidence is helpful since it shows the judge what you are complaining about.For example, if a stairwell is missing a step, take pictures. If you have a vermin infestation, record mice running around.


You won’t be able to get visual evidence for everything, but it’s helpful if you have it.
 When you sue, you need to present evidence to the judge. Preserve documents that might be useful. Consider saving the following:


all communications with your landlord
copy of your lease
any receipts if you had to replace damaged items
medical reports and medical bills, if you were injured
police reports

, Explain what you want them to do to resolve the dispute. In some states, you need to send your landlord a letter and give them a chance to correct the problem before the court will let you sue. Send your letter certified mail, return receipt requested, so that you have proof it was received.


There are sample letters online. Remember to maintain a professional tone, no matter how angry you may be. Nevertheless, be firm. You are not in the wrong—your landlord is.
Identify how the landlord has violated your rights. Provide dates and refer to any communications you have had. For example, if you sent your landlord an email about a leaky pipe, remind them of the date.
Tell the landlord what needs to be done and give them a deadline. For example, a landlord should make urgent repairs immediately.
If you want monetary compensation, tell the landlord how much. Provide any supporting documentation to back up your request for money.
Close the letter by reminding your landlord that you’ll sue if they don’t respond favorably to your request.
 Your landlord must follow many laws. If they break those laws, then it’s best to get the government on your side. Depending on your circumstances, you can call the following:


If your landlord won’t make repairs, then you can call the housing inspector. Call if the apartment’s current condition threatens your health or safety.For example, you wouldn’t call if your landlord is refusing to paint your walls, but you would if there isn’t sufficient heat or hot water. Find the number in the phone book.
If your landlord has discriminated against you, report the violation to the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) here: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/housing_discrimination. Click on “Housing Discrimination Complaint.” HUD can investigate and bring a suit on your behalf., You can save time and money by resolving the dispute without going to court. Consider mediation. Some courthouses offer mediation programs, so stop in and check.


In mediation, you and your landlord meet with a third person (the mediator) to talk about your dispute. Mediators are skilled at getting each side to listen to the other and reaching a voluntary agreement.You might have to compromise, but many people walk away from mediation feeling satisfied.
Resolving the dispute is ideal if you want to continue to rent from the landlord.
 Everyone’s situation is different, and only a qualified lawyer can assess your situation and advise you about how to sue. You can find a lawyer who specializes in landlord-tenant disputes by contacting your local or state bar association.


Costs may be a concern. If so, check if there is legal aid nearby.Legal aid provides free or reduced-fee legal services to people with low incomes. Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website: http://www.lsc.gov.
If you’re suing for discrimination, then you might be able to hire a private attorney. You can win attorneys’ fees if you are successful.Private attorneys might also represent you on “contingency,” meaning you only pay if they win the lawsuit., You can’t just bring a lawsuit anywhere. Instead, closely analyze your situation to find the correct courthouse to sue in. Consider the following:


If you want to sue for discrimination, then you can sue in either federal or state court.You can find your federal district at this website: http://www.uscourts.gov/court-locator.
All other lawsuits can be brought in state court. Sue in the district or county where your apartment is located.
Small claims court might also be an option for those suing in state court. In every state, small claims courts handle cases involving small dollar amounts. The maximum amount differs by state. You should consider suing in small claims court because the process is usually streamlined. You don’t need a lawyer., A “complaint” starts the lawsuit. In this document, you identify yourself and the landlord. You also describe the dispute in sufficient detail and ask the judge for some remedy, usually monetary compensation.A complaint is a formal document, so research how it is supposed to look and what should be included.


If you hire a lawyer, they can draft a complaint for you. Make sure to review it before the lawyer files it.
In small claims court, there is probably a “fill in the blank” form you can use. Also, some regular state courts have fillable forms, so check their website.
If there’s no form, find sample complaints in books at the library or online. Use a sample as a guide when drafting your own.
 Once you’ve signed the complaint, make a copy for your records and a copy for your landlord. You might also need to file several copies with the original. Take everything to the court clerk’s office and ask to file.


The clerk will stamp your copies with the filing date.
You’ll probably have to pay a filing fee. Call ahead of time to check the amount and acceptable methods of payment. If you’re low income, you might qualify for a fee waiver. Ask the clerk for the form and fill it out.
 Your landlord gets a chance to respond, so you need to give them a copy of your complaint. You may also need to serve another document called a “summons,” which you can fill out at the clerk’s office.Generally, you can give your landlord notice in the following ways:


Have someone hand deliver the documents. For example, you can have someone 18 or older give them the papers, provided this person isn’t part of the case. Alternately, you can hire your county sheriff or a local process server to make delivery. However, you can’t hand deliver the papers yourself.
Mail the papers. In small claims court, in particular, you can use first class mail to send papers to your landlord.
Use other methods. Check your court’s rules.
 Whoever serves your landlord usually must complete a form, called a “proof of service” or “affidavit of service.” They will return this form to you. Make a copy for your records and file the original with the court.
 Your landlord gets to respond by filing an “answer.” You’ll receive a copy, so read it closely. Identify your landlord’s defense. For example, your landlord might disagree with your factual assertions. If you claim they entered your apartment twice without permission, they might deny the charge.


Your landlord might also turn around and countersue you. This is called a “counterclaim.”For example, if you haven’t been paying your rent, then your landlord can sue you for what you owe.
 The fact-finding stage of a lawsuit is called “discovery.” Discovery is usually simplified in small claims court. For example, you might turn over key documents, such as a copy of your lease, but not be entitled to anything else.


However, in regular civil court, discovery can be fairly long. You might have to answer questions under oath in a deposition. You may also depose your landlord or other witnesses. You’ll probably also have to answer written questions, called “interrogatories” and “requests for admission.”You can also ask your landlord for information that might be helpful. What you ask for will depend on the circumstances of your case. For example, if you are suing for racial discrimination, you might ask your landlord how many African-American tenants they have rented to over the past ten years.
If you feel overwhelmed by the discover process, reach out to a lawyer. Many lawyers can provide “unbundled legal services,” meaning you can hire them to handle discrete tasks. You retain control of the case, but the lawyer coaches you, drafts a legal document, or handles a deposition. Unbundled legal services are a good way to keep legal costs low.
 Without witnesses, it’s a “he said, she said” situation. Accordingly, find other people who can go to court to testify on your behalf. Tell them the court date and make sure they can attend.


For example, if your apartment lacks heat, a friend who has been in your apartment can back up your story.If your witnesses won’t attend voluntarily, serve them with a subpoena. You should apply for a subpoena with the court before your hearing date.
 Landlord-tenant disputes are handled differently, depending on the court. In some courts, you’ll have a full-fledged trial. In others, you’ll have a hearing, which is less formal. To know what you’re getting into, go to the courthouse and observe a hearing. Bring a notepad to take notes.
 You don’t need to wear a suit to court, but you should look neat and clean. Remember that the judge is judging you from the first moment you step into the courtroom. If possible, wear dress pants and a dress shirt. Women may also wear a conservative dress.


Leave shorts, tank tops, T-shirts, and crop tops at home.
Only wear jeans if you don’t have any other long pants.
 As the person suing, you go first. Speak clearly and slowly so the judge can hear you. Avoid talking to the landlord. Instead, direct all remarks to the judge.


You can use notes, but you shouldn’t read a written script. Use your own words and explain the situation as if you were talking to your boss.
If you have witnesses, tell the judge who they are and what they will be testifying about. You can ask them questions, and your landlord can cross-examine them. If the judge has questions, they might ask them as well., Your landlord goes second. It is important that you stay calm and not interrupt them.Avoid eye rolling or comments while your landlord is speaking. Remember that you will have a chance to respond to anything your landlord says.


Your landlord might call witnesses. You’ll also have a chance to ask them questions.
When your landlord says something you disagree with, write a note so that you remember to raise it with the judge.
As best as you can, ignore personal attacks. Your landlord might say you’re loud or that your children don’t behave. Unless these issues are related to the lawsuit, ignore them.
 After each side presents their case, the judge will rule for one of you. Generally, the judge should rule from the bench unless the case was very complicated, in which case you might get a written decision later.


If you lose, consider whether to appeal. Talk to a lawyer if you don’t have one. Appeals are time-consuming and costly.If you choose to appeal, you must file a Notice of Appeal quickly, usually within 30 days, though the precise amount of time will depend on the court.
Your landlord can also appeal if they lose.

