 You can run for the hand soap, but dish soap will be more effective at dissolving the oils in chili peppers. Many people report a painful burning feeling on their skin if it comes into contact with chili pepper oil.


You could also try periodically dipping your fingers into a mixture of water and bleach (5 to 1 water to bleach) as you cut the chili peppers.
The bleach turns the capsaicin into water-soluble salt. You can then rinse it away with water.
Take care to not get any bleach on the peppers, though. Wash your hands with the dish soap when you are done cutting the peppers.
 Chili oil and capsaicin, the culprits when it comes to the burning sensation, are soluble in alcohol.


Splash rubbing alcohol on your hands. Even if you use other methods to cool your hands, you could start with rubbing alcohol to cleanse them.Reach for the liquor cabinet, and choose a high-proof alcohol like vodka. Rub it on your hands or other affected body parts to wash away the burning oils.
Another possibility is to make a baking soda paste out of baking soda and water. Smear it on your hands, and wait for it to dry before washing it off.
 Choose ice-cold milk. Try adding ice cubes to the bowl. Plunging your hands in a bowl of ice water can work instead, but it’s not as effective.


Some people report that the burning sensation from chili peppers is painful and can last for a couple hours, so it’s understandable if you want an immediate remedy.
Try adding flour to the bowl of milk to create a pair of paste gloves. Leave it on for several minutes before washing it away.
Put rubbing alcohol on your hands before putting them into ice water or milk. Milk is best, and cold milk is better yet., The hot chili oils will dissolve with other kinds of oil, lessening the burning sensation.You could also reach for the Vaseline, and put it on your hands.


Rub your hands with a small amount of either vegetable oil or olive oil before you cut the peppers or after your hands start to burn.Don’t use so much oil that your hands become very slippery and create the danger of the knife slipping, though. Be careful when touching other people, such as babies, after getting chili oil on your hands because you can transfer it to them.
Coat your hands lightly with the oil in order to prevent the burning from occurring in the first place. The oil can also cool the burn after you’ve already touched the peppers. Dip your hands in a bowl of olive or vegetable oil., Sometimes people make the major mistake of rubbing their eyes while cutting chili peppers. This can cause a burning sensation in your eyes.


First of all, it's very important not to do this in the first place. However, if you do, soaking the eye area with milk can help.Take a makeup remover pad or a paper towel, and dab it into a small bowl of milk. Then, dab it around the eye area, much as you would a compress.
You may need to repeat this process several times to get enough relief, as the pepper oil will likely burn for a while. If the burning doesn't go away or affects your vision, see a doctor.
If the burning persists, you could also fashion an eye sling out of cotton balls or paper towels, and wear it for a few hours. Use a butterfly clip and gauze.

