 Each class has at least one weapon that can taunt kill with, so you will need to decide which taunt your will use. Below is a list of all the taunts that can kill and their special attributes:


Home Run (the Scout's Atomizer or Sandman): The Scout points towards the sky, and then swings his bat. This is the longest taunt kill and has a small kill range (jumping in front of the Scout will prevent you from getting hit), however the taunt is completely silent unless you hit someone with it, in which case a crowd will cheer. A good strategy with this taunt is to drink a Bonk! Atomic Punch right before taunting, as the invincibility it grants you is great if someone spots you while taunting.
Kamikaze (the Soldier's Equalizer or Escape Plan): The Soldier chucks his pickaxe over his shoulder, cracks his knuckles, pulls a grenade from his uniform, and sticks his hand with the grenade in it upwards while the grenade explodes. This taunt deals damage to all enemies around the Soldier, destroys any nearby buildings, and is decently quick, however it kills the Soldier upon executing it.
Armageddon (the Pyro's Rainblower): The Pyro blows a bunch of bubbles in front of him while a rainbow with a Balloonicorn appears above him, then leans forward and starts laughing while a ring of fire appears around him and the rainbow turns into flames. If viewed by a person who is not in Pyroland, the bubbles and rainbow will be replaced with fire. This taunt deals damage to all enemies around the Pyro and deals afterburn damage, however it is slow, deals 400 damage (meaning it cannot kill an overhealed Heavy), and every consecutive person that gets hit by the taunt only takes half the damage of the previous person (the first person affected takes 400 damage, the second person takes 200, etc.).
Execution (the Pyro's Scorch Shot): The Pyro turns sideways while sticking his hand out, and shoots the Scorch Shot in the direction that the crosshair was pointing in before the taunt. This taunt is decently quick, and deals afterburn damage, however it uses ammo, deals 400 damage (meaning it cannot kill an overhealed Heavy), and deals the normal 15 damage if the flare hits at medium or long ranges.
Hadouken (the Pyro's Detonator, Flare Gun, Manmelter, Reserve Shooter, or Shotgun): The Pyro brings his hands together and creates a ball of fire, charges up a bit, and releases a burst of fire in front of him. This is the second fastest taunt kill (right behind the Showdown taunt), it can kill several enemies, and can destroy buildings, making it a great taunt kill.
Decapitation (the Demoman's Claidheamh Mòr, Eyelander, Half-Zatoichi, Horseless Headless Horsemann's Headtaker, Nessie's Nine Iron, or the Persian Persuader): The Demoman spins his weapon behind his back, then swings it horizontally in front of him, and then wipes the blade with his finger. This taunt is relatively slow, however a kill increases your head count when wielding the Eyelander, Horseless Headless Horsemann's Headtaker, or Nessie's Nine Iron, as well as completely healing the user and allowing them to switch weapons when used with the Half-Zatoichi.
Showdown (the Heavy's Apoco-Fists, Fists, Holiday Punch, or Saxxy): The Heavy stands still for a few moments, imitates pulling a pistol with his hand, shoots the pistol in the direction that the crosshair was pointing at before the taunt, and then blows the barrel of his imaginary pistol. This is the quickest taunt kill, and has a range of about 9 classes standing side by side, but an overhealed Heavy can survive it due to it doing only 400 damage at long ranges.
Dischord (the Engineer's Frontier Justice): The Engineer pulls out a guitar, plays a few notes, and then smashes it in front of it. This taunt has decent speed, and can hit people that are standing on top of the Engineer.
Organ Grinder (the Engineer's Gunslinger): The Engineer pulls a cord attached to the Gunslinger to rev it up and cause it to spin quickly, and then pushes it forward. This taunt is relatively quick, stuns the enemy on the first few hits, and can be aimed before taunting.
Spinal Tap (the Medic's Ubersaw): The Medic waves his Ubersaw around, then thrusts it forward and then retracts it. This taunt has a relatively good speed, stuns the opponent, and grants 25% UberCharge on the first hit and 75% on the second hit (unless the victim is under the effects of an UberCharge from the Medi Gun or is a disguised Spy, in which case none will be given on the first hit and 50% will be given on the second hit), however, the stun can be interrupted.
Skewer (the Sniper's Fortified Compound or Huntsman): The Sniper takes an arrow, twirls it, stabs forward, and then retracts it. This taunt is quick, relatively quiet, stuns the opponent during the stab, but the stun can be interrupted. If the second hit is interrupted or does not hit, the stun will last long enough to retry taunt killing them.
Fencing (the Spy's Big Earner, Black Rose, Conniver's Kunai, Knife, Saxxy, Wanga Prick, or Your Eternal Reward): The Spy switches the knife to his other hand, swings back and forth a couple of times with his knife, and then stabs in front of him. This taunt is slow, but it can hit multiple people and destroy buildings. The Spy also has an easy time sneaking behind enemy lines, so don't discount this taunt.

