 There are two types of typhoid vaccines that are used. You can use the injectible Vi polysaccharide typhoid vaccine and the oral Ty21a typhoid vaccine. The injected vaccine is given as a single dose at 0.5 milliliters injected into the muscle of the upper arm and on the upper surface of the thigh. The oral vaccine is given through 4 doses spaced 2 days apart, so it would be given on Days 0, 2, 4, and 6.


The injected vaccine is given to children above two years old and adults. Re-vaccination is done every five years.The oral vaccine is given 24 to 72 hours after intake of any antibiotics by mouth on an empty stomach so that the vaccine will not be destroyed by the antibiotics. It is given to children above six years old and adults.You should get get your vaccines completed at least one to two weeks before you travel, depending on which vaccine you get. The vaccine works on individuals that have had typhoid fever as well as those that have not. However, you should get re-vaccinated every 2-5 years. Ask your doctor about how long the particular vaccine you are given will work., Unsafe water is a main conduit for typhoid fever. There are only certain kinds of water you should drink when you visit or live in non-industrialized countries. You should only drink bottled water that is from a reputable source. You should also never ask for ice unless you are sure that it has been made from bottled or safe water.


You should also avoid popsicles or iced desserts unless you know they are made from safe water.
Bottled carbonated water is safer than regular bottled water., If you cannot get bottled water, you can still drink the water you have. You just have to treat it first. Boil the water for at least one minute, especially if you are not sure if the water source, such as a water tap or water pump, is safe. Avoid drinking water from springs, rivers, and other water bodies.


If you cannot boil it, put chlorine tablets in water obtained from doubtful sources.If you live in an area with unsafe water, have a piped water system built in your home and community. Have separate, clean, and covered containers to store water.
 You can also get typhoid fever from food sources. When visiting certain countries, always cook vegetables, fish, or meat well. Wash these items well in clean water before cooking. If you eat raw food, wash them well in clean water or dip them in hot water. Peel all raw vegetables after you wash them with soap and hot water. Never eat the peelings because contaminants can live on them. If possible, avoid eating raw fruits and vegetables that can't be peeled.


Have separate clean containers to store food and keep food containers away from areas of contamination, such as the toilet, garbage, or sewage pipes. Do not store cooked food for prolonged periods in the refrigerator. Eat them as soon as possible. Otherwise, dispose of them after 2 or more days of cold storage.
Avoid eating food sold by street vendors when you travel to countries where typhoid fever is common., If you are in a location that has typhoid fever, clean your surroundings well. Remove spoiling edible items and place them in properly kept garbage containers. Repair damaged water pipes and sewage canals or pipes in order to avoid spillage of contaminated water in the environment.


Separate areas of food and water storage from areas where sewage pipes, toilets, or septic tanks are in order to avoid food and water contamination by contaminated water from these facilities., You can pass typhoid fever through touch, so you should practice safe personal hygiene as well. Wash your hands, preferably with soap or alcohol gel, before and after handling or cooking food, dealing with water, after using the toilet, or handling any dirty object. Be clean and neat in your general appearance and bathing daily is necessary.


Always wipe your hands on clean towels and not on the clothes you are presently wearing.