 Reading a good book or watching a film can be an excellent way to forget your worries. Choose a compelling story in a genre you enjoy.Select a book (or film) that isn’t too difficult to follow. This way you’ll have an easier time becoming immersed in the narrative.
Young adult novels can be good options for a few reasons: (1) they are easy to read, (2) many of them come in a series, and (3) several of them come in the form of both book and film.
Check out Harry Potter, The Hunger Games, or Twilight.
 Traveling to your happy place for just a few minutes is a wonderful way to reset your mood and forget about what’s bothering you.Close your eyes.
Relax your muscles.
Bring your happy place to mind.
Take in as many details as you can: What sounds do you hear? What do you see? What does it smells like? How does the air feel like on your skin?
Spend a few minutes here.
Repeat this any time you need to reset.
 Music has important links to human emotion. Just as sad songs can trigger sadness, happy songs can help keep negative emotions at bay. Forget your troubles by turning on some upbeat music. If you turn it up loud enough, and/or sing along, you’ll effectively drown out any troubles you had.You can double the stress-busting power of music by getting up and dancing!

, If you’d like to get your mind off of things, pick up the phone and start dialing. Focus the conversation on your friend. Ask questions and pay attention to the answers. Chatting with a friend can improve your mood, while distracting you from your troubles.Ask about their work.
Ask about any recent changes in their life.
Ask them to describe a fun experience they recently had.
 Overwhelm the negative thoughts you may have with positive ones. Think so many happy thoughts that any troubles on your mind simply wash away.Begin by praising things you like about yourself (even very small things). Move on to praise things you like about your life.


For example, you can think, “I have nice hair,” “I never get sick,” or “I’m really good at basketball.”
For example, you can think, “I live in a beautiful city,” “My mom and dad are still alive,” or “I never have to go hungry.”

, Troubles often arise when we focus too much on the future or past. Bring yourself back into the present moment by practicing mindfulness. Choose one basic task, such as folding the laundry or making tea, and take five minutes to focus on that one task and nothing else. Try to notice as many details as you can. At the end of these five minutes, your troubles with the future or past will have less of an effect on you.