 Break out the tape measure. You’ll need to know how wide your door frame is so the jamb fits in it. Hold the tape measure up to the top of the door frame. Note the measurement and save it for later., Take your tape measure to one side of the door frame. Note the length and mark this on one piece of wood. If you have level ground, this measurement will be the same for the other side. Most likely they’ll be different, so measure the other side of the frame and mark its length on another piece of wood. Don’t forget to also measure the top part of the frame for the smaller piece of wood.Remember to account for ground clearance. You’ll need to know how thick the material under the door will be. Take off an extra ¾ of an inch (1.9 cm) off the jambs for an interior door. Take off an extra ¼ of an inch (.64 cm) for exterior doors., Suit up with safety gear, including gloves and a visor, before turning on your circular saw. Thin the pieces of wood so they fit within the frame. Follow up by cutting their length according to the measurements you took earlier., Lay one of the longer pieces of wood on its side. Attach the shorter piece to one end of the longer piece. Get your nail gun and hold it square on the outside of the area where the wood meets. Add the nails to secure the pieces together. Align the other piece of wood on the opposite side and attach it the same way., Haul your newly-cut wood up into the frame. Since you measured, it should fit in there well. Align the left side against the wall and see if it appears level. Double-check this with a level., Before attaching the jamb to the frame, place wood strips (shims) under it. Figure out where you need to place the shims to level the hinge side from top to bottom. Get these strips from the home improvement store. Slip them between the jamb and frame as needed.Always start with the side where the door will attach to the hinges.
 You can hold the jamb in place by lightly hammering in a few nails. Place the door inside the jamb. The door needs to fit comfortably inside the jamb. Look for the gap between the door and jamb to be one-eighth of an inch (.32 cm) on all sides. Add or remove shimming so the door fits. When you’re sure the measurements are correct, remove the door., Get your nail gun again. Make sure the jamb is even against the wall and frame. Begin securing it with nails from top to bottom. Be sure to put a nail through each shim to hold them in place.Weather strips are a good way of hiding screw marks. Screws make exterior doors stronger and more adjustable. Drill a hole in the jamb before adding the screws, then attach the weather strips over them., Move onto the top side. First, hold your level up to the jamb. If it doesn’t appear level, add some shims to even it out. Finish by nailing the jamb to the frame. Repeat this with the side opposite the hinges., The shims will have their ends sticking out of the jamb. Go ahead and take your utility knife or other woodcarving knife to them. Cut off the ends so the shims are hidden behind the frame., Screw the hinges onto the correct side of the jamb. Unless you are installing a prehung door, you’ll need to trace the outline of the hinges on the jamb and cut an indentation using a router or utility knife. Place the door in the jamb and fasten it to the hinges. Make sure it’s tight and opening in the right direction.It’s ideal to do this first so you can gauge how much space you have for the door stops and align them properly behind the hinges.
 The door stopper (also called stop molding) can be bought pre-cut or fashioned out of wood strips. You will need to measure out how wide the stopper needs to be so that the pieces on each side of the door frame fit together. The moulding goes behind the hinges and rests in the middle of the jamb. Measure it against the jamb until you’re sure it’s the right thickness.The stop molding is thin. When cutting it yourself, you only need strips of wood about one or two inches (two to five cm) wide.
 Start with the top part. Measure all the way across the jamb. Keep in mind the thickness of the moulding. Leave that amount of space available where the top part will run into the left and right stopper pieces. Mark these spots on the jamb in pencil. Now measure the amount of wood needed from top to bottom of both the left and right sides of the jamb., Use a saw or a utility knife to trim the wood to the required length. You’ll have a shorter piece for the top of the door and two longer pieces for the sides., Get your nail gun one more time. Start with the top side. Keep the stopper pieces even and centered in the jamb. Nail the shorter piece to the frame. Nail the other pieces to the sides. When you’re done, the closed door should rest inside the jamb.