 Never encroach upon the group members' personal times when setting a meeting date unless it is absolutely necessary or unavoidable. If members need to cancel their plans in order to make your meeting, they may end up harboring feelings of resentment. Pick a date that falls on a regular business day and make sure to give your group members a notice a few days ahead of time.;
, Your meetings should have an appointed starting time, an appointed ending time, and you should avoid overstepping these boundaries out of respect for the meeting members. Time is the most important factor when planning a meeting, as it gives you a foundation for planning the rest of the meeting details.
 Don't get sidetracked trying to deal with off-topic gripes and grievances.
 Meetings that don't have a set target goal will inevitable meander through many topics--often unrelated--and that may result in confused and bored members. If you don't have an ultimate goal, then there is a good chance that calling a meeting is unnecessary.
 You can ensure a successful group meeting by praising in public and criticizing in private. Public criticism tends to reduce overall group morale and can even cause rivalries or competition to form within the group. Instead, discuss the good things during a meeting and save the bad things for private 1-on-1 meetings.
 Group meetings are sometimes used to rally members of the group to agree on a certain decision. However, you should avoid doing this as it will reflect negatively on you, the leader. Excess peer pressure will also cause dissonance among the group.
 It's not uncommon for coworkers to become friends with other coworkers, but these friendships and relationships should temporarily be set aside during a meeting. Bias and favoritism will quickly dissolve a meeting's integrity, and group camaraderie may be damaged.
 For long-term success over multiple meetings, you want people to participate and speak up when appropriate. If you always override someone's suggestions or comments, over time they will find it futile and will cease speaking their mind. Allow people to be open and do your best to take their thoughts into consideration.

