 The new Lenses feature requires an Android device running Android 5.0 (Lollipop) or later. If you're using a device that's stuck on Android 4.4 or lower, you won't be able to use Lenses, even if Snapchat is up to date. To check your device's version:

Open the Settings app.
Tap "About phone" or "About device."
Look for the "Android version" entry.
Some users have reported problems with Lenses even though their device is running 5.0 or later. If your device should work but isn't, you may have to wait until Snapchat updates again. If your Android is rooted, you can try an Xposed framework tweak. Click here for detailed instructions.;
, You can find this in the App Drawer or on your Home screen.
 This will open a list of all of your installed apps.
 If an update is available for Snapchat, it will be listed in the "Updates available" section, and will say "Update" in the bottom-right corner of the app box.


You can also search for Snapchat in the store to open its store page.
 You'll see this button on the app's store page if an update is available. Tapping "Update" will begin downloading the update files, which may take a few minutes. The update will be installed automatically, and you'll be notified when its finished.


If there is no Update option available, then you are currently running the latest version of the Snapchat app. If you have the most up-to-date version and certain special features such as Lenses aren't working, your device may not support them.
 New features may not enabled by default. You can turn them on in the Snapchat Settings menu.


Tap the Snapchat icon at the top of the Camera screen. This will open your Snapchat profile.
Tap the Gear button in the upper-right corner of your profile.
Tap "Manage" in the "Additional Services" section.
Check the boxes to enable additional features such as Front-Facing Flash and Friend Emojis.
 If you're using a supported device and have updated Snapchat, you can access special lens effects by pressing and holding your face before taking a snap. Click here for detailed instructions.
 Snapchat for Android features a beta program. Joining the beta will give you early access to new Snapchat features, but the app may be less stable than the normal app. If you're willing to put up with an app that occasionally doesn't work, you can join the beta.In the Settings menu, scroll down and tap the "Join Snapchat Beta"
Tap "Count me in!" to confirm. You'll be taken to a web page where you can join the Google+ community, which is required for beta access.
Fill out the form to join the beta program and then wait about an hour.
Uninstall and reinstall Snapchat and the "Snapchat Beta" option will appear in the Settings menu. Use this menu to access the beta features.

