 Any standard gas canister of sufficient volume will suffice, provided the container is a closed one. Because gasoline fumes can be hazardous to your health and because you never want to risk spilling gasoline, it's usually unwise or even dangerous to transport gas in a bucket or other open container.;
, Siphoning involves sucking gas through a tube or hose into its new container. Clear tubing is desirable because it allows you to see the gasoline move through the tube, but, because this particular method doesn't carry any risk of gasoline getting in your mouth, opaque tubing will do in a pinch.


For this method, you'll want two lengths of tubing - one long enough to reach deep into the gas tank and another, shorter length of tubing that will reach just inside the tank. Either obtain two separate lengths of tubing or cut one length of tubing to make two smaller lengths - the effect is the same.
 Siphoning works because of gravity - once you get gas flowing through the tube, it will naturally continue flowing as long as you keep the tube lower than the level of gas in the tank. Because of this, it's usually convenient to just put your gas can or receptacle on the ground under the tank.
 Push the the longer length of tubing well into the gas tank (keeping the other end in your empty gas can). The end of this tubing needs to be fully submerged in the gasoline in the tank - since you can't see where the end of the tubing is, you can check by carefully (so as not to inhale fumes) blowing into the tube and listening for the sound of bubbles. Push the shorter length of tube just a few inches into the tank so that both tubes sit side-by-side.
 This method works by increasing air pressure in the tank to displace the gas through the longer length of tubing and into your receptacle. To create this high air pressure, it's important that no air be allowed to escape the tank. Grab a cheap rag or towel (one you won't mind getting dirty) and pack it around your tubes to create a tight seal. The rag should conform tightly around your tubes but shouldn't compress them and prevent the flow of air and gas.


If you're having trouble creating a tight seal, try soaking your rag in water and ringing it out, then packing it around your tubes. Wet rags generally create a tighter seal than dry ones.
 Ensure that the end of the longer length of tubing sits comfortably in your gas receptacle, then blow air into the shorter tube to increase the air pressure inside the tank. You may blow with your lungs (in which case, take care not to breathe in through the tube and inhale any fumes), but you may find greater success using a mechanical air pump. Forcing air through the short tube increases the pressure of the air above the gas in the tank, causing it to flow through the longer tube and into the gas can.


If you're having difficulty, make sure you have a tight seal around your tubes. It's essential to ensure that air can neither enter nor leave the gas tank except through the short length of tubing.
 As you blow into the gas tank, you should see gas move through the longer length of tubing and into your gas can (assuming you used clear tubing). Once gas is freely flowing from the tank into the can, you don't need to continue blowing - gravity will do the rest of the work. When you want to stop siphoning gas, cover the long tube with your thumb, raise it above the level of gas in the engine, and remove your thumb. Any remaining gas in the tube should flow back into the tank. Congratulations! You're finished. Remove your tubes and close the gas tank.


If the gas in the tube won't flow back into the tank when you want to stop siphoning, ensure that the short tube is free of obstruction and, if necessary, remove the seal around the tubes. Air needs to be able to escape the tank to make space for the gas flowing back in.

