;
, Add shooting windows and bring lots of ammo and clips and store them in your base.
 Set up an obstacle course and/or a set of targets for target practice.
 A strategy that will get you from Point A to Point B is the way to go.
 This will train your soldiers for actual battles.
, Tell both teams the date and time you pick.
 You can make up your own rules, use the rules below, or play one of the games listed in part 2 of this article.


West Coast Rules: Each soldier has five hit points. When a soldier is hit, he loses one point. He then counts down from 20 with his gun held up in the air. He may pick up ammo and walk around, but isn't allowed to fire and cannot be hit during this time. He counts down the last five numbers loudly and says he/she's back in, and is then back in the game. He leaves the game permanently if he is down to zero hit points.
East Coast Rules: Each player has ten hit points, and loses one point each time they are hit. There is no 20-second invulnerability period, like from the West Coast rules, but if several darts from the same automatic weapon hit you at the same time, this typically only counts as one hit. You leave the game once you are out of hit points.
 Hide them on the battlefield. Make a map of where they are located, and make copies to give to each of your soldiers. They can get out the map, look at it, and get a refill when they run out.
 Never play in an open field, you need cover for when the enemy shoots at you. Playing in the woods is highly suggested. If you're playing in the woods, behind bushes or trees or even large rocks are good enough.
 You and your soldiers can use them when you're on the battlefield. Just make sure your soldiers can remember them and your enemies don't find out!!

, You don't need much structure to have a fun Nerf war. Pick one of the rules (West Coast or East Coast) for getting hit described in that step. Divide the group into teams and separate onto opposite ends of the area before you begin the game. You can even have a free-for-all, with each player fighting every other player until one remains.
 Each team keeps a flag (or any other recognizable object) near the "base" they start out in, but far enough away that it's difficult to defend from the base. The team that brings back the flag from the enemy's side wins the game.
 The Defender team gets to choose a defensive position, often a play structure or an area of high ground with plenty of cover. If the Defender team survives for 10 minutes, it wins the game. If the Attacker team knocks all the Defenders out of the game before then, it wins.


Optionally, you can have a Defender leave the fort and become an Attacker once he is hit three times. This may be a good idea if the Fort is especially easy to defend.
 This is a simple game of tag played with a single Nerf gun. When someone is hit, they take the Nerf gun. The last person to avoid getting hit by a Nerf dart wins.

