 Wrongful-death suits are usually very complex and lengthy. For this reason it's in your best interest to hire a qualified personal-injury attorney to help you with your case. Start by asking friends, family members, and colleagues if they know a good personal-injury attorney. Make sure you tell them exactly what type of wrongful-death case you have, as many personal-injury attorneys specialize in certain types of cases.;
, If you cannot get a good recommendation, try using your state bar's website to get a good referral. Every state bar will offer a lawyer-referral service or will at least have compiled a list of licensed attorneys in various specialties.


For example, in California you can talk to a referral agent who will set you up with a qualified attorney. The agent will ask you about the case you have and what you are looking for in an attorney. They can give you a list of qualified people for you to contact. , You will want to find an experienced attorney who specializes in the type of case you have. For example, if you have a medical-malpractice lawsuit, you will not want to hire an attorney who specializes in vehicular deaths.


Only certain states allow lawyers to specialize in specific areas of the law. If your state allows this, look for a personal-injury attorney.
 Once you have at least three good candidates, call them and set up initial consultations. Here you will have the opportunity to present your case so the attorney can assess its strength and determine whether s/he will be able to help. During these meetings you should:


Ask about the attorney's education and experience;
Ask about similar cases they have handled and what their outcomes were;
Ask about their history of professional discipline;
Ask about liability and malpractice insurance; and
Ask any questions that occur to you related to your case.
 Ask the attorney how much s/he charges. In most wrongful-death suits attorneys work on a contingency-fee basis, which means s/he will not require initial fees but will collect a certain percentage of your award if you win. It is not uncommon to see contingency-fee agreements where an attorney will take up to a third of the court award. This amount can be even higher depending on the complexity and length of your case.


Lawyers can also work for an hourly fee or a flat fee, but this is uncommon in cases of wrongful death.
While such an arrangement does not involve initial fees, you may be required to pay certain costs as they come up. For example, the attorney may require you to pay filing fees, expert-witness fees, and medical-examination fees.
 At this point you should have a good understanding of the attorneys you are considering. It's time to hire one. Choose the attorney you feel most comfortable with and who you think gives you the best chance to win your suit.


Let the attorney know as soon as possible that you would like to hire him/her.
Make sure you get your fee arrangement in writing.
 A possible action arises when someone's death is caused by the wrongful conduct of another. These cases commonly occur in the context of construction accidents, medical malpractice, vehicular accidents, police misconduct, and product liability.


When you sue a defendant claiming wrongful death you must prove that the defendant acted negligently, that the negligence caused the death, that there are surviving beneficiaries, and that the survivors have suffered financial damages. These elements are like pieces of a puzzle: you must prove every element of your claim before the court can find in your favor. The appropriate wording of wrongful-death-claim elements will vary from state to state, but the substance is the same.
 The first element of a wrongful-death claim is negligence. You must be able to show that the defendant acted in a negligent manner or even a willful or purposeful manner. In all negligence actions you have to show that the defendant had a duty to act in a certain way, that the defendant breached that duty, that the death was caused by the breach, and that there was harm. For example, in a medical-malpractice case you would say the doctor (defendant) had a professional duty to act in a certain way toward the patient; that the duty was breached when the doctor did not act reasonably; that the unreasonable action by the doctor caused the death; and that harm occurred because the patient died.
 You must be able to prove that the defendant in a willful or negligent act caused the death of the decedent. You may need to assemble witnesses who observed the defendant’s actions or hire expert witnesses to describe to the jury how the defendant caused the death.
 In order to succeed in a claim for wrongful death, you must be able to show that there are surviving beneficiaries. In general this means the decedent left a spouse, children, or other dependents. Each state will have different definitions of beneficiaries. Some states define the term more broadly than others. For example, some states will include grandparents, aunts, or uncles in the definition, while others won't.
 Only certain types of damages can be recovered in a claim for wrongful death. For example, in New York survivors can collect damages for funeral costs, reasonable medical expenses, lost wages, the value of support the decedent provided survivors, the value of parental care, lost inheritances, and any conscious pain and suffering the decedent endured due to the injury or illness.


However, in New York survivors cannot recover damages for their own pain and suffering, mental anguish, or loss of companionship. , Some states put a cap on how much money can be recovered in a wrongful-death action. For example, in Wisconsin damages cannot exceed $500,000 in the case of a deceased minor and $350,000 in the case of a deceased adult.


If a jury awards more money than is allowed, the judge will reduce the award to the appropriate limit. , Once you know what you will need to prove in order to win your wrongful-death suit, you need to begin to gather evidence to support your case. You can begin by talking to witnesses about what they saw, felt, heard, or smelled during the incident.


For example, if you are part of a medical-malpractice case, you should talk to the nurses, surgeons, scrub techs, and anyone else who may have been in the room when the incident occurred that lead to the person's death. You can ask them whether they saw the doctor mishandle an instrument, whether they heard the doctor say s/he made a mistake, or whether the witness would have handled the case differently. This type of question could help you determine if the doctor was negligent and if the doctor caused the death.
In another example, if you are part of a vehicular accident that caused death, you may want to talk to other motorists, pedestrians, or police officers that arrive on the scene. You may want to know if someone ran a red light, how fast each car was going, or whether someone tried to stop. Such questions might help you determine if the defendant was negligent and caused the accident.
 In a wrongful-death suit one of the most important pieces of evidence is the autopsy report. This will detail the likely cause of death, time of death, and other medical facts that may be relevant to your case. Get copies of these records from the medical examiner as soon as possible.


In rare cases you may even make your own request for an autopsy. This could occur if the initial report was inconclusive or if you believe the original autopsy was mishandled.
 In a lot of accidents that lead to wrongful-death suits police were called to the scene and subsequently filed reports. These describe what the police saw, when they saw it, whom they talked to, and what people said. These reports are not only important to help prove negligence and causation, but they can also help you track down other witnesses to talk to.
 Once you have compiled documents, you may need to hire experts to review them and write reports about their findings. For example, you may want to hire a doctor to look over the autopsy report in order to analyze how it was conducted and whether there are questions about it that need to be addressed.
 After you have an opportunity to analyze the situation you should evaluate the strength of your case. At this point you've probably seen enough evidence to determine the likelihood of success at trial. If you believe you have the evidence necessary to support every element of a wrongful-death suit, you may feel comfortable moving forward with your case. However, if you feel like your case has some weak points, you may want to negotiate a settlement with the other party before you go any further.


You should also think about how much your case will cost to litigate. If you do not think the cost of litigation is going to be worth the return, you should consider trying to settle your case before it goes any further.
 The filing deadline is known as the “statute of limitations.” You must file a wrongful-death suit within the amount of time prescribed by statute in your state. For example, California requires plaintiffs to file within two years of the decedent’s death. The statute of limitations may be “tolled” (extended) if there is a period of time following the decedent's death before the plaintiff realizes the cause of death.
 Only certain individuals can bring a wrongful-death suit. Before you file your lawsuit make sure you know what your state allows. For example, in New York only a "personal representative" of the deceased can file a wrongful-death suit. A personal representative is the person legally appointed by a court to administer an estate. In Wisconsin a wrongful-death suit can be brought by the personal representative or by an heir to the estate (often a spouse). In states where the personal representative must file suit, you should move quickly to start the probate process so a personal representative can be appointed. , Depending on the facts of your case, you may be able to file your lawsuit in either state or federal court. If you are filing in state court, you generally must file in the county where the defendant lives or where the injury occurred. To file in federal court you must meet certain jurisdictional requirements. For wrongful-death suits you will most commonly go to federal court if you and the other party reside in different states. This is called diversity jurisdiction. If you want to file in federal court claiming diversity, the amount of damages you are asking for must be more than $75,000. , In some states you will not be able to file a wrongful-death suit until you have verified its validity. In Connecticut, for example, you cannot bring a medical-malpractice suit until a physician has verified that there is enough evidence of negligence to proceed (as defined by law). If you live in a state where this is required, you will likely have to pay a medical practitioner to look over the evidence you have compiled. That person will have to sign an affidavit and submit it to the court.
 Before you prepare your complaint make sure you have compiled all of your investigatory documents and you have enough facts to prevent your case from being thrown out. If you live in a state where verification is required, the verification itself will likely be enough to allow you to proceed with the suit.


With a motion to dismiss, the other party will file a court document claiming that you do not have enough evidence to proceed. In essence, they are asking the court to end the case before it begins.
 Most states will not have a pre-printed complaint form for wrongful-death suits. Therefore, you or your attorney will have to write out a complaint in full. The complaint will begin with a caption identifying the court you are filing in, the names of plaintiff(s) and defendant(s), the case number, and the judge's name. The complaint will then introduce the parties, state why this court has jurisdiction; and list the alleged violations. The complaint will end with a "prayer for relief," which is a statement of what you want the court to do. California does have a wrongful-death complaint form, but it is very basic, and you or your attorney would be well served to create your own. , This is a simple form letting the defendant know they are being sued, and it tells the defendant how they can respond. Typically a defendant will have 30 days to respond after they have been served with the summons. , Make copies of these documents. Take the originals and the copies to the court clerk. The clerk will file the originals and stamp the copies. The clerk will charge a filing fee, which in most states is several hundred dollars. The clerk will notify you by mail when the court sets a hearing date.


If you cannot afford to pay the filing fee, ask the clerk how you can apply for a fee waiver. Submit a written request to have your fees waived, and supply basic information about your income and expenses.
 After your forms are filed the defendant must be served with notice of the lawsuit. Your state law will specify how many days after filing you must complete service. The defendant must typically be “personally served,” meaning that the process server must hand-deliver the paperwork to the defendant. You cannot serve the defendant yourself. Arrange for one of the following people to serve the defendant for you:


A professional process server;
The county sheriff’s office; or
Anyone who is over 18 and not involved in the case. This option is not recommended, however, because process-serving is a slightly technical procedure subject to the intricacies of state law. Doing it wrong could hurt your case. , You must file a Proof of Service form signed by the person who served the defendant. By signing the form the person affirms under penalty of perjury that he or she served the defendant in accordance with state law. File the Proof of Service with the court clerk.
 In preparation for trial you and the other side will compile all of the evidence that you will use to prove your case and disprove the other party's case. During discovery you will be able to ask the other side for information about their case, and you can then use that information to prepare. Discovery will usually take place at the very early, pre-trial stages and will end about 30 days before the trial date. In general you can do the following things during discovery:


Submit written questions to the other party and require them to answer (known as interrogatories)
Conduct in-person interviews of the other party and their witnesses (depositions)
Request relevant documents from the other party (production of documents)
Ask the other party to admit or deny specific allegations (request for admissions)
Force the other side to produce records so you can inspect them (subpoenas), Some states will require the plaintiff to take part in a settlement conference. Other states make this voluntary. In either case, after discovery you should have a good idea about the strengths and weaknesses of your suit. At this point it may be a good idea (or it may be required) to talk to the other party about settling. When you take part in a settlement conference, you and the other party will get together, often with a judge or neutral lawyer, and attempt to negotiate a settlement. You should prepare to exchange offers and have evidence to back up your positions. Regardless of the strength of your case, you should consider trying to settle before trial in order to save time and money. However, if your case is strong you should be slow to settle unless you feel satisfied with the amount being offered.
 Every wrongful-death suit is unique, but if your case proceeds toward trial, it will most likely become necessary to send and respond to written motions during court hearings to resolve procedural issues. At the trial, you or your attorney will argue before the jury or judge, take witness testimony, and present evidence that supports your case. Your goal is to prove all four elements of your claim (as described above) and provide convincing details about the harm you have suffered as a result of the death of the decedent.


If you win at trial, you will be awarded an amount of money determined by the judge or jury.
If the judge or jury find in the defendant's favor, you may have the opportunity to appeal the decision. Appeals will be entertained only if there was a mistake of law during the trial. An appeal cannot be made simply because you think the court made a bad decision.

