 Farming is a method that abuses game logic to provide the player with a higher probability of obtaining items. Hunting for hostile mobs specifically requires you to attack hostile mobs in areas they commonly appear at. This involves making an environment that allows you to corral mobs in a central area and provide efficiency of obtaining dropped items.
 The difficulty in Minecraft determines how hostile mobs spawn and how damage is dealt to the player. Changing the difficulty to a harder mode provides a higher chance for enemies to spawn equipped with weapons and armor and in some cases, they can be wearing chain armor. A hostile mob is a type of non player character (NPC) that will attack the player. The only hostile mobs that may spawn with the chain armor are the zombies and skeletons.The higher difficulty levels provide a greater chance of finding mobs wearing chain armor.


If playing in hardcore mode, the game difficulty cannot be changed.
Changing the difficulty to a harder mode provides a greater chance of being killed by mobs or starvation.
The difficulty can be changed at any time during the game. Once you find the pieces of armor you can change the difficulty back down.
Mobs do not wear armor on the Peaceful or Easy difficulty setting.
 Hostile mob farming involves setting up traps around where they commonly appear or spawn at. An example is creating a canal using water element blocks that transport mobs to a central area or moat, making it easier to attack them without them being able to attack you. Hostile mobs appear in the dark, which will require a dark room for them to appear in which can be made out of blocks in the world or can be made by mining underground.Try creating an area where the mob is not able to fight back, such as using slab blocks surrounded by regularly sized blocks that prevent movement. Mobs are not able to crawl under holes which makes it easier to attack them.
A mob spawner will periodically generate mobs which can provide an advantage through farming techniques as you will know where the mobs appear at directly. Mob spawners for zombies and skeletons appear in underground dungeons.To create a trap around mob spawners, light the area with torches around and on the spawner to prevent mobs from appearing due to the light. Once the trap is set, remove the torches to allow the mobs to spawn.
Skeletons and zombies won’t fall from high places. You can use blocks such as signs around edges as they will treat them as blocks to stand on, only to fall below them. Be careful using signs in your traps as they can also act as a barrier for elemental blocks such as water.
 If you find a zombie or skeleton wearing the armor, use your weapons to kill them. There will be a small (~5%) chance that they will drop the armor once defeated. Run over the armor to collect it. If they do not drop the armor, repeat the process until the armor pieces are obtained.


A sword with a Looting enchantment has a greater chance of the mob to drop chain armor piece.