 Keep in mind that positive reinforcement is more effective than discipline.If your child is being helpful and cooperative, give verbal praise and affection. Catch your child doing nice and kind acts, following rules, and doing positive behaviors. Explain what you like about their behavior. Show that they are worthwhile and loved.For example, say, “Thank you for sharing your toys. It’s good to be kind to others.” You can also say, “Wow, you did a really great job waiting patiently.”

, Notice how and when you give attention to your child. Do you tend to catch them when they are misbehaving and punish them? If so, they may seek out negative reinforcement from you as a way to get your attention. If you feel like you’re constantly putting your child in timeout or disciplining your child, take a step back. Give them attention in other ways, too, and focus on positive attention. If your child only gets your attention when they are misbehaving, they may begin to feel low and believe that you don’t notice when they are good.Say, “Wow, you’ve really improved with sharing with your sister. I’m really proud of you.”
Be aware that acting out can be a cry for attention and bad attention is still attention.
 Just as you want your child to respect you, make sure you are giving them respect, especially when you are disciplining them. Set firm limits, yet communicate them in a calm manner. Respect yourself by being firm and not caving under your child’s tears or fits. Respect your child being understanding, kind, and by listening to them.It’s not appropriate to lord your authority over your child. Respect your child by not using excessive force in your words or actions.
If your child is bouncing off the walls and you need them to be calm, don’t lose your own cool. Show respect by saying, “I know you want to play, but now is a time to be still. If you cannot be still, then we will have to leave.”

, Children learn from you. Show them what a good role model is by having high self-esteem yourself. Show them what it’s like to respect yourself and treat yourself with care. Show them how you deal with disappointments or mistakes. Show them that it’s possible to learn from mistakes and improve yourself.For example, if you yell at your partner and your children hear. Make sure you explain that you shouldn’t yell at people and apologize to your partner.

