 The recommended daily amount of Vitamin B12 required for general health is 2.4 mcg for people age 14 and older.Pregnant women and breastfeeding women should have 2.8 mcg.


Children still need B12, but can have lower amounts. Children nine to 13 need 1.8 mcg, four to eight years old need 1.2 mcg, one to three years need 0.9 mcg, 7-12 months need 0.5 mcg, and zero to six months need 0.4 mcg., Some vegetarians and vegans may be at risk for Vitamin B12 deficiency because one of the main sources of B12 is from animal products. B12 can be obtained through fortified cereals. Try eating three or four servings of B12 fortified foods daily.You can also talk to your doctor about taking supplements.Make sure to read the labels on the fortified foods to determine the exact amount of B12 you are getting daily.
 Symptoms of B12 deficiency include fatigue, weakness, diarrhea, constipation, loss of appetite, and weight loss. Other symptoms, related to the effects of Vitamin B12 on the nervous system, include numbness and tingling in the hands and feet, balance problems, confusion, depression, behavioral changes, soreness of the mouth or tongue, and bleeding gums. The chance of B12 deficiency increases with age.


This condition affects people who have atrophic gastritis, pernicious anemia, Crohn’s disease, celiac disease, or immune system disorders like Graves’ disease or lupus. It also affects people who’ve had surgery to remove part of the stomach and small intestine, and people who drink heavily. Long-term usage of heartburn medicine can also cause B12 deficiency., Before taking a B12 supplement, you should talk to your doctor, especially if you take certain medications. Taking Vitamin B12 is safe; there have been no toxic or adverse effects of taking Vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 can, however, interact with a number of medications used in treating acid reflux and peptic ulcers.


The drugs used to treat these disorders decrease the absorption of Vitamin B12.
Some medicines used to treat diabetes and high cholesterol can also decrease the absorption of Vitamin B12.
If you are taking any of these medications, talk to your physician about the need for extra Vitamin B12., If you are experiencing any symptoms of Vitamin B12 deficiency, you should see your physician for a diagnosis. The symptoms for Vitamin B12 deficiency can apply to a number of different disorders and all these need to be diagnosed by a qualified physician.


If you have been diagnosed with Vitamin B12 deficiency, make sure you see your physician regularly and follow their advice regarding Vitamin B12 supplementation.