 One of the first ways you should train your English Springer Spaniels is with simple commands. Your Springer needs to learn to obey these so they do not have any overall behavioral issues as they get older. Start with simple commands, such as "Stay", "Come", or "Sit". Use various treats to help you teach these commands.


For example, hold a treat in your hand. Show your Springer that you have a treat. Take the treat hand and lower it to the ground. As your Springer follows your hand, they will start to lie down. When your Springer is lying all the way down, say calmly and firmly “Lay down” and give them the treat. If you are clicker training, press the clicker when your Springer lays down as well.If your Springer is having a hard time, push their body gently into a laying down position, then say “Lay down” and give them the treat. Your Springer will pick up on the action after a while.
You can use a similar method for all basic commands.
 A supplementary training method for your English Springer Spaniel is clicker training. This will help distinguish desired behaviors for your Springer in addition to your other training methods. It also shows your Springer what good behavior they are being rewarded for. Your Springer will start to link the sound of the clicker with the rewards, which will help reinforce the behavior.As you are training your Springer, hit the clicker every time they do something they should in order to reinforce that good behavior.
For example, if you are teaching your Springer to "come", hit the clicker whenever they get to you when you call them., House train your English Springer Spaniel as soon as you bring them home. Your Springer should understand this part of their life as soon as possible. When you first bring your Springer home, take them to a designated potty area in the yard. Tell your Springer “potty” or “toilet” when they go to the bathroom there so they will associate it with that activity. When your Springer does go to the bathroom in the right place, reward them like you would any other behavior. This will link rewards with pottying outside like your Springer should, which will train them to do that every time.


At the early age, your Springer should be taken out every 20 to 30 minutes, moving to longer wait times of about once an hour as they get older.
Keep a constant eye on your Springer at all times indoors when they are learning. You will need to either keep your Springer in a crate when you leave the house, follow them around when you are home, or keep them on a leash.
If your Springer accidentally potties in the house, clean up the excrement as soon and as well as you possibly can to remove the smell. This will deter your Springer from using the same spot again., Training your English Springer Spaniel for a crate is not too difficult. Start by buying a crate large enough for a full sized English Springer Spaniel, even if they are still a puppy. This will ensure that your Springer has plenty of room to stand and move around. Plus, your Springer will be able to continually use it as they grow. Add a comfy palette or bed inside the crate as well as a water bowl and a few of your Springer’s favorite toys.


You want to make the crate as inviting as possible so your Springer will be happy staying in here when you leave the house.
Leave the door open and put a toy inside. When your Springer goes inside, close the door behind them. Leave your Springer inside for a little while at first, then slowly increase how long you leave them in there as they get used to it.
Keep doing this until your Springer can spend hours in the crate without whining.
When your Springer does this correctly, give them tons of praise and maybe a treat.