 "Nothing is either good or bad, but thinking makes it so." This friendship that you're about to lose doesn't have to be a bad thing. It's a symbol of growth and maturity. It shows the world that you've found your path and it's not one to be shared. That's all. It's not you abandoning another soul or being uncompromising -- it's you doing what you're supposed to do.


Every experience and every relationship has value. However, some people are supposed to be part of our memories, not part of our destiny. And that's fine! It takes all kinds. Be thankful for the experiences you had because they let you grow. They made you the awesome person you are today.
 This friendship was turning you into a person you don't want to become (and yes, friendships have the power to do that). These toxic friendships can be draining and seep into other domains of your life. The only way to get around this is to slowly immerse yourself into a different group. A different group that makes you feel good.


If you don't have a Plan B, you will. You may have to find one. It'll be scary, but if it's too easy, it's not worth it. Join a club, take a class, pick up a new hobby. Allow yourself to become part of a bigger world. The bigger your world gets, the less influence this person has over you.
 When you're friends with a sponge, normally the sponge doesn't know they're being sponge-y. The last thing you want to do is lash out in a fit of anger -- after all, you were friends at a point for a reason. Some part of you cares for this person. When they ask you what's going on, be truthful, but kind.


If you're at a loss as to what to say, just tell them what you've been telling yourself. "We're on different paths and that's fine. I still value you as a person, but our friendship is based on the person I was, not the person I am. Your behavior brings me down and I don't want to be at the receiving end of it anymore." They'll have questions, and might get angry, but at the end of the day, you're better off regardless of their reaction.
 Sometimes when people get something taken away from them, they want it even more. This friend may start calling even more than they did before. Even if they've sworn they've seen the error of their ways, don't buy it just yet. You need some time to analyze you, to step back and see the situation as it actually is.


And so do they. If they want to talk to about it, tell them that. You both need some time apart from each other to see what it's like without the other. You need to step a bit back from the painting to see what the picture really is. If a few weeks pass and you find yourself wanting to see them and they feel similarly, take it slow. Once in a while, people do learn things.
 It'd be terrible to abandon one friend just to replace them with their doppelganger. So when you go about finding this new group of amazing counterparts, what do you want them to be like? What do you value in others?


This may take a bit of self-analysis, too. What was it you liked about your other friend that put you two together? What do you need from them that they couldn't provide you? What are three things any friend of yours needs to be?

, This friend you had is a person all their own. You can't change them, try as you might. And that's fine. They are who they are and you are who you are. No crimes there. But since it can't be changed, no use spending energy on it. Focus on what can change to make you happier.


Your environment, for one, can change. Your outlook can change. Your needs can change. Focus on just one of these aspects as you start growing. Getting more in tune with you will make the right path a lot clearer.

