 You won’t be able to get over your ex fully if you keep talking to them. Although you don’t have to worry about running into them in person, looking at their social media pages or holding onto mementos of the relationship can still interfere with the healing process. Delete your ex’s number from your phone and block or unfollow them on social media.Now isn’t the time to try to be friends with your ex. You may be able to reconnect eventually, but for the time being, give yourself at least six months to heal and move on.
 Sticking to a familiar schedule can help you feel as normal as possible, which will lead to a faster recovery. Instead of wallowing in sadness and adopting unhealthy habits, do your best to keep your sleep hours regular, stay productive at school or work, and maintain any other habits you had before the breakup.If part of your regular routine was talking to your ex at a certain time, you'll want to find something to do instead. Try calling a close friend or making that the time when you go practice your pottery skills.
 Eating well and working out can help you feel better physically and emotionally. Instead of slacking off at the gym and indulging in treats, take the opportunity to care for your health by choosing nutritious foods and challenging yourself during your workouts.Mood swings are exactly what you don’t need after a breakup, so avoid sugary foods. Instead, choose whole grains, vegetables, and lean sources of protein, which will help keep your mood and energy levels stable.
Cardiovascular exercise, such as running or swimming, is a great mood booster because it prompts the body’s release of “feel-good” chemicals called endorphins.
 After your breakup, you’ll probably find yourself with more free time than you had before. Put that time to good use – sign up for a class, join a club, or start working on a project you’ve always wanted to do.


Using your time productively will help you avoid moping about your ex, and new activities are a great way to make new friends., Spending time with friends is a tried-and-true way to get over an ex. Seek out new friendship with interesting people and strengthen existing bonds. Make plans to get together with people in your social circle and play a game, see a movie, or visit a new restaurant.


Reach out to one of your friends and say, "I've been thinking about signing up for a Zumba class. It looks like such fun! You want to join me?"If you want to expand your group of friends, pursuing new hobbies is a good way to meet people with similar interests as you. Look on sites like Meetup.com, which brings people together based on various interests, like hiking, cooking, or learning a new language.
 You don’t have to let a past relationship haunt you forever, but you can use the experience to make your next relationship better. After you’ve had some time to process the breakup, think about what it taught you, whether positive or negative. You’ll be more likely to repeat what worked, and less likely to make the same mistakes again.You might find that the relationship itself was the problem, or you may realize that long distance relationships don't work for you. Or, you might even become clearer about what kinds of "ground rules" you would need in a relationship that had some long distance components in it.
For instance, if you realized that you got hot and heavy too soon in this relationship, be sure to pace yourself next time around. You might even set up rules for taking things slow, such as not meeting the family until a certain time or waiting to become physically intimate.

