 Several medications, such as antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs, are available to treat liver disease in older dogs. After diagnosing which type of liver disease your dog has, your vet will talk with you about which medications will work best in your dog.
 Certain liver cells are responsible for breaking down and eliminating substances like bacteria and toxins. With liver disease, these cells stop working properly, causing bacteria to eventually buildup in the blood stream. This can lead to a serious bacterial infection called septicemia.Your vet will prescribe an antibiotic to treat this infection.
 Liver disease can cause a buildup of fluid in the abdomen, a condition called ascites. If your dog has ascites, your vet will prescribe a diuretic. The diuretic will cause your dog to urinate more frequently, removing the excess fluid.Severe ascites can enlarge a dog’s abdomen so much that breathing becomes difficult.If your dog has ascites, do not leave it untreated.
To prevent accidents in the house, be ready to take your dog outside more frequently so it can urinate.
 If your older dog has chronic hepatitis, your vet will prescribe a medication, such as a steroid, that will decrease inflammation and help protect the liver.Steroids can have several negative side effects, such as GI ulcers, intestinal bleeding, and fluid retention.Your vet will need to carefully monitor your dog if it is on steroids.
 Liver disease can upset a dog’s digestive system. Sometimes, the disease can cause stomach ulcers. If your older dog has a stomach ulcer, your vet will prescribe an anti-ulcer medication. This medication will help your dog feel better and want to eat.Because steroids can also cause GI ulcers, your vet will recommend an anti-ulcer medication if your dog is on steroids.Liver disease can cause nausea or vomiting.If your dog has either of these symptoms, your vet will prescribe anti-nausea or anti-vomiting medications., Liver disease can cause copper to build up in the liver’s cells. This extra copper causes liver inflammation and scarring. If your older dog has chronic hepatitis, your vet will prescribe zinc for your dog. Zinc will help prevent copper from building up in your dog’s liver.