 Coordination of benefits rules make it easier to determine which of your health insurance plans is the primary plan. These rules apply only if both of your health insurance policies include a coordination of benefits provision.A uniform provision has been adopted by almost all group health insurance providers, and applies to policies purchased by employers or unions for their employees or members.
Under a coordination of benefits provision, the plan designated as primary pays its full benefits, and a secondary plan will cover anything left over, up to 100 percent of your healthcare costs.
If both of your plans include a coordination of benefits provision, you can use these rules to determine which plan is your primary plan.
 Generally, if only one of the plans under which you're covered as a dependent covers an active employee, that plan is your primary plan. Any plan that covers an inactive employee would be your secondary plan.An example of an inactive employee plan would be one that covered a retired employee.
This portion of the coordination of benefits rule only works if only one of your plans covers an active employee.
 If both plans on which you're listed as a dependent cover active employees, your primary plan is the one that covered you first. Typically this is the effective date of the policy.The important date is the first date that you were covered under the policy. If you were listed as a dependent from the date the policy began, you want to look at the policy's effective date.
In some cases, however, the date you'll use will be the date you were added to the policy as a dependent.
You'll need to find the appropriate date for each policy and then compare the two. The one that covered you first is your primary plan.
 Continuation of benefits laws allow employees to continue their health insurance for a period of time after the termination of their employment. These plans always are secondary to non-COBRA plans, regardless of any other factors.The other plan may not have this rule. This is why it's important to read the coordination of benefits provision of both policies carefully.
If the other (non-COBRA) plan doesn't have this rule, the rule is ignored and regular coordination of benefits rules apply.

