 A covenant of title is an assurance, made by the seller of a piece of property in the deed document, that the seller has the ability to sell the land they are trying to sell., Before you purchase a home or a piece of land, you should ask the seller to transfer a specific type of deed. Different types of deeds offer different levels of title assurances. Ask for the type of deed that will provide you with the protection you are looking for. However, the more protection you ask for, the more you may have to pay for the property. The different type of deeds include:



The Warranty Deed. This deed offers the most protection to a buyer because the seller promises to you that they legally own the property and that there are no encumbrances on the property.A warranty deed is also a guarantee of title, which means the seller may be held liable if you find out after the purchase that the title is defective.For example, if you buy a parcel of land and you are given a warranty deed, the seller will be liable and have to pay damages if it turns out they did not have the right to sell the land, or if there turns out to be an encumbrance on the land.

The Quitclaim Deed. This deed offers no protection for you. If the seller transfers property to you with a quitclaim deed, the seller is making no warranties about the title and is transferring only as much interest in the property as the seller actually has.For example, if you buy a parcel of land and you are given a quitclaim deed, the seller will not be responsible for any shortcomings. If it turns out that the seller did not actually own the land, you may lose the property to the rightful owners. If it turns out there is a lien on the land, you will be responsible for that lien instead of the seller.
 If you receive a warranty deed, not only is the seller guaranteeing title, they are also making a number of inherent promises as well. When title is passed through a warranty deed, the seller is promising the following things, whether the deed explicitly says so or not:



Covenant of seisin. Here, seller is promising they own the estate they are claiming to transfer to you.Covenant of right to convey. Here, seller promises they have the right to transfer the property to you, and there are no restraints on their ability to sell.Covenant against encumbrances. This promises that there are no encumbrances on the land.Covenant for quiet enjoyment. Here, seller is promising that you will not be disturbed by any third party claims of title.Covenant of warranty. This promises that seller will defend you if there are any third party claims to title.Covenant for further assurances. Finally, the seller is promising to perform whatever may be necessary to perfect your title if it turns out to be imperfect.