 Cut a small heart out of a piece of construction paper. Write something like, "You make me glow" using colorful letters on the heart. Then, use a hole puncher to punch a hole on either end of the heart. Feed a small glow stick through the hole.Make each valentine unique to each child. For example, you can use construction paper in each child's favorite color. You can also decorate the cards with stickers that reflect your children's tastes. If your daughter likes cats, for example, decorate her card with cat stickers.
 There are many pens and pencils you can buy online or at a supermarket that are Valentine's Day themed. You can get pencils that are in colors like red and pink or are decorated with hearts. You can then place these pencils in cards.Use construction paper to cut out the shape of a heart. Write something on the heart like, "I think you're just write!"
Then, use a hole puncher to punch a hole on either end of the paper heart. Feed the pencil through the hole.
 You can glue a pet rock to a blank card or piece of craft or construction paper. Write something on the paper like, "I think you rock."To make a pet rock, glue a set of googly eyes onto the rock, which you can get at any craft store. Then, use a marker to draw on a smiley face.
If you want, you can add other embellishments. For example, glue pipe cleaners onto your pet rock to give it hair.
 A yo-yo can be a fun toy that can entertain a child for hours. Instead of handing out candy, give your child a yo-yo. You can cut out a small square of construction paper and write something like "I like the way you roll" on it. Then, tape the card to the yo-yo and give it to your child., Cut out a small square of construction paper and write a phrase such as "You're the real deal" on it. Then, use decorative wrapping paper to wrap the playing cards. Tape the construction paper onto the wrapped cards when you're done.Use Valentine's Day themed wrapping paper, such as wrapping paper with hearts or images of Cupid on it.

