 Rub the spices into the wings using a mixing bowl or by tossing them in a large freezer bag, then refrigerate them, sealed, for at least an hour. Line them up skin side down on greased sheet pans, and bake them in an oven preheated to 400 degrees F (204 C) for 25 minutes. Flip the wings, turn the oven up to 425 degrees F (218 C), and bake until they’re crispy, or another 20 to 25 minutes.Be sure not to crowd the wings on the sheet pan, or they’ll steam instead of bake.
Prepare your wing sauce while the wings are baking. Bring the ingredients to a simmer in a small sauce pan. When the wings are finished, remove them from the oven, place them in a large mixing bowl, and toss the sauce over them evenly.
 Press the tofu into clean clothes or towels to release moisture, cut it into bite-sized cubes, and fry them on all sides in an oil coated skillet over medium-high heat. Transfer them to a towel-lined plate, then whisk together the tamarind, vinegar, sugar, sambal, and salt to make the dressing. Toss all the other ingredients together along with the tofu and dressing to complete the salad.If you’re serving the salad right away, try making the dressing in the same bowl that you’ll use to assemble the salad. It’ll be easier to evenly cover the ingredients with the dressing, and you’ll have one less bowl to wash.
 Heat oil in a large frying pan or wok, then cook the onions until they’re soft. Add the mushrooms then, after they’ve softened, add the garlic, soy sauce, and sambal and cook for two minutes. Next add the broccoli, cook them for two minutes, then the peppers, and after a couple minutes, finish by adding the zucchini.Be sure to stir constantly to distribute flavors and evenly cook the veggies. When it’s done, serve over your choice of rice or noodles.
When you make a stir fry, it’s important to have all of your ingredients assembled and ready to cook. You won’t have time to walk away from the sizzling pan to grab or slice something.
 Combine 1/2 cup (120 mL) of peeled, seeded, and diced cucumber with a tablespoon of sambal oelek. Chill the mixture in the refrigerator for 4 hours, then mix 1 to 2 tablespoons into your favorite refreshing beverage, like a margarita.To make four margarita servings, mix 1 1/4 cup (300 mL) fresh squeezed lime juice, 1 cup (240 mL) blanco tequila, and 1/3 cup (80 mL) each of orange liqueur and fine grain sugar. You can also boil equal parts sugar and water together to make a simple syrup instead of using fine grain sugar.
For a non-alcoholic beverage, try substituting the tequila with soda water, lime soda, or seltzer.  

