 Exercising, injury or overuse of muscles can often lead to leg cramps.People can get cramps within minutes or up to six hours after working out or any type of physical exertion. If nighttime cramps are an issue, be sure to stretch before bedtime, but make sure your muscles are warmed up.Stretching cold muscles can increase your risk of injury when exercising, and it is not recommended you stretch before you work out. Stretch after you finish your workout, when muscles are warmed up.Try stretches for the legs such as the calf stretch where you stand on a raised platform (like a step) and let your heels hang off the edge. The further you push your heels down, the more intensely you will feel the stretch in your calves.
You can stretch your hamstrings as you do the calf stretch by hinging forward at the hips. Be careful not to round the spine as you bend forward, as this can aggravate and complicate problems when cramping is caused by impingement of the sciatic nerve.
Quadriceps can be stretched by standing up straight, bending one leg backwards and grabbing your ankle. Push your hips forward to stretch your quads more. Repeat on the other side.;
, Bathing in warm water or the use of heating pads is often recommended to relieve the discomfort of leg cramps. Heat may help ease cramping by increasing blood flow to the area and relaxing the muscle.Try soaking in a warm bath and use a heating pad on muscles that feel stiff or tight.For some people, the application of cold can be effective in treating muscle cramps. Experiment with hot and cold and see which provides the most relief for you. Remember to always wrap ice or cold packs in a towel to protect your skin.
 To reduce the chance of leg cramping, avoid standing on hard surfaces for a long period of time or sitting for a long time.Instead, make sure you allow the blood to circulate throughout your limbs by moving and stretching your legs frequently during the day.


The position in which you sleep may contribute to leg cramps at night. Sleeping with your knees bent and your feet pointing downward may cause your legs to cramp. Try keeping your legs straight and placing a pillow under your calves to avoid leg cramps. If you are tall and have difficulty fitting on your mattress, try allowing your feet to hang over the edge instead of tucking your legs., Oftentimes, cramps are a result of pushing yourself harder than your body is used to. Avoid rapidly increasing the intensity or duration of a workout.Instead, train up to it gradually, and always pace yourself.


Signs that you are overtraining your body include tightness in your muscles, joint stiffness, or aches and pains that persist for several days.

