 Capricorns are naturally ambitious, hard-working people. Most will enjoy discussing their professional goals and the progress they've made toward them. Try talking to her about whatever she's doing to get ahead in life — whether this includes a nine-to-five job or personal projects like art, writing, etc. — and don't be surprised if she's ready to talk about these things at great length.


Work may be a topic that you find boring, but don't have to sound like you're asking her robotic questions at a job interview when you talk to her about hers. In fact, with some creativity (and an air of gentle mischief), you can add a little flirty zest to these normally dry questions. Here are just a few examples:

Bland questions: "Where do you work?" "What do you do?" "Do you enjoy that?" "Where do you see yourself in five years?"

Zesty questions: "So, what's your plan for making your first million?" "What's your next step in life?" "Are you more of a Gordon Gekko person or a Lorenzo Anello person?";
, Because they value ambition and determination, most Capricorns respect someone who's worked hard and achieved big successes. However, Capricorns are modest and conservative at heart, so they're unlikely to respond well to extravagant boasting.Instead, try dropping subtle hints about your accomplishments by working them into the conversation naturally. See below for a few examples:



Blunt brags: "You see these shoes? These are real alligator skin." "We should go cruising in my new Bugatti this weekend." "I just won employee of the month at my dad's real estate business for the fifth time in a row!"

Subtle sweet-talking: "I'm hoping to use my signing bonus to do something nice for us." "I only wear this watch on special occasions — I bought it for myself when I got my Master's." "I don't usually do this, but I like to enjoy something nice after things go well at work."

, Capricorns aren't generally people who will shy from a little friendly sparring. Planning dates that involve some degree of competition can lead to great fun and some serious romantic sparks. However, intense, heated competition is a no-no. Too much competition can lead to resentment and, in addition, Capricorns aren't likely to enjoy the embarrassment of losing at a high-stakes game.



Good date ideas: Bowling, cards, mini golf, shooting/archery, arcade games, board games with drinks.

Bad date ideas: Street racing, one-on-one street rules basketball, high-stakes poker.
If you're dominating at your competition, it may be a good idea to let your date win at least once at whatever you're doing to prevent embarrassment. Try not to make it too obvious that you're letting her win — this can be more embarrassing than losing in the first place.
 Most Capricorns are practical people that are likely to appreciate a gift a little more for its value and usefulness than for its symbolic meaning. While a piece of jewelry or a bouquet of some fragrant flowers is almost always a sweet gesture, you'll want some of your gifts to be a little more down-to-earth. Try to get her things she'll get continued, long lasting use and enjoyment out of, rather than one-time thrills.


The ideal practical gift for a Capricorn woman depends on her personal hobbies and interests. For instance, if she enjoys drawing, try getting her a high-quality sketch pad and a set of professional pencils. If she's a natural-born athlete, get her a membership to an exclusive gym with the finest exercise equipment. There's no "right" answer here — it all depends on the woman.
 While Capricorns are unlikely to appreciate gaudy, ostentatious displays of wealth, they are naturally status-conscious and will enjoy sampling the finer things in life every once in a while.To celebrate special occasions (and sometimes "just because"), make an effort to treat your Capricorn lover to a fancy time out.



Good date ideas: Museums, operas, fancy restaurants, film festivals, art shows, weekend getaways, wineries, etc.
Short on cash? It's possible to enjoy the finer things in life on the cheap if you're creative. For instance, try checking a local university's "events" website — it will usually be possible to see traveling speakers, attend book signings, and more for very cheap or even free.

