 Never tell someone's story if that person would not want it told. This is a betrayal of trust.The tendency is to let things slip when you are under pressure, tired, or not thinking clearly. If this happens, own up to it quickly, and apologize. This way, the person won't find out from someone else that you have shared their private information. It also gives you a chance to help minimize any damage you may have caused.
 Loyalty refers to your willingness to protect others and be on their side. This applies both in their presence and, most importantly, in their absence.


Trust becomes solid when a person knows he or she has your loyalty. You can also build trust by putting the interest of another person or your relationship with that person ahead of your own.For example, you can build trust with your co-worker by staying after work to help with a project, even if you will not get credit for the work.
 You can gain the respect and admiration of others by managing your emotions. It is hard to trust someone who's emotions are unpredictable or volatile.


A study of Fortune 500 executives found that those who regulated and appropriately expressed emotions were more likely to gain trust than those who did not.For example, try not to blow up at people when they make small mistakes. This will diminish their trust in you.
If you feel overwhelmed by emotion, be aware of signals you are sending. Try to diminish those signals. Unclench your fists, relax your jaw, and release tension in your muscles.
Focusing on your breathing can help you manage your emotions. Try to focus your attention on the feeling of your breath. You don’t need to think about the breath or try to change it, just experience the sensation. If you notice yourself getting distracted, gently redirect your thoughts back to your breathing.If you learn to manage your emotions, the people in your life will feel that they can predict how you will act. They will view you as emotionally reliable, further deepening trust.
 Some behaviors will seriously erode trust and should be avoided. The following actions will undermine trust:Humiliating or degrading your partner
Isolating yourself from others
Threatening others or physically hurting others
Completely avoid abusive behaviors. If you make the mistake of mistreating others in one of these ways, immediately apologize. Promise to do better, and honor that promise over time.
 Instead of engaging in abusive or aggressive behavior, try to adopt an assertive communication style. This means directly and respectfully expressing your needs while also addressing the needs and opinions of others.Assertive communication involves saying "no" when you don’t want to do something, and also involves managing your emotions.It means sharing your feelings and opinions openly and in a way that does not belittle or bully.
For example, imagine your neighbor is playing music too loudly. An aggressive approach would be to go over to his house and yell: "Turn that racket down or I'm calling the cops, jerk!" An assertive approach would be to knock on his door and calmly say: "Hey, it's getting late, and I need to go to bed soon. Would you please turn your music down a bit?" This lets your neighbor know he's causing a problem without being insulting or threatening.
 If you deceive someone or otherwise break trust, make a promise to change your behavior in the future and commit to doing so. Remember, you must honor this promise consistently over time to regain trust.


A promise alone will only restore trust in the short-term.An apology itself does not have any effect on long-term trust.