 Don’t kill them right away. You want to see whether their trails lead to nests inside or outside the house.;
, A high-resolution photo with a smart phone should work. Email it to your local university extension office.Go to http://www.csrees.usda.gov/Extension/ to find our local extension office. They are wonderful sources for information about food, gardening, flowers, pests and more.
 If the nests are outside, you may be able to avoid using chemical insecticides inside your home.
 Use a vacuum to pick up crumbs and other food sources. Seal off all food, so that your home isn’t attractive to ants., These small white traps are usually shaped like flowers. The ants eat the bait and bring it back to the nest, killing the majority of the ants in the nest.


Try this before moving on to other methods. It may take care of the problem after a week or two.
Move on to other methods if you have pets and children that are in danger of picking up the traps.
Buy Combat or Terro ant traps, which are rated highly.
 Mix 2 tbsp. of dish soap with one pint of water. Pour it in a spray bottle and spray the ants themselves.


This method is a natural way to get rid of ants, but it requires you to have access to the nest and target it directly.






You can also use it to clean up ant trails around the house. Trails created by scout ants have a scent that will lead other ants to food sources.
You can also use a mixture of one part white vinegar to one part water to cover ant trails.
 After the ant nest is gone, you should seal the area where they made the nest.
 Spread it around the cabinets, walls or other places that are being attacked by ants. It creates a barrier that the ants can’t breach and it kills ants by drying out their bodies., Spray it on potential entryways, such as windowsills, doors and cracks in the foundation

, Ants use plants as a bridge to get from outside nests to inside food sources.
 Follow up by spraying cracks in the foundation so that other ants are killed before they get inside.

