 Form 8822 is the Change of Address form for individuals and Form 8822B is for businesses.


Print the correct form, complete it as per the instructions on the form, and mail to the IRS office listed on the form.
Call 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676) to order copies of these forms if you don't want to download them online.Starting January 1, 2014, any person with an employer identification number (EIN) must send in Form 8822-B to the IRS and report any address changes to the responsible party. The responsible party is the principal officer, general partner, grantor, owner or trustor of the business.Form 8822 and 8822-B can be submitted at any time during the year.
 This written letter must include your name (your full, legal name), your old and current addresses, and your Social Security number, Individual Taxpayer Identification Number or Employer Identification Number, depending on your particular situation with the IRS.When mailing a letter or notification to the IRS, it's a good idea to send it through USPS with proper postage and return receipt requested. You will want to know if and when the IRS receives it by getting the recipient's signature
Anyone filing a change of address on behalf of another individual (either by form or letter) must attach a copy of their power of attorney or a Form 2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative. Unauthorized third parties cannot change a taxpayer's address.
 You can inform the IRS in person or by phone of your change in address.


The IRS will need to verify your identity and address, so be prepared to supply your full name, address, and your Social Security number or Individual Taxpayer Identification Number or Employer Identification Number (depending on your situation with the IRS)., You can only use this option if your refund check was returned, meaning that you received a CP31 notice. A CP31 notice is a form that informing you that your refund check has been returned to the IRS because the address was incorrect.Click on "Where's My Refund?" on the IRS website to change your address. You will need your Social Security number, filing status, and the amount of your anticipated refund check.