 SquareCash is affiliated with the Square credit card reader, though you won’t need that device to use the program. Your recipient does not need to create a SquareCash account to receive funds, though they will need to link a debit card.You can use your bank accounts, debit cards, but no credit cards or special credit accounts.Users must download the mobile application before sending money, although you can still send money using the web site.SquareCash has a $250 weekly limit for sending, and a $1000 weekly limit for receiving, for personal accounts. Sending or receiving over those limits will generate an authentication request for your name, date of birth, and last four digits of your SSN.Verifying this information will allow you to increase your sending limit to $2,500 (in most states)., Sign-up is straightforward, requiring only your email or phone number and a security code verification.You can sign up right away on the site, or you can download and use the mobile app.
You can wait to enter your bank account or debit card information until you’ve completed the account creation process.
 To protect your information, SquareCash will send a code to your phone. You will also need to read about SquareCash’s security and privacy policies.Be sure to read these policies carefully, as you’re dealing with your important financial information.
Bookmark or download the security and privacy policies for later reference, in case issues arise with your information.
 In most cases, you’ll be using Cash for “Personal” reasons, such as sending money to friends and family. Other uses will charge a 2.75% fee to the recipient., SquareCash uses only standard, US-issued bank accounts to fund payments, such as Visa, MasterCard, and Discover debit cards. They do not accept credit cards, ATM, PayPal, or prepaid bank cards.You may skip this step for now, if you’re not ready or don’t have it handy.
This information is secure: your recipients will never see your account information.
 Using your email account to send money can save time and help you keep clear records or payments, even if your recipient doesn’t have a SquareCash account.Add the address: cash@square.com in the Cc: field.
Input the dollar amount in the email’s subject line.
You can add a note as a record of payment for yourself and the recipient.
Confirm your CVV on your debit card to complete the payment.
 The final screen may show a response of "Almost Done. Check your inbox for next steps." If so, watch for an email from Square and follow the prompts to complete the process.You'll receive a notification via email or text once the payment is complete.
Any number of people may be added to the To: field.
Users with linked cards will usually see an immediate deposit, but it may take 1-2 business days to appear in the recipient’s bank account., We all make mistakes, whether it be typing your friend’s name incorrectly or sending too much or too little money, so it’s important to double-check your information.


You may still have an opportunity to cancel or retract the transaction if the recipient hasn’t claimed the payment. Simply cancel the payment from the final confirmation email.
If the recipient has already claimed the funds, you can only ask him or her to return the money.