 Taking care of your spouse is likely difficult, and so is taking on the rest of the responsibilities of your household. Since your spouse is sick, these types of responsibilities may become yours by default. But you are allowed to have limits to what you do, and you should share them with your partner.For instance, you can set the rule that you will take care of everything, but only if your partner seeks treatment, takes medication, and does what they need to do to get better. Check in with them regularly to make sure they are following through with their treatment plan and how they feel about it.
Although your spouse is sick, you still deserve the right to take care of yourself and protect your needs as well.
 You can’t take care of others unless you also take care of yourself. Caretakers often put everyone else’s needs above their own, which means they are often neglected. You must make taking care of yourself a priority, or you won’t be able to provide the care your spouse and family need.


This means you must take time to exercise, get enough sleep, and eat properly. You can’t take on these big responsibilities unless you are healthy yourself.Make time to go out with friends or engage in hobbies on your own.
 Your spouse’s mental illness and the effects of them are not your fault. Knowing this is important for your well-being. Any anxiety or depression your spouse feels isn’t related to you — it has to do with their mental illness.


Realizing this can prevent you from blaming yourself. For instance, if your spouse is suicidal, you’ll need to understand that you’re not the cause for those dark feelings; it’s the disease taking over. Knowing this can prevent you from experiencing depression or anxiety yourself., There are times when you’re going to feel frustrated, angry, helpless, and overwhelmed. It’s ok to tell your spouse when you feel this way. Doing so allows them to understand what you’re going through, and can provide the opportunity for you to become closer and work together as a team.


For example, you could say, “I love you and I want to take care of you while this is happening. However, when you close me out and treat me coldly, I feel helpless and angry. How can we work through this together?” Proposing that you want to get through it with each other lets your spouse know that they are not alone and that you want to help. If you are having difficulty processing your feelings, talk to a trusted friend or family member or a therapist, who can help you understand what you're feeling and what you need from your spouse.
 Caring for anyone is stressful and taxing, but especially when it’s your spouse with a mental illness. As such, it’s natural — and important — for you to get a break. Having some alone time or just spending a few hours with a friend can make you feel refreshed and, ultimately, provide better care.


If you can’t leave your spouse alone, enlist the help of a family member or friend to spend time with them so that you can leave. Your spouse may feel anxious about you leaving at first, but you can help them become more secure by initially leaving for small amounts at a time, and then gradually increasing the length.