 Place 1 cup (227 g) of softened butter into a large mixing bowl and beat it with an electric mixer until it's light and fluffy. This should take about a minute. Beat in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract, 1/3 cup (35 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons of milk, and 1 cup (125 g) of the powdered sugar on low speed. Keep beating the frosting on low and add more powdered sugar until the frosting is thick enough to spread on your cupcakes.You may need a total of 2 to 3 1/2 cups (250 to 437 g) of powdered sugar.
 Unwrap 24 Hershey's Kisses and set them aside. Place 1 cup (175 g) of white chocolate chips in a small saucepan or microwave-safe bowl. You can heat the chips on low and stir constantly until they melt. Or you can microwave the chocolate chips to melt the chocolate. Microwave the chips for 30 seconds at a time and stir frequently until they're melted.You'll be dividing the melted white chocolate for decorating the turkey faces.
 Remove 1/4 cup of the melted white chocolate and place it in a small bowl. Stir in enough orange gel food dye to get a tan colored chocolate. Take a Hershey's Kiss and dip the pointy end into the tan-colored chocolate. This will make the turkey beak. Repeat this for all of the Hershey's Kisses. Let the turkey beaks cool and harden.Since orange gel food dyes vary in intensity, you may need to gradually add more gel until you get the color you like. Avoid using liquid food coloring because it will make the chocolate separate.
 Open a 10.8 ounce (306 g) package of mini-chocolate M&Ms and divide the M&Ms by color. Take a red mini-M&M and carefully dip one side of it in the tan-colored chocolate. Press it to the base of the turkey beak to make the wattle (red part) of the turkey. Dip blue or brown mini-M&Ms into the remaining melted white chocolate and place them above the beak so that the white chocolate spreads behind the mini-M&Ms. This will make the eyes.If you want the whites of the eyes to be more noticeable, you can put the melted white chocolate into a pastry bag with a small tip. Pipe little dots of white chocolate and set the mini-M&Ms on them. Let them cool before sticking them to the Hershey's Kiss with more melted chocolate or frosting., Arrange 24 baked and completely cooled cupcakes on your work surface. Use an offset spatula or a knife to spread an even layer of frosting over each cupcake. This will make a base for you to pipe more frosting for the turkey.You can use any flavor of cupcake. Try vanilla, chocolate, yellow, red velvet, or spice.
 Open one 17.25-ounce (489 g) bag of Reese's Pieces and divide them by color. Insert a row of brown candies along the edge of the frosting so that half of the cupcake has candy feathers. Make a row of yellow candy feathers by inserting a line of them below the brown ones. Make a smaller final row of orange feathers so that you're almost at the middle of the cupcake. Set one decorated Hershey's Kiss face in the middle.You could switch the candy colors for a variety or use M&Ms instead for different colors.

