 If you are constructing an altar for a specific purpose or holiday, you might want to look up details of that tradition online before you begin. Searching for photos and examples of similar altars is a great way to get started. Many people mix and match components of different religions, spiritual traditions, and cultures that have personal importance to them.


Day of the Dead altars typically include pictures of saints and deceased relatives; candles; flowers, food, and drink.You can make a similar altar in homage of a deceased friend or relative, using food and toys that person would enjoy.
St. Joseph's Day Altars are constructed in many places on March 19th. They are usually constructed in three tiers covered with food and decorations, surrounding a statue of St. Joseph.You can construct a similar altar to celebrate another holiday. After honoring the saint or holiday, eat the food with friends and family or give it to people in need of food.;
, If you plan to quietly meditate or pray, select a quiet location out of the way of passers-by. If you wish to keep your altar as a central focus point or use it for group ceremonies, place it in a larger room.


If space is limited and you travel a lot, consider making a portable altar. This can be a collapsible table, a tray, or even a cloth that can be packed in a suitcase along with a few altar decorations., Your altar may be located anywhere you choose for example it could be a stack of stones in your garden, on shelves on a glass-protected cabinet, on a cloth on the floor, on your kitchen table, in a designated room, or any place that you feel it should be. If you plan to use the altar for rituals that require table space, for instance grinding herbs or burning incense, make sure it is large and flat enough for that purpose.
 Also, you may choose to place a cushion or chair in front of your altar for meditation or prayer. If there will be children or people shorter than you using the altar, consider whether you need to add an additional lower surface that everyone can reach.
 You may wish to burn incense or ritually burn sage to prepare the space. Alternatively, recite a prayer or speak without preparation, asking the deity or power you worship to bless the altar.

