 Laughing alleviates a stressful situation, releases endorphins to invigorate your mind and body, and improves your immune system.Laughter really is the best medicine.Try some laughter therapy yourself. Watch “Patch Adams” or a funny movie that you love, or go to a comedy club with friends.Look into laughter yoga. People all over the world are being trained to practice laughter yoga to heal the mind, body, and spirit., Studies have shown that putting feelings into words helps you deal with your emotions, halting these negative feelings. Putting your thoughts on paper can provide an emotional release and makes our emotional pain less intense.Keep a private journal, write letters that you never send, or blog about the tough times.
 Stay in touch with family and friends who will be there for you during the tough times. Because it often takes bravery to admit you have a problem, part of being resilient is being able to ask for and accept help.Commit to social activities as a way of keeping connected. Find a meet-up or schedule a regular crochet chat with your friends, for example.
 Science has shown that certain foods can affect your brain and your mood. From chocolate to the Omega-3 fatty acids found in fish, your diet affects your health, so be sure to eat right in preparation of facing life’s challenges.One of the most widely recommended dietary plans to follow is the DASH diet. The DASH diet, named for Dietary Approaches to Stopping Hypertension, aims to control salt and keep blood pressure at a healthy level, especially important because hypertension (or high blood pressure) has been called ‘the silent killer.’ By keeping your blood pressure under control naturally, you will be in a healthy state to deal with life’s struggles., Staying active can reduce anxiety, stress, and irritable feelings.Doctors recommend getting at least 30 minutes of heart-pumping exercise a day, but you can even break that amount up into 10 minutes segments. Have a quick jog, climb some stairs, play a quick game of tennis, or go for a bike ride with the kids. Your heart and your mood will thank you.