 Landslides can occur quite suddenly, so you need to be ready to take action at a moment’s notice. Many landslide-related deaths occur while people are asleep.If you are with other people, work together to keep one another awake.
Watch and listen for warning signs of nearby landslide, including sounds of falling debris or changes in water clarity or flow. It is imperative that you familiarize yourself with landslide warning signs, especially if you live in an at-risk area. Keep reading to learn more about landslide warning signs in detail.;
, Using a battery-powered radio or television, listen to your local news station for updates about the weather. Be alert to warnings about intense rainfall, which can trigger landslides., Sometimes, your local law enforcement will order an evacuation, but other times, they may not be aware of a landslide until it is too late. If you think a landslide is imminent and it is safe to leave, evacuate immediately. Contact your neighbors and your local police or fire department to warn them of danger.Be sure to bring your animals with you.
Don't forget to bring your emergency kit, which contains essential items like food, water, and medication. You'll learn how to make one in a later section.
 If you need to drive to leave a dangerous area, proceed with caution. Beware of flooded roads, collapsed pavement, fallen debris, and washed-out bridges. DO NOT cross flooded streams--instead, turn around and try to find an alternative route., If it isn’t safe to leave the building, but you believe a landslide is imminent, move to the building’s second story, if possible., Landslides move very quickly--much faster than you can run or walk. Trying to outrun a landslide is futile. Instead, remove yourself as fast as you can from the path of the landslide.Before crossing any bridges, always look upstream to see if a landslide is approaching. If this is the case, do not cross the bridge and move out of the path of the landslide.
 These areas are especially dangerous when landslides are imminent, so stay away., In some cases, you may not be able escape. If you are trapped in the path of a landslide, curl up into a tight ball and protect your head.