 Unlike the Cornell Method of note taking, the three column method is designed specifically for use in math classes. You will use each column for different kinds of content in order to better organize your notes.Draw two lines from the top of the lined section of the page to the bottom with a ruler, diving the page into three sections.
You may want to use a marker or different colored ink when drawing your dividing lines in order to help them stand out.
 You will need to write information at the top of each page to make it easier to locate the sections you are looking for and organize the material. Use the area at the top of the page to write the following information for future reference:Course Title
Topic
Page number (if there is a coinciding page in your text book)

, The left hand column of your notes should be reserved only for main points that you can associate with content in the following two columns. Keep the notes you take in the left hand column brief. Think of it as subject headers.Notes in the left hand column should be short and provide a title of sorts for information you’ll be writing in other columns.
You may want to record formulas in the left column that coincide with ones you use when writing problems in the middle column.
 Use the middle portion of the page only to copy or work on math problems. When copying math problems off of the board, make sure to write down each step your teacher uses, so you can go back and model your work after it in the future. When doing the problems yourself, ensure you don’t omit steps you complete in your head, so you can refer to it again if you forget how in the future.Mark math problems you are unsure of with a question mark, then ask your teacher or a friend with help with them during or after class.
Make sure to align your work with the appropriate title or main points in the left hand column.
 The remaining column will be used to take down notes that explain steps, or help you to better understand the topics and problems covered in the other two columns. Use your own words to describe what you did to complete a problem.The right hand column can be used to write down anything you feel you need to remember.
Try to keep the information in each column aligned with the corresponding material in the other columns.

