 This includes your product, how you will get your materials and pay for them, where you will sell your product, how you will brand it, your shipping plans, and of course how you will take payment.


If you show your parents that you've thought out every aspect of your business and have planned for everything, they'll be more likely to support you in your venture. They will probably have some good Ideas to help you too.
If you're selling on-line, you will NEED your parents support. They'll have to either set you up to take payments, or allow you to take payment through their account. Think about it, how will you cash a check or take a credit card if you're too young? You need your parents for this.
If your parents disagree, try to find a compromise. Maybe only work on your business after your homework and chores are done during the week. Use your weekends to do everything you weren't able to get done during the week for your business.
Let your parents know that you understand that running your business will cut into your social life and playing video games and that you're willing to let that happen, within reason. Your parents will want you to do other fun things and enjoy being a kid, so be prepared to show them how you will balance out your activities.
Maybe you can make a deal to earn the right to start your business by promising to show them you can act mature in every aspect of your life, and improve your grades in every subject. Sure, this means you can't start selling right away, but if you're completely sure that you're going to take your business seriously you can use this time to do everything that needs to be done to start your business. Like use your allowance to buy materials and a postage scale. You can get a postage scale for about $10. As you buy your materials, you should be making product so you start out with a well stocked store. Concentrate on making product first, but slowly set aside the money you'll need for the postage scale so you're ready to take off as soon as you get permission. This will show your parents that you're really serious.
 There are many options.


Search Google for free site hosting services. Evaluate each option by reading their terms of use, and learning about all the services they offer. For a stand alone website, you will need the freedom to take payments and do SEO (Search Engine Optimization) so you're found in search.
Check into selling on an established high traffic platform, like eBay or Etsy. They already have a lot of customers on their sites and they make selling easier since you don't need to make a website or do any SEO. They also keep business records for you, so you can go in any time and look at what items sell and what doesn't. Then base your future products on those market trends. Simple.
 Write down everything you spend for your business, all materials, your shipping costs, and how much you sell. Compare your expenses to your income to make sure you're making a profit.



No one wants to hear music, don't use it. Remember, that song you like so much will really bother a potential customer if they go to your website when they're at work. They will immediately click away to stop the music and you just lost a sale. You don't want that.
Use a subtle background. You want your products to catch your customers eye, not the background.
Never use anything distracting, like animated gifs or unnecessary flash. Remember, keep focused on your product. You need to look professional if you want people to hand over their hard earned money.
Make sure you have a contacts page, an about page, and a policy page. Your policies will tell customers how you ship and when, what your return policy is if any, and if you take custom orders. For example, if you're making friendship bracelets, tell people you'll make them any color they want or in a different style.
Once your business starts taking off, maybe you can order inexpensive business cards from a site like Vista print and use your logo. Include a card in every order you send so they can remember where they got that great item when it comes time for them to shop for a gift. Of course you can make your own business cards, but make sure they look professional and are cut straight. If you don't have a paper cutter for this, have someone take you to a Kinko's where you can use theirs for free. Before printing out a lot of cards, print out one sample page to show your parents. They will tell you if your cards look professional or if you need to make changes.

