 Havanese are not high energy dogs, but they do require some play time each day to stay healthy. These dogs are known for their clown-like antics and they love attention, so they can be quite fun to watch.Make sure that you spend some time playing with your Havanese every day.


Try different toys and games to see what your Havanese likes best. For example, your Havanese might like to play tug-o-war or she might prefer fetch. She might like squeaky toys or she might prefer a plain bouncy ball.
 Potty training a dog is a lot of work, but it is essential for preventing messes in your home. To teach your Havanese how to go potty outside, you will need to maintain a regular toileting schedule, praise your dog for going outside, and know how to react when an accident happens.Take her outside once every few hours and take her to the same spot every time.
Praise your Havanese when she goes potty outside.
Never yell at your Havanese or hit her for going potty in the house. If she has an accident, just clean up the mess right away. Otherwise, she may try to use the same spot again.
If you notice that your Havanese is about to go potty in the house, then clap your hands loudly to get her attention. Then pick her up and take her to her potty spot.
 Crate training will help with house training, help keep your dog away from furniture, when you have to leave, and give your Havanese a calm place to retreat to if she feels stressed.Keep in mind that a crate is like a dog’s den. It should never be used as a punishment for your Havanese.
If you decide to crate train your Havanese, then you will need a crate that is large enough for your dog to stand up, lay down, and turn around in. It should not be any larger than this.
 Havanese are smart dogs and they are easy to train. Some Havanese dogs have even performed in circuses. Teaching your Havanese some basic commands is also a good way for you to bond with her.


Start with some simple commands, such as stay, sit, heel, lay down, and shake. If your Havanese masters these commands, then you can move onto something more advanced.
Always use praise and rewards to motivate your Havanese. Never try to teach your Havanese a command by hitting or threatening her.
 Havanese are excellent family dogs, but it is still a good idea to socialize your Havanese to make sure that she will be okay will all kind of people and situations. You may even want to consider enrolling your Havanese in a puppy socialization course after her first round of vaccinations. Be sure to expose your Havanese to:


children and babies
people of different genders, races, and sizes
other dogs and cats
people in hats, wearing coats, holding umbrellas, etc.
loud noises and crowded places
cars, bikes, skateboards, etc.

