 Do you play any sports? Music? Art? Try to cut down to three or four hours a week.;
, Early Saturdays and Sundays, study even if you do not have a test coming soon. Still review your recent topics. Then, in the afternoon, you can go out and have fun.
 Even do your homework in the car.
 Don't watch too much TV, and never get too caught up in your phone to the point of leaving the task at hand. A good way to make sure that this doesn't happen, is to turn your phone all the way off when you are studying or doing homework.
 Do the same each morning.
 Don't ever starve yourself, Don't take drugs or drink alcohol so you will be able to keep yourself focused.
 If you do not feel comfortable with tutors, then go to the book store and purchase some SAT preparation booklets.
 Take notes on any videos you watch.
 Just memorizing isn't going to help. Use flashcards, foldables, type up worksheets, type up new study guides, and look at what you are learning in a big picture. This might sound strange but read the textbook slower out loud.
 Don't talk to your friends when you are supposed to be paying attention.
 When you get a worksheet, don't just place it on top of your folder. Slide it in the pocket and don't forget it.
 You might have gotten a 100 on it but points would be taken off.
 After you have finished your regular assignments, complete all available extra credit.
 If you like the material, it is a cinch to engage and is ever-so-easy to learn. Don´t think of chemistry in the negative as, "It´s so stupid.-- I´ll never need it.", rather make ultra-positive statements like "It will explain how the world works and allow me to make what I want of this world."

, Try to understand principles and methods and put your learnings in a larger context.
 If you have problems in a special subject, search for relevant material on the web. There you´ll find a lot of information.-- Some of it will stick with you and your understanding will grow. The extra knowledge will sometimes impress your teacher and lead to better grades. It may also be used when writing a paper or during class discussions.

