 You can customize your existing bio information by tapping Edit Profile while on your account page. A professional Instagram page will include the following:


A link to your website (or a separate social media account on which you are active).
A description of the content you're trying to provide.
A memorable name that adequately sums up your content.;
, You can do this from the Linked Accounts section of the Settings menu in the Instagram app. Linking your existing accounts will spread your content across other platforms, thereby increasing the amount of views that your profile gets.
 If you don't have a general purpose to your content, both you and your followers will quickly become confused and/or distracted. While you should feel free to come up with your own theme, some easy themes include:


Cooking
Outdoor pursuits
Urban exploration
Fitness

, Ideally, you'll post at least once a day, every day of the week. You can keep your audience engaged by doing the following:Varying your content (but not your theme)
Posting dynamic content (e.g., Boomerang media or videos)
Posting at around 5:00 PM (or 2:00 AM) EST

, Following other users and liking/commenting on their posts is an easy way to garner a few followers here and there, and you'll likely build relationships in the process.
 After you gain a fair amount of followers, some of them will likely have requests. If you listen to their feedback and deem it appropriate for your account, consider incorporating their suggestions into your content production--the happier your followers are, the more they'll want to stay with your account.
 Tags make your content searchable by people who are looking for those specific tags.


Tagging is also a great way to extend your outreach to the Instagram community.
 Ideally, you'll want to add 10 to 20 of these tags to your photos. Doing so will increase your content's visibility, thereby garnering you followers.


Instagram tends to look down on misleading tagging, so you can't simply add irrelevant popular tags to your content.
 Since you can't add false tags to your content, curate content that matches those tags.


For example, if "#love" is currently trending, you might take a picture that matches your content theme and add "#love" to the description.
 You can do this from the upload screen after taking a photo, or you can choose to edit your existing photos after uploading them.


Tags should pertain to your photos, but they should also work with your theme. Keep your tags focused.

