 To protect your acrylic nails, wear gloves while doing any household chores (e.g. washing dishes, cleaning countertops). Choose a glove size slightly larger than your hands to accommodate your acrylic nails. If you have a latex allergy and cannot wear regular rubber gloves, opt for vinyl or nitrile gloves instead., Make sure that your nails stay clean by carrying a small nail brush with you during the day. Remove any food, dirt, or other debris that might get stuck under your nails right away to avoid buildup. Before washing your hands (e.g. before eating), take the opportunity to give your nails a quick brush to clean away any small particles under your nails., Be sure to wash your hands frequently during the day to keep your acrylic nails clean. Use an antibacterial soap to remove germs that can build up and cause the growth of fungus under your nails. Dry nails thoroughly after washing your hands.
 To keep your acrylic nails looking clean and healthy, keep them properly moisturized. Lotions and oils can help add flexibility to acrylic nails to avoid breakage or damage. Some good moisturizer options include:Lotion with vitamin E
Rapeseed oil
Jojoba oil
Coconut oil

, To keep nails looking clean, apply a clear top coat every two to three days. The top coat will prevent chips and cracks in your nails, and keep them looking fresh. Purchase topcoat at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store.
 To keep your acrylic nails healthy, avoid leaving them on for more than three months at a time. Over a prolonged period, bacteria may accumulate under nails and allow for the growth of fungus. Replace your nails regularly and give your natural nails at least a few days to recuperate in between., When you are at the salon getting acrylic nails put on, make an appointment for refills ahead of time so you don’t forget. If you apply your own acrylic nails at home, write a note on your calendar or set an alarm on your phone to alert you in two weeks time that it is time to refill them.