 If you don't have any idea of what you want, seriously question your purpose in heading out into the crowds. Without a plan, it will be tempting to spend money you don't necessarily have on items you don't necessarily need and the experience will be fraught with exhaustion, impulse buying, and possibly even guilt. It is a lot better to have a plan in mind, or else you could be using this day more constructively to take a rest or see a movie!


If you're shopping for gifts, write a list of all the people you're planning on buying gifts for. This way, you can keep track of who receives what, creating an organized method for your shopping and helps you to avoid duplicating gifts or missing out on anyone. Decide which person is the recipient of which item.
If you're buying things for yourself or for the household, again write a list. If you're after clothes, specify what types of clothes rather than thinking "Oh anything that looks reasonably priced". If you want a pair of jeans, new pajamas and a stack of new socks, write these things down. Anything else is peripheral. Same goes for household items: avoid wandering along in the hope of adding "stuff" to your kitchen or other areas of the house. Think about what is actually missing, broken, or outdated that could do with adding or upgrading to your household rather than buying gadgets you're not even sure what to do with!

Plan your budget. If things are tight, a budget is essential. Even if they're not tight, a budget will help to rein in impulse buys and can curb the temptation to buy things just because you think someone else "might like it". Decide how much money you have spare, and stick to that amount.;
, Not only is the budget and list important, but so are the methods you plan to adopt when going in for the bargain. Timing is everything with limited bargains, so the first thing to keep in mind is hour at which you intend to turn up. The earlier, the better, if you have your eye on items that you know will sell out fast. If you're super keen, you might like to camp out - read How to Camp Out for Black Friday for more details on how to do this.


Find your bargains. Collect all newspaper ads, circulars, and coupon packets mentioning Black Friday discounts. Know what is on sale, who is selling it, and during what period those items are on sale – some stores have Black Friday sales going on all day, but others keep them going for only a few hours.
Develop a plan of attack by drawing up a map of places to visit in a particular order. It is good to know what stores you need to hit first, preferably the one with the most important items or gifts on your list. Be sure to clearly mark those stores having sales on only at certain times, along with the time marked clearly.
Organize your transportation. Remember that the parking lots will often be congested and parking rage can start early on. Are there other solutions than taking the car? Perhaps you can be dropped off and picked up later. Or take public transportation? Or stay with a friend who lives near the stores, and ferry your purchases back there before returning for more shopping?

, It's a good idea to think about what alternative items you might substitute for items you're seeking that have already sold out. The chances that you won't always get the items you've planned to buy are fairly high, especially with popular items. Look through the catalogs for alternate, and less popular, items, including gift alternatives if you're gift shopping.
 While it's important not to be carrying too much, things you will probably benefit from include: a watch so that you know the time, a cell phone to keep in touch with family members and friends also hitting the shops, and bags to carry your purchases in. Even if the stores provide bags, it is a good idea to bring along your own, stronger bags, especially if you plan on carrying the purchases around for a bit before putting them in the car or elsewhere.


Be sure to bring along your money! Do a double check before leaving the house to ensure that you have the relevant cards, cash, and vouchers you want to bring along.
Check that you have your discount coupons and specials catalogs.
Most importantly of all, be sure to bring along your list and a pen or pencil. Find a safe and easy place to keep it so that you can pull it out frequently to follow it and check things off.
 Plan meals and snacks into your shopping expedition. It can be too easy to forget food amid the rush for bargains but not eating for energy will leave you feeling tired and irritable, and more liable to blowing up at your fellow customers as they snatch the last limited bargain from under your nose.


Visit your favorite food spots to fill up on water, juices, and healthy snacks such as salads, sandwiches and rolls, steamed vegetables and roasted meats. Given that this is the day after Thanksgiving, go easy on the fast foods and try to avoid them if you can.
Fatty and sugary foods will cause you to feel a temporary high and then a big crash, which will spoil your shopping experience.
 Rushing around all the time will wear out even the most ardent shopper. As well as ensuring you're eating properly during the day out, be sure to factor in some breaks for a breather and to regain your sense of humor so that you avoid Black Friday turning into Black Mood Friday!


Read How to stay peaceful when mall shopping for more tips if you're mall shopping.
 You've done the planning and you have your map. Head forth with confidence.


Avoid sleeping in. The early bird definitely gets the worm on this day. Most people are up and out of the house before dawn. Most stores open much earlier than usual. Don't think you can sleep until 11:00 and still be able to find those Manolos for 50 percent less – they'll be gone before 7 am!
Have your game face on and look determined and confident. You can't be a wuss and think that you have a fighting chance amongst the bargain shoppers on this day; assert yourself politely if someone barges in and takes your place in line. But be careful – some people will elbow, kick, pinch, anything it takes to get that last limited bargain, so choose your battles wisely – this is only shopping after all, not a do-or-die life choice. If you don't like people's behavior, don't push your luck because bargains aren't worth bruises.
Do not leave your basket unattended. When you see an item you want, keep a tight hold on it; leaving it in an unattended basket will be too much temptation for some and things will "disappear" the moment your back's turned.
If you can, try to avoid the layaway lines. You'll find yourself in one the entire day and miss out all the good stuff in other stores. Plus, everyone's heard more than a few horror stories where items were missing or hard to find when time came to pickup your layaway order. If it can't be avoided this shopping season, this is something to keep in mind for next year.
 Do a reality check now and then if you feel yourself getting hot under the collar. This is shopping, folks, just shopping. It is consumerism at its best (or worst depending on your viewpoint), and while participating in it in an orderly and considered way can reap you benefits, behaving like it's a race to the death is neither civil nor sensible. If you feel upset, exhausted, angry with your fellow shoppers, or as if you're about to physically or verbally lash out, your body is telling you it's time to go home. Bother the bargains – look after yourself and your family first.


If the whole idea of shopping maniacally during sales really bothers you, participate in Buy Nothing Day instead. It's not without reason that it's celebrated on the same day when the manic panic of Black Friday shopping takes over a large proportion of the population!

