 To create a business profile on Instagram, you'll need to have a Facebook Page set up for your business. You can do this from the Facebook app or the Facebook website.
 You'll need to use the Instagram app to create your business profile., This can be found in the bottom-right corner and looks like a silhouette, You'll see this in the upper-right corner., You'll find this in the Account section., You'll have to proceed through several introduction screens., If you're already logged into your business's Facebook account, tap Continue. If you're not currently logged into Facebook on your device, tap Log in with Facebook and then log in with your business's Facebook account.

If you see a Facebook account that is not associated with your business, you'll need to log out of the Facebook app on your device and then log in with your business's account.
 You'll be shown a list of all of the Pages associated with your Facebook account. If you have multiple Pages for your business, tap the most popular one.

If you don't see the Page you're looking for, ensure that you are an Admin for that Page on Facebook.
Posts shared from Instagram to Facebook will appear on the page you choose.
, Instagram will import the email address, phone number, and address from your connected Facebook Page. You can edit any of this information before proceeding. This information will appear on your business's Instagram account., Your Instagram account will be converted to a business account, and you'll be taken to your profile screen., You can access all of the business tools from the Profile screen in the Instagram app., You'll see this at the top of your Profile screen when you are using a business account. This will display your Insights., This is the total views all of your posts have received., This is the total number of unique accounts that have viewed your posts., This is the total number of times your business's profile has been viewed., These are the posts that have the most views. Use this information to help determine what kind of posts engage your audience the most., These are metrics for how your Stories are performing. Your Stories are only visible to viewers for 24 hours., If you have at least 100 followers, you'll see some helpful information such as the time of day your profile gets the most views. This can help you decide when to publish new content., You can do this by tapping the bar graph button at the top of your business profile screen., You can create promotions at the bottom of the Insights screen., This will allow to to promote one of your posts and get viewers to visit your website or business. Running a promotion costs money., Make sure the post is engaging and relevant to your business., This could be visiting your website, or calling or visiting your physical business., This will let you change the call to action that is displayed on your post. Your options will change depending on the type of action you selected in the previous step., You can have Instagram pick automatically based on user trends, or you can tap Create your own to define the type of viewers you want seeing your promotion.

When creating your own audience, you can set locations, interests, age, and gender.
 This determines the amount of people that Instagram shows your promotion to. You can select from a couple preset amounts or set a custom budget. When you enter a custom amount, you'll be shown the estimated reach of the promotion., You can do a one-day promotion, a three-day promotion, or you can set a custom length. Your total budget will be split evenly among the number of days you select., After you confirm your budget and duration, you can proceed with paying for the promotion. You'll be prompted to enter a payment method, after which promotion will begin. Your promoted post will appear on the feeds of users that meet your promotion's target demographics.