 Don't skirt around the issue when there's something to celebrate! Mention the reason that congratulations are in order right off the bat. If you want, you can tell the person how you heard the news. This will set the right tone and make it easier to say the right words and share in the person's excitement. Here are a few ways to bring it up:


Craig, I heard the big news that you're engaged! How wonderful!
Celine, your father told me that you scored more points than anyone else on the team this season.
Lola, I just saw your Facebook post. I am so excited to hear that you're having a baby!
Marcus, we just heard the great news that you were promoted to senior manager.;
, After stating the achievement, express your congratulations with a winning smile. The expression on your face is pretty important, because if you say congratulations with a serious look on your face, the person will probably think you aren't actually all that happy for him or her.


If you're congratulating a close friend or relative, you can give the person a hug, too.
If you're worried your facial expression won't come off the way you want it to, you might try practicing in the mirror at home before you see the person.
Your tone of voice matters, too. When you say "congratulations," sound excited - not flat.
 If it's appropriate, you can follow up the word "congratulations" with an expression of how you feel. For example, you could say that you've enjoyed watching the person work toward his or her goal, or simply say "I'm really happy for you." Be as expressive as you want, keeping in mind that your tone of voice will really make a difference.


Another way you could follow your initial expression of congratulations is by asking some questions about the accomplishment. If your friend is having a baby, for instance, you could ask about the due date, or ask if there's any way you can help out in the coming months.
If you're expressing congratulations in a professional setting, especially to your boss or manager, it's fine to be a bit more private after you've expressed congratulations. Stick with the usual customs of your workplace; if people are generally friendly and effusive, say as much as you want. If you work in a traditional corporate environment, you may not want to go overboard.
 No matter why you're congratulating someone, try to make your words and actions as genuine as possible. Of course, there are moments when it's necessary to congratulate someone when you're not feeling particularly happy for them, and in those cases you just have to fake it as well as you can. But try to remember that you'll have your turn in the spotlight at some point, and there's nothing wrong with celebrating someone else and trying your best to emanate positive vibes instead of nursing jealous thoughts.


If you feel forced to congratulate someone when you really aren't happy for them, it might be best to send a note instead of congratulating him or her in person. You might not be able to control your facial expressions face to face. The person could be left feeling deflated, or wondering whether you're jealous.

