 Cats are like kids - they respond to schedules. Maintaining a routine is the first step to sleep training your cat.


Establish a bedtime routine. Cats are social animals, and they crave attention and love from their owners. If possible, get up and go to bed at roughly the same time each night. This will help your cat adjust to your schedule, and they'll be more likely to rise and fall with you.
Turn the lights off at a specific time. Darkness is a cue to cats that it's time to relax and cuddle up for bed.However, keep in mind that cats also love to hunt at night, so darkness by itself doesn't make cats sleepy.;
, Cats thrive on schedule, and easily pick up on signs in regards to their owner's activities. If you sleep with the lights off, turn them off. If you turn the TV off at night, turn it off. If you turn on the fan, turn it on. If you listen to radio, listen to it. Create the same environment every time you go to bed. Your cat will recognize this environment, and understand that it's time to sleep.
 When a cat is fed affects their sleep schedule drastically. Oftentimes, if a cat is being particularly pesky at bedtime or early morning they're simply hungry. If you can change how and when you feed your cat, this can lead to more peaceful nights.


Try feeding your cat shortly before bed. We're all more likely to sleep after we've had a nice meal. Some people find that if you feed your cat a half cup of dry or wet food shortly before bedtime, they'll be more likely to sleep through the night full and satisfied.Invest in an automatic feeder for morning meals. Automatic cat feeders, which can be set to release a handful of dry food at specific times, are available for purchase online and at many department stores and specialty pet stores. If your cat wakes you in the early hours of the morning wanting breakfast, an automatic feeder can help. Not to mention, cats are known for their sense of anticipation. If he knows breakfast is coming, he'll likely hang around the feeder early in the morning rather than making noise near the bedroom.

