 As an adult, you have more control over your relationship with your violent parent or parents. Being more independent from your parents affords you different options for handling interactions with them. As an adult you have an opportunity to set boundaries with your parents and detach with love in order to protect yourself.When setting boundaries, keep the following in mind.


Be clear and direct when setting your boundaries with your parent.
Use “I” statements instead of “you” statements when explaining what is happening and why.
If the conversation becomes violent or abusive state, “I deserve to be treated with respect. This conversation is over.”

, If you are a caretaker for your parent, the situation may call for involvement of other professionals or agencies. It may be necessary to consider assisted living or facility placement for your parent. Some conditions, such as Alzheimer's Disease, can make otherwise nonviolent people violent. If your parent's condition is worsening and you need more than just a break from them, you should think about putting your parent in a facility where they can receive constant care.


Alternatively, it may be beneficial for you to involve respite care. Getting respite care allows you to take a break from caring for your violent parent and helps to prevent elder abuse.However, respite care does not provide an ultimate solution, only a break from your parent.
 While you are working on setting boundaries and determining the level of care needed for your parent, it may be beneficial for you to have help and support as well. Joining a support group for adult children of abusive parents, may be particularly helpful. Attending a support group may help you discuss or process through the following.


Anger with your parents or with yourself.
Guilt for having to separate yourself from your parents for your own health.
Shame for wanting a relationship with people who have treated you badly.Sadness for the state of the relationship you have with them.
Grief for the loss of the relationship you should have had with them.

