 You will need pickaxes. It will go faster if you use stone, iron, gold, or diamond pickaxes. Also ladders so you can get back up! You will need about 15 pickaxes, 50 torches, and 40 ladders. ;
, Watch for lava because it may be right underneath you!

,, The room you're about to create should be a 16x16 room, completely empty except for torches here and there. It should be 3 blocks high.
 Check the room you made. It should be at least 3 blocks high and at least 16x16 (I recommend 16x16) and empty except for torches.
 Go to the second block up from the floor and break that block. Then go two blocks over and break that block. You must go horizontally around the whole room, leaving two blocks in between every hole in the wall.


The wall will look like this after you're done: BBEBBEBBEBBEBBE (B= block still there, E=Empty)

,, The room should be 16x16, 3 high, and have that wall pattern. It should be empty except for torches.
 You will need to do what you did on the wall and break every other block, then place torches in them.
 Repeat steps 1-10 in the room above the bottom room.
 You will have two rooms that are identical, 16x16 rooms, 3 high, with the patterns on the walls and roof, with torches inside each hole in the wall/roof.
 You need to make this room 16 blocks wide and expand out to 26 blocks long. 

, You should have two rooms, a top one 16x16 and a bottom one 16x26. The top should have the patterns on the walls/roof, the bottom one's patterns can be expanded out to the 26th block, but isn't a need as torches just keep other mobs from spawning.
, You will have 2 rooms, 3 high, 16x26, and the patterns may/may not go all around the rooms. They should be pretty identical.
 You need to dig a 3 block deep pit. If you hit bedrock, just go around it. You need to make it go along the back wall, so it should be 16 blocks long and 4 blocks wide.
 I recommend 4 buckets if possible, then dig a 4 block hole in the ground and put the water in so you can keep refilling them and not have to run back up. 

, It may be hard to even out if there is uneven bedrock, but just keep experimenting with it and it should even out soon.
 This will create your water trap, because slimes cannot swim.
,, You should have two rooms. 16x26, 3 high. The bottom floor should have a water pit and walkways on both sides, with one having a ladder leading up to the top. 

, It could take as little as minutes or as long as hours.
 As slimes cannot swim, this will kill it.
 Remember that it may take a while!

