 Search online for sites that provide free to do list templates suitable for Microsoft Word.;
, Browse through all of the templates available. For example, if you need a to do list, click on the to do list templates.


Alternatively, use the search bar of the site to navigate the to do list templates.
 For example, if you are looking for a "project to do list" template, click on that template and download the template by clicking the “Download, “Download Template” or "Free - Add to Cart" button after the template preview.
 From the checkout page, you must enter some basic information such as email, first and last name for security purposes and you must agree to the site's terms and conditions. You will not be charged anything for the templates as all of the templates are made available completely free.


If you are using Official site of Microsoft or vertex42 there is no need fill the form you’ll be direct to the template after clicking on download button.
 After you complete the checkout process, you will receive an email with the download instructions for the template(s) you have chosen. Click the link provided to start the download.
 The file downloaded to your computer will be a zip file. Double click on this file to extract it and open it in your version of Microsoft Word or Excel. While any version will work, the latest version is the preferred version to use with the template.
 First, edit the header section of the template and add any information related to your tasks and add any logos you wish to use. Simply change the placeholder text such as "Company Name" with your company in order to customize it for your specific needs or business.
 Simply navigate to Page Layout > Colors and Themes to make the changes that you want.
 Once you have double checked everything, you can now begin adding the tasks you need to complete into your template.
 Once you have checked the list you are free to print it or share it with others.
 By doing so you will be able to increase your productivity while never forgetting to do something noted on the list. This will be sure to impress your coworkers and superiors and might even help you to advance your career as well as reducing your stress levels, regardless of how busy you may get.

