 Just like you do with jobs, you should list your education in reverse chronological order with your most recent schooling first. Include any college degrees, trade schools, or apprenticeships you might have participated in. If you graduated with a degree, list the name of the degree as well as the year you received it. If you have not yet graduated, simply state the years you have attended the program as well as an expected graduation date.


For each listing, give the university/program name, their address, and your degree or area of study.
If you had a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher, be sure to list it along with your school/degree information.
 If you were ever given a special award or recognition, list it here with the name, date, and purpose of the award. A common thing to list here is your presence on the "deans list" for high GPA at a university. Make yourself sound as successful and hardworking as you can by adding as many awards as you are able.


If you had a job in which you were given a special honor, make note of that here.
Even if you received an award for volunteering, you are welcome to place that under this section. Highlight the wondrous things you've done and been recognized for no matter the circumstance.
 Whereas your 'awards and achievements' section was very specific, your skills section is much more general. Create a short list of positive personality traits that you exemplify. For example: timeliness, outgoing, enthusiastic, diligent, or team-player.
 If this isn’t the strongest part of your life history, you’ll want to list it at the end so that the recruiter reads through your more impressive accomplishments first.


You should include sub-headings for the type of experience each job provided you with, such as “Management Experience,” “Legal Experience,” or “Financial Experience.”
For each job, be sure to include the name of the company, the city in which the company is located, your title, your duties and responsibilities, and the dates of employment for each employer.
Optionally, under each job description you can include a bold heading, which reads “Major Accomplishment” or “Achievements,” and list two or three achievements or a major accomplishment for that position.
Make sure to quantify your job descriptions, meaning that you place numbers of import on your experiences and achievements (e.g. Ramped production 23% over six month period). Providing numbers makes it easier for hiring managers to grasp the extent of your past experience and achievements.
 If you have done a lot of volunteering, make a list of it here. Include the name of the program, the dates that you worked there/the total number of hours you volunteered, and your responsibilities.
 The last thing on your resume should be a list of 2-4 professional references. These are all people who you are not related to, but whom you've dealt with in a professional manner. You might consider a previous employer, professor, or volunteer coordinator to include on your references page.


Include the name of the reference, their relationship to you, mailing address, email, and phone number.
The place you are applying to may contact these people, so always call them in advance to let them know that you are using them for a reference and are currently applying for a job.

