 The “Firefox” button is located in the upper left corner of the Firefox window.


Clicking this button will open a two-column drop-down menu. This menu contains a number of setting-related browser options.
 First select “Options” in the right column of the drop-down menu. Hovering over this word will cause another side menu to drop out. Click on “Options” at the top of this menu to open the “Options” dialogue box.


If using a Mac instead of a PC, look for an option called “Preferences” instead of “Options.”

, Click on the “Privacy” button in the middle of the “Options” dialogue box.


There are eight panel buttons spread across the top of the “Options” dialogue box. Each one has a label and a corresponding icon. The icon for the “Privacy” panel looks like a masquerade mask.
Clicking on the “Privacy” button will open a separate panel within the same dialogue box.
The "Privacy" panel contains two sections: "History" and "Location Bar."

, At the top of the "History" section are the words "Firefox will:" and a drop-down menu. Click on the arrow next to this drop-down menu to open it and select the "Use custom settings for history" option.


Note that unless you select this option, the other history settings will likely remain grayed out, preventing you from altering them.
 This is the lowest checkbox among a list of checkboxes in the "History" section.


Selecting this box will cause Firefox to automatically clear your Internet history whenever you close the browser.
 Next to the "Clear history when Firefox closes" checkbox is the "Settings..." button.


Clicking on this button opens a separate dialogue box. This dialogue box will allow you to change which aspects of your Internet history will be cleared upon closing the browser.
 If you want to clear your cache and nothing more, only select the "Cache" checkbox.


Other history-related options include "Browsing History," "Download History," "Form & Search History," "Cookies," and "Active Logins."
Data-related options include "Saved Passwords," "Offline Website Data," and "Site Preferences."

, Click on the "OK" button in the "Settings for Clearing History" dialogue box to save the setting and close the box. Click on "OK" in the "Options" window to save the setting and close this window, as well.

