 Sure, there's that girl named Trinity that calls herself scene, but then, there's that person inside of you that knows that deep down, you got an eye for style.;
, Make piles or bins for different styles, like girly, goth, sporty, geeky, etc. Decide if you're going to throw some things away. If you already have 'scene' clothes, you need to know what kind they are.


Are they:
Trendy Scene?
Insider Scene? (Popular Scene)
Musical Scene
Hippie Scene?
Or Dark Scene?

, Like taking a black jacket and adding lime green and tangerine orange fringe on the cuffs. You have to be creative!

, Whether you're shopping at Salvation Army or Punk United Nacelle, it's considered shopping. Hot Topic has sweet tees, but they're expensive. So, if you frown at Hot Topic, Rue 21 is know for great bargains, and their shirts are only 10 dollars.
 Amongst girls, tank-tops are really popular, especially when layered with other tank-tops or paired with a tee shirt over it and a pair of colored skinny jeans. But with boys, stay away from any layering of shirts unless it's a long sleeve and a short sleeve. Baggy jeans are always great for hippie scene, boys and girls, but if you wanna be either insider or trendy Scene, stick with the skinny jeans. And, it's not worth it if you spend 200 bucks, use your clothes for a month, then throw the mall away and chase a new trend. If you want to do this temporarily, spend about 30 dollars so if you throw it away, it's not that big of a loss.
 The best thing to do is get short choppy layers, and lots of them! Without layers, you can't do any big hair. Also get either a fringe covering one eye or bangs. Fringes are the more ideal choice. For boys, don't tease, but spike up. Girls, grab your teasing comb and freezing blast hairspray, and tease up!

, Dye your hair all the colors of the rainbow! Bleach it, spike it, then chop it! Do what you feel like doing! That's what this style is all about. Don't you get it?

, Always make sure your skin is flawless, and blemish-free. Your eyes should always be the main feature. A good start is using just plain black eyeliner. Then you can start playing around with liquid black eyeliner and eye shadows. You can draw some swirls, stars, hearts, peace signs or anything around your eyes in neon eyeliner. Keep it to a minimum with the drawings; with swirls, you should go crazy. Buff up your cheeks with a little peach blush and keep the lips neutral. If you wanted to, you could put on a little chapstick, or a shade very close to your natural lip color.
 Pastry sneakers will look great if you think they will. Platform boots, high heels, flats, sneakers, anything as long as you keep flip-flops for the beach and the pool. Don't limit yourself to one thing just because everyone is doing that, too. Remember, individuality.
 Check. Cool, bright clothes and makeup? Check. Any stinking' shoe you want? Check. Sweet hair and a nice scent? Check and check. Well, look at that. You're a scene teen!

