 The warm water also makes your child’s temperature rise artificially. The contrast between her bathtime temperature and the temperature of the room can help induce sleep., Make sure your child has enough blankets and pillows to feel warm, protected, and comfortable.Close the windows and curtains if possible. While having her favorite stuffed animal nearby is great, avoid crowding her bed with too many toys. She could feel a less familiar one in the night and become scared.
 Whether a blanket or a stuffed animal, having an object that makes your child feel safe is important. If she can cling to her object when she wakes, she can calm herself. Aim for something soft and preferably washable.Some parents purchase two or three of the same items so that one is always available.
 Before your child goes to sleep, read a few children’s books. This will help her become calm. Avoid any graphic or scary stories that might upset her. Also, avoid scary TV programming. Focus on creating a mood of happiness prior to sleep., If you are religious, have your child say her prayers before sleeping. She can express any concerns she might have and ask for good dreams. This is also a good time to find out what is troubling your child. If you are not religious, consider having your child make wishes. For example, she could wish for sweet dreams or a fun day in art class tomorrow.
 If your child fears the dark, having a soft nightlight can help. When she awakens, she will see her room more clearly. Alternatively, you can leave her door open to allow light to infiltrate her room.Having glow in the dark stars or stuffed animals also could work.
 Do not brush off her fears. Instead, ask her what she dreamed about. Knowing the content of her dreams will help you address her fears. If she cannot speak well yet, try to understand as much as possible., Cuddle with her and hold her close. Let her know that the dream was not real. Emphasize safety. Let her know that she is safe in your home. The doors are locked and you are watching out at all times.Share with her positive stories. Talk about her favorite place to play or one of her best friends. Return the evening’s emotional tone to a pleasant one.
 Walk or carry her back to her room. It is best if she can fall back to sleep in her own bed. Give your child her security object. Although you can stay with her for a little while, it is best for her to fall asleep without your presence. She needs to learn to cope.Although you might wait for her to fall asleep a few times, do not do this regularly or even on two consecutive nights. Then she will learn to repeat her behavior.Generally, encourage your child to stay in bed. It is better for you to respond to her crying than for her to run to you. Helping her calm down in her sleep space will make it easier for her to return to sleep., Help your child learn how to respond to bad dreams. When she wakes up, explain that she should look around her room and realize where she is. Emphasize bravery and share stories of when you overcame a fear. You also can read her books about children who overcame their fears.Useful options include:


Can't You Sleep Little Bear? by Martin WaddellWhat a Bad Dream by Mercer MayerThe Owl Who Was Afraid of the Dark by Jill Tomlinson, During daytime, for example at lunch, talk about what scares her at night. Come up with solutions to her concerns. For example:


Perhaps she is worried something is in the closet. Go and look inside the closet to see what is there.
She might think the tree outside her window is a monster. Teach her to say: "it's just my favorite oak tree that I love to climb." Alternatively, you could close the curtains or re-position her bed.
 For every night that your child stays in bed, put a sticker on a chart. Once she fills the chart, give her a special treat. Tell her how proud you are of her. You might buy her a toy or take her to her favorite restaurant. You can decide the treat beforehand so she has a goal to reach., If none of your efforts work and nightmares plague your child, seek professional help. A psychologist or therapist who focuses on children can help you. It might be that your child has fears that she cannot express to you. A therapist can work with her one-on-one to find solutions.

