 No matter how long you and your partner have been together, you should make time for romantic moments at least once a week. Have a "date night," where you do nothing but talk, enjoy a nice meal, and see a good movie together. You can also plan more elaborate romantic adventures, such as trips to the beach, long hikes, or a night spent stargazing. Whatever you do, keep it consistent, and make sure that you can spend at least a few hours of quality time with your loved one, when all you want to do is enjoy your love and your relationship.


When you're being romantic, you should really take the time to connect. Talk about your dreams, fears, and goals -- not about who is going to do the laundry or pick up the kids.
You should plug a "date night" into your weekly schedule, and make this a sacred event that no visits from friends or work obligations can overrule.
 You may be thinking, "I've been with my partner for five years -- he or she must know how much I love her by now." This is logical thinking, right? Wrong. Though you may know in your heart exactly how special your loved one is and how much he or she means to you, you should still let him or her know how much she means to you, and that you appreciate all of his or her unique qualities. Make a goal of complimenting him or her at last once a day with something fresh and meaningful.


Don't take your partner's looks for granted. If you're dressed up for a date, let him or her know she looks nice -- or let him or her know how beautiful they are when they are just watching TV in their everyday clothes.
Let your partner know about all of the things that they have done to improve your life. Saying things like, "I never could have done this without you," or "I'm so lucky to have you here during this crisis," will help your partner know how helpful and supportive they are.
Take the time to let your partner know about all of your favorite aspects of his or her personality, whether it's his or her sense of humor, or his or her ability to charm a new person as soon as he or she meets them.
 You should say "I love you" every day to your partner -- and mean it. Don't say it because you're too busy, because you think they should already know that, or because you're in the middle of an argument. You can never say it enough. When you say "I love you," look into your partner's eyes and give them all of your attention to let them see that you really mean it.
 Love isn't all about appreciating each other, managing conflict, and being romantic -- it's also about being fun and even just plain silly. Make the time to do something truly fun with your partner, whether you see a comedian, spend hours telling corny jokes, or go to an amusement park and laugh your heads off. Don't underestimate the positive impact that laughing with your partner can have on your relationship.


It's true: a couple that laughs together stays together. Carve out some time for laughter every day.
 If you want to keep your relationship fresh, then you should take the time to pursue new interests with your partner so everything doesn't feel so "old hat." You can take an exercise or dance class together, delve into a collection of classic movies, or travel to a completely new place together. Though developing a routine that makes you happy can help a relationship, making time for new interests or hobbies is equally important so that your relationship can grow.


Taking a salsa class together can make your relationship sexier and more fun.
Start exploring nature together. Taking hikes or walks through pretty scenery together can improve your moods and help you appreciate nature -- and each other.

