 There should be a single screw holding the case of the lighter together at the opposite end from the stem. Unfasten this with a screwdriver, then turn the case over and tap it against your work surface to remove the screw from its hole., The outer seam of the lighter will be held together by a light glue and some plastic pins. Run a normal sized flat head screwdriver along the outer seams to loosen the glue., After the seams have been loosened, work the tip of your flat head into the seam and gently pry open the stem-opposite end. When roughly half of the case separates, remove the screwdriver., Pull apart the stem-opposite side of the case open with your fingers. Don't pull too hard; the case should only pry apart halfway. At this point, you should be able to use your fingers to pull out the fuel reservoir.

The fuel reservoir looks very similar to a standard disposable lighter. Place the reservoir and a fresh disposable lighter side by side in front of you.
The empty long-stemmed lighter can be set off to the side. This part won't be needed until you put the lighter back together., Pry the vented front metal band (the wind guard) from the lighter with your fingers. Pull out the flintwheel, the attached flint, and flint spring. Then pull the insert below (which includes the button), its spring, and the nozzle jet free.

After these parts have been removed, keep the disassembled lighter positioned upright to prevent it from spilling fuel., The top of the reservoir should have a similar button-insert as the new lighter. Remove this, its spring, and the nozzle jet from the reservoir. Replace the reservoir jet, spring, and insert on the new lighter.

The jet and the spring should fall into place easily. Press the button-insert into place with moderate force. You should feel it snap into place., Pry open the case halfway one more time. Insert the replacement reservoir into the body of the lighter so the reservoir button and the trigger of the lighter align. Test the lighter. If it lights, refasten the case screw and you're done.

If the lighter does not ignite, it's likely the reservoir button-insert, spring, and/or jet were not correctly installed.
The reservoir should slot into place in a small, internal cavity inside the handle of the long-stemmed lighter.