 Mordenai will give you "Kindness" which needs you to kill Rocknail Flayers that will feed Netherwing Drakes.;
, Neltharaku is a Netherwing Dragon flying above the fields. You'll need a flying mount for this part. When you find him and talk to him, you'll get "Neltharaku's Tale" which requires listening to him. When completed, you'll get "Infiltrating Dragonmaw Fortress". You'll have to kill Dragonmaw Orcs. One great spot to do this quest is to go to Netherwing Ledge and kill Dragonmaw Peons.
 in which you need to collect Nethervine Crystals. "The Force of Neltharaku" is the follow-up quest in which you have to rescue Netherwing Drakes from Dragonmaw Fortress. When you turn this in, you'll get "Karynaku", in which you need to speak to Karynaku inside Dragonmaw Fortress. Karynaku will give you "Zuluhed the Whacked."

, His Rain of Fire spell does lots of damage to anybody in the group, including the demon who appears from the portal. You can move Zuluhed to another room to avoid this. There are 6 archers who appear when Zuluhed does. It is recommended that you have either a tank or a healer, possibly both. Once you complete "Zuluhed the Whacked", you acquire "Ally of the Netherwing". You go back to Mordenai to turn this in and the reward will get you to neutral with the Netherwing.
 You will get the quest "In Service of the Illidari" from Mordenai. This turns you into a fel orc when you get to Dragonmaw Base Camp or Netherwing Ledge. It will also turn your mount into a Netherdrake. You have to deliver Illidari Service Papers to Overlord Mor'ghor who is on Netherwing Ledge. When you turn in the quest, Overlord Mor'ghor will give you "Enter the Taskmaster" which requires you to find and speak with Taskmaster Varkule Dragonbreath. He will give you the beginnings of the daily quests.
 The second will depend on your gathering skill - "Nethermine Flayer Hide" for skinners, "Nethercite Ore" for miners and/or "Netherdust Pollen" for herbalists.
 He gives three quests, two that are dailies, and one that is not. The first quest is called "A Slow Death", which is one of the dailies. For this quest, you need to gather Fel Glands that will be used with Yarzill's Mutton.
 Sometimes the peons you try to poison with the glands will not take it so it's smart to get more than the original number so you can do it all at once.
 The last quest that he gives is "The Great Netherwing Egg Hunt" which is not a daily quest. The eggs have a very low drop rate so this quests takes a long time to do and repeat. These quests get you to friendly with the Netherwing.
 This pet can tank for you and you can shoot or cast without taking damage. Unfortunately, this pet can only be used within Shadowmoon Valley.
 It sends you to Overlord Mor'ghor. The Overlord will give you "The Netherwing Miens" where you'll find the Mistress of the Mines on Netherwing Ledge. Follow the paths to the bottom of the western area to find her.
 This will have you get 15 Netherwing cargo crates which you will find all over the mine. You will also meet the Dragonmaw Foreman standing next to the Mistress. He will give you another daily which is called "Dragons are the Least of Our Problems". For this quest, you need to kill 5 Nethermine Ravagers and 15 Nethermine Flayers. These 2 quests can be done together to save time.
 The first quest is called "Ronag the Slave Drive" and you need to kill Crazed Murkblood Miners. Once done, you'll receive "The Great Murkblood Revolt" which will bring you back to the Mistress.
 You turn this in to the mistress.
 You need to bring him 10 Knothide Leathers and 1 Hardened Hide of Tyrantus. If you aren't a skinner, you can buy leathers from the Auction House and find Tyrantus in Netherstorm. He is at the furthest northern point, so go to Stormspire before heading north.
 Most players enjoy this quest because you need to hit peons to make then go back to work. After completing all of these quests, getting to honored reputation with the Netherwing should be easy.
 This will send you to Overlord Mor'ghor to get "Captain's Badge". This is a trinket that you can use to summon your combat pet that was mentioned in Step 10. You'll also receive "Disrupting the Twilight Portal" which is also a daily in which you need to kill 20 Deathshadow Agents. Once you turn this in, you need to find Illidari Lord Balthas - the next quest giver for Netherwing.
 He'll give you "The Soul Cannon of Reth'hedron". You'll need to get 2 Felsteel Bars, 1 Adamantite Frame, 1 Khorium Power Core, and 1 Flawless Arcane Essence. These are very easy to get, excluding the Flawless Arcane Essence. To get the essence, you'll need to find Sar'this in Terokkar Forest north of the Bone Wastes by the mountains.
 Once you turn in "The Soul Cannon of Reth'hedron", you'll get "Subdue the Subduer". You'll need to use the Soul Cannon on Reth-hedron the Subduer on Twilight Ridge, west of Forge Camp: Hate.
 You get to start participating in flying mount racing quests, consisting of 7 different quests. The first 6 give you 500 reputation points each, and the last gives you 1000 with a trinket that gives you 10% faster mount speed called the Skybreaker Whip. The first quest is "Earning You Wings", and the rest are "Dragonmaw Races" in which you race against 6 other Non-Player Characters. With these quests, you'll be at revered soon.
 Find Taskmaster Varkule and he'll upgrade your combat pet's trinket when you do "Hail, Commander!". Turn this in to Overlord Mor'ghor and he'll give you "Kill Them AlL!" For "Kill Them AlL!", you need to turn in news of your mission and the Dragonmaw Flare Gun to either Anchorite Ceyla at the Altar of Sha'tar or Arcanist Thelis at the Sanctum of the Stars .
 You can do this on your own if you have healing abilities but it's a good idea to have a group when you do this. From there, you continue to repeat that quest until exalted.
 The Netherdrakes you want afterwards cost you 200 gold and will give you a 280% flight speed increase on your ground mounts. There are several different colours.

