 Most modern tapestries will come with a rod pocket along the top edge. In this case you can use a rod, which will look a bit like a curtain rod. This is a simple and straightforward method for hanging tapestries.









Brackets can be added to the wall from which to hang the rod.
Keep in mind that this method will result in your tapestry hanging away from the wall, with the distance depending on your particular brackets. If you want you tapestry to hang flush with the wall, try another method.;
, Choose a rod with decorative finials that will fit in with the room’s existing decor. Although there are rods made specifically for tapestries, you can also use normal curtain rods. However, you must make sure the rod fits inside the pocket of the tapestry. The necessary rod diameter depends upon the weight of the tapestry and the length depends on the width of the tapestry.









A 1/2 inch to 3/4 inch diameter rod will hold an average or large size tapestry anywhere from 2 to 10 lbs.
The rod should be long enough so that the rod finials extend beyond the edges of the tapestry with the brackets meeting the edges of the tapestry. This will allow the tapestry to slightly shadow the brackets giving more focus to the finials than the brackets.
The wall brackets should stick out from the wall a little so that the tapestry will hang at least ½ inch (1 cm) away from the wall. This will prevent moisture build-up.
 You would usually want to hang the tapestry so that the center is at eye level for an average sized person. However, you can hang the tapestry however you wish so it fits in with the rest of your room.









You may have to hang the tapestry a bit higher if hanging over a sofa or if you have very high walls.
 Prior to hanging your tapestry, ironing may be needed to remove creases. Use a low to medium iron to test first and iron on the back of the tapestry. If creases do not come out by ironing the back, then use a dye-free bed sheet and place over the front of the tapestry to iron.









You may need to increase the temperature of the iron and use some steam to remove the creases but always test in a corner of the tapestry first.
 Find your wall studs using a stud finder so that you can attach your brackets to them. Drill holes spaced so that the brackets sit just outside the width of the tapestry. Use a level to make sure these holes are even so that your tapestry does not end up crooked.









Tapestries do not always need to be hung on wall studs. In most cases you can simply use drywall screws and hang the tapestry wherever you like.
If you do not have a level you can also measure from the ceiling down to where you would like to hang the tapestry. Make sure that the distance from the ceiling to the hole is the same on both sides.
 Attach the brackets into the wall using the holes you have drilled. Make sure you use the correct screws for your type of wall. These can be masonry screws, drywall screws or simple wood screws.
 Place the rod though the rod pocket at the top on the back of the tapestry. Attach the finials to each end of the rod.
 Place the rod securely into the wall-mounted brackets and check one last time that everything looks even and secure.








