 Take some time to appreciate the point of the post; its aim is to recognize the great ways in which the community is coming together to make articles better. The goal is to celebrate the collaborative efforts towards the wikiHow mission.;
, Check out the edits mentioned if you need some inspiration or get in contact with someone featured, asking them how to contribute more efficiently.
 It reflects your kindness and compassion.
 You can either do a bold edit, or help in patrolling - it's your choice! But, it's important that your edits are actually improving the article(s) instead of ruining them.
 There are many ways by which you can get featured.


Write a rising star quality article. All rising stars are mentioned and appreciated. Refer Write a new article on wikiHow for guidelines.
Patrol efficiently. A section is reserved for 'Quality patrollers' - people who patrol in huge numbers yet they do not let the quality slip away.

Patrol carefully. Review every edit slowly and carefully, and if you can, quick edit to make it better. The patrollers recognized in the forum thread are those who patrol with care and skip the edits they're not sure about.


Do a bold edit. If your edit is accurate and improves the article by a great deal, then it will surely get mentioned!
Try out some wikiGnome activities. Those include maintaining the help team, voting on deletions, boosting, etc.. (Some of those activities can only be performed by Admins and boosters).
 A great way to make people notice you is by participating in different activities.
 One section of the forum post welcomes back editors who have returned to the site after some time; coming back after a break may get you recognized there.
 When you nominate someone else to have their edit recognized in the post, your name is generally mentioned, too. Use the suggestions form to suggest great contributions and efforts for appreciation.
 The point of the post is to celebrate collaborative, community efforts towards improving the how-to's on the site. If you haven't been featured, it's not because your edits aren't quality, but just because so many great edits are made that it can be hard to pick them all out for recognition. The most important part of participating on wikiHow is making sure you're enjoying editing and contributing to the community and advice here productively.

