 An idea is only as good as your ability to bring it to fruition. From the moment you get your first ideas for your side business, you need to realistically assess what you're capable of doing yourself so you know what kind of help you'll need.If you haven't yet decided what you want to do, or if you have several ideas in mind, knowing your own strengths can help you choose the right one for you.
For example, if you enjoy working with kids, you might consider offering a babysitting or tutoring service. One of the benefits of this side business is that you can do it with little to no monetary investment, and it typically won't conflict in any way with your day job.
Identifying your strengths is only half of the picture. You also need to brainstorm any possible problems or difficulties you might have with a particular side business.
For example, you may have an extra room that you're thinking about renting out to tourists or business guests in your town. However, if you have a strong desire for privacy or if you are an introverted person who needs ample time alone to recharge, this might not be the best fit for you.;
, Many side businesses don't require a lot to start, while others will demand a substantial investment. When calculating your start-up costs, you also need to assume your side business isn't going to turn any profits for the first few months.Consider whether you'll need to lease office or retail space, or whether you can operate your business from your home. If you're thinking of running your side business out of your home (whether long-term or just at first), you need to check the zoning regulations in your city or county and make sure home-based businesses are permitted. This may be a problem particularly if you plan to invite customers or clients into your home on a regular basis.
If you need to lease space, you'll need to factor that into your start-up costs, along with any expenditures you'll want to make for starting inventory, supplies, and advertising.
As you plan your budget and evaluate start-up costs, it's often a good idea to go ahead and create a full-scale business plan. This step is especially important if you anticipate you'll need a loan to cover some or all of your start-up expenses.
 Starting a side business can be trickier if you also need to raise money to cover start-up costs. Work on a business plan so you can figure out how much you'll need to start as well as how you'll handle growth.If you intend to grow your side business to the point that you can one day quit your day job, you also want to look at the potential costs associated with scaling your business as it grows.
For example, you may plan to start your business in your house, then lease office space once your client base grows to the point that you need to hire one or more full-time office employees. In that case, the cost to lease an office as well as the salary for an employee would need to be figured into your budget.
If your idea is more along the lines of a small home-based side business and you only need a few thousand dollars to start, you might consider crowd-sourcing your start-up on the internet, or asking close friends or family members for a small loan.
Seek advice from a professional before you take more drastic measures such as taking out a second mortgage on your house or cashing in a retirement account. There may be significant tax consequences that you didn't take into account that could change your decision.
 Once you start a side job, you'll have little if any time to devote to other activities. Make a list of everything in which you're currently involved and understand how you spend your time so you'll have a better idea of how you can fit your side business into your normal routine.Include the frequency of events so you can make a better decision on whether you'll have to get rid of activities or whether you can fit them in even with a side business.
The easiest activities to eliminate will be the ones in which you have the least amount of involvement or responsibility. You may want to keep activities for which you have a significant amount of involvement, or which are relatively prestigious positions for you to have. For example, you might want to eliminate a community organization if you only participate sporadically, but keep the group in which you've just been elected treasurer.
Write down exactly how much time these activities take each day or each week, and be honest. A community organization that only meets once a month for an hour may be a different sort of commitment if you're expected to make a presentation at each of those monthly meetings that takes you approximately four hours to prepare.
Making an inventory of the way you spend your time will help you understand how much time you can make available each week to devote to your side business. This in turn can also help you narrow down a list of possible options so you choose the side business that best fits your schedule and the level of commitment you can realistically make.
 Before you take any concrete steps to start your side business, take a look at your employee handbook and any contracts or other documents you signed when you started your day job to make sure there are no conflicts.In the strictest situation, you may have signed a non-compete agreement that forbids you from opening a side business that would compete with your employer. Understand that "competition" can be construed fairly broadly by your employer, and may include businesses you think bear no direct relation to your job or your employer's business. This could turn into a legal issue.
Many employers frown upon employees starting side businesses, mainly because they fear divided loyalties and divided attention during the workday. If your employer falls into this category and you want to start a business, you need to be certain that your work won't suffer as a result.
In many situations, your immediate supervisor will have a lot of discretion, and may not want employees to start side businesses for personal reasons – whether because of a previous bad experience or because they value loyalty above all else.
 If you had to sign any non-compete or similar agreements as a condition of your employment, an attorney can help you understand if your business idea conflicts in any way with your employer's interests.Many courts don't look upon non-compete agreements favorably, so even if you signed a fairly strict agreement you may be able to get out of it. An attorney would be able to assess the chances of this in your jurisdiction.
You may want to enter into additional agreements with your employer to protect their interests and reaffirm your commitment to them. This is especially important if you hold a relatively high-ranking position at work.
If you have any serious questions about how your side business will affect your day job, or if you fear you'll get fired if you start a side business, get legal advice as soon as possible so you can make an informed decision and be adequately prepared.
 Even if you know you're in the clear, and that your business doesn't violate any of your employer's policies or any of the agreements you signed, there are still good reasons not to tell your boss about it.Some employers may question your commitment to your job, despite your assurances that your side business won't interfere with your workday duties.
Particularly if your side business overlaps with your job (or with your employer's business), you need to be prepared to explain how you won't take clients or business from your employer, or use your day job as a way to gain an unfair advantage.
In some cases there's really no point in mentioning your side business to your employer at all, particularly if you don't intend to build it up beyond a side gig and it has nothing to do with your employer's products or services.
For example, if you've decided to sign up with a ride-sharing company and provide transportation for people during your off-hours, there's typically no reason this would interfere with your day job – unless perhaps you work as a taxi driver.
 To successfully run a side business while employed elsewhere, make sure you keep the two absolutely separate. Don't use any of your employer's supplies or time for your side business.This means you shouldn't take phone calls or answer emails related to your side business while you're on the clock at your day job. This time division can get tricky if you're paid salary and frequently take work home from your day job, but at least try to avoid dealing with side-gig business while you're physically in the office.
Don't use supplies from your employer for anything related to your side business either. This means if you have a computer provided by your employer for work, you should leave anything related to your side business off of it, including checking emails or drafting documents.
Don't provide clients or customers of your side business with your work phone number, and if you have a mobile phone provided by your employer, avoid using it for anything related to your side business as well.
In most cases, you also should avoid discussing your side business with clients or co-workers during business hours – even if your side business is entirely unrelated to your employer's business. You don't want your employer to get the impression that you're simply using your day job to market and promote your start-up.
 How you prioritize your day job depends on what you want to do with your side business. If you don't envision using your side business for anything more than supplemental income, take steps to ensure it won't interfere with your primary source of income.Side businesses such as ride sharing, renting out a room in your house, babysitting, or selling goods online typically won't interfere with your day job at all. They also probably won't grow to the point that you would consider quitting your day job and devoting all of your time to them.
However, suppose you've always been interested in photography and want to start a side business offering your services as a photographer for weddings and other special events. Depending on your work schedule, this could potentially interfere with your day job – and your day job also could interfere with your side business. For example, you might get offered a well-paid and prestigious photography gig to shoot an event that takes place at a date and time when you're scheduled to work.
Knowing your goals for your side business enables you to prioritize your side business and your day job more easily. If you intend to grow your side business to the point that you can quit your day job, you might take a day off work so you can shoot the event. However, if you need the stability of your day job and its benefits more, you'd probably want to turn the event down.
 Even if you're just starting a side business that you don't think will ever grow large enough for you to quit your main job, you still need to treat it as a serious business and follow the necessary formalities to keep it separate from your personal income and assets. In the United States and many other countries, you have the option of organizing your side business as a corporation, a limited liability company (LLC), or a sole proprietorship.Generally, a corporation is going to be too complex and expensive for a side business, especially at first. You might consider incorporating later on, if you plan to grow your business, but during the start-up phase it typically will be too much unless you're anticipating seeking capital from investors.
An LLC will work well for you if you want to gradually grow and build your business, because it will enable you to create more separation between your business and your personal income and assets. You also may want to start an LLC if you own a home or other significant assets that you don't want to be vulnerable to business debts or losses.
If you're just starting a basic side gig for a little extra money, such as babysitting, odd jobs, or ride sharing, you should be fine running your business as a sole proprietorship. You won't be seeking outside financing or investment, and your expenses will be minimal.
 Once you've decided how you want to structure your side business, choose an official name for the business. Depending on where you live, you may need to register this name with a government authority.Registration of your name is important to ensure that businesses have unique names that won't be confused with each other by potential consumers.
You need to wait until after you've chosen your business structure to finalize your name, since you may have to put an abbreviation after your name to symbolize that structure. For example, if you decide to create an LLC for your photography business, you may decide to name it "Pholly Photos," but if you've organized your business as an LLC the official name would have to be "Pholly Photos, LLC."
You'll have to pay a small fee to register your business name in most cases, typically less than $100. Once you've registered it, it's yours – it doesn't mean you have to start your business right away. You may need to renew your registration each year.
 If you're starting your side business in the US, you need to apply for an Employer Identification Number (EIN) for your business from the IRS, even if you don't plan on having any employees. You typically need a separate tax ID for your business in most countries if you want to keep your side business legal and above-board.For example, to get an EIN from the IRS, all you have to do is visit the IRS's website at irs.gov and answer a few questions to apply for the number. If you do this online, your unique number will be generated immediately. There is no fee to apply for an EIN.
Once you have your EIN, you'll be able to set up a bank account for your business, as well as file taxes. Make sure you register for taxes with your state or national government as necessary after you've obtained your tax number.
If you're operating your business as a sole proprietorship in the United States, you don't technically need an EIN for the business – you can file taxes for your business along with your personal taxes. However, you may want one if you want to open a bank account for your business, or if you don't want your Social Security number to appear on business documents.
 All of your business transactions should be done apart from your own personal finances, which means at the very least you'll need to set up a separate bank account for your side business.In some situations this may not be strictly necessary. For example, if you're simply joining a ride-sharing service as an independent contractor, it may be fine to use your personal bank account.
Use your own judgement when deciding whether to open a separate business account, and err on the side of caution. Even with a smaller side business, it's typically easier at tax time if you have everything separated.
You definitely want to open a business bank account if you plan to seek outside investment, or if you want to open a business credit card to cover small expenses.
 The licenses and permits you'll need to legally operate your side business can vary widely depending on where you live and what sort of products or services you're offering to the public.Check with your local small business association or agency to find out what kinds of licenses and permits you need. They typically have a website online that provides this information.
In the United States, you can find a lot of information relevant to small businesses in all 50 states by visiting the website of the federal Small Business Association (SBA) at www.sba.gov. Click on the "Starting & Managing" tab to find information specific to starting a business in the United States.
For example, some states require specific permits if you want to rent out a room in your house to tourists or other travelers on a regular basis. You also may be required to get a permit if you want to operate a business out of your home.
 Depending on how you've structured your side business and how it operates, it may be in your best interests to have a professional handling your bookkeeping and preparing the tax returns for the business.Know your own limits and the amount of transactions you can comfortably handle on your own. You definitely want an accountant if you're seeking outside investment, making long-term purchases, or planning to hire several employees.
If you just have a simple home-based business for which you are the only employee, you typically can get by with doing the accounting yourself using web-based accounting software. Link it up to your business bank account and it will auto-populate your transactions for you.
 If you want to get your side business off the ground, you need customers. Think about your target customers and what makes your product or service unique. Then you can focus on how to reach those customers with your message.Traditional advertising, such as television spots, magazine or newspaper ads, and billboards can be expensive – especially for start-ups – and likely won't generate the interest you want.
Instead of going the traditional route, look to build word of mouth about your side business, starting online. You can set up basic social media accounts for your business for free.
Once you have your social media accounts and website up and running, keep them active to build the buzz about your business. Don't just make them promotion machines – you also want to share information and articles that are likely of interest to your target customers.
Build relationships with people online by interacting with them and responding to comments or complaints in a timely fashion.
You also might consider offering a referral bonus for customers who recommend your product or service to friends and family.

