 To create a fire charge, you must have one piece of coal, one gunpowder, and one blaze powder.


Mine coal using a pickaxe, craft a block of coal into nine pieces of coal, or smelt coal using coal ore and any type of fuel. Coal can also be obtained from chest minecarts in abandoned mine shafts and stronghold storeroom chests.Obtain gunpowder by killing Creepers, Ghasts, or Witches, or search for gunpowder in dungeon chests.
Create blaze powder by crafting a Blaze Rod picked up from a Blaze. A Blaze is a mob with yellow skin and black eyes that dwells in the Nether.
Create a crafting table by gathering wood, constructing wood planks, and using the wood planks to build the table.
, The instructions for accessing the crafting grid vary depending on your gaming system.


PC version: Right-click on the crafting table to open the crafting grid.
PE: Tap on the crafting table to open the crafting grid.
Xbox 360 / Xbox One: Press the X button on the controller to access the crafting grid.
PS3 / PS4: Press the square button on the controller to access the crafting grid.
,,, A fire charge is a round, black ball featuring gray and orange swirls.
 The fire charges can now be placed in the dispenser.Skip to step #15 to add the fire charges to the dispenser if you already own a dispenser. If your character does not own a dispenser, proceed with the following steps to craft a dispenser.
 To create a dispenser, you must own seven cobblestones, one bow, and one redstone wire.


Obtain cobblestones from dungeons, strongholds, villages, or jungle temples, or mine cobblestone using a pickaxe.Craft a bow using three sticks and three strings in a 3x3 crafting grid.Place redstone wire by selecting redstone dust in the hotbar and right-clicking on the surface of a block.
,,,, The dispenser is a gray box that features a hole on the left side of the box., This will bring up the dispenser’s inventory menu.
 The fire charge will be placed inside the dispenser.
 The hole in the dispenser must be facing the space on which you want the fire to start.
 Fire will shoot from the dispenser, and start a fire on the adjacent space.