 Compare the characteristics of the palm with the descriptions of the palms that can be grown in your zone. Some palms will only thrive in zone 11, while some can be grown as far north as zone 7. , There are so many types of Palm Trees so it's important to first look for anything that may distinguish one variety from another. You can do this by first looking for anything that may really stand out and that makes a certain variety very unique. Coconut palms have single gray trunks and long pinnate leaves, but they are most distinguishable for growing coconuts, which they do all year long for up to 80 years. Wild coconut palms may grow up to 100 feet (30 meters) tall but they are much shorter when cultivated.
Chinese fan palms, or fountain palms, are known for the drooping ends of palmate fronds. They have short, fat trunks that are gray and marked with scars of old fronds. The petioles are thorny and the fronds range in color from blue-green to olive green. Fronds may be as much as 5 feet (1.5 meters) wide.
Carpentaria palms consist of pinnate leaves atop a slender gray trunk marked with scars of old fronds. They are most distinguishable by the bright red fruits that grow in clusters beginning when the palm is about 6 years old.
 The common image of a palm tree is a towering, slender tree found on beaches. However, some palms will never reach more than 10 feet tall. If you have a mature palm, you can narrow varieties down based on height.


Bottle palms or dwarf palms are so named because of their bottle-shaped trunks covered with the ends of old fronds. They seldom grow taller than 10 feet (3 meters) and are often seen in pots. Bottle palms have pinnate leaves.
Lady palms grow slowly to heights of 10 feet (3 meters) outdoors. They may be as wide as they are tall because of multiple trunks. They have bright green or dark green palmate fronds, but the fronds are deeply divided, making them look like almost pinnate. The petioles have no thorns.
 If you come across a towering tree, it is likely to be one of the more common, tall varieties. These trees usually have a long maturation and will not reach their height until they have had many years to grow. If you see a tree that is over twenty feet tall, you can be sure that it is an older tree and that it is a tall variety of palm. Queen palms grow as much as 6 feet (2 meters) a year to a maximum height of 40 feet (12 meters). Their trunks are singular, gray, and smooth with scars of old fronds. The fronds are dark green and pinnate, with doubled leaflets.
Royal palms grow relatively quickly to heights up to 70 feet (21 meters). Their trunks are singular, gray, and marked with the scars of old fronds. The fronds are pinnate, dark green and may be as long as 10 feet (3 meters).

