 When you are first diagnosed with a chronic illness, the news might come as a shock. After being diagnosed, many people struggle with sadness, anger, or anxiety. Take control of your health and your emotions by learning everything you can about your illness. Equipping yourself with knowledge will help you feel more capable and positive about your situation.You can learn more about your condition by researching it online on respected sites like the National Institutes of Health, by asking your doctor for more info, or by locating a national organization relating to the disease.
As you learn about your condition, share your knowledge with your family and close friends. This will help them understand what you’re going through and give them ideas for how they can best support you.
You may even want to have a friend or family member come along with you to the first few appointments to help you record information and ask questions that you might not think of at the time.;
, Your worth as a person is not derived from how healthy you are, and being ill does not take away your good qualities. You are still the same person you were before your diagnosis – you just have an extra challenge to deal with now. Though it’s natural to grieve the loss of your good health, realize that your value is based on far more than what your body looks like or what it can do.For example, if your profession is a chef, you are probably still able to cook amazing dishes despite your diagnosis. Your condition may require that you modify these dishes to make them healthier, but you are still able to use your craft.
Try making a list of all of the roles you have in life, such as spouse, parent, friend, painter, teacher, hiker, or anything else that you consider yourself. Review this list to see how many roles you will still maintain despite your illness.
 When you’re living with a chronic illness, it can be easy to focus on your fears, your new limitations, or how sick you feel. However, you’ll feel better if you make a conscious effort to find gratitude and joy in your life.


Start a gratitude journal that allows you to write down a few things each day that are going write. This might include things as simple as "I am alive" or "I had strength to go for a walk in the park." Be sure to document all the great things that happen every day. The more you do this, the more joy you will have in your life.
Incorporate activities that make you happy into your day-to-day routine, spend time with your loved ones, and look for ways your life is the same as ever – or better.Minimize your exposure to negative or difficult people, or avoid them entirely if possible.
 Using affirmations can guide your focus and keep you in a positive state of mind. When you’re feeling anxious or down about your illness, repeating a meaningful affirmation can help you stay hopeful. Choose a favorite quote or make up your own saying to get through tough moments.If you have a hard time coming up with a positive affirmation, then enlist the help of a friend. They might be able to see things in you that you cannot see right now. If you need ideas for an affirmation to use, try one of the following:


“Every moment of every day, I am doing my best.”
“Everyone has their own challenges, and I am learning to handle mine with grace and strength.”
“Illness may affect my body, but it does not change who I am.”

, Your illness might have only a small impact on your ordinary life, or it may require a major shift in your routine and the way you handle responsibilities. You may need more help than you used to, or you might find that you need to scale back your activities. It can be discouraging to feel less capable than you used to, but you can maintain a positive sense of self-esteem by maintaining your independence as much as possible.Staying independent will mean different things for different people. Maybe you need extra help running errands, but you can continue doing your own housework and cooking. Or maybe working full-time is too tiring, but you can continue working a few hours at a part-time job every week.
Taking care of yourself as much as you can will help you view your abilities in terms of what you can do, rather than what you can’t. This is essential for maintaining a positive self-image.
Try asking your doctor for a referral to an occupational therapist who can help you to find other ways to approach your favorite activities that will work for you. This will help to keep your quality of life at its highest.
 You may find that you need extra downtime now that you have a chronic illness. There may even be some days when you don’t feel up to getting out of bed or leaving the house. Getting inadequate sleep can worsen the symptoms of many chronic illnesses, so don’t feel guilty about getting the rest you need. You aren’t lazy – you are doing what’s necessary so you can function better the rest of the time.In general, adults should aim to get 7 to 8 hours of sleep a night, while teens need between 9 and 10 hours. Depending on your illness, you may require more rest than this.
Improve your sleep quality by avoiding taking long naps (more than 20 to 30 minutes) later in the day, avoiding caffeine later in the day, shutting off electronic an hour or so before bed, lowering the temperature in your room, and removing light and sound distractions.
Try to maintain a regular sleep schedule by going to bed and waking up at the same time every day.
 Getting off the couch might be the last thing you feel like doing when you’re ill, but exercise can help you manage your symptoms and feel better about yourself at the same time. Exercise boosts your heart health, strengthens your muscles, and releases natural painkilling chemicals in your body. Staying physically active also boosts your mood, relieves anxiety, and builds your self-esteem and body image.Exercise may include anything that you are physically capable of doing. Consider activities like boxing, running, Pilates, yoga, walking, or swimming.
Talk to your doctor before you begin an exercise routine. He or she can help you come up with a plan that’s safe and sustainable. Pushing yourself too hard can cause injury or make your symptoms worse.
It is fine to exercise whenever is most convenient for you, but some people find that exercising first thing in the morning helps to set a positive tone for their day.
 Your diet can make a big difference in how you feel every day. Ask your doctor or a nutritionist to help you create a nutrition plan, and know which foods you should eat and which you should avoid. In general, it’s ideal to consume a plant-based diet that includes plenty of whole, unprocessed foods.Make sure your diet includes lots of fresh fruits and vegetables (to get the most nutritional benefits), whole grains, lean sources of protein like chicken, fish, nuts, seeds and low-fat dairy.
 Researchers have found that meditation can help people with chronic illnesses feel happier and more at peace with their circumstances. A regular meditation habit can help you develop a mindful outlook, helping you to focus on the positive aspects of your life.Meditation doesn’t just boost your mental health – it can help you manage pain, too.For inspiration getting started, you can search for guided meditation videos on YouTube.
 When you’re not feeling well, you might just want to wear sweat pants every day. While there’s nothing wrong with dressing for comfort, especially if regular clothes hurt you or are difficult to put on, putting a little extra effort into your appearance can help you feel more confident.


Find some comfortable clothes that you like and that fit you well, and experiment with hairstyles that flatter you and are easy to maintain., If your doctor has given you specific recommendations on how to care for yourself, make sure that you follow them. This may include things like taking your medications, using a wheelchair, wearing special footwear, resting after activity, and going to physical therapy or doing special exercises., Having a sense of rapport and clear lines of communication with your doctor can make a big difference in how you feel about your illness. Find a doctor who helps you understand your condition, gives you a sense of control over your treatment, and helps support you emotionally through the ups and downs of your illness.When you find such a doctor, you might say "I appreciate the fact that I can talk to you about not just my symptoms, but living with my condition and you are concerned and attentive. Thank you. I would refer anyone to your practice."
Keep in mind that it is fine to shop around. Feel free to interview as many professionals as you like until you find one who is a good fit.
 Having a chronic illness can be hard on your emotions, but having a strong support network can help you stay optimistic. Make it a priority to spend quality time with your friends and family. Social support can help ease your worries, boost your mood, and make you feel good about the friendship you provide to others in turn.Ask a friend to hang out when you're not feeling so well. Saying "I'm not feeling too good today and could really use some company. Mind coming over?" should do the trick.
If you tend to isolate yourself when you get down, try asking a few friends if they would mind reaching out to you to make arrangements on a regular basis.
 Being chronically ill can be difficult in many different ways. If you’re struggling with the mental or emotional aspects of your illness, don’t hesitate to make an appointment with a mental health professional. A therapist or counselor can help you improve your body image, develop new life skills for coping with your illness, and deal with the complex feelings you may be battling.During your first session, say "I was recently diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and it has been hard coming to terms with my diagnosis. I'm here because I need to learn better coping skills."
You can also ask your doctor for referrals to support groups in your area, or look for a group by searching online.

