 Every participant may have his/her own way to check if they are ready for the quiz. One such way is to take the official web-based mini quiz which has 10 easy questions to check your IT quotient.

Another way you may like to try is to approach your geek friend or a relative who keeps good knowledge in this field and ask them to question you. This way you can get an idea of how much you'll need to prepare.
If you think that you are not yet ready, this shouldn't be a reason to stop you. Follow the steps, put in more efforts and soon you'll be on the right track.;
, TCS doesn't declare a 'syllabus' for the quiz. The question asked in the quiz are only answerable if you stay up to date with all the happenings in the tech world. Make good use of the internet, websites like TechCrunch, Engadget and PC Gamer are some good websites you'll like to visit., Stay aware of small things in big companies and big things in small companies. Keep track of CEOs and history of tech giants as well as their acquisitions.

Have a look at the evolution of the logos of big companies, you'll be amazed to find that the logos which you see today aren't the ones which accompanied the companies since the very beginning.
Read about the history of programming languages (who founded them, how were they built and interesting stories related to them).
 For example, the tagline of wikiHow is How to do anything. This is one of the most common types of questions asked in the preliminary round., Most of the times, the quiz master flashes the image of a headquarter of an IT company and flashes a fun fact related to it. Search for 'company name' headquarters and remember to take a note of their names. For example, Zynga's HQ is called The Dog Houseand wikiHow's HQ is known as the wikiHaus!, Nobody can! The tech world is quite bigger than our expectation, thousands of advancement are achieved every day. So, stay focused and be confident about what you have observed and learnt and your hard work will pay off for sure!