 Comparing yourself to others is a common type of negative thinking. This practice can make it hard to feel any pride in yourself. If you notice that you are comparing yourself to others, it might help you to stop for a moment and identify something that you are grateful for.For example, when searching for something to feel grateful for, you might identify your good health or a loyal friend. Focus on this thing or person for a few minutes to get yourself into a more positive mindset. Consider why you so are grateful for this thing or person.;
, Sometimes a simple change of scenery might help you to stop thinking negative thoughts. If you have been stuck in a negative rut for a while, get up and go somewhere else.


For example, you could try taking a walk outside or sitting in a different room of your house for a while., Sometimes negative thoughts may stem from a belief that you have flaws and no one else does. Try to remind yourself that everyone has flaws, even if you cannot see them.For example, an office mate might seem like she has it all, but that person might be dealing with some serious personal issues that you know nothing about.
 No one has the right to hurt, insult, or intimidate you. If you are being bullied or criticized in a way that is interfering with your pride, then you may need to reach out to someone such as a teacher, counselor, or human resources manager to stand up for yourself.


Remember that people who bully and criticize others often do so because they are insecure about themselves. Realizing that someone who is picking on you may be lashing out because of their own person pain and problems may help you to cope with it a bit better.The criticism is not so much about you, then, as it is about their own feelings of inadequacy.
 Although you should defend yourself against insults, it is important to be open to constructive criticism. Criticism can be hard to hear, even when it is constructive. Learning how to accept and respond to constructive criticism can help you to improve yourself and this can be a great source of pride.Try to suppress your first reaction when getting criticism. Thank the person. Then, face what they have said head on. Spend some time over one or two days considering the criticism. Ask yourself what you can learn from the criticism?
Say that you get an essay back from a professor. You are hurt to find that your grade is a C- and that the instructor says your “ideas are hard to follow.” Rather than becoming angry, reread the paper with a fresh mind. It seemed clear enough when you wrote it. Is it still clear on a second read? Try to understand the criticism rather than pushing it away.
 Black and white, worst case scenario thinking is not rational or good for you. But you can make negative thoughts into productive questions that will help you to grow and succeed. The next time that you have a negative thought, try turning it into a question that will help you to work towards a goal.


For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I’ll never find a new job,” stop and challenge that thought. It's not a fact, and it is coming from an unreliable source (your anxiety). Instead of accepting this negative thought, turn it into a question, such as, “What can I do to give myself the best chance of getting an interview?”, Put space between yourself and people who are often critical or negative about you. If possible, try to avoid these people and surround yourself with positive people instead. Sometimes it might not be possible to avoid a negative person, such as your boss or a close family member. In those cases, you may need to build yourself up before or after an encounter with the person.Try positive self-talk. Before or after an encounter with a difficult person, it might help you to look yourself in the mirror and give yourself a compliment. For example, you could say something like, “You are smart, capable, and hard-working!”

, If you find that overcoming negative thoughts is a constant struggle, talk to a licensed mental health professional. You might need some guidance to help you work through problems and to feel better about yourself. A therapist can help you to overcome negative thinking and may also help you to determine if you are depressed or struggling with a different mental health issue.

