 The most common cause of acute bouts of diarrhea is infection from some sort of microorganism — either viral, bacterial or parasitic.Infections are often transmitted into the body from contaminated hands, so washing your hands often and well with clean water and soap is a simple way to prevent diarrhea.


Wash your hands before every meal and after using the bathroom. You should also wash your hands after changing diapers, playing with pets, and handling money.
Spend at least 20 seconds lathering your hands with soap before rinsing, and don't forget to scrub under your fingernails.
Viruses that commonly cause diarrhea (especially in kids) include rotavirus, norovirus and adenovirus.Common bacterial causes of diarrhea include salmonella, campylobacter, shigella, E. coli. and C. Difficile. Protozoa such as cryptosporidium, giardia, and entamoeba can also cause diarrhea.Don't overdo it with the alcohol-based antibacterial hand sanitizer because it can create highly resistant bacteria called super-bugs, which can cause more serious infections.;
, The surfaces of fresh produce (fruits and veggies) are very commonly contaminated with bacteria (such as E. coli) and parasites — mainly from manure in the soil and insect larvae, respectively.Wash all fresh produce before you prepare it and/or consume it.


Try letting your produce soak in warm water for 30 minutes, scrubbing it with a clean brush and some baking soda, and then rinsing it well.
More natural disinfectants appropriate for cleaning produce include white vinegar, diluted iodine, citric acid, fresh lemon juice, salty water and colloidal silver.
Fresh produce can sometimes transmit certain strains of pathogenic (disease causing) E. coli that produce diarrhea-inducing toxins once they're in your intestines. These bacteria (called enterotoxigenic E. coli or ETEC) are a common cause of "traveler's diarrhea.", The tap water where you live may not taste very good, but virtually all municipal sources in the United States are disinfected with chlorine and other chemicals, so it's unlikely to transmit an infection to you. However, sanitation of drinking water in developing and tropical countries is a different story, so avoid consuming tap water, making ice cubes with it or brushing your teeth with it when traveling to such places.Instead, when traveling abroad, always use bottled water purchased from stores (not street vendors).


Water can still be contaminated in developed countries. Be careful using well water if you live in a rural area. Well water can be contaminated with animal or human feces or other waste material that contains bacteria.
If you are concerned with the quality of your tap water at home, buy a multi-stage reverse osmosis water filtration system. These systems are able to filter out particulate matter and parasites, as well as many harmful chemicals that can lead to stomach upset and diarrhea.
 Bacterial contamination of food (usually called food poisoning) is another common cause of diarrhea.Hamburger can be particularly risky because many parts of the cow (including intestines that contain bacteria) are combined together to make it. Cook your hamburger, steak, poultry, seafood and eggs thoroughly and with high heat so as to kill any bacteria that may be lurking within.


Cooking with a microwave is not an effective or reliable way of killing bacteria — pressure cookers, fry pans, woks and well-scrubbed BBQs are better options for cooking.
Have a separate cutting board exclusively used to prepare raw meat and disinfect it frequently.
Salmonella is a type of food poisoning caused by the Salmonella enterica bacteria, which is a common contaminate of beef, poultry, raw milk and eggs.
Always wash your hands before and after preparing all foods, particularly raw food that you intend to cook.
 Some foods have a tendency to create some stomach / intestinal irritation or spasms, which can trigger short-term bouts of diarrhea, especially in those who have sensitive GI systems or have digestive issues such as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).Foods to watch out for include deep-fried fatty food, spicy sauces with cayenne pepper, too much insoluble fiber (such as the skins of fruits or veggies), high-fructose foods and sweet baked goods.Mixing many different food groups together during the same meal can also trigger diarrhea in some people. Food mixing seems to cause issues because some types (meat for example) need more digestion time than others (such as fruit), so the stomach has to release either partially under-digested or partially over-digested food into the intestines when you mix your food together.
Eating different courses (meat, pasta, veggies, fruit) with some time in between for digestion can be helpful to prevent GI upset and diarrhea.
Gluten can also trigger intestinal irritation and diarrhea, so people who are gluten sensitive (celiac disease, in particular) should avoid grains such as wheat, barley and rye.
Beverages that can trigger diarrhea include coffee, caffeine-rich drinks and carbonated sodas with artificial sugar (aspartame or sorbitol).
 Lactose intolerance is the inability to produce enough enzyme (lactase) needed to properly digest milk sugar (lactose). Undigested lactose ends up in the large intestine and provides food to the friendly bacteria there, which produce gas as a byproduct. Symptoms of lactose intolerance include flatulence, bloating, abdominal cramps and diarrhea.Reduce or avoid dairy consumption if you suspect a lactose intolerance problem, particularly milk, cream, ice cream and milkshakes.
The ability to produce lactase enzyme drops off rapidly after childhood, which means there's an increased risk of lactose intolerance as you age.If you want to continue to enjoy dairy products without the risk of diarrhea due to lactose intolerance, then buy some lactase capsules from a pharmacy and take one or two before each meal — they will help with lactose digestion.
Be cautious with drinking unpasteurized milk and eating some soft cheeses because there is a higher chance of them containing unfriendly bacteria that can trigger diarrhea.
 The occasional bout of diarrhea is normal, but there may be a problem if you experience diarrhea on a regular basis. Talk to your doctor if you:have has diarrhea for more than two days
are having severe pain in your abdomen or rectum
are dehydrated
have a fever of 102 degrees Fahrenheit or higher
notice blood or pus in your stools or stools that are black and tarry looking

, Antibiotics can both trigger and help prevent diarrhea, depending on the cause. On the one hand, over-use of antibiotics can kill off the "friendly" bacteria in your large intestine, which creates imbalances and digestive problems that often lead to diarrhea.On the other hand, if you have a bacterial infection that's impacting your GI system and triggering chronic diarrhea, then short-term use of antibiotics can be helpful in helping you fight the infection. Antibiotic use is a thin line to walk when it comes to preventing or causing diarrhea, so follow your doctor's instructions carefully.


Food poisoning usually resolves itself within a few days (a week at the most), so antibiotics are typically not prescribed unless a person has a weakened immune system.
If responsible antibiotic use is still triggering diarrhea, then consider supplementing with probiotic supplements (containing strains of healthy bacteria normally found in your large intestine) while you're on the medication and even continuing for a week afterwards.Other medications that commonly trigger diarrhea include laxatives, blood pressure drugs, chemotherapy, weight loss drugs and antacids (those containing magnesium)., Over-the-counter anti-diarrheal medications, such as loperamide (Imodium A-D) and bismuth subsalicylate (Pepto-Bismol, Kaopectate), may help reduce the incidence of or outright prevent diarrhea, although they are not recommended for infants and children. Loperamide combats diarrhea by slowing down how fast food and liquid move through your intestines, which allows more water to be absorbed and more solid stool to form. Bismuth subsalicylate works by directly absorbing water and toxic compounds in the bowel, and impeding the growth of certain bacteria and viruses.Bismuth subsalicylate has some anti-inflammatory and antibiotic properties in addition to its water absorbing ability.However, it should not be used by those who are allergic to aspirin.
Anti-diarrheal medications may make some bacterial and parasitic infections worse because diarrhea is sometimes the body's strategy of getting rid of the microorganisms and their toxins.
 Natural medicines made from plant products are often a good alternative to pharmaceutical preparations in preventing and treating diarrhea, and they usually create far fewer side effects in the body. For example, certain plant leaves are rich in tannins — astringent compounds that help absorb water and calm intestinal spasms — such as blackberry, blueberry and raspberry leaves.Herbal tea can be helpful for preventing or combating diarrhea. Black tea leaves, such as Earl Grey, are also rich in tannins, but the caffeine content may be counterproductive for preventing diarrhea. Other herbal teas that can act as a safe diarrhea remedy include chamomile, ginger and fennel.
Do not eat lots of fresh berries at one time because they are rich in fructose sugar and fiber and may make your diarrhea worse.
Keep in mind that some herbs can trigger diarrhea, such as senna, turmeric and aloe vera.

