 No dorm needs more than one microwave, for example. After discussion, make sure you know if you should bring the microwave, hotpot, stereo, TV and mini-fridge you'll both want., Some have restrictions about wattage or types of mini fridges., Portable irons are smaller than full-sized irons, use less energy, and function just as well. Black & Decker X10 or X30 Travel Irons are among the best. Also consider bringing a mini ironing board, although you can either borrow someone else's or rig up alternatives such as a flat board on your bed.
 Another useful appliance is the hair dryer and there are some excellent small, portable brands that work as well as the larger versions.
 If you're going to be cleaning dishes outside of your dorm room, include a carrying bucket or similar. Other items possibly needed include:

An immersion heater
Water filtration pitcher
A garbage pail and trash bags
Plastic baggies––nice to package small odds and ends and foodstuffs in.
An all-purpose cleaner––there will undoubtedly be a lot to clean up at school, and an all-purpose cleaner is best because it can tackle multiple jobs.
 The items below are usually needed most but thought of least, and perhaps sometimes, not at all. They will make life easier, so consider them now:

Extension cords, cord organizer, cord cover and extra-long TV cable
Tools, such as a hammer and nails, pair of pliers, and both kinds of screwdrivers and screws; these should be the basic set of tools you bring
Scissors; you'll always need a pair
First aid kit; have the essentials available just in case. Include things like Band-Aids, ace-bandages, bandage tape, antibiotic ointment, and aspirin, etc.
A sewing kit; pre-made kits work well, but if you can't find one make sure to have a few colors of thread (black, white, other), a few needles in various sizes, and a small scissors
Hand vacuum/dust buster or small vacuum cleaner.
A fan; a window fan is a great idea for warmer months and will circulate the air best
A flashlight and a nightlight for reading books with––choose a clip-on or bookmark style night light for the least interruption to your roommate
Air freshener is a possibility; however, you should check and find out whether your roommate has asthma or any perfume or air freshener allergies––if so, use natural sources, such as making your own reed diffuser
Alarm clock, portable––look for the ones that include temperature and humidity readings; travel size is always much more convenient than large ones (and some even double up as a flashlight)
A hand truck and bungee cords
A college steamer trunk / footlocker / lock box. Lock boxes are essential since you no longer can keep everyone out of your room and from looking at and "borrowing" your things.
 A few functional luxuries can make life even more enjoyable. Here are some suggestions:

Area rug
Tree style floor lamp
Poster putty, mounting tape (or squares), and/or poster tape
Adhesive hooks
Full-length mirror
Plastic storage containers.

