 Depending on the type of arthritis, there are several factors that may make you prone to arthritis of the knee. Although some of these factors are non-modifiable, there are others you can change to reduce your risk of knee arthritis.Genes. Your genetic background can make you more susceptible to certain types of arthritis (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis or systemic lupus erythematosus). If you have a family history of arthritis, you may have a higher risk of developing knee arthritis.Gender. Men are more likely to have gout, a form of inflammatory arthritis resulting from high levels of uric acid in the blood, while women are more likely to develop rheumatic arthritis.Age. You are at a higher risk of developing arthritis as you grow older.
Obesity. Being overweight puts stress on the joints in your knees and can increase your risk of developing arthritis.
History of joint injuries. Damage to a knee joint can be partly responsible for the development of osteoarthritis.
Infection. Microbial agents can infect joints and possibly cause the advancement of differing types of arthritis.
Occupation. Certain jobs requiring repetitive knee bending and/or squatting may increase your risk in developing osteoarthritis of the knee.
If you have one or more of the risk factors for arthritis, consult your doctor about preventive steps you should take (or see section on prevention below).;
, The most common symptoms of knee arthritis are joint pain and stiffness in the knee. However, depending on the type of arthritis (eg, rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis) you may experience a wide range of other symptoms as well. To recognize signs of arthritis, take a note if you experience any of the following symptoms:Pain that often worsens with activities.
Decreased or limited range of motion.
Stiffness of the knee.
Swelling and tenderness of the knee joint.
A feeling the joint may "give out."
Fatigue and malaise (often associated during periods of rheumatoid arthritis flares).
Low-grade fever and chills (often associated during periods of rheumatoid arthritis flares).
Deformity of the joint (knock-knees or bow-legs) is typically an advanced symptom of arthritis that has been left untreated., Not all knee pain is a sign that you might be suffering from arthritis. Arthritis pain is usually felt in the inside of the knee and in some cases in the front or back of the knee.Activities that load the knee joint, such as walking long distances, climbing up the stairs, or standing for extended periods of time, can make arthritis pain worse.
In cases of severe arthritis of the knee, the pain may occur when sitting or lying down.
 Besides pain, arthritis also decreases the range of motion in your knee. In time, and due to the loss of the gliding surfaces of the bone, you may feel that your knee is stiff and your motion is limited.As the cartilage is worn away on one side of the knee, you may discover that your knee will become more bow-legged or knock-kneed.
 Swelling is another sign of inflammation (in addition to pain, warmth and redness) and is a common symptom of arthritis of the knee. In addition, people with knee arthritis may actually feel or hear a catching or clicking within the knee joint., The symptoms of arthritis can occur gradually and often progress as the condition worsens. Learning to recognize the patterns of arthritis symptoms may help you differentiate it from other knee pains.


People with rheumatoid arthritis often experience periods of worsening of the condition called flares. During these periods the symptoms worsen, reach a peak, and then gradually lessen., If you experience one or more of the above symptoms, consult a doctor whether you might be suffering from arthritis of the knee.


Your doctor will check your knee for swelling, redness and warmth and will assess the range of motion. If your doctor suspects you might be suffering from arthritis, he may suggest some of the following tests to confirm the diagnosis:Laboratory tests to analyze markers of arthritis in your blood, urine and/or joint fluid. Joint fluid is collected via aspiration by inserting a needle into the joint space.
Ultrasound imaging to visualize soft tissues, cartilage and fluid-containing structures in your knee. Ultrasound may also be used to guide the needle placement during joint aspiration.
X-ray imaging to visualize cartilage loss and bone damage and/or spurs.
Computerized tomography (CT) imaging to visualize the bons in your knee. CT images are taken from different angles of your knee and then combined to create cross-sectional views of the internal structures.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be used to produce more detailed cross-sectional images of the surrounding soft tissues in your knee, like the cartilage, tendons and ligaments in your knee.



