 The line at the top of your frames should be in line with your eyebrows as much as possible. If you’re wearing sunglasses, they should cover your brows. But if you’re wearing regular glasses, your eyebrows should show above the frames, without a lot of extra space in between.Your eyes should be at the center of the frame.Whatever style you choose, make sure they don’t overwhelm your face.;
, If you’re getting glasses for vision correction and you’ll only have a pair or two, you may want to avoid bold looks like very thick frames, busy patterns, or bright colors. Keep in mind that you will probably wear them a lot, and you want them to be easy to pair with your outfit. Also some days you may feel like standing out and other days you may not. You may want to consider getting a pair of glasses that shows off your fun side, and one or more frames for everyday.Go with a color that compliments your face and skin tone.Try to select frames that mirror one of your best features. For example, if you have striking blue eyes, you may want to choose blue frames.
Your skin tone is the main element that will determine the best color for you. If you have a cool complexion (olive, blue or pink undertones) look for frames that also have a cool color scheme, such as black, blue-gray, silver, or purple. If you have a warm complexion (yellow or peach), look for frame colors in those tones – for example, gold, orange, tortoise, or khaki.
If your face is long, widen its appearance with frames that have color or decoration on the temples which differ from the front of the glasses. This will visually break up and widen your face., Choose a frame style that complements your face shape. If you have an angular face shape, you can balance that out with rounded frames. To the contrary, if your face is round, you can visually lengthen its appearance with angular frames. For a square face, keep frames slim and avoid rectangular lenses. If you have an oval face, you can wear many different styles as long as they aren’t extreme. However, avoid frames that are very thin, which can make your face appear longer than it is. Heart shaped faces look good with thick-bottomed frames.If you have a large forehead and a small chin, try frame styles without rims, butterfly frames, and oval-shaped frames. If you select butterfly frames – where the outside edges are wider than the edges near your nose – make sure the corners are square instead of round.
If your forehead is wide but you also have a prominent jawline, you can soften those features with oval or round frames.
 Metal is the most popular type of frame material, and there are many metals to choose from. Titanium is hypoallergenic and lightweight. Stainless steel is also lightweight, as well as strong and flexible. Aluminum is often used in high-end eyewear. Plastic frames are lightweight, available in many colors, and less expensive than other alternatives. Nylon is a great choice for sporty glasses. Compare materials and choose the one(s) you feel will benefit you the most.Factors to consider are hypo-allergenic, strong, light-weight, flexible, corrosion resistant, and the variety of patterns, colors and textures available., If your glasses are new, you should test them by moving around in them. Make sure that they don’t slide down your nose, leave indents on the sides of your nose, or cause an ache behind your ears. Any of these problems require a professional adjustment so that your frames aren’t too tight but won’t slide off.