 Your diet is increasingly important as you get older. As you age, you are increasingly at risk for health issues such as high blood pressure and diabetes. Watching your diet can help lower those risks. When you're trying to eat right, it is helpful to keep a record of what you are eating. Many of us don't realize how many empty calories we consume. Try keeping a food journal for a few weeks to get an accurate sense of your eating habits.Keeping a food diary can help you identify areas where you need to make changes. This can help you visually see where you need to add more nutrients.There are many great diet and food tracking apps available to download onto your smartphone.
 As you age, your metabolism slows down. It becomes increasingly important to eat the right foods so that you don't gain weight and can decrease your risk of having health issues. Try to eat a balanced diet that includes mostly foods that are not processed and do not have a lot of preservatives. Whole foods include more nutrients than packaged foods.Eat plenty of berries and leafy greens. These foods contain essential nutrients and also aid in healthy digestion.
Emphasize fruits, vegetables, and low-fat or fat-free dairy products in your diet.Limit sugar, sodium, red meat, and alcohol.Make sure that your diet includes beans. This inexpensive food is a great source of protein and also helps regulate your blood sugar.
 When you're getting older, it becomes more important to pay attention to your heart health. Older adults are much more likely to suffer heart-related health problems. Drinking plenty of water is very important for your heart health, as it helps your heart effectively pump the blood through your body.The amount of water that you need to drink varies and is based on several factors, such as how much you perspire and how hot your climate is. In general, you should try to drink at least nine 8-oz. servings of water each day — more if you're active or in a warm climate that causes you to sweat.
You may find that you lose some of your sense of thirst as you age — don't wait until you feel thirsty to have a drink. Make sure you are drinking liquids throughout the day, like water, soup, milk, and juice., As you age, your body's needs change. In order to maintain your health, it becomes increasingly important to make sure that you are getting the required amounts of key nutrients. If you're not already, consider adding supplements to your daily routine.Before taking any supplements or vitamins, it is essential that you speak with your doctor, especially if you are taking other medications. Vitamins and supplements can react with certain medications, and it is possible to take too much of a vitamin, leading to toxicity and adverse health effects.Try a multivitamin that is specially formulated for people over 50. Ask your doctor for suggestions.
B-12 is one of the most important vitamins as you get older. It supports healthy blood cells, and also affects your energy levels. Many older adults suffer from a B-12 deficiency, so make sure you're getting enough. This nutrient is found in fish, but you can also buy supplements at your drugstore..
Some vitamins, such as vitamins A, D, E, and K, are fat-soluble, meaning you don't eliminate excess through your urine; they stay in your body, stored in your fat, which can lead to toxicity. Excess levels of vitamin E can increase risk of hemorrhaging, and too much vitamin K can reduce or reverse the effect of blood thinners., Your general physician is your best resource for health care tips. Your doctor is familiar with your physical health, and can therefore tailor advice to meet your specific needs. As you get older, it is important that you see your doctor regularly. Even if you feel great, you should get a checkup at least once a year.Ask a lot of questions. Don't be afraid to use your doctor as a resource for many things. You can ask for a recommended exercise plan and tips on how to eat better.

