 The most basic requirement for your sock puppet is a clean sock. If you want to make a specific character, keep the color of the sock in mind.


Remember that a black sock will be harder to draw on. Understand that you’ll need to attach materials to make the face rather than draw it on;
, Slip your sock on your hand, and use your thumb as the lower jaw and your fingers to form the face and upper jaw.This will help you block out on the sock the space for the eyes, nose, hair, etc.
 You can use a variety of objects to make the eyes for your sock puppet.



Try using googly eyes. You can find these at craft stores or in the craft section of big box stores. You could also draw the eyes on a piece of construction paper. Using overlapping circles of felt for the whites, color, and pupils of the eyes is an option. Try using beads as eyes. You can find plenty of beads in a wide variety at a craft store.
If you need to take the sock off your hand to make the eyes, then mark the position for the eyes with a small pen mark, so you can see the rough size you want to make the eyes.
 Depending on what you decided to use for the eyes, you may have to attach them in separate ways. For quick and easy results, you can simply use a glue stick, but a hot glue gun will yield better results.


For beads and felt, you can also consider sewing the eyes to the sock.
If you use a hot glue gun, make sure to take the sock off your hand first so as not to burn yourself.
 You can make the mouth for your sock puppet as simple or complex as you'd like. For a simple mouth, try using crayons or a fabric marker to draw lips. Put your hand in the sock puppet and figure out where the mouth would be given the dimensions of your hand. Draw the lips around where your fingertips form the lips of the sock puppet.


You could also make a more complex mouth. You can consider making a tongue out of construction paper or felt , making teeth with beads, or drawing a more elaborate mouth., If you decide that you want your puppet to have hair, you can easily use yarn, string, felt, or anything else you want to get creative with. Simply cut the material down to size and glue it to the top of the sock at your chosen hairline for your puppet., You have even more options for the nose of your puppet than some of the other features. You can use felt, a pompom, crayons, markers, or even leave your puppet without a nose.For many puppets, simply drawing in nostrils with a black or color marker is more than enough for a nose.
 Once you have the basic puppet, feel free to add any other accessories you wish. You can make antennae with pipe cleaners and pompoms, make ears with folds of felt, add glasses or a hat, etc.