 The first step in getting a boy to kiss you is to have utterly kissable, irresistible lips. Nobody want to kiss dry, cracked lips so get a good lip balm and apply it frequently for perfectly hydrated lips. Before the actual kissing, you should apply a light layer of lip balm so your lips are smooth and perhaps delicately flavoured. You should avoid bright lipsticks and sticky lip glosses however, as these can get messy and even ruin your kiss.


For moisturization, petroleum jelly or a lip balm stick will work well. You can also try exfoliating your lips by gently rubbing them with a damp washcloth or toothbrush. This will get them extra smooth.
If you have a date planned, try preparing your lips a couple of days in advance. Otherwise you should keep some lip balm in your purse for emergency situations.;
, Always try to look your best around the boy you're hoping to kiss. You'll feel way more confident if your hair looks good or you're wearing your favourite skirt, and confidence is super important when it comes to kissing. Try wearing a top that brings out the color of your eyes, or apply a little mascara to show off your long eyelashes.


Just be aware that looking your best doesn't mean you should go over the top. You don't need to wear a ton of make-up and you certainly don't need to wear skimpy clothes. Guys tend to go for girls who are natural and feel comfortable in their own skin, so try to let your natural beauty shine through.
Smelling good also helps - if you have a date planned, make sure your hair is freshly washed and apply a little of your favourite perfume (though nothing overpowering) on your wrists and behind your ears.
 This probably goes without saying, but you should always try your best to have fresh breath whenever there's a chance of kissing. You can do this by brushing your teeth as often as possible, especially after eating. You should also keep a little tin of breath mints in your purse, so you can pop one as soon as things look promising. Don't be afraid to offer him one either, he might take it as a hint, which is exactly what you want!


Try carrying a travel-size toothbrush and toothpaste in your purse if you're planning on grabbing a bite with the boy you like. That way you can pop to the restroom for a quick refresher after eating. If possible, use a little mouthwash as well.
You should also try to avoid eating foods with a lot of garlic, anything too spicy or anything that might make you burp (not attractive) before or during a date.
 You want to remember your first kiss with this guy as romantic, right? Then make sure to choose an appropriate location. Large, loud parties in front of all your friends are not a good idea. You'll feel under way more pressure and it'll definitely make things awkward. Instead, try going somewhere private - but not secluded - like a park, the pier or the corner booth in a cafe.


You want to be somewhere that you can talk and see each other (so he can pick up on all the "kiss-me!" signals) so a movie theatre isn't the best option.
If you're already pretty close, you could invite him over to watch a movie together - just make sure that no parents or siblings are likely to barge in at any moment, awkward!

, You shouldn't work yourself up about the kiss too much. Of course, it's normal to be nervous, but too many nerves can cause you to act jittery or distracted, which might send him the wrong signals. Kissing should be a fun, enjoyable, natural thing, not complicated or terrifying at all. But if those butterflies are feeling more like carnivorous moths, there are a few last-minute relaxation techniques you can try:



Take a few deep breaths. If you feel the panic rising, take several deep breaths, inhaling through your nose and exhaling through your mouth. Focus on the breathing and nothing else and you will immediately feel calmer, as deep breathing is associated with decreased production of anxiety-inducing chemicals like adrenaline and increased production of relaxing and mood-boosting endorphins.Ask yourself "what's the worst that can happen?" Really - think about what could possibly go wrong with a simple kiss. Are you afraid that you're not a good kisser? Or that he won't like you any more if it's bad? Remember that kissing is a natural thing, so it's very unlikely that you'll be bad at it, especially if you like him and he likes you. And even if the kiss isn't so great, if that's enough to turn this guy off an otherwise amazing girl, then he's not worth your time anyway.

Laugh. They say laughter is the best medicine, and that goes for nerves too. Laughing will immediately make you feel more relaxed and happy and make the whole situation less awkward. Try cracking a joke (even a bad one), making a funny face or whipping out some silly dance moves to break the ice and get both of you laughing. Things will progress much more naturally after that.

