 This unconventional knot can be done entirely with one hand, making it a great choice for when you need to tie your shoes while doing something else.However, this knot requires you to lace your shoes in a special way. This initial lacing is tricky, but not impossible with one hand. Start by tying the lace to one of the top eyelets — the little holes on either side of the tongue that the laces go through.
 If your shoe isn't already unlaced, pull the lace out until it's completely free (except for the eyelet it's tied to.) Next, re-lace the shoe in a zig-zagging pattern as follows:


Thread the lace through the eyelet at the top that's directly across from it. in other words, if you started at the top left eyelet, thread the lace into the top right one.
Pull the lace under and through the eyelet directly beneath the previous one. It should go under the material between the two eyelets, not over it.
Thread the lace through the eyelet directly across from it again.
Continue this "down, across, down, across" pattern until you reach the last eyelet at the bottom. If there are an even number of eyelets (which there usually are), the lace should end at the side opposite the starting point. If there are an odd number, it will end at the same side.
 Take the loose end of the lace and bring it back across the tongue of the shoe. Thread it through this eyelet — this may be tricky if you have thick laces, but it should be possible.
 Use the thumb and index finger of your shoe-tying hand to make a loop that's an inch or so long with the loose end of the lace. If you're using one hand, you can do this by holding the loose part in your palm, then slipping your thumb under it and pushing out.


When you have a loop, hold it so that it lays across the lowest straight section of lace at its middle point. The loop should be pointing across the tongue of the shoe.
 This is the only tricky part of the whole knot. Take one side of the loop that's laying across the lowest straight lace section and pull it under the straight lace and over the other side of the loop. This essentially creates a second loop that should be pointing up or down the tongue of the shoe.


If you're working with one hand, the easiest way to do this is to grab the initial loop between your thumb and index finger, then use your index finger to push one side of the loop as you guide it under the straight lace and over the other side of the loop.
 At this point, you can tighten the knot by pulling on the second loop that you've just created. As you do so, be careful not to pull the loose end of the lace all the way through the knot you've just created or it will come apart.


Continue pulling the loop down and across to slide it back towards the eyelet — when the knot is tight, it should be touching (or else lie very close to) the eyelet.
 This one-handed knot is surprisingly tight and should stay fastened through daily activity. When you're ready to take your shoe off, simply pull the free end of the lace and the knot should come apart with ease.


A word of warning: as you loosen the laces before you take your shoe off, try not to let the loose end of the lace get pulled back through the eyelet. It can be tricky and time-consuming to work the lace back through the eyelet when you re-tie your shoes, especially if you're using one hand.
