 Remind yourself that regardless of the election results life will go on. Some of the candidates may make extreme election promises and they may try and implement them upon election; however, there are certain checks and balances in place. For example, in the United States there are three branches of government, so Congress or the Supreme Court could prevent certain legislation from passing.Avoid thinking solely of the worst possible outcome.
You can also look back on the tensions surrounding previous elections and realize that the country was able to come through them and move on.
 Think about the big picture. Regardless of the outcome of the election, many aspects of your life will remain unchanged. Try and create a list of things that you enjoy doing in your daily life, that you will continue to enjoy despite the election results. This will help you understand that although you may not agree with the policies of a particular candidate they will not be able to negatively impact all areas of your life., Elections can be polarizing for the citizens of a country. In order to attract votes, candidates can often put down the other candidate and party. This often causes divisions between people who support these parties. Rather than focusing solely on the political and ideological differences that each party represents, try and find common ground with people who have opposing views.For example, even though you and your friend support different candidates, you may agree on a few specific issues.
 Take some time to reflect on the fact that you get to participate in the democratic process. For example, in some countries citizens are not able to vote for their government. It is also important to remember that not all populations have always been able to vote, even in democratic countries. For instance, at different points in the past people have been denied the right to vote based on their sex, race, property ownership, etc.


Think about the fact that at least you are able to contribute to the outcome of the election. This will make you feel as though you have some form of control.
 Regardless of whether the candidate you supported wins or not, it is important to learn to accept the outcome of the election. Remind yourself that other voters' opinions are as valid as your own, and that the results are representative of a majority of preferences, not just your personal preference.Allow these results to motivate you and inspire new ideas for involvement in your community. Start thinking about what you can do locally to inspire the sort of change you want to see in your community rather than waiting on politicians.

