 During conversations with the flirtatious person, mention your boyfriend or girlfriend several times. Weave stories about your significant other into conversations. For example, if the offending “flirter” talks about how he or she would love to take you to a particular restaurant say, “I had an amazing time when "John" or "Sally" and I went to that restaurant –– it’s where we fell in love.”;
, Place one or two framed photos of your boyfriend or girlfriend on your desk, keep a photo in your wallet or pin up their photo where you work. Again, if you aren’t seeing anyone you can still “make-up” someone and use a photo of an attractive friend. It is not a good idea to create a fictional partner if you will see the flirter on a regular basis, as your lie will be more obvious and potentially cause more problems.


If you have a serial flirter in a social context, wear a t-shirt printed with your beloved's face and include text such as "My fiancé" or "My better half" or "I love my boyfriend/girlfriend".
 Never be available to make plans with the person who is flirting with you. That will only encourage the behavior. Instead, talk about plans you have with your boyfriend or girlfriend.


If you don't have a partner at the moment, use other excuses that fill up your calendar, such as work or family commitments, your pressing hobby needs or sporting activities (which don't allow visitors).
If your flirter overhears you making plans to go out with friends and tries to insinuate themselves to come along, let your friends know in advance that they all need to ward off this person's attentions as a team. Your friends will do you proud if they know!

, That way you don't have to engage in building falsehoods or half-truths, which the flirter may detect anyway. Try saying to the flirter, "I don't want to sound mean, or rude, but I believe in being up-front and honest. I'm afraid I have to tell you, I'm not interested in going out with you. Sorry, but at least this way, we won't waste each other's time." If you genuinely like the person, you can then ask, "Are you ok? I really hope we can still be friends." If not, the best policy is to end the discussion quickly and abruptly.


Keep in mind that everybody gets rejected now and then. Don't assume the flirter can't handle it. If you are worried about hurting their feelings, remember that it is more hurtful to lead someone on than to be honest and upfront.

