 Unlike many other cell phones, the Razr's battery can't be removed with your bare hands. You'll need a few specialized tools before you begin. Luckily, these are available for cheap both online and in in many electronic stores. The tools you will need are:



A plastic opening tool. This is a skinny plastic prybar designed for opening cell phones and tablets.

A spudger. Another plastic tool designed for working with delicate electronic components.Other tools can discharge static electricity and cause short circuits.

A T5 Torx screwdriver. A screwdriver designed to turn the "Torx" screws used in the phone, which have a head that looks like a six-pointed star.;
, Powering the phone off completely before you start working reduces the risk of electric shock or damage to your phone. Removing external pieces like SIM cards, carrying cases, charging cables, and so on ensures that they will remain safe during the battery removal process.


Note that most Razrs will have at least one SIM card in them by default. Remove any SIM cards from the small door on the lower left side of the phone., Look at your phone from the side. You should see a small crease running along the edge of the phone. Carefully slip your plastic opening tool into this crease at the lower-left edge of the phone. Gently work the tool to open a gap in the crease.
 The Razr's back cover is held in place with a series of small plastic clips. Gently move the plastic opening tool up the left side of the phone, using gradual pressure to release each set of clips.You should just be working along the edge of the phone now. The center of the cover is held in place with adhesive that can cause it to snap if you try to pry the entire cover up at once.
 The top edge of the back cover is especially thin, so be extra-gentle here. Using too much pressure can cause it to snap.When you're done with the top, release the clips on the right side of the phone just like you did with the left.
 Once you've opened the top, left, and right sides of the back cover, grab the cover on either side about halfway down and start to pull it up. Don't grab the thin upper section of the cover. Use slow, gentle, gradual pressure to separate the cover from the battery. Put it somewhere safe once it is removed.


The battery is attached to the cover with a small amount of adhesive in its center. As you pry the cover up, you can use the opening tool or spudger to help detach it from the adhesive.
Be careful not to lift the battery out with the cover here. This will sever the power lead, breaking the phone., Look in the lower-left corner of the exposed battery. You should see a small pill-shaped piece of red plastic covering the metal terminals. Use the spudger (and only the spudger) to lift this up from the bottom.
 The battery is attached to the terminal by two 3.3 mm T5 Torx screws. Use the T5 Torx screwdriver to unscrew and remove each. To be safe, it is wise to press the screwdriver point against a separate piece of metal first to discharge any static electricity.


Keep the screws somewhere safe after you remove them. One idea is to turn the back case upside down and use it as a "dish" for the screws.
 With one hand, grab the blue battery removal film. With the other, hold the phone steady. Slowly pull up on the removal film to remove the battery and lift it out of the phone.


There may be a small amount of adhesive attaching the battery to the motherboard. If there is, you can use the spudger to reach under and detach it as you pull the removal film up.
 When you're ready to put your phone back together, all you need to do is perform the same steps as above backwards. In other words:


Carefully set the new battery in the old one's place, making sure to line up the terminals.
Screw the Torx screws back in place to attach the batter to the terminals.
Replace the plastic terminal cover.
Align the back case with the edges of the phone and press gently to reengage the plastic clips.

