 Monitor your skin for 24 ours to ensure that waxing will not cause irritation.


If your skin doesn't become irritated, it is likely safe to use the waxing strips.
For first-time waxers, start by removing hair from the legs. This is one of the less sensitive parts of the body. Once you have some experience, move on to more sensitive areas like the underarm and bikini line.
It is not recommended to use the strips to wax areas of skin that have already been waxed.
If you take medication that affects your skin, get approval from a doctor first before using Veet wax strips.

Do not use Veet ready-to-use wax strips if you are elderly or diabetic. There could be serious health risks involved.
Waxing is fine if pregnant; however, know that your skin may be more likely to bruise.
 Either shower or use a washcloth to scrub away any dirt or residue that may be on your skin.









Dry your skin very well after cleaning. Moisture will prevent proper adhesion of the wax to the skin.
 This is done to warm the wax and prepare it to be bonded with hair.










Traditional hair waxing techniques usually involve heating a thick wax solution in the microwave or in warm water. Though not as complicated a process, Veet strips still require some heat before waxing can occur.
 You can reuse each strip until it loses its grip.
 Rub the strip in the direction that your hair grows.









For waxing legs, rub the strip from knee to ankle.
Exercise the same caution as if using the removal cream. Do not apply it to the head, face, genitals, or other sensitive private areas. Don't apply the wax strips to varicose veins, moles, scars, or irritated skin.
If you experience irritation, remove the wax by using a Perfect Finish wipe from the box. Alternatively, you can use cotton balls soaked in baby oil or body oil. Since the wax is resin based, it will not rinse off with just water.
Be sure that the hair you are waxing is at least between 2-5 mm long. Hair that is shorter than 2 mm may not adhere well to the wax and therefore will not be pulled during removal.
 The quicker you pull the strip off, the higher your chances are of removing most of the hair.









Remove the strip in the opposite direction of hair growth. This will increase the likelihood of hair being pulled.
Hold the skin taut with one hand and make sure you keep the strip parallel to the skin. This will maximize effectiveness and minimize discomfort.
Avoid pulling the strips outward as this will only break the hairs.
 You can also shower to better remove waxy residue from your skin.









Wait 24 hours before applying antiperspirant and perfume products, or before sunbathing. Since waxed skin may still be tender, doing these things may cause irritation or discomfort.

