 You have to understand the game before you can become a player. A good way to start to learn the basics of soccer is to watch a game in person.


If you want to watch a professional game, the Major Soccer League Website has a schedule of all upcoming games.The National Women’s Soccer League, which features 10 teams, also posts its schedules online.You can check out local high school or college teams if there is not a professional team in your area.
Ask your friends who play if you could cheer them on at their next game.;
, You will need to learn the basics of the game before you can play. Several Websites offer good introductions to the sport of soccer.


At its most basic, soccer features 11 players on each team (10 in the field and 1 goalie).
The rectangular playing field features goals at each end.
This article, Play Soccer, has a great explanation of soccer rules and skills.
U.S. Youth Soccer is another good resource, with a useful introduction to the positions and general aspects of the game., Several schools and community recreation departments offer soccer camps throughout the year. At a camp, you will learn basic dribbling and kicking skills, as well as strategies to excel at the game.


Ask friends for recommendations on camps to attend. They will be able to tell you if they found the drills and exercises to be helpful.
Find a friend to join you at camp. You’ll probably have a better time at camp if you attend with someone you already know.
Several National Women’s Soccer League teams sponsor camps in their areas.If there are no professional women’s teams in your area, several other Websites have search tools for finding camps or clinics near you., Once you’ve learned the basics of the game, you’ll need to decide which type of position to pursue.


Are you good with your hands? Maybe you’re destined to be a goalie.
If you want to impact the game by scoring, try out for a striker position. Strikers are also known as attackers or forwards.Midfielders assist strikers and also offer help on defense. They tend to cover a lot of ground during the game, so this may be a good fit for you if you have a lot of endurance.Defenders are the last stop before the opponents reach the goalie. Defenders have to be brave, aggressive, and tireless., While there isn’t an enormous amount of equipment necessary for playing soccer, you will need some essential items when you join a team.


Soccer cleats are similar to baseball or softball cleats. The cleats on soccer shoes are rubber, however, instead of metal. Soccer cleats are available at sporting goods stores, discount stores, and specialty shops.
Shin guards do exactly as they are named; they protect your lower legs from accidentally getting kicked by other players.
Soccer socks are athletic socks that are long enough to cover your shin guards.
Soccer balls range in size from size 3 (for children younger than 8), to size 4 (for players ages 8–12), to size 5. Size 5 is the standard size used by professionals, as well as those players older than 12.Buy a few high-quality sports bras to offer support while you run and play soccer. To get a proper fit, you should take the time to try on several before you buy.
Uniforms are typically provided by the team you join, either for free or for a nominal cost.
A water bottle is necessary to help you keep properly hydrated during practices and games.
 Although dribbling and kicking are important soccer skills, you will also have to be in good shape to be an effective team player. Before practice starts, it is a good idea to try to improve your physical fitness.


Running is a good way to train to be a great soccer player. You can work on longer endurance runs (like a mile or two) or concentrate on sprints. Both are useful skills to have during games when you’re trying to beat an opponent to the ball.You can also try to improve your core strength by doing crunches or other abdominal exercises. A strong set of stomach muscles will help you maintain your balance during games and will help strengthen your shot. Stretching and flexibility are important for almost all sports, and soccer is no exception. Being flexible will help you avoid injuries and can help your muscles react more quickly during the games. Stretching out your major leg muscles, like your quads, calves, and hamstrings, will make you a better player., Proper ball handling through kicking and dribbling is at the core of all good soccer players. Continually practicing these will make you a better player and more valuable to your team.


Dribbling is running with the ball while kicking it. There are many online videos that demonstrate how to do this. Watch a few to help improve your technique. You can also read Dribble Like Lionel Messi, which has some more great tips.
You can practice kicking in a large yard or park. Most soccer experts recommend kicking the ball with the top part of your foot, or where your shoelaces are.Having a strong skill base for kicking and dribbling is important and useful as girls’ bodies experience physical changes as they grow and mature. Even though you may be getting taller or your muscle composition changes, having those basic skills and continuing to practice them will help you remain a great player during those changes., When practicing outside of team time, it is helpful to seek out players who are more experienced or stronger than you. As you play against them, you will improve your skills.


Your team may be all girls, and it could help to compete against boys sometime. They may be bigger or stronger than you, so it may be more of a challenge to play against them., Soccer is one of the most popular youth sports in the country, and nearly half of the players are girls.With that many girls playing the game, there are likely several options in your community when you are looking for a team to join.


If your school has a team, find out when signups or tryouts typically take place. Meet with the coach to see what type of conditioning or practice you should do before the next season starts.
Many local communities or recreation centers host soccer teams. Check your city’s Website to find the information about the recreation department, which may sponsor soccer teams in your area.
Ask your gym teacher to help you find a team in the area.
U.S. Youth Soccer has an interactive search on their Website to help you find soccer programs in your area.Talk with friends who are already on a team. They can give you contact information for the coach or sponsoring organization.
 Once you have played soccer for a few seasons and improved your skill level, you may want to shoot for the next level of competition.


Try out for varsity. As the primary soccer team for your school, the varsity team will feature the best players. Talk with some members of the team and ask questions like, “What should I improve if I want to play varsity next year?” or “How did you train for varsity tryouts?”
Consider playing collegiate soccer. Nearly every major university and college has a soccer team, and some offer scholarships to players. Investigate whether the colleges you’re interested in have teams, and contact the coach. There are some good references online regarding which schools offer women’s soccer scholarships, and how many are available.Join a club or amateur league team. Club teams are highly competitive, so they offer a good way to further strengthen your skills. The Women’s Premier Soccer League is an independent league with more than 100 teams throughout the United States., Playing soccer professionally involves talent, drive, and determination. It is also helpful if you have lots of experience on the field.


In addition to playing soccer for your high school or college, you will most likely need to play on a club-level or semi-professional team before trying out for a professional team.
The U.S. National Women’s Soccer League features 10 teams with between 21 and 29 players on each.
Some talented female players are choosing to play professionally in European leagues, since the National Women’s Soccer League only has 10 teams. Considering overseas teams can increase your odds of playing professionally., Soccer is the primary cause of concussions among female athletes.A 2011 study by the American Journal of Sports Medicine found that in similar sports, girls were twice as likely to suffer concussions as boys. Remember that heading the ball is prohibited for players younger than 10, according to the U.S. Soccer Federation. If you are between the ages of 11 and 13, you should only be heading the ball at practices., Young female players are more prone to tearing their anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) than male players.You can help prevent these injuries by building some special steps into your conditioning.


Strengthen your hamstrings, gluteal muscles and hip rotators by adding squats and lunges into your training regimen.Adding agility training, so that you can run, stop, and change direction quickly, can also help. Tutorials for agility exercises, such as the ladder drill, are widely available online., What you put in your body can have a big impact on your success on the soccer field.


It is important to drink water before, during, and after soccer practice or games. The American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) recommends drinking 16–20 ounces before playing soccer and 4–8 ounces every 15–20 minutes during the game or practice.Eat a healthy, balanced diet full of fruits, vegetables, lean protein and whole grains to give your body the nutrients it needs to help you succeed on the soccer field.Healthy carbohydrates such as those found in whole wheat bread, granola bars, and trail mix are crucial for giving your body the energy it needs during games and practices.Female athletes are more likely than male athletes to develop an eating disorder. Be sure to fuel yourself properly and consult a dietician if you aren’t sure of your nutritional needs., It can be overwhelming to try a new sport and learn all of the skills necessary to play it. Remember why you wanted to play, though, and you’ll have a good time and make some great friends.

