 If you are experiencing back pain and want to use an ice pack to relieve it, you can either make an ice pack or purchase one. From commercial packs to bags of frozen vegetables, any choice you make can help you alleviate discomfort and reduce inflammation.You can purchase commercial ice packs specifically designed for the back at many pharmacies and medical supply stores.
Make a slushy ice pack by pouring three cups (710 ml) of water and one cup (237 ml) of denatured alcohol in a large freezer bag. Wrap it inside another freezer bag to avoid spilling. Place it in the freezer until it is a slushy consistency.
You can put small ice cubes or crushed ice in a plastic bag to make an ice pack.
You can also use a bag of frozen vegetables, which may nicely fit the contours of your back.;
, Before you apply your ice pack, wrap it in a towel or cloth. Not only can this keep you from getting wet and keep the pack in place, but may also protect your skin from becoming numb or getting ice burn or even frostbite.It’s especially important to wrap a commercial blue ice pack in a towel. These are colder than frozen water and can cause frostbite., You want to be comfortable while you ice your back. Finding a comfortable place where you can lie or sit can help you relax, relieve discomfort, and get the full benefits of icing.


It may be easier to lie down while icing your back. However, if you work, this might not be practical. You can place an ice pack on a chair and hold it in place by wedging it between your back and the chair back.
 Once you’re comfortable, place the ice pack on the area of your back that is causing you pain. This may offer you some immediate pain relief and reduce inflammation that is exacerbating your discomfort.Keep the pack on the affected area for no more than 20 minutes per session.Less than 10 minutes may be ineffective but too much time can cause damage, so shoot for 15-20 minutes. Doing it for longer than 20 minutes can damage skin (cryoburn) and underlying tissues.You can use the ice pack after activity or exercise, but don’t use it beforehand. This may prevent your brain from receiving important pain signals to stop.If your pack doesn’t cover the entire area causing you pain, you can do spot ice treatments to get relief.
You can also use elastic wrap or shrink wrap to hold the pack in place., Try taking an over-the-counter pain reliever along with your ice treatments. Using this combination may relieve your pain more quickly and also help control inflammation.Take acetaminophen, ibuprofen, aspirin, or naproxen sodium to help relieve your back pain.NSAIDs such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen sodium may also help relieve inflammation., Ice is most effective for back pain in the days immediately following when you first notice pain. Keep applying the ice until you no longer have pain, or see a doctor if it persists.You can ice your back up to five times a day with at least 45 minutes in between treatments.The continued icing keeps your tissue temperatures low and may help reduce inflammation and pain., Consult with your doctor if icing doesn’t help after a week or your pain becomes unbearable. She may be able to treat the pain more effectively and quickly, and can also identify any underlying causes that may be causing you discomfort.

