 A good place to start is by picking a name and age for your boyfriend. When creating a boyfriend, you need to get the details straight ahead of time. Try to stick to names not too out of the ordinary but not too plain either.A good way to choose a name is to pick a either a last name or a first name that is fairly common, while having the other name be a little less common. For instance, Joe Smith might be too plain, while Alberto Merryweather may be too much. You can mix them the other way with better results: Joe Merryweather or Alberto Smith.As far as an age, that's up to you. Use the age to back up whatever story or background you create for the person. For instance, you may want an older guy who's "out of town on business" often.;
, You need at least some information for your boyfriend. He needs a profession, for instance. A hometown and a college or high school might not hurt. However, keep it fairly simple. You don't want a complicated story that sounds too fake.You can base it lightly off of someone you knew in the past, so that it seems more believable.
Just be sure to change some details. With social media, you'll be called out if you use someone's exact background.
 When creating a fake boyfriend, you need to decide what kind of personality this person is going to have, as you're going to need to write some messages or texts in this person's name. For instance, is he outgoing and flirtatious or a bit more reserved and nerdy?One way to create a personality is to think about your ideal boyfriend. What traits would he have?
Another way to flesh out a personality is to think about one of your favorite characters, whether from a book, movie, or television series. Think about the traits that person has, and use that to create a personality for your boyfriend.
Don't forget to come up with some likes and dislikes, such as favorite foods and books or least favorite movie. That way, you can add some details to his profiles.
Make sure you memorize these details, so you can rattle them of as needed.
 You need a picture for your fake boyfriend, especially in the time of social media.A picture really seals the deal for creating a fake boyfriend.


Finding a picture could prove difficult. You want something that doesn't look canned, but you also don't have the option of using one of your friends, since they'll likely be your friend on Facebook, unless, of course, they agree to play the part.
You can just do an internet search for copyright-free pictures, but if someone else finds that image, you could be called out on your deception. In addition, you'll likely want more than one picture to make the fake person's accounts look real.
If you're really ambitious, you could hire a model in the city to take pictures with you. Try using sites where you can post public job listings. Just be sure to meet in a public place and take a friend with you, both for safety and to snap the photos.
 Everyone has a few flaws. If you pick a supermodel photo with an amazing personality, that's not believable. Pick an average or moderately good-looking person, and don't forget to include some character flaws or cheesy likes and dislikes, as well., Most social media platforms require you to have an email first. Therefore, pick a free email system, and set up an account for your boyfriend.


You'll need to enter the person's name, as well as some basic information like a birthday, a email name, and a password.If you can't think up a email name, try using the fake name as a basis, such as "Albertoforpresident" or "Merryweather333.", To create profiles, you'll need to enter basic information like an email address, an name, and a birthday. You can also enter information in the "About Me" section in line with what you've created for this person.


Flesh out the profile with likes and dislikes, photos, and biographical information.
Try to pick one or two platforms and stick with those. If you do too many, you won't be able to keep up.
Be aware that it's against some social media platform's policies to create fake accounts. Unless you're doing something illegal, like trying to scam someone for money, you probably won't get in trouble with the law. However, the platform can delete the account if the company decides it is fake., You'll need to make posts on this person's wall on a regular basis. These posts need to be in line with his personality, while still maintaining an average-person mentality. That is, on social media, people are likely to have a range of posts, from bragging about a new job to giving news about a loved one's death to making mundane posts about food, television, and movies.For instance, you may post something like "Got a new job today! So excited to start working at ..." alongside posts like "Check out this new restaurant in town. I ate there yesterday. So good!"
If you've hired a model, it can help if you make regular photo posts. Try hiring the same model again in a few months, and pick various locations to take pictures around town.If you're using your own photos, you may need to brush up on your photo-altering skills.
Also, you can try friending people with that account, as it will look suspicious if that account has no friends.
 Only let users who are friends with the person see posts and most pictures. That way, any casual person who goes looking for information will just see a locked down account and won't be able to note anything suspicious.On most social media platforms, you can choose who sees what on the platform. However, some platforms require you to let everyone see the posts.
To change how people see the account, look for the account settings. Under account settings, look for "privacy," which you can use to change what other people see on the account.
 Now that you've created the account, you can use it to set up your fake relationship. Basically, you're creating the basis of your relationship on social media.


Change both profiles to "In a relationship" with the other person.
Comment on his page from your page. Log on to his page to reply.
Post cute memes and gifs on each other's walls.
 One of the main ways of creating a boyfriend is to talk about him like he's real. You could casually mention dates you've gone recently, for instance, or talk about the fact that he's away on a business trip.For instance, you could say, "My boyfriend and I had the best time this weekend. We decided to go see that new movie. Have you seen it yet?"
Another way you could bring him up is to say, "My boyfriend's out of town this weekend. He's out of town a lot on business."
Don't forget the ups and downs. For instance, one day you might be elated that your boyfriend bought you flowers, while the next week you might be in a fight.
Show him off. Don't be afraid to break out his "picture" to make him seem more real.
 If you mention a boyfriend, most people will dive in with enthusiastic questions. Make sure you are ready to answer them.For instance, you'll likely need to answer questions such as "How long have you been dating?" and "What's he look like?"
If you come to a question you can't answer off the top of your head, change the subject. You could say, "Oh that's enough about my guy, what about yours?"

, If you want to seem like you're texting a boyfriend in a particular situation, try asking your friend to send you texts. You can change their name to your boyfriend's name in your phone and have the friend text you as needed as that person.


You could also have pretend conversations to help sell it. Just make sure you use a male friend in case the person you're with can overhear you.
These conversations don't need to be elaborate. For instance, you could have a 5 minute conversation to set up plans for later or decide who's picking up the milk for dinner.
 You can use online or mobile services to help you out. For instance, one service will send texts to your phone, as well as leave voicemail messages and even send you a postcard. Of course, you must pay for this service, but it can make the relationship more believable.You can also use options that allow you to set up texts that come to your phone at random times. When it beeps, you can say something like, "Oh, it's just my boyfriend texting. Sorry, I need to reply really quick!"
These apps are on both Android and iPhones.

