 You can find several commercially available rat poisons. Rat poisons prevent their blood from clotting, so the rats bleed to death.Follow the specific instructions on your poison.
Keep poison away from children and pets.
If you want to use poison outside, it must be labeled for outdoor use., While your poison should be positioned in out-of-the-way locations, some humans may encounter it. For example, poison in the basement may be found by a person trying to store a box. Protect them by clearly labeling your poison so that it’s less likely that they will mess with it., Look for secure, hidden spots where rats are likely to hide. Similar to when you set a trap, you should look for locations that have rat trails, nests, or feces. Set your bait near these areas so that the rats are likely to come across it.Place the poison behind or under appliances, walls, or pipes.
If you’ve noticed a rat hole, place the poison inside of it.
 Use bait boxes or bait stations rather than bait trays. You can find commercial products that already come set up as a box with chambers to hold the poison, making it safer for children and pets.

Look for tamper-resistant bait.Notify residents about the poison and where you’re placing it.
 You must continuously feed the rats the poison for at least six days in order for it to be fully effective. Keep in mind that rats can become tolerant to poisons, so don’t stop the poison early. You may also want to try different poisons if you do more than one treatment.Rats will not eat spoiled bait., If you have any remaining poison once your rat problem is under control, follow the directions on the packaging for disposal. Don’t just throw the poison away, as this can harm other people, pets, or animals if they accidentally come in contact with it., Rats can build a tolerance to the poison, so if you have a serious rat problem, treat for about a month at a time. Take a break between treatment cycles to ensure that the rats don’t become immune to the poison.You can try other treatment methods between poisonings.

