 Prior to donating, you will be given a quick assessment which will include a confidential interview about your medical history. You will also be given a very brief physical to check blood pressure, pulse, and hemoglobin level. Be sure to bring a list of any prescription medications you are taking, and disclose all relevant details about your health (e.g. past conditions, history of fainting)., The process of giving blood will take about 8-10 minutes, during which one pint of blood (and a few extra test tubes of it) will be collected. Ensure that you are calm and comfortable by telling the trained healthcare professional whether you would prefer to sit or lie down during the donation, and if there is an arm you'd prefer to have the blood taken from.Bring an ipod, reading material, or your smart phone to keep you entertained while you stay still for those 8-10 minutes.
 Following your blood donation, sit and rest for 15 minutes- most blood drives will have a designated rest area with chairs and snacks for donors. Avoid strenuous activity for approximately five hours after donating (e.g. cardiovascular exercise, heavy lifting). If you feel dizzy or lightheaded over the next 24 hours, lie down and put your feet up until the feeling passes.Avoid any activities where you could be injured if you faint for the next 24 hours.For example, you should avoid using power tools because you could injure yourself if you faint while using them.
 Keep the bandage that is applied to your arm post-donation on for at least five hours. However, if a wrap bandage was applied, then remove it within one hour and leave the strip bandage on.If you experience any pain in your arm or swelling around the puncture site, apply ice to it. If you experience bleeding, apply pressure to the spot and raise your arm above your head until it stops.Wash the area around the bandage with soap and water to avoid a rash.
 Take care to replenish your body's fluids for 24-48 hours after your donation. Drink an extra four glasses of water or non-caffeinated fluids during the day to properly rehydrate. Avoid alcohol for at least 8 hours after donating blood.