 The best time to use a beard oil is when your skin and hair are still damp. Start by climbing into a warm shower and cleaning your beard thoroughly with shampoo. The heat will help open up your pores, allowing you to extract more benefit from the eucalyptus oil.Your facial hair should be damp, not soaking wet. Be sure to towel off beforehand.
If you’re between showers, just wash your face with warm water to open things up before you begin applying the oil.;
, For shorter, newer beard growth, 2-3 drops should be enough. For longer beards, use a dime-sized dab to ensure maximum coverage. Rub the oil between the palms of both hands.Remember: less is more. Essential oils are very potent, so you’ll only need to use a small amount., Stroke the hair from root to tip using the length of your hand. Massage the oil directly into your skin with your fingertips—this is where its unique properties will do the most good. Use additional drops as needed to cover areas where growth is the thickest.Use your fingers or a beard comb to spread the oil deep into the inner reaches of your beard.
You may experience a cool, tingling sensation when undiluted oil comes into contact with your skin.
 As the oil sits on your face and hair, it will begin to infiltrate into the pores and follicles, nourishing them deep down. In the meantime, avoid scratching, wiping or pulling at your face. At around the thirty minute mark, you can either pat your beard with a dry towel to remove excess oil or leave it and go about your day.With the exception of those with sensitive skin, eucalyptus oil is mild and safe to use topically without having to be rinsed clean afterwards.
Feel free to leave the oil in until your next shower.
 Use a fine-tooth comb (or better yet, a specialized beard comb) to brush out your facial hair. This will give your beard a softer, fuller texture and appearance while also helping to better distribute the oil within. Afterwards, your beard will look and feel better than ever.Like your head hair, your facial hair needs to be groomed regularly in order to stay healthy.A basic hairbrush will also work for detangling and styling longer beards.
 While it is wholly natural and safe to use, eucalyptus oil can be be a mild irritant to people who suffer from sensitive skin. To remedy this, add a few drops of eucalyptus oil to roughly an ounce of a non-irritating oil like olive, coconut or sesame oil. You can then enjoy the benefits of the eucalyptus oil without the uncomfortable side effects.Essential oils like eucalyptus and are astringent, meaning they enhance the tightness and firmness of skin, but may cause redness, stinging or itchiness in high concentrations.
Oils like olive and coconut are also known for their ability to moisturize skin and hair, making the mixture doubly effective., Rather than saturating your beard with excessive oil, use a conservative amount and focus on spreading the oil more evenly throughout your facial hair. Take a few extra minutes to stroke and comb your beard with your fingers until the hair is covered with a light coating of oil. Use more oil only as needed.For better coverage, work single drops of oil through one section of your beard at a time.
Your beard should not glisten or feel matted or heavy after you’ve treated it with oil., After half an hour has elapsed, splash some cool water over the lower half of your face to remove oil lingering on the skin. If necessary, scrub your beard again using a mild conditioning soap approved for facial hair. You won’t have to worry about washing away the oil, as it will have already been absorbed into the follicles.Dry your beard and face with a towel. Leaving your skin damp for too long can cause irritation to worsen.
Cold water will help your pores contract, preventing other possible irritants from getting in.
 Many packaged beard oils and conditioners list eucalyptus oil as a primary ingredient. You don’t have to limit yourself to just oils, either. There is also a wide range of shampoos, conditioners, pomades and waxes available that include essential oils.With frequent use, these products can add smooth luster to your beard while keeping it looking thick and full.Most products are made up of a combination of oils, each formulated to promote a specific set of attributes.
Trade in products that use harsh chemicals for more wholesome essential oils.
 Stir 15 to 30 drops of eucalyptus oil into your carrier oil of choice. Place the homemade oil mixture into a jar or squirt bottle and store it in the bathroom where you shower for ease of application.In addition to eucalyptus oil, you can include other essential oils in your own proprietary blend. Argan oil, for instance, can strengthen individual hair follicles, while tea tree oil relieves itch and grapeseed and jojoba oils soften and hydrate.For a more soothing beard oil that will feed and deep-conditioner your facial hair, try adding a few ounces of coconut oil to eucalyptus, argan and tea tree oil., Get in the habit of rubbing a few drops of eucalyptus oil into your beard after every shower. Essential oils are gentle enough to be used as part of your daily hygiene routine, and they’ll provide benefits that most shampoos and conditioners won’t.Stocking up on a ready supply of eucalyptus oil will keep you from running out after a couple short weeks.

