 While in the middle of a tantrum or outburst, it may be difficult to understand what they're wanting or the logic of their argument. Avoid assuming that their entire behavior and what they are wanting is irrational or wrong. We all were young once, and had difficulty with expressing what we wanted at times.During a calm time, ask them questions like, "What is it you really want? Are you wanting more ability to make your own decisions? Or more freedom?"
Discuss with them about how well they think having tantrum is in getting what they want. Ask them, "I saw you were upset when you asked me for something. How well do you think it worked in getting what you want?"

, Create clear rules and have consequences if they break those rules. Consider putting those rules in writing. By establishing house rules that are clear and agreed upon before your child has a tantrum, you will be better able to stick to clear and set rules.Understand that your preteen may want to push those boundaries of what is acceptable and what is not. Think about which things are negotiable and which are not. Be firm about the non-negotiables.
For example, a clear rule could be that at dinner time, there is no calling, texting, or other distractions while eating at the dinner table. This goes for everyone at the table.
As your child is getting older, consider including them in the input about appropriate house rules as well as consequences. By giving them the ability to add to the situation, you are demonstrating that you value their input.
 While sometimes tantrums just need to be ignored, if your child's behavior is very difficult and inappropriate, then set consequences for their actions. Avoid getting caught up in arguments.Avoid being manipulated by your preteen and stay firm but fair about the consequences.
Consider having multiple consequences for their actions. Then the child has the "choice" about which punishment or consequence to take from the options you provide. Then make sure to stick with what has been agreed upon.
Include your spouse, other parents, or other adults that may be involved in enforcing these consequences. If you and your significant other differ on how to enforce consequences, it's important address this issue so there is consistency among you both.
 Avoid caving into your preteen's various demands on a regular basis. This lack of structure may make it more difficult in the future if there are other arguments or tantrums. At the same time, avoid dominating your child and making them feel less-than. It is important that you demonstrate the "why" for your actions.


Be staying firm with a rule and its consequences you are helping to instill discipline in their actions.
Don't respond to your preteen with a vague answer or, "Because I said so."Provide positive feedback when your preteen follows what you requested them to do. Consider saying, "Thanks you for being so calm. I appreciate you asking me nicely about what you want to do."