 The Volcano den, Treehouse den, or Cosmo's den works best. If you're a non-member, stick with your original den. Even if it is a small house, it can be well-decorated as well.
 For a rogue pack or clan, it is suggested to place plants that make your pack/clan look threatening or scary, like the seasonal tree (red or bare) or sunflowers (withered). You can buy these from the Sarepia Forest or from the Clover Party., For pillows it is recommended to use the color green so it appears as moss. Use green couches. For the Alpha of the pack, get an Elephant Throne or a Cactus Chair to sit on., Since this is a group of rogues and not an official clan, don't make dens for each type of cat (ex: warriors, apprentices).  Decide on your clan or pack's rankings before making dens. If all of the cats besides kits, mothers, and leaders are all in equal ranking, then make multiple dens for all those cats to sleep in. If you're going to use the method of ranking that was just mentioned, then you should set apart the leader's and kits' dens from the other dens., If you're non-member, use an Elephant Throne which is obtained by finding all the animals in the Temple of Zios page in your Journey Book. There should only be one throne if there's one leader. But if your clan or pack has multiple leaders, then expand the high rock for the others., Make a fresh-kill pile with Plushies or pets, and add more plants to the rest of your clan or pack. You can add other things too, like a forest (if you have enough room) or a Koi Pond. Another good option is getting the mini-tree house. You can get this by finishing the Jamaa Journal of the Sarepia Forest.

Ensure that the Plushies are not brightly colored (ex: pink or blue) as they do not look anything like real "prey".
 You're done with making your group of rogues, now just give it a name. Use words that make it sound threatening or scary, unless you are a rather peaceful type. Some examples of rogue pack names are: "Brutal Claws Pack, Poison Berries Pack, and Corrupted Spirits Pack."