 As you begin choosing a PI to help confirm your partner’s infidelity, it is extremely important that this person is a licensed, experienced PI. Most states have strict requirements to obtain an investigative license, including specific training classes, passing grades on assessment examinations, and a particular number of supervised field hours. However, the following states do not have statewide licensing requirements:Alabama
Alaska
Colorado (voluntary licensing available)
Idaho
Mississippi
South Dakota

, Many private investigators have a specialty within the investigative industry. Rather than hiring any licensed PI, try to locate one that has a great deal of experience with marital investigations. These PIs will be more experienced with the nuances of investigating a suspected cheater, as opposed to a PI that typically investigates corporations or insurance fraud., If you want to be sure that the investigation is thorough, be sure to discuss specifics with each PI you are considering. For the most part, licensed PIs will conduct their investigations per the standard methods they are trained on; however, it is important to be sure that your PI actually utilizes all the methods available to them. While a PI is unable to pose as law enforcement officers, tap wires, or obtain cell phone records via pretexting, they should include the following in their investigation:Physical surveillance
Hidden cameras
GPS tracking
Internet monitoring
Social network investigation
Decoys to tempt your cheating spouse

, Another factor to consider when choosing a private investigator is the cost of such an extensive professional investigation. The cost of a PI can vary widely based on the experience of the PI, the location(s) of the investigation, the prospective length of the investigation, and the difficulty of the investigation (like if the partner is a high-profile person). However, some general information regarding PI costs:Hourly fees throughout the country range from approximately $40 - $100 per hour, with an average hourly rate of about $50 - $55 per hour.
Many PIs require a retainer or deposit to be applied against fees for services rendered and expenses, with deposits up to $5,000 for infidelity cases. Factors determining this amount include travel involved, airline/hotel costs, estimated number of surveillance hours, and the urgency of the case.
Keep in mind common additional costs, such as a mileage expenses for any driving and fees for adding additional PIs to the case.
 Once you have chosen a PI, the most important thing you can do is commit to the investigation. It is important that you give the PI all of the information you have on your partner from your own monitoring. It is also crucial that you answer any and all questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Holding anything back from the PI, even things that incriminate you and your own fidelity, will only hinder the PI and disrupt the investigation. You need to be willing to speak openly with the PI about your situation, and you must be willing to find out the truth!

