 You could even use cardboard, if you prefer. If you can, fold it in half, this way you have less work to do.

Make a close outline of your foot (if its for someone else, ask them to stand on the paper, or make a guess using your foot as a guide).
Widen this outline and round it out slightly. You should now have an oval a little bigger than the foot.


 

;
, If you folded it, you can flip one of them over, so you have one left sole and one right. If you didn't fold it, trace the first sole and flip it., You don't have to have non-slip fabric, but it will save you some work. However, not all non-slip material is that comfortable.

Make sure you have enough fabric to cover both sides of the sole, for both slippers. If you can, fold it over.
 Trace it. Put the sole aside, and cut out the outline. You will have some trimming to do, depending on the size and shape of your sole. Cut it out slightly bigger than the sole, because it's not fun pushing the needle through cardboard.

35

,, Now, getting started can be complicated, so start at the heel, but not right where the fold ends (note: try to work on a hard, flat surface, especially if you are a beginner) so you don't get stuck to something.

You can also pin your sole and fabric together to keep it in place, whatever works for you.
 When you get to where the fold starts, make a knot. Tie and cut it off, and then go to where you started and sew the opening, between where you started and the fold ends, closed. Try not to stab your finger with the needle., You can make a strip and make it like a strap, or, if you prefer cozy toes, you can make a half moon shape to sew on to the toe end.
 This way, when you sew it on, it will fit better and not decrease foot room in your slipper. You will want to flip it over so that the bottom is facing you. It will be far easier, and more accurate, when you sew the band or moon on.
You will notice there are spots of hot glue on the bottom. That will be explained in step ten, Otherwise take your hot glue gun (be careful not to let it touch you) and put spots or stripes, or words- whatever you want, as long as it covers enough of the bottom to prevent slipping., You might need to reinforce some of your stitches, or maybe you want to add a pom pom? It's up to you! these are YOUR slippers, so get creative!