 An Advent wreath is an evergreen wreath featuring 4 candles. Often, a fifth candle is placed in the center of the wreath. The Advent wreath is used during the 4 weeks of Advent, just prior to Christmas, as Christians prepare for the coming of the Christ child.


Light 1 candle of the Advent wreath each Sunday. The candle lighting is commonly accompanied by prayers, Bible readings and/or songs. Some Advent wreaths include a fifth candle, which is called the Christ candle and is lit on either Christmas Eve or Christmas Day. Advent wreaths can be made using fresh greenery or artificial greenery.;
, Churches can utilize live or artificial trees to decorate their worship spaces.


Display a traditional Christmas tree. Decorate a live or artificial tree with lights, ornaments, garland and/or tinsel. Decorations can be those made by church members, or they can be simply store-bought ornaments.
Display a Chrismon tree. A Chrismon tree is a live or artificial evergreen tree decorated with Chrismons, which are ornaments that are symbolic of the life of Christ. Chrismons are usually white and gold, and often are made by members of the local church.
 Evergreens, including conifers, holly and ivy, are symbolic of eternal life in some Christian traditions.


Hang fresh evergreen wreaths on the front doors to welcome people to the church. The wreaths not only look festive but wreaths made with conifer branches typically emit an evergreen aroma. Add bows, ornaments or natural materials to add interest to the evergreen wreaths.
Decorate with pine boughs and other evergreen materials on the altar, window ledges, or tables in the church. Fresh magnolia also is an alternative to traditional conifer branches in warmer climates.
Add decorative greenery to the pews. Fresh greens hung from the end of the church pews adds a festive look to a worship space.
 Also called a manger scene or a creche, a nativity scene depicts the birth of Jesus, as described in the Bible. A nativity scene can be 2- or 3-dimensional and usually includes characters from the nativity story like Mary, Joseph, an infant Jesus, shepherds, wise men, angels, camels and barn animals. Some churches display a nativity scene on the altar, while others display the Biblical characters where people can touch them and use them to retell the birth story, such as at the entrance to the church.
 Because wall spaces typically are much bigger in a church than in a house, it can be difficult to find decorations that are large or impactful enough to fill large wall spaces. Christmas banners can be made or purchased in any size to fit the wall spaces of any worship center. Banners come in a variety of colors and include various design elements, from traditional to modern, that share the Christmas story.
 Christians believe that through the birth of Christ, light overcame darkness in the world. Many churches use candles to symbolize Jesus as the light of the world during the Advent and Christmas seasons. Some churches display lit candles during worship services, while others decorate the altar and other areas of the worship spaces with strings of electric lights.
 The plant with red and green foliage is native to Mexico and is widely used in holiday floral displays. The plant's association with Christmas began in the 16th century, when a poor, young girl gathered weeds to place on the church altar as a gift for Jesus at Christmas. The weeds sprouted into poinsettias, and thus began a Christmas tradition.


Utilize poinsettias to decorate the church altar, welcome worshipers at the entrance of the church or build into large tree-shaped displays.

