 Even though the Crocodile Pose is, in most variations, a basic maneuver, it does involve moving and stretching that may exacerbate certain medical conditions.


While this pose can be quite helpful for back and neck stiffness or soreness, you should consult with a medical professional if you have a back or neck injury.The Crocodile Pose is not recommended if you are pregnant, as it places much of your body weight upon your abdomen while it is pressed to the ground.;
, Whatever version of the pose you choose, you will be spending plenty of time flat on the floor. Choosing a spot that is supportive yet suitably comfortable will better enable you to establish and hold your positioning.You may want to invest in a good yoga mat, but any type of light padding, or just a blanket, can do the trick.
Choose a comfortably cool room to enhance relaxation and focus. Many people find airy conditions beneficial, especially with the breathing elements. Consider opening windows or going outside if conditions permit.
 This is the basic body positioning for every variation of the Crocodile Pose. For the most part, you want your body to be able to relax “into” the floor.Place your arms in front of you, with elbows at about shoulder width. Bend your elbows so that your palms meet, with all parts still touching the floor.
Stack your palms and rest your forehead on top, so that your head and face are very slightly elevated from the floor.
 For all the basic variants of the Crocodile Pose, your legs should remain loose an relaxed. Find the leg positioning that is most comfortable for you.


Spread your legs slightly so that your knees are about at shoulder width. Many versions of the pose recommend pointing your toes outward, while others favor having them point inward. In the end, your foot positioning is a personal choice based on what is most comfortable., If you have positioned yourself according to the directions provided in the previous section, you can congratulate yourself on achieving the most basic version of the Crocodile Pose. Lie on your stomach, relax your legs, place your forehead on your stacked hands, and breathe, and you’ve got it.In this pose, focus particularly on your breathing. Try inhaling deeply, holding for a count of five (if you can do so comfortably), and exhaling purposefully.
Keep the rest of your body relaxed, and focus on your breathing and holding the pose for five minutes or more.
This version may not provide the same stretching benefits as others, but can still be beneficial to your posture, lower back, and stress level.
 Lifting your head only slightly higher will increase the stretching of your neck, shoulder, and upper back muscles. Even still, this level of lift should still be comfortable and manageable for most beginners, depending upon medical conditions and fitness level.You can keep the same elbow and hand positioning as with the palm method, but simply overlap your hands a bit more and use your stacked wrists as a headrest.
To life slightly higher, rotate your forearms so that your palms are perpendicular to the floor, then stack your wrists. This positioning may not be advisable if you have wrist pain.
 As you advance in your comfort level with the Crocodile Pose, you can keep raising your head slightly higher, further increasing the stretching factor as you go. Do so incrementally and carefully, however, and stop if you experience pain.


To rest your head on your forearms, fold your arms in front of you and place each hand on the opposite elbow. Draw your elbows in to raise your forearms off the floor, then rest your forehead on your crossed forearms.To rest your head on your elbows, fold your arms and place each hand on the opposite shoulder (or shoulder blade, if you can reach it comfortably). This will create a cradle out of the inside of your elbow joints (with your outer elbows touching the floor), and you can rest your head there., If you have built up sufficient flexibility and strength in your neck muscles, you can remove any support on the forehead and hold your head off the floor on its own. This maneuver will lift the upper torso higher as well, adding to the stretching of the muscles in that area.Cross your arms with your forearms overlapping on the floor and elbows on the floor beneath your shoulders. Use this to prop up your upper torso, and let your head hang down.
Do not attempt this variation if you have a neck injury, or if it causes pain in that area.
 While this variation is also called a Makarasana or Crocodile Pose, and has a similar starting position, it is a quite different — and much more challenging — maneuver. It is not recommended for beginners, or for those with back or neck injuries.When done properly, this variation offers substantial stretching of the back, legs, buttocks, and backs of the arms and legs, along with the neck. Many adherents claim it can improve posture and reduce stress, among other benefits.
 Your hands and arms are part of the maneuver in this variation, not primarily a support structure.Your palms should on the floor next your hips or upper thighs, and your forehead should be on the floor. You can use a rolled up towel for comfort.
 Now is when this variation becomes much more challenging than the others described in this article. Don’t expect to master it right away.Take a deep breath, exhale, and raise your head, upper torso, and legs off the floor. Your palms should be providing only balance, while your body weight is supported by your lower ribs, abdomen, and pelvis.
When ready, slowly begin to raise your arms off the floor and stretch them slightly outward to your sides. Try to pin your shoulder blades together, as if there is a weight placed in between them.
 If you can hold this final position for thirty seconds, you are off to a great start. Ideally, after some more practice, you’ll be able to hold it for one minute.With your head still raised off the floor, slowly lift your gaze so that you are looking forward instead of down at the floor. Do not place excessive strain on your neck in order to do this, however. Keep looking mostly downward if necessary.
After you complete your hold of the position, slowly return to your starting position by reversing the elements of the maneuver. Lower your face downward; put your palms down; lower your legs to the floor; and slowly return your upper torso and head to the beginning position on the floor. Breathe, relax, and prepare for another hold, if you can.

