 One way you can practice giving during the holidays is to volunteer your time at a local charity or organization. Many charities will have events for the holidays, whether it’s serving a holiday meal at the local homeless shelter or giving out gifts at a local children’s hospital. Search for a local charity or organization and sign up to volunteer so you can give the gift of your time to a worthy cause.You may also try to get friends or family to volunteer with you. Enlist your loved ones to get into the giving spirit by sharing volunteer information with them.;
, You can also donate your time by participating in a holiday fundraiser. Search for holiday fundraisers online where you can donate your skills or talents to a worthy cause. Perhaps you find a local fundraiser that needs artists to create work for auction or that needs someone to run a social media campaign. Think about how you can give your skills and time to a worthy cause.You may participate in a holiday fundraiser for a worthy cause online, such as sharing an online donation fund for the children’s hospital. Or you can participate in a local fundraiser, such as silent auction to buy supplies for refugees overseas.
 Another way you can donate your time is to support a holiday-themed event in your area or community. Giving your time to a community event is a good way to bond with your neighbors and pass along the holiday spirit in your community.For example, perhaps there is a holiday feast planned for refugee families in your community. You could then prepare food for the event or volunteer your time to serve food at the event. Or maybe there is a choir celebration at a church in your area. You could then bring your family to the celebration and be part of the audience.
 This could be something as simple as helping your elderly neighbor shovel their driveway or bringing over cookies to a family next door. You could also help a family member with a task, such as assisting them with chores around the house or yard work. Giving your time to help someone out can be a great way to get into the spirit of the holidays.You can also help people out at school, such as assisting a friend with an assignment they’re struggling with. Or you could offer to help a teacher put up decorations in the classroom.
Help others out at work by getting coffee for everyone in the office on a snowy, early morning. Or you could assist a coworker with a project they are struggling with.

