 Many people like to talk about reading “the classics,” but this might not be the type of reading material you enjoy and could turn you off to the activity. Choose any type of reading material you like which can help encourage you to read.Check out a wide variety of genres, such as celebrity biographies, romance, non-fiction, graphic novels, or fictional works.
Ask friends and family members for suggestions of material they enjoyed reading. Chances are that you may like it, too.
You’ll likely enjoy a couple of different genres of reading. For example, you might like to read romance novels one day and a graphic novel the next. Don’t pigeonhole yourself into one type of reading: allow yourself to explore the wide world of reading!;
, Brick-and-mortar bookstores have several advantages over browsing online. For one thing, you can walk through the aisles and pick up anything that catches your eye. You're more likely to discover something exciting when you can see what's in front of you, rather than having to know what to search for. Most bookstores are also happy to let you relax and read in their coffee shop or lounge area, so you can "preview" a book before you buy it.


Additionally, employees in bookstores usually love books and are happy to offer recommendations. For example, if you usually don't like reading but really enjoyed The Hunger Games, a bookstore employee could recommend other books like it that you might also enjoy.
 Some people have learned to hate reading because in school they had to read just to pass tests, and they never made an emotional connection to the material.If you're just trying to figure out what you might enjoy reading, remember that this isn't a test, and you won't "fail" if you don't enjoy a particular type of book.


It's also not a competition. Liking one type of book doesn't mean that you're "better" than someone else. Someone bragging about loving James Joyce's Ulysses isn't inherently a superior person. And in fact, quite a few people lie about having read "classic" books -- 65% of people admit to saying they've read an "important" book when they have not.Read things that you find interesting and enjoyable, and don't let anyone make you feel bad about what you like. Popular writers like John Grisham and James Patterson may not be Charles Dickens, but their works give plenty of people enjoyment.
 Just like not getting stuck on one genre of reading, try different types of reading media. From magazines to books and tablets to e-readers, there are many different media from which you can choose to read.If you don’t like reading books, try smaller publications such as magazines or newspapers. Making the reading manageable can motivate you.
If you travel a lot, try using an e-reader or tablet. This can help you to pass time without having to tote heavy books or magazines on your trip., Reading doesn’t have to be a boring or solitary endeavor. Joining a book club can be a fun and social way to enjoy different kinds of reading with friends or family members.Seeing a story unfold and talking about it can be a powerful motivation for many people to read as well as making it more enjoyable.Combine your reading with other enjoyable activities such as eating a meal or having a glass of wine.
Be aware that with a book club you won’t necessarily always like the book choices. You can always opt to not read the book or grin and bear with it until something you like comes along.
 If you truly don’t like reading, listen to audiobooks. These are often performed by voice actors so they sound dramatic and engaging. Audiobooks may help you enjoy books without actually having to do any physical reading. They can be great if you commute, too.


It might take a few tries to find a genre of audiobooks that you like. You can always stop an audiobook if you don’t like it and try something new.
Public libraries often offer a selection of audiobooks that are free to check out. You can also join a subscription service, such as Audible, that allows you a free audiobook every month for a small fee.
Studies have shown that listening to books offers basically the same intellectual benefits as reading a book.In fact, there are some people who learn better from hearing than through visual stimulation., If you’re reading for enjoyment, there is no pressure to read quickly. Take your time while reading a text to help ensure that you can thoroughly enjoy whatever you’ve chosen to read.


Break down your reading choice by pages, chapters, or sections. If you feel like you need to make your text more manageable, break it down into digestible parts. For example, you could say, "I’m going to read 5 pages." See if you can do that and continue on if you like. Otherwise, leave the reading for another time.
 You might be making reading less enjoyable by forcing yourself to read because of personal or societal expectations. Don’t pressure yourself to read and you may find that you really enjoy reading as well as what genre you prefer.Place different reading material randomly around your home or office. This may encourage you to pick up something to read when you’re bored or instead of watching TV or doing other activities.You can also take reading material with you on vacation, to a pool or amusement park, or on your morning commute. Having it there may entertain you when you’re bored or need a distraction.
 Don’t read when you feel stressed or at times when you’re in a hurry. Reading at times you’re relaxed can help your brain associate with pleasure instead of as a chore.Studies have shown that a positive and relaxing context can motivate people to read.For example, you might want to keep some reading material next to your bed. You can reach for it before you go to sleep if you like. Make sure to keep a couple of different types of material available— such as a magazine and a book—so you can read something that parallels your mood.