 At the bottom of the head circle, start with a 'v' shape; keep it relatively horizontal.


Then add two small lines relatively adjacent to the ends of the 'v'; leave a small gap between these lines and the 'v'.
Fill in the small gaps with a curve and also try to curve the bottom of the 'v' where the arrows are given. All the lines from this portion should be thick.
 Start by adding a cross to the middle of the head; keep the line-weight light.


Draw two arches across the horizontal cross-sections. Make the bottom of the arches touch the line and have the top of the arch be slightly closer to the far side of the cross-section.
Make sure there's still a gap between them and the outside circle.
Add the eyelids by adding an arch above the previous arches--while not letting the lines touch--and erasing the top inner portion. Use a light line-weight.
 Start with the hair line by drawing a relatively-horizontal curved-line close to the top of the circle.


Draw two 's' shapes from the top of her head and have the ends meet at the middle of the cross. Make sure the top part of the 's' shapes don't touch and that the right one has a hook-like top.
Thicken the left side of the head circle. Slightly to the right, add an 's' shape. Extend the left-side of the head so that it meets the end of the 's' shape.
 Add a curved 'v' to the end of the left bang.


From the top of the head to the middle of the head (on the right side), draw a curve with the hook at the top.
Erase the top part of the head and the part of the hairline that's underneath the bangs. Also erase the top and bottom lines inside the left-side bang.
 Erase the cross section in the middle of the face.


Add a curved line to the right of the top-side half of the head.
Extend the line on the left-side of the head so the it ends roughly above the other bangs.
Draw a curve connecting the top of the left-side bang to the right-side without going through any of the other lines of the bangs.
 Draw two thick dots above the eye-lids.


Draw a slightly-thick curve from outside the periods.
Draw a curve from the right-side of the head down to the top of her cheek. The top of the curve should be roughly the same height as the eyelashes.
 Draw a line angled out from the bottom third of her ear.


Draw a curve from the bottom of that line back to her jawline.
Draw curve within this that doesn't touch the other part of the earring thus far.
Connect the top stem of the earring and erase the part of the ear within the earring stem.
 On the top-left side of her head, draw to line angled to the left. The should be roughly the same width apart as the eyelid.


Draw a curved line connecting them.
 Draw two lines on the left-side of the bun.


Draw two curves on the left-side of the lines.
Draw two lines between the previous lines and the top of the head.
Erase the part of the bun between every other one of these lines.
Connect the right-side of these lines.
 Draw a half-circle in the middle of the bottom have of her head.


Draw a 'v' underneath the half-circle. Shade in the 'v' with hash marks.
 Draw two short lines half-way between the nose and chin.


Draw periods at the top corners of the lines.
 Feel free to skip this step if disinterested. If you do try it, the key is to make curve with a light line-weight. The curve should alternate from starting together or not. Examples of the line types are given next to her head.

