 If you are an avid golfer who doesn't care about a beautiful day, exercise, or just getting some fresh air, this is a waste of a day. So just be prepared. As an avid golfer one knows or should know, you play to the level of your opponent, so on this day your game will suffer. If you don't have much patience then you are in for a long day. Use a course with a beverage cart, or stop by a package store before you begin.;
, Speed of the round being the most important topic. Hopefully you will get to explain this before the first tee. With their excitement, nerves, and anxiety; they will not retain much if anything so stress on the speed of play.
 Keep a close eye on where their ball goes. When this inevitably occurs, have them drop the ball out in the fairway, or better yet up by your ball. The closer you can get them to your ball, the faster the round will go. Four or five hacks till they get to your ball will definitely slow the round.


Don't make them hit the ball where it lies, always let them improve their lie. Avoid trouble at all cost.
 Another certainty is "what am I doing wrong?" Two things that are useful to say are "keep your eye on the ball", and "just whack it". Or, "get some lessons". Much more than that will clog their mind and end up making things worse.
 Score is of no avail in this outing. Your own will be higher than normal and there is really no need to keep the beginners at this stage of the game. Try to get them to concentrate on making a few good shots and be happy about that for now. Have fun.


If they insist on a score, then triple bogeys are the highest they should ever get. Not only will that make them feel better, but it will influence them to pick up rather than hacking 12 or 15 shots a hole.
 You want her to follow you around for the day. And she could literally round the course for each hole you play, at the pace you will be playing.
 The biggest thing to remember is some schmuck had to sit through your beginnings and look where you are today. And who knows, if they take to it like you did, in a couple of years you might have a fun golf partner.

