 The Dauntless faction members wear all black, but they add little things that make their style unique.


Girls usually wear tighter shirts, leggings/skinny jeans, combat boots, and tight dresses. If you aren't comfortable wearing those things, you could wear looser black shirts and regular jeans. Guys typically wear tight shirts, jeans, leather jackets, and combat boots.
The Dauntless girls usually wear some sort of makeup. It's usually something more exotic than what we wear everyday, but it doesn't have to be much. It could just be some black eyeliner and a bright lip color.
Some people in Dauntless have colored hair. It's usually a bright color, but you could just dye your hair a darker or lighter color.;
, A lot of people in Dauntless have piercings and tattoos. If you're a minor, you can't get a tattoo, but if you want one, consider fake tattoos or henna instead. Piercings are quite popular among the Dauntless as well, but make sure if you're a minor that you have permission from parents before getting any piercings. If you are afraid or uncomfortable  with piercings, you can always get ones that are fake and non-body piercing.
 This is very crucial. Just wearing black, chains and tattoos don't make you Dauntless. Achieve self confidence. Walk confident and careless. It makes you noticeable.
 Most of the Dauntless are confident in themselves, and they don't talk themselves down.  The members may have their issues with themselves, but they don't tell people because it causes a negative environment, and Dauntless is quite a positive one. If you're the kind of person who typically talks themself down, try and stop, because that only makes yourself less confident and brings your self-esteem down.


Surround yourself with people who bring you up. If you're hanging out with people who are constantly telling you all the negative things about yourself, stop hanging out with them. Make new friends that tell you the truth when you need it, but don't tell you all of the negative things about yourself. This really helps bring your confidence level up.
 Since Dauntless is the warrior faction, they're tasked with defending and fighting. This means that everyone in Dauntless is physically fit.


Make your own workout routine that fits to your body needs. Don't look up some hard workout that works your arms when you already have strong and muscular arms. Work the weakest parts of your body to help them become stronger.
Take a self-defense class. During Dauntless initiation, the initiates go through a whole stage of learning to fight. Take up a taekwondo class, and start boxing. Anything related to helping defend yourself will be worth it.
 The whole second stage of Dauntless is finding out your fears and overcoming them. If you don't know what your fears are, think of all the things you've been afraid of and write them down. If you're afraid of the dark, sit in a dark room for an hour without any flashlights. If you're afraid of heights, try climbing a tree, then go on the roof of a house, then maybe try a roller coaster that doesn't go to high. It's all about facing your fears, and knowing how to quell them.
 The thing the Dauntless do the most is I've there lives how they want to, not how someone else is or wants them to. They do the things they love and they're loud and don't hold back when they're having fun. Don't try to be like a specific person and copy everything that they do, because that's them, and not you. Don't limit yourself and try your hardest at things, because being happy is the best thing you can be.