 If you can’t get support from those around you, you’ll have to look elsewhere to find it. Joining a support group allows you to talk about what you are going through, and listen to the struggles that others are experiencing, as well. This lets you know you aren’t alone, and that people care about you and what you’re going through.


Many find that attending support groups in person helps them the most, but you may find that online meetings suit you the best. Do whatever it is that makes you feel the strongest and offers you the amount of support you need. , Living in a facility that is centered around you getting clean may be exactly what you need to stop using. Everyone there is on a mission to help you stop your addiction and to feel better about yourself. You’ll have access to help whenever you need it and will be around other people going through the same journey as yourself.


One of the biggest advantages to living in a treatment facility is that you won’t have access to any kind of drugs or alcohol. You won’t be able to leave to get it, and your visitors won’t be able to bring it to you. You won’t be around it at all, so you may not be as tempted to use. You may find that if you are able to get through these first few days or weeks without using, you may not go back, even when you would be able to., If you’re going somewhere in which drinking or drug use will take place, like a family event, take a support team with you. Bring a friend from one of your meetings or your sponsor, so that you will have someone there to help you should you become tempted. Attending an event that will have what you are attempting to quit isn’t something you should do during the early stages of recovery, but you may be able to do it without caving some time down the road.


If you’re attending a party, find a non-alcoholic drink you love and stick to it. You may feel deprived if you’re throwing back water while everyone else is enjoying alcohol and that may tempt you to drink. Instead, make yourself some “mocktinis,” which have all of the ingredients of your favorite drink without the alcohol.