 Get out a pair of 3.5mm circular needles and some DK or light worsted weight yarn in white, cream, or off-white. Cast on 6 stitches, then join them using a slip stitch.Having troubles finding DK yarn? Look for something labeled as "light worsted" or "3".;
, To knit, hold the needle with all of your stitches in your left hand. Poke your right needle through the first stitch on your left needle. Drape the yarn over the tip of your right needle. Use the needle to pull the yarn through the loop. Keep the loop on your right needle, and slip the first stitch off of the left needle. Do this for the entire row and don't turn your work.


Unlike with regular knitting, you will not be turning your work. Consider using a stitch marker, safety pin, or piece of contrasting yarn to mark your first and last stitch. This will help you tell when one row ends and another begins.The stitches on your needle have two sides: a front and back. When you are sliding your right needle into the stitch, you are sliding it past the front part of the stitch first, so that the stitch twists a little.
 Start knitting as you usually would: poke your right needle into the first stitch, drape the yarn over the tip, then pull the loop through the stitch. 'Don't drop the stitch yet. Poke the needle into the stitch again. Drape the yarn over the tip, and pull the loop through the stitch. Now, you can drop your first stitch.Do this for every stitch in the row. You will end up with 12 stitches.


When doing a KFB stitch, your right needle does through the front part of the stitch first. The second time, it goes directly into the back side of the stitch, without any twisting., Knit your third row like usual. For your fourth row, knit twice into each stitch, front-and-back. You will have a total of 24 stitches when you are done with your fourth row., Do not turn your work or add any front-and-back stitches. These rows will build up the body of your snowman ornament., This is your decreasing row. You'll have a total of 12 stitches by the end of it. To do this, poke your right needle through the second stitch first, then continue through the first stitch. Drape your yarn over the tip of your needle, then use the needle to pull the yarn through both stitches. Do this for the entire row., Knit as usual all the way across for the 11th row. When you reach the 12th row, alternate between knitting one stitch, and then knitting two stitches together. You will have a total of 8 stitches., Knit twice, front-and-back (kfb) into each stitch all the way across the row. You'll have a total of 16 stitches., You can use polyester stuffing or cotton balls. Stuff it as firmly as you can. Don't worry if some of the stuffing pokes you; you can continue to poke the stuffing back inside the snowman as you work.
 Knit as you normally would for rows 14 and 16. For row 16, do your decreases by knitting every two stitches together. You will have a total of 8 stitches by the end of your 16th row., Knit the 17th row, then cut the yarn, and thread the tail onto a yarn needle. Finish stuffing the snowman, then pull the needle back and forth through the stitches on the knitting needles. Pull your work off of the knitting needles, tighten the yarn, and finish off with a knot. Trim off any excess yarn.,, You will have a total of 5 stitches., On the 7th, alternate between knitting 2 stitches together, then knitting 1 stitch, and then knitting 2 more stitches. You should have a total of 3 stitches when you are done., Cut the yarn, leaving behind a long tail. Thread the tail through your yarn needle, and pass the yarn back and forth through the stitches on your knitting needles. Pull your hat off of the knitting needles, pull the yarn taut, and tie it off into a tight knot. Trim off any excess yarn.The hat will be pointed at the top. If you'd like to turn this into a knit, ski-type hat, consider gluing a mini pompom to the top.
 You can use ribbon or yarn for the loop. You can also crochet a chain and use that instead. Thread your string onto a yarn needle, then push the needle through the top of the hat. Tie the ends of your string together to form a loop, then twist the loop until the knot is inside the hat.
 You will need some DK yarn for this. Your scarf can be any color you want, but red will give you the most classical look., Your stitches will transfer from the left needle to the right. This method is also known as the i-cord.
 Don't turn your work. Simply take the right needle, and slide your stitches across it to the other pointed end., Again, don't turn your work. Take put needle with all of the stitches into your let hand, and the empty into your left hand. You should now be back where you started: a needle with stitches in your left hand, and an empty needle in your right hand., Because you did not turn your work, the yarn will now be coming from the opposite end. Before you start knitting again, place the working yarn along the back of your work, towards the first stitch. Keep it nice and taut., At the end of the row, don't turn your work. Simply slide the stitches to the other end of the needle, then switch hands.
, Once the scarf is the right length, bind it off, and knot off the end. Weave the tail back into the top of the scarf, and carefully trim off any stitches.
 If the scarf is long enough, you and tie the scarf into a knot, jut like you would with a real scarf. If the scarf is too short, cross the two ends over each other to form a snug X, then stitch them together using a yarn needle and matching yarn.
 Simply make a couple of stitches in one place using your yarn needle and some black yarn until you have a lumpy, black shape. Your stitches do not have to be neat; snowmen have eyes made out of coal, and coal is lumpy.


If you know how to embroider, try a French knot!

, The scarf will hide the mouth, but the rest of your snowman will still be visible. If you want to, add 3 buttons onto the body using the same technique as for the eyes.
 The length of the triangle is up to you; the longer your triangle is, the longer the nose will be.
 Draw a line of hot glue or fabric glue down the center of the triangle, then fold it in half. Hold it until the glue sets. If you don't have any glue, you can sew it instead using orange thread.If the nose is too fat, simply cut another one, but make the triangle slimmer.
If the nose is too long, simply cut a little bit off of the base.
 Place a drop of glue at the base of the nose, then place it onto the center of the face, just above the scarf. If you don't have any glue, you can sew it on instead., Depending on what type of glue you used, this should only take a few seconds to a few minutes.

