 Ask them how they feel about the friendship. Whether they say they're happy with the way it is, or they don't, you should still think about your final decision.;
, What are you gaining that matters from this relationship? What are you losing? What would you gain and/or lose from ending this friendship? How about your friend? Ask them how they feel if they know the friendship may be ended. If they're oblivious, don't ask, because this could seriously hurt them, and make them feel like you're carelessly calling it quits, whether it's you causing the problems or him/her.
 First, find a good time and place.


The lunch table, when they're having a good day isn't such a good idea, because this makes the conversation seem public, and it only ruins the nice day for them. Maybe when it's just an average day, you can approach them after school with what you have to say. That's a time when everyone's focused on getting home, so, most likely, no one will bother you.

It is also a good idea to avoid talking to your friend when he or she is having a bad or not-so-good day, or when he or she is feeling down. Choosing a time like this would only make him him or her feel worse.


Just make sure you find a private location to tell them where no one's likely to overhear what's going on or witness the whole thing. That way, they can think about it at home, where they can cry if they must, and talk about it with someone without interruptions. They can grieve with comfortable, familiar surroundings.
 How do you feel?" Make sure you explain your reasons why it isn't easy to continue calling yourself his/her friend. If they want to talk for a minute, by all means, let them! This is about both of you.
 Things don't always turn out the way they were planned to. That's basically the whole lesson you (and your former friend) could learn from this. Maybe you could learn even more from it! Maybe this person will try to win you back. Tell them, "it just won't work out. We've tried." Just move on with your life.

