 You and your husband should set ground rules dealing with his bipolar disorder. These rules cover various behaviors, from major depressive episodes, to suicidal thoughts, to manic spending sprees. These rules are set in place to help both of you know what to expect when your husband starts acting certain ways, and to help each of you know what the other expects from you.Discuss these rules with your husband when he is not in an episode.
Make sure to outline clearly what your non-negotiable rules are. Tell your husband what behaviors are not acceptable to you. Explain the consequences and actions you will take if he doesn't take his meds, goes on a spending sprees, or something else. Make sure you are willing to follow through, otherwise the action plan is pointless.Remember, you are talking to your husband and partner, so approach it firmly, but lovingly. Don't bully your husband or treat him like a child. Approach this like two adults who are making a responsible action plan to manage his bipolar so your marriage and family will remain strong and intact.
 One important aspect of coping with bipolar disorder and having a healthy, working marriage and family is to make sure the person with bipolar follows his or her management plan. Your husband should take his meds as directed, go to his therapy appointments, and follow any other management strategies that the psychiatrist, you, and your husband have come up with.One hard and fast rule should be that your husband takes his meds as directed. Most problems with the treatment of bipolar is that people skip their meds or stop taking them.
 Many people with bipolar go on manic spending sprees. This puts a lot of financial stress and strain on families and relationships. It's helpful to come up with rules with your husband for how you can limit any manic spending.For example, put a rule into place where you can take away his credit card or freeze his accounts is he starts spending.
 Some people with bipolar can lash out at their families. You should set a precedent in your family that this will not be tolerated. Discuss with your husband that all physical abuse is not acceptable and will not be tolerated. Also talk to him about how you will not tolerate verbal and emotional abuse.If your husband is verbally or emotionally abusive, talk to your husband about ways in which the two of you can work on controlling these verbal outbursts. Consult the psychiatrist if you need to.
 You and your husband should come up with certain rules for when things get too bad. This may include when he refuses to take his medicine, gets in a bad episode, or is suicidal. The rules you set in place for this are to protect your husband as much as you.


For example, your husband may be responsible for contacting the doctor if he’s been in a depressive episode for days.
Your husband may be expected to to tell you if he’s suicidal so you can contact the doctor and get him the help he needs.

