 Sometimes the resistance to change is not occurring in others, but within yourself. Perhaps you have found yourself in a situation where everyone else seems okay with the changes but you are not. Consider whether you may have inadvertently taken steps to sabotage the change, such as by dragging your feet, purposely underperforming, or making negative comments to others. Rather than ruminating over your negative feelings, talk about the issues at hand. This will help you think about the problem with reason rather than emotion.Find a trusted coworker, friend or family member to talk to about your issue. The more you talk, the more you might realize that there are opportunities for compromise or change within yourself.
 Though you might be feeling particularly upset about some decisions that were made, choose to find the humor in it or the humor surrounding you. Laughter tends to make even the tensest situation feel a bit lighter, so find some way to laugh.Look for ways to laugh alongside your coworkers. This will help to foster teambuilding.
 Some stress, like the kind you feel while preparing for a presentation, is good stress because it helps to propel you to success. Other stress is avoidable. If, during this process, a particular person is being very toxic and negative towards you because of your resistance, spend less time with that person. Be mindful of who you give your time and energy to., After successfully destressing and working through the issues in your mind, begin coming up with some potential solutions. For instance, perhaps you have been tasked with taking on a new set of projects at work that you don’t feel comfortable with. Think of how you can feel more confident and prepared to take on this new role.For instance, perhaps you can schedule a meeting with the person who previously did this job.
Read any files or articles about the information and talk to your boss about your concerns. Remember that it is okay to speak up if you do not understand something or if you need help. Don’t try to figure things out all on your own and suffer in silence.

