 The needed cooperation and respect comes on the basis of leadership into successful learning opportunities every day.
 Facilitate whole class, and smaller groups with students leading or having the floor when you call on them, and help with what is seen as necessary to follow you to receive the promised good results – if you can deliver them.
 Busy-work (things they already know) will not bring ultimate success. But, the students need new learning activities. "Success breeds success, but failure breeds failure."



Assignments need to be understandable and to seem successful to the student.
 Retesting can help for competency or excellence. The coach-teacher/leader facilitates athleticism/academics (successful reps for learning without boredom).
 Discomfort is a critical element of daily renewal, coming out of moments of confusion and embarrassment, but not from boredom.



Confusion motivates learning – if the students are allowed to demand clarifying of confusing elements. It is critical to be renewed by clarifying confusion again and again, and to pass on renewed viability to your class.
Super-focus (without interruption) and then take a break: "work from bell to bell with breaks in the stress – being on the edge of your chair leaning toward the future," may be one way to express this.
 However, be sure to share the floor, as needed. Ensure that others have the floor at your behest, and at the same time keep a sense of overarching authority and contagious enthusiasm in order to maintain the students' cooperation. Retaining the initial starry feeling that "this is my awe inspiring new class/teacher" (or regaining) that first day kind of awe of the new-teacher/subject is tricky, but aiming for this is a precious goal.
 Such negative approaches to marshaling attention and action is not "leadership". Leadership consists of acts or instances of guidance; direction; leading; for example, "They prospered under his/her leadership toward their shared goals for learning.", These positive expectations will help you to do what you expect as you manage the circumstances that are benefiting the whole. Maintain this initial position every day by showing that you are not allowing a vacuum of leadership to lead to a loss of the initial unquestioned position of the teacher as the main leader in the classroom. Insist on your finding ways to:


Engage students,
Involve students,
Promote student-centered learning (and enjoy their learning).
 This involves step-by-step calm, firm, and fair discipline, that will impact not only their learning with you but their education as a whole and eventually pass through to their careers. Instill discipline by your plans and by having the students working and learning to become successful without frenzy.
 Avoid fusion with the role of students and confusion of goals for the teacher-leadership role within the class learning unit.
 Nourish and nurture good expectations.
 And individual work or credit (objectively), never praise the student in front of others (to subjective).



Ask for students to agree: "Wasn't that a great job. Yeah that was right on! Great Job!" Praise a child for work!
Praise the "great job" and "fine work" publicly. That is as simple as asking, "You see?" and praising them "You got it! Okay?" Leadership inspires confidence in others and draws out the trust and best efforts of the group to complete the task well. A leader who conveys confidence towards the proposed objective inspires the best effort from class members.
Present a positive and also authoritative (not authoritarian) demeanor: Students have the handy ability to be able to tell, if a teacher is not confident. So you must consistently show confidence as a person and in your leadership role. If they suspect your lack of confidence, then they will take advantage of the situation, attempting to get away with everything while largely ignoring you, making poor choices, being disrespectful or even disruptive. They may pretend to give in: "Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, okay I'll stop.", but "not" for long.
 This will bring the opportunity to give motivation and much more than just hope. Hope has limitations. Success elicits your faith, love of learning and expectation to experience change by believing in it, expecting it, but not just hoping for it.


Backing off and relaxing from your few consistent rules can be based on circumstances where you share power when students work in groups, but then you must regain that consistency – or suffer the loss of your position as "leader-one" and your control of that classroom to chaos, boredom, or frenzy, if you allow a free-for-all or loss of your position to a student(s) who wants to run the class, or ignore you.
 If you are not being followed by at least one other person you are not leading and the following proverb applies to you: "He who thinks he leads but has no followers is on a lonely, individual walk." Do more than survive in the classroom because you can't be taking a walk all alone; the real leaders in your class may run right over you.

