 Pass out the entire deck to the players, face down. Distribute evenly so everyone has the same amount. Players hold their cards face down and are not allowed to look at them.
 The person left of the dealer goes first by pulling the top card off his/her pile and placing it face-up in the middle. You are not allowed to see your card until it is placed in the middle.
 This continues around the table until somebody puts down a letter card (J, Q, K, or A).
 The number of chances they have to play a letter card is determined by the initial letter; you can play up to 4 cards if an ace has been played, 3 for a king, 2 for a queen, and just 1 for a jack.


If the next person in the sequence does not play a letter card within their allotted chances, the person who played the last letter card wins the round and the whole pile goes to them. Subsequently, the next round begins with this winning person.
Remember, nobody can look at their cards before they're played, so the odds are completely random!

, The first person to slap the pile of cards when the slap rule is put into effect is the winner of that round. If it cannot be determined who was the first to slap the pile, the person with the most fingers on top wins. If the tie cannot be resolved this way, play continues normally.
 Ex: 5, 5

Sandwich: when two cards of equivalent value are are laid down consecutively, but with one card of different value between them. Ex: 5, 7, 5

Top bottom (or bottoms up): when the same card as the first card of the set is laid down. However, this rule is nullified if a card is burned as a penalty (see below).

Tens: when two cards played consecutively (or with a letter card in between) add up to 10. For this rule, an ace counts as one. Ex: 3, 7 or A, K, 9 (sandwich)

Jokers: when jokers are used in the game, which should be determined before gameplay begins. Anytime someone lays down a joker, the pile can be slapped.

Four in a row: when four cards with values in consistent ascending or descending order is placed. Ex: 5, 6, 7, 8 or Q, K, A, 2

Marriage: when a Queen is placed over or under a King (this is considered an optional rule). Ex: Q, K or K,Q

, This is called "burning cards" and voids the top bottom slap, since it changes the first card in the set.


If you have no cards and you slap at the wrong time, then you are out of the game for good (unless you are playing by modified rules, such as allowing players to lend cards to each other).
 So long as you don't slap at the wrong time, you are still allowed to "slap in" and get cards! Everyone should try to stay in the game until you have a single winner who obtains all the cards.

