 Of course you will be sleeping in your bedroom, but you probably use it for other activities. You may want to plan for a space to do homework or crafts, choose a spot for playing video games or watching television, designate an area for practicing a musical instrument, or set aside a space for doing your hair or makeup., Think about what items you already have that you want to reuse. If you love your bedspread, choose colors that match or accent it for painting or accessories. If your favorite color is red, choose one or two light accent colors to go with it. Be sure to thoroughly consider what colors or theme you want, and think about if you will still like it in a few months or even a few years.A few ideas for themes include: music, sports, technology, nautical, retro, modern, metropolitan, and boho.
 Changing the wall color can give your room a whole new feel. You can paint your walls or put up temporary wallpaper. Feel free to paint only one wall, all of them, or even the ceiling. If you choose a dark color, it’s best to use it on an accent wall rather than for your entire room. Be sure to get your parents’ permission, follow all directions, and ventilate the area., A desk is an essential part of your room. You can use it to do your homework, surf the web, write in your journal, etc. Choose one that fits your needs as well as your personal style; maybe you want a simple, streamlined desk or perhaps you need one with lots of drawers or built-in shelves. Don’t forget to pick a chair to go with your desk, and ensure it is the right height for writing or typing comfortably.
 An interesting bed frame is a great way to personalize your room; consider a funky headboard or even a sleigh bed, depending on your style. A bedspread or comforter can also be a statement piece for your room. Choose a bold pattern or a fun texture to add personality to your room. If your walls are patterned or filled with poster and photos, you may want to stick with a solid bedspread to keep the room from becoming too busy.


Add fun throw pillows for extra comfort and style.
 You’ll likely want a space other than your bed for you or your guests to sit on. Beanbag chairs are relatively cheap and are super comfy. Gaming chairs are great for those who love to play, or you could add ottomans that open for extra seating as well as storage. Pillows also make great seating, so set out some colorful or printed pillows if you can’t get new chairs., It’s usually best to start with your bed and move on from there. Keep in mind those activities you thought of when planning your new space. Create zones for different purposes, such as sleeping, working, relaxing, and playing. You can use a curtain, or even furniture, to separate the spaces, like putting a desk in the middle of your room to separate your sleeping area from the space in which you watch television or play video games., Blinds or drapes can help block out the light at night as well as give you some privacy. Choose blinds or curtains that fit your style and the theme or colors you chose for your room.Even if you can’t change your window coverings completely, you can still add your own style. For example, consider adding a sheer curtain over your blinds for a pop of color. You could even hang beads over your windows or in your doorway.
 Lamps or lanterns are essential for your room. Not only will they give you extra lighting, but they are a great way to tie in accent colors or personalize your space. You could even go with a neon sign for an extra cool touch., Rugs are a nice way to change the look and feel of your bedroom. A fun and funky print can liven up your space as well as add some extra padding if you have hardwood floors. Choose one large rug or a few smaller ones, depending on your space., These will help you personalize the space. Choose a dreamy landscape to help you relax, or an informational poster, like the periodic table, to keep your mind sharp. You can also put up maps, calendars, or cork boards. Add pictures of yourself, your pets, your friends, and your family to make the room your own.

