 Use a sponge mop to saturate your floor with a solution of 2 gallons (7.57 L) of hot water, 1 cup (240 mL) of non-bleaching powder dishwasher detergent and 2 cups (480 mL) of ammonia. Allow the solution to sit on the floor for a couple of minutes. Scrub gently using the scrubber edge of the mop or a scrub brush, then mop up any extra liquid. Go over the floor again with clear hot water, using your scrubber to remove any remaining wax.You may need to scrub corners and around baseboards by hand.
Dry the floor with old towels or rags.;
, Combine ½ cup (120 mL) of ammonia with 2 gallons (7.57 L) of warm water. Use this solution to mop your vinyl or tile floor. Let it sit on the floor for at least ten minutes to eat through the wax buildup. Dry the floor with old towels.Repeat the process if needed to completely remove the wax.
Use hot water to clean epoxy floors. Mix ½ cup (120 mL) of ammonia with 2 gallons (7.57 L) of hot water and mop with a hard foam mop., Mop your tile floor with a solution of ¾ cup (180 mL) of ammonia with 1 cup (240 mL) of laundry detergent and 1 gallon (3.785 L) of warm water. Allow the solution to sit on the floor for about ten minutes. Scrub the floor with a scrubbing sponge or stiff scrub brush. Rinse the solution from the floor with clean water.Dry with old towels or rags before applying new wax.
Try the same stripping method on your tile floors with a solution of 1 cup (240 mL) of white vinegar, 1 cup (240 mL) of ammonia, and 1 gallon (3.785 L) of warm water., Pour club soda directly on a section of your floor. Scrub with a stiff scrub brush or scrubbing sponge. Let it soak into the floor for a few minutes, then wipe the floor dry., Buy a polish-stripper that is made for the type of stone you have. Apply a liberal amount of the polish-stripper to a section of the floor. Let it set for about 10 minutes, then scrub it vigorously with a wire brush. Wipe up the stripper with rags and mop the section of floor with clean water to remove any stripping product. Repeat this process until you have scrubbed and mopped the entire floor.You can scrub the polish with a floor buffer that has a stripping pad.
Try wiping up the stripper with a wet/dry vacuum that has a squeegee attachment.

