 Open Microsoft Word by clicking on the Start menu located at the bottom left of your computer screen. Click “Programs” from the menu displayed, and look for “Microsoft Office.” Once you find it, click on it and click on “MS Word” to open a blank document.;
, Click “File” at the top left of the screen. Select “Open” from the menu, and a file explorer will appear. Use this to navigate through your files and folders until you find the PDF file you want to edit. Double-click on the PDF file once you find it. Make sure that you select “All files” from the drop-down list next to the file name field so all file types will appear in the file explorer window.


When you double-click on the PDF file, a dialog box will appear confirming whether you want to convert the PDF file into a Word document, click “OK” to proceed.
If the PDF file has content that Word is unable to convert, another dialog box may appear. Click “OK.”

, Once you’ve successfully imported the PDF file to your MS Word, you can now edit it just like any other Word document. You can add new sentences and paragraphs, and edit and delete information already present like any Word file. You can even alter the page size, the line spacing, the margins, the font style, color, size and font too.
 To replace an image or graphics, locate it in the file and delete it. Then click “Insert” on the toolbar at the top to open the insert options, and select “Image.” Use the file explorer to locate the image you would like to use to replace the existing one. Once you find it, double-click it to insert it into the file.


To locate graphics easily, especially if the file contains lots of pages, use the Find and Replace function. Click “Home” then “Find” to open the Find window. After opening the window, Click the “More” button to bring up more search options. Place the cursor in the “Find what” field then select “Graphic” from the special drop-down list.
To delete an entire SmartArt graphic, click the border of the SmartArt graphic that you want to delete, and then press the Delete key.
 To edit an image, you can right-click on the image to open a complete list of editing option. This includes cropping, resizing, adding captions, formatting, positioning, and also attaching hyperlinks. Select the editing option you want to use on the image.
 Once the document is edited, click “File” at the top, select “Save As,” and navigate to the folder where you want to save the PDF file in . Choose “PDF” from the “Save as Type” drop-down list, and click “Save” to save the file into PDF format.

