 Believe it or not, breastfeeding your baby reduces the likelihood that they will develop several conditions that are risks factors for heart disease later in life. In fact, breastfeeding should be the exclusive form of feeding your baby for the first six months of their life. You should also continue to breastfeed until they are about a year old.However, if you are unable to breastfeed, don't feel guilty. Talk to your doctor about the best formula to feed your baby.
 Exposure to first and second hand smoke can contribute to many health maladies, including heart disease. Meanwhile, be aware that many young people experiment with tobacco use during high school - but that if they stay smoke-free through school, they are highly unlikely to use tobacco regularly.Cigarette smoking causes as much as 75% of the cases of childhood heart disease in those who are otherwise not at risk.
Talk to your children about the negative effects of smoking. These include discolored teeth, bad breath, and weakened lungs and muscles.
If you smoke, do not do so around your children, nor in any environments that they occupy, such as your car or home. Strongly consider quitting smoking, as your behavior increases the likelihood that your children will smoke too.
If you believe your child smokes, point out the reasons they should quit in an understanding, supportive manner. Mention that they will will longer, healthier lives and save considerable money by quitting. Have them talk to a healthcare professional about it too.
 Have your child’s lipids levels tested within a year of their tenth birthday, and then again between the ages of seventeen and twenty one. While it may seem a bit early to test a nine or ten year old, early testing can help lead to better control of your child’s cholesterol and a reduced risk of heart disease as they age.Your doctor may check your child's lipids sooner if they have risk factors.


Sometimes, high cholesterol is hereditary. Often, however, it is the effect of eating too much meat, dairy, and other foods with lots of saturated fat.
If you and your doctor discover that your child does have high cholesterol, follow their advice regarding behavioral changes and potential treatment options.
 Obesity is one of the most common risk factors for heart disease. This factor is especially significant for children. While many young people have yet to fully grow into their bodies, obesity is a medical condition based on the portion of fat that makes up an individual’s body mass. In order to ensure your child is not obese, you can calculate their BMI, or body mass index.An individual’s BMI is calculated by dividing weight (in kilograms) by height (in meters squared).
You can find free BMI calculators online. Usually scored in terms of percentile vs. the average, online calculators will include a chart that factors in your child’s age and gender.
The most likely cause of obesity is eating more calories than you burn.
If your child is obese, begin working to adjust their dietary behavior, as well as helping them become more active. See a doctor soon too, as there may be a medical cause.
Also, keep in mind that BMI is not always accurate for every body type, especially for more muscular teenagers. Your doctor will use the BMI along with other factors to determine your child's risk of obesity.
 There are several other factors that may put your child at greater risk of developing heart disease. For example, high blood pressure can increase their risk, and this often goes undetected in young people. Ensure that this test is done regularly at annual check-ups. Other factors that should be discussed with your child’s doctor include:Any sleep issues your child experiences.
Any family history of heart conditions or diabetes.
If your child is obese, they should also regularly be screened for diabetes.
 There are other medical conditions that can greatly increase the risk of heart disease as well. Aside from diabetes, be aware that kidney disease, organ transplant, and Kawasaki disease place your child at considerable risk.Other significant risk factors that will need to be addressed professionally include accelerated atherosclerosis before age 30, persistent inflammatory conditions, and HIV.
Mental health issues may also place your child at greater risk and should always be mentioned to your child’s medical doctor.

