 Click the blue “S” icon from your computer’s desktop to launch the app. Enter your Skype username and password on the allocated text fields, and click the “Sign In” button you see on the window.


If you don’t have a Skype account yet, click the “Create an Account” and provide your basic personal information, a valid email address, and your desired password to get one.;
, After signing in, click the name of one of your contacts that you want to include in the conference call from the Contact List, which is at the left menu panel of the Skype window. This will show the message panel on the center of the Skype window.


If you have any previous chat with this person, this will also show on the message panel.
 On the upper portion of the message panel (right beside the picture of your Skype contact) you’ll see a plus (+) icon. Click this icon and select “Add People” from the drop-down list. This will open the “Add People” dialog window.


On the “Add People” window, click on the name of the contacts you want to include on the conference call from list displayed on the left-hand side, and click the “Select” button.
Once you’ve selected all the contacts you want to include on the conference call, click the “Add” button on the lower right corner of the Add People dialog window to finalize your picks.
 Once everyone you want to talk to is included in the conversation, click the “Call” button on top of the message panel (right beside the picture of your Skype contact) to start the conference call. All you have to do now is to wait for everyone to answer your call.


Answering a conference call is optional. The conference can commence even if there are a few who will not answer the call.
 Once you’re done talking with each other, you can end the call by clicking the red phone icon at the bottom of the Skype call screen.


Note that if the one who started the conference ended the call, everyone will be disconnected. On the other hand, if only a participant disconnects from the call, the conference will continue as long as the one who started it doesn’t terminate the conversation.

