 When considering whether or not it is beneficial to outsource one's customer service functions to a third party, think about your customers' needs and expectations. Once these needs and expectations have been explicitly identified, it will be easier to target how the business outsourcing its customer service functions and the third-party contractor (be it a business or individual) can work in tandem to reduce operating costs or improve customer satisfaction., Governance is an agreed upon set of roles, rights and accountability, principles, procedures, and escalation processes that guide decision making, issue resolution, and changes in the outsourcing arrangement.Be sure that all of these factors are clearly defined within contractual agreements. It is also important to make sure that both the business and the third-party contractor have set-up mechanisms that can ensure the contractual obligations and agreements are being met throughout the business relationship., Outsourcing your customer service functions for cost can only be beneficial if the fee paid for outsourcing those services is less than maintaining a customer service department in-house. In the same way, outsourcing your customer service to improve customer satisfaction is only effective if the third-party service can provide better service than you can in-house.


Third-party contractors can operate customer service functions more effectively because they specialize in this particular area. The third-party contractor usually undertakes the costs and responsibilities of training customer service employees and has mechanisms in place to achieve this training quickly and effectively. It is for reasons such as this that outsourcing your customer service to a third-party can be more cost-effective and beneficial to your business model.Before entering into an agreement with any third-party contractor, you should determine if it would be more cost-effective to outsource the actual customer service functions of your business or to simply outsource the training of your customer service employees to the third-party contractor.
 Management of an outsourcing relationship requires certain key skills and actions, including clear and effective lines of communication between the business and the third-party contractor. Make sure there is a person or entity within your business that can oversee the operations and effectiveness of the third-party contractor within the obligations and agreements of the initial contract.It may also be helpful to ensure that the third-party contractor has a management team in place that will be accountable for the business arrangement you have laid out with that contractor.
 Relationships must be evaluated regularly and repaired from time to time. Periodically, a joint buyer and provider relationship review must be conducted in order to rectify any outstanding issues or to bolster the existing relationship.