 Every person who has ice powers has to know about the ice and snow and wintertime. Learn about how snow is formed, what snow crystals look like, and weather patterns in various parts of the world, especially where you live.;
, Start with "The Snow Queen" By Hans Christian Anderson, as this is what Frozen is based off of. The Snow Queen in this story has ice powers, and you could learn a lot from her.
 Watch Frozen or Rise of the Guardians, two great movies with characters with ice powers. Pay attention to how these powerful characters act, what they do and say, and especially how they like the cold. Some other characters with ice powers include Frozone from The Incredibles, the Ice King from Adventure Time, and Iceman from X-Men.
 Although bleaching your whole head is a viable option, it's not necessary. Instead, add a few white streaks or highlights here and there. Or you can just get some white hair extensions so you don't damage your hair.
 Have some winter jewelry like snowflake charms or other wintry patterns. You can wear necklaces, earrings, rings, bracelets, bows, or anything else that strikes your fancy - but take it easy; don't wear all these things at the same time or you'll look like you're trying too hard and people will be suspicious.
 Wear blues, whites, silvers, and maybe a little bit of black. You can wear normal colors too, but winter colors should form most of your wardrobe.


Wear casual and sometimes over-the-moon fancy outfits. For example, think of Frozen themed outfits. Wear casual blue or white long or occasionally short shirts. Wear sweaters in the shades blue, dark blue, light blue, and white. And for pants wear some long spandex or leggings in the colors black, blue, white, and gray.
Maybe use accessories such as a hood over your head, or a casual scarf.
Wear occasional fancy blue, or white dresses.


Wear this sort of gear often, according to the event and try to wear more dresses at home, so that you don't have to conceal your true ways.
 If you do, it'll look like the snow or cold doesn't affect you, which is true of people with ice powers. Or it will look like you have some power that keeps you warm and the cold out, which also suggests ice powers. Just make sure you're not shivering all the time - then, people will notice.
 Wear casual, wintry style, a little white or light blue and sometimes shimmery eyeshadow.


If you don't have blue eyes, consider wearing blue eye contacts. Every person with ice powers has blue eyes. They should be bright blue or ice blue, and if possible, they should have a snowflake pattern in the iris to be even more believable. This step is optional, especially if you hate the thought of sticking contacts in when you don't need them.
 Wear a nude lip, some mascara, with a bit of bronzer or darker blush to top it off. You can also cover up any blemishes with concealer.
 Just a little bit, to give some sheen. Don't do this if you're handling fabric or objects that will get stained.
 Just maybe hold your hand straight out at the faucet or cup of water or something when you know someone's about to walk in. Pretend to concentrate on what your freezing. At first, pretend that you don't see the person there, then say something like, "It won't work!" or "Why can't I freeze this!?" and then stare at the person in a shocked and slightly alarmed expression. Maybe tell them to not mention this to any living soul, and then quickly walk out of there and into your room before they can ask any questions.
 So when someone grabs your hands, they will feel cold. They may ask you why. Just say something like "Oh! U-uh, no reason! No reason at all!" Then walk away. Don't forget to reapply the eyeshadow onto the palms of your hands, if you had added any.
 Act aware whenever you hear someone say "winter" or "snow" or something like that. This will give the impression that you care a lot about winter and about what others think of it, which would be true if you really did have ice powers - you'd want to know what others thought of your creations.
 Act like the cold doesn't affect you. Don't take this overboard - there's no reason to spend all of your time in the snow with nothing but a bathing suit on. But spending a lot of your time in the snow and acting like it's nothing could help you convince others of your powers. If there's no snow, give the impression that it's always too hot - keep the air conditioning on and always leave the fans going.
 Like Elsa, you would be scared to hurt people with your powers, so you keep the people out of your life. Be reserved and introverted - this will also help give the impression that you don't want to spend lots of time with others because you have something to hide. Just don't ditch school or something like that.
 Your voice has to be as beautiful as winter itself. Avoid singing too much or people will think you're only trying to show others how good you are. Then, they'll start to ignore, avoid, and/or dislike you, and your prank won't work.
 And make sure people notice but don't look at them every time someone uses them or every second of the movie; otherwise they will know you're trying too hard and ignore you the rest of the movie.