 Depending on what happened, you may need to look for a criminal defense attorney, a civil attorney, or both. Finding the appropriate attorneys to represent you is essential to legally defend yourself when assaulted by an elderly person.This may seem backwards, since you were the victim of the assault. However, senior citizens have the legal upper hand in assault cases.
You may want to start your search by going to the website of your state or local bar association. There you typically can find a searchable directory of attorneys who are licensed in your area.
However, you need to do some extensive background research on the attorneys you find. You don't want an attorney who specializes in elder law, for example. These attorneys defend the rights or elderly people and may not be sympathetic to your situation.
You may have look searching for attorneys who defend clients who have been wrongfully accused of elder abuse. These attorneys understand that sometimes elderly people can be the aggressors.
 Ideally, you want to interview at least two or three attorneys. If you need both a criminal defense attorney and a civil attorney, consider interviewing two or three attorneys in each area. Most attorneys offer a brief initial consultation free of charge, so it shouldn't cost you anything more than your time.If you think you need two attorneys, you also might try finding your criminal defense attorney first, then asking them for a recommendation.
Criminal defense attorneys are accustomed to their clients also being sued, so you probably can find a good civil attorney that way.
Also keep in mind that if you've been charged with assault, finding a criminal defense attorney is more urgent than anything else.
 Most attorneys use an initial consultation to sell you on the benefits of hiring them. To get the most out of your free consultation, you need to think about what you want out of your attorney and have a list of questions ready to ask.Make sure any attorney you're thinking about hiring has experience representing clients like you. This may be difficult, but you want an experienced attorney who is sympathetic to your plight.
Ask about the attorney's fees up front. When it comes to legally defending yourself, you're not going to find an attorney who will take your case on contingency fee, because you won't get anything if you win.
You also want an attorney whose work and communication style meshes with yours. The representation won't be successful if you are unable to get ahold of your attorney when you need them.
If the attorney works in a larger firm, find out how much of the work on your case will be done by them personally and how much will be outsourced to newer associates or paralegals. If someone else will be doing the lion's share of work on your case, you should meet them too.
 Once you've completed your initial consultations, there probably will be particular attorneys who rise to the top. Take a moment to compare them objectively so you can identify the most experienced attorney whose fees fit within your budget.Don't make your choice based solely on objective criteria, though. The attorney who is best on paper may have left you feeling cold when you met them.
You need to be able to trust your attorney and work closely with them, so it needs to be someone who makes you feel at ease.
Sometimes personal feelings can be more important than experience. A less experienced attorney who is extremely passionate about your case and convinced of your innocence typically will be a better advocate for you than a more experienced attorney who is ambivalent about your case.
 When you've decided to hire an attorney, make sure you have a written retainer agreement from them before they start any work on your case. Meet with the attorney in person to go over the agreement before you sign.The attorney should explain each section of the contract, including the services they will provide for you and the rates you will be charged.
If there's anything you don't understand, ask for it to be explained in a different way. If there's something included in the contract that wasn't part of your initial understanding, bring it up.
Even though the retainer agreement may not be presented this way, you do have the ability to negotiate the terms. If you don't agree with something, ask if it can be changed.
When you sign the agreement, make sure you get a full copy of it for your records. When you get billing statements, compare them to the agreement and call your attorney immediately if you see charges that weren't reflected in the retainer agreement you signed.

