 Empathetic listening is also known as “active listening” or “reflective listening.” It refers to a way of listening and responding that seeks above all to understand the person who is speaking to you. This is perhaps the most important conversational skill you can cultivate. Not only will this make conversation with your girlfriend flow more easily and naturally, it will make her feel truly seen and heard, increase her trust in you, and bring the two of you closer together., In a healthy relationship, there should be equal conversational space for both of you. That said, sometimes one of you will need more attention or support than the other. An empathetic listener is willing to let the other person dominate the conversation when he or she needs to, without inserting his or her own ego.
 You can’t fake this, so don’t try. It can be easy to get so lost in trying to think of things to say that you forget to really listen. This spells the death of empathy. Let her say what she needs to, and listen without interrupting.
 Often this can be as simple as telling her, “That sounds really hard. I know how important your dog was to you.” This lets her know that you are listening and that you feel for her, while giving her plenty of space to continue sharing.
 If she just told you a story about a fight she had with her friends, avoid saying something like, “It sounds like your friends are real jerks. They don’t appreciate how great you are.” This may seem like a supportive way to respond, but the truth is that she loves her friends, and your harsh judgment of them will ultimately come back to haunt you. Try responding with something more like, “It sounds like you felt really disrespected by the way they spoke to you.” This validates the way she’s feeling, without pointing fingers of blame or offering advice she didn’t ask for.
 Use phrases like, “Tell me more about it,” “I’d like to hear more about that,” “How did that feel?” or “What did you do then?” to encourage her to keep sharing.

