 Be proud of your accomplishments and speak highly of yourself, but don't brag. Sometimes it’s hard to tell when you’re bragging instead of showing confidence in yourself, but considering your motives for speaking can help.


Ask yourself why you want to speak about an accomplishment of yours. Does it fit into the conversation? Did it just happen recently, so it’s all you want to talk about? Is your classmate interested in hearing about it? Answering yes to these questions means that your accomplishment is probably relevant to the situation. However, if you only want to talk about it because you feel insecure and want to make yourself feel better, then you may be bragging.
Don’t boost yourself up by putting others down.
 Studies show that people who report higher levels of jealousy are more likely to be insecure, lack self-worth, and be afraid of losing their friends.If you tell your classmates what you like about them, then they are less likely to feel jealous of you.Congratulate your classmates when they win or receive a high grade. For example, compliment the students who finish the chemistry experiment first by saying, “Wow, you guys did a great job. Today’s lab was really tough!”
Make a point to see something good in your classmates, and let them know that you recognize those good qualities.
When someone wears a cute outfit or a new pair of shoes, say something like, “Oh, I saw those shoes in the store window! They’re so cute.”

, Make a connection with your classmates and avoid jealousy is to find a common goal that you both share.This is especially important if you have to work together on a team or in a group because it’s hard to avoid someone’s jealous attitude if you have to spend time with them.


If you are team captain, remind your jealous classmates that you are all there to win.
If you are the star in the play, help your classmates focus on putting on a great performance by pointing out that you’re all needed to put on a great show.
If you are working on a group project for a class, tell the other student that you’re happy to be working with them on your shared task and that you know that the two of you will create an awesome product. You could say, “Hey, I’m glad we get to be partners on this. I bet our project will get an ‘A’.”
Strive to see the best in others so they can recognize their own value. This can help lessen any jealousy.



Ask yourself why you would be jealous if your roles were reversed. Consider your classmate’s feelings. Are their goals and needs going unmet? Do you have something that they lack? Figuring out why the other person is jealous can help you figure out how to make the situation work for both of you.