 Honey has both clarifying and moisturizing properties, making it a great addition to a hair rinse. This is especially helpful if your hair tends to be a little dry. Honey also smells fantastic and can combat the vinegar smell while you're in the shower. If you want to try adding honey, here's how to do it:


Make your vinegar rinse with warm water to help the honey dissolve. Pour it into a container with a lid.
Stir in 1 tablespoon of honey.
Put the lid on the container and shake well before use.
 Egg whites, like vinegar, clarify hair and make it look beautifully shiny. Since you've already got the vinegar out, why not try adding an egg? You can also use an egg white in place of vinegar if you happen to be out when your hair needs a rinse. Here's how to use an egg white in your rinse:


Mix up your vinegar rinse as normal. Place it in a container with a lid.
Separate one egg, letting the white drop into the container with the vinegar. If you have dry hair you can apply the yolk to the ends for extra moisture.
Place the lid on the container and shake well before use.
 If your hair is quite dry, you can massage a bit of oil into the ends before rinsing your hair with the vinegar. Try:


1/2 to 1 teaspoon melted coconut oil
1/2 to 1 teaspoon almond oil
1/2 to 1 teaspoon olive oil

, If you're having trouble with this rinse because you don't like the smell of vinegar, you might want to try scenting it with herbs. The herbs impart a gentle scent that helps to mask the vinegar and make it more pleasant to use. Here's how to do it:Mix your vinegar rinse as usual, and pour it into a small saucepan.
Add a tablespoon of your favorite dried herb, like lavender, rose hips, sage, mint, or rosemary.
Bring the rinse to a simmer and let the herbs cook for 10 minutes.
Strain the herbs from the rinse and let it cool before use.
 Using essential oils is another easy way to mask the scent of the vinegar and make your rinse smell great. Some essential oils are even beneficial to hair in their own right. Mix up your rinse as usual and stir in 5 to 10 drops of one of these essential oils:


Lavender. It has a soothing effect and is often used in skin and hair products.
Tea tree oil. It can help combat dandruff and has a strong herbaceous scent.
Lemongrass. This energizing scent effectively masks the vinegar smell.

