 By default, the Kindle will not allow you to install applications from third party sources. To disable this, you need to go the the Settings menu by swiping down from the top of the screen, and tapping “More” (which is the plus icon in a circle).
 Tap on “Device” under the Settings menu, and turn on “Allow Installation of Applications” by tapping on the toggle button that is set to OFF by default.

Tap Okay when the notification pops out.
 To do this, hit the Home button on the bottom left of the screen., Amazon Silk is the stock browser included in the Kindle Fire. Swipe from right to left on your home screen to find the Silk browser icon and tap on it., Navigate to http://flashplayerkindlefire.com/ on the browser by typing the address in the URL bar at the top then look for the download link with adobe.flashplayer.apk on it.

Tap on the link to go to the download page.
 Tap the green “Download” button on the right side of the file name to begin downloading., Download the Dolphin browser installer from the link below the Flash Player link. It will take you to a similar page as the Flash Player installer; just hit the green “Download” button to download the browser installer., On Silk browser, tap on the icon in the upper left corner to get the browser menu., Tap on “Downloads” on the left panel that appears, and it will display the recently downloaded files., Simply tap on the Flash installer, which should be the one at the bottom. It will display the app name, as well as the permissions it is granted when you accept to install it.

Tap “Install” and Flash will install onto your tablet. When finished, tap on “Done.”

, Install the Dolphin browser by tapping on the first file in the Downloads menu on Silk. It will begin the same installation process as before, When the installation is complete, press “Open” to launch the Dolphin browser., When Dolphin opens, you will be greeted with a welcome screen, which you can swipe to the left to finish the introduction., Tap on the icon in the bottom center of the browser, which should show you the browser menu, then tap on “Settings.”, Tap on “User Agent,” which is at the topmost of the menu, and choose “Desktop” from the options which appear. This allows you to view sites on Desktop mode on your tablet instead of the usual mobile sites., Tap on “Web Content,” which is a menu that allows you to change which content is displayed on your browser. On the Flash Player option, tap “Off” on the right of it and choose “Always On” in the options. This will allow Flash content to play when you view them on the browser.