 Add 1 cup (227 g) of butter that’s been softened to room temperature and 1 ½ cups (340 g) of sugar to the bowl of a stand mixer with the paddle attachment inserted. Mix the two together on the lowest speed until they’re fully combined.You can also use a hand mixer or work by hand with a spoon to mix up the cookie batter. It will just take a little more time and effort.
The butter and sugar mixture should be light and fluffy when you’re done mixing it.;
, Once the butter and sugar are creamed together, you need to add 3 eggs to the batter. However, you should add the eggs one at a time, and beat them into the batter for 30 seconds on low for each egg.For the best results, bring the eggs to room temperature before adding them to the batter.
 After you’ve beaten all of the eggs into the cookie batter, add 1 teaspoon (15 ml) of vanilla. Mix it into the rest of the ingredients on low until it’s fully incorporated.It’s normal for the batter to have a slightly broken appearance at this point. It will come together when you add the dry ingredients.
 Add 3 cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda, and 1 teaspoon (5 g) of kosher salt to a large bowl. Mix the ingredients together until they’re well combined.If you want your cookies to have a spicier taste, you can also mix in ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of ground cinnamon and/or ¼ teaspoon of ground clove to the flour mixture.
 When the flour, baking soda, and salt are fully mixed together, gradually add it to the batter, mixing on the lowest speed to avoid making a mess. Continue stirring the batter until the flour mixture is fully absorbed by the liquid ingredients., Once the dry ingredients are fully combined with the rest of the batter, remove the bowl from the stand mixer. Add 2 cups (250 g) of chopped nuts and 1 ½ cups (265 g) of dates that have been chopped and pitted, and use a spoon to stir them in by hand.Pecans are the nut traditionally used in date cookies, but you can also use walnuts or whatever nut you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed the nuts and dates into the cookie batter, cover the bowl with a piece of plastic wrap. Place the bowl in the refrigerator, and allow the cookie dough to chill for at least two hours.You can refrigerate the date cookie dough as long as overnight.
 While you’re waiting for the cookie dough to finish chilling, it’s important to warm the oven so it’s ready for baking. Set the oven temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully preheat.Pay attention to your oven so you know when it’s preheated. It will likely beep or flash a light to let you know.
 To ensure that the cookies don’t stick while they’re baking, you must prepare the baking sheets properly. Use parchment paper to line two cookie sheets. You can also use silicone baking mats to the line the baking sheets.If you don’t have parchment paper or silicone baking mats, you can grease the cookie sheets with non-stick cooking spray or butter.
 When your cookie dough is properly chilled, remove it from the fridge. Drop the dough onto the baking sheets by rounded tablespoons.Make sure to space the cookies at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart because they will spread as they bake.
 After you’ve filled the baking sheets, place them in the preheated oven. Allow the cookies to bake for approximately 8 to 10 minutes, or until the cookies are golden brown along the edges.The cookies should also have a puffed, dry appearance when they’re finished baking.
 When the cookies are finished baking, allow them to cool for 5 minutes on the baking sheets. Next, transfer them to a wire cooling rack and let them cool completely, which should take approximately 15 to 20 minutes.