 Knowing why you tend to daydream is crucial in learning how to change it. If you don't know why something is occurring (what the actual problem is) you may have more difficulty coming to a solution. Sometimes individuals daydream as a way to avoid stress or other painful feelings.This imaginary world allows them to escape and avoid dealing with negative emotional states. Daydreaming can also be used as a way to self-soothe by imagining your wishes fulfilled.In addition, fantasizing can be linked to a need to forget certain information (trauma, painful situations, etc). Daydreaming can actually result in forgetting previously learned information or memories.Make a list of the types of daydreams you have, and what you think the function of this fantasy is. For example, you might identify that you frequently daydream about conversations with friends, which helps you predict what might happen and practice how to respond. Another example is if you have daydreams about buying a home, this may help you think of a brighter day and have hope for the future.
Ask yourself, “what is the purpose of my daydreaming in general?” Do you daydream to escape, distract, make yourself feel better, or pass the time?;
, Understanding the patterns in fantasies you have may assist you in developing a skilled way to reduce each type of fantasy.Do you daydream at school mostly, or at work? Are there certain situations that trigger your daydreaming behavior?


Recognize how often you daydream. Set your alarm for one hour. Keep a tally of how many times you drifted off into a daydream for that hour. For example, the moment you notice you are daydreaming, write a tally mark on a piece of paper, and so on. This will increase your awareness of how much you actually daydream. Sometimes it may take you a few minutes to realize that you were in a daydream and that is okay, just tally each time you notice that you were drifting off.
 If your daydreaming results in difficulties in daily life such as disruption in work or school, interpersonal relationships, or personal obligations, then your daydreaming may be excessive and harmful. Unfortunately, a wandering mind can cause one to feel unhappy.List the negative consequences associated with your rich fantasy life. This list could include things like: less time spent with family or friends, falling behind in school due to not being able to stay focused, not being able to get all work done due to being distracted by daydreams, and friends and family feeling like I am not listening to them because I am daydreaming.

