 However, if you aren’t doing this correctly, you could be doing more harm than good. For instance, lukewarm water, rather than hot, is sufficient for entering the pore and rinsing away dirt and oil. Scrubbing too hard can exacerbate oil production and break down collagen, leaving you with an oily face and fine lines. Make sure to take your skin type into account when choosing a cleanser. If you are acne prone, choose a soap that is alcohol-free and has an acne fighting ingredient like salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide.For those suffering from rosacea, non-soap cleansers like Cetaphyl work best, especially if they have a neutral PH level close to that of your skin.
Nothing triggers eczema more than scented, harsh soaps. Natural, soothing products are best for those who suffer from eczema. You can even try a baby soap.
Washing your skin more than twice a day is unnecessary as it strips your face of natural oils and can be drying. This could lead to premature aging.
Not rinsing thoroughly after cleansing can lead to a buildup of residue, clogging pores and causing acne.
Use your towel to pat your face dry, rather than rubbing.;
, Proper hydration can soothe dry skin, help reduce the appearance of scars, and is essential to restoring moisture after cleansing. A good rule of thumb is to moisturize no longer than a minute after washing your face. This is to replenish your pores of the hydration they've lost after washing. Leaving your skin just a little damp after you wash it will help lock in moisture.


If you have scarring on your face, a treatment such as Scarguard or Mederma can be applied after moisturizing to help diminish the appearance of the scar over time. Treatments with collagen and a moisturizing agent work best to reduce scarring.An oil-free moisturizer is best for acne-prone skin so your pores don’t become increasingly clogged.
For those with eczema or rosacea, the idea is to put hydration, or water, back into the skin to soothe it. Soak your skin nightly and moisturize with an ointment right after to improve its protective barrier., The best methods for exfoliation include scrubs and face brushes. How often you do this, depends on your skin type. If you suffer from dry skin, even if you have acne, you won’t want to exfoliate more than once or twice a week. Those with oilier skin can exfoliate lightly every day if needed.Especially if you’re acne prone, exfoliation is needed to rid your pores of dead skin cells that build up, causing pimples and blackheads.
You should avoid exfoliation if you have rosacea, as it can be too rough.
If you’re considering exfoliating and you have eczema, make sure you do it gently with a washcloth, and not very often.If you are hoping to remove light scars with exfoliation, use glycolic or lactic acid in a lotion or cream.
 Aside from cleansing, there are everyday steps you can take towards clearer skin. Two of the most important habits to adapt are using constant sun protection and watching what you eat. Wearing a broad spectrum SPF is vital for protecting skin against UVA and UVB rays. These cause premature aging and sun spots.Eating processed foods can contribute to a dull complexion. Make sure your diet consists of whole foods, especially berries and nuts, for a radiant face.Regularly wash your makeup brush with soap and warm water to keep from spreading around dirt and oil.
Keep your hair out of your face so that hair products and oil don't come into contact with your skin.
 Facials remove impurities and dead skin cells, ensuring your pores are clear of build-up and your products fully sink in to deliver results. If you experience frequent break outs, a facial every other week is recommended. Make sure you only visit a licensed esthetician with a good reputation.If blackheads and large pores are ruining your facial complexion, be sure to ask for extractions. This is the method of removed hardened sebum, or skin oil, either with a special tool or with the index finer and thumb.Rosacea and eczema should be treated with a soothing facial, preferably with no steam or extractions involved. Chamomile and lavender work to calm inflammation and redness., It works to buff away the outer layer of skin exposing the smooth and supple skin underneath and eliminating clogged pores. Microdermabrasion uses a diamond tip wand to remove dead skin, and a vacuum sucks away old skin cells rather than spreading them around the face as this can cause more break outs. This technique is suitable for most skin types, as the esthetician can cater the treatment to your skin’s specific needs.This treatment is especially effective for treating light scars, brown spots, and large pores.
Microdermabrasion also stimulates cologne production, making the skin more elastic.
If you have rosacea, Microdermabrasion will overstimulate your skin, possibly causing more redness. Although this treatment is often prescribed, because it can tone down redness in the short term, your condition will eventually return more aggressively., The laser goes down into your epidermis to stimulate collagen production, renewing your skin. Lasers stimulate the skin’s own healing process and replaces damaged skin with newer, younger looking skin.Typically about 4-7 treatments are needed, depending on the issue being treated.
For those who don't suffer from scarring, the laser also targets sagging, wrinkles, and sun spots.
Non-ablative lasers are typically used for younger patients with minimal skin issues. They don’t go as deep into the skin, and therefore don’t target concerns like wrinkling or deep scarring. Downtime after this procedure is typically three to four days.Ablataive lasers target serious signs of aging, deep scars and brown spots. Downtime can be anywhere from two weeks to a month.
 If you don't know what you're doing, you can severely damage a pore when attempting to squeeze the pus out of pimples. Picking at skin can cause scarring and redness.If you ever do touch your skin, make sure your hands are clean or you can cause an infection.
 Typically new products need six to twelve weeks to truly show a difference in your skin. It’s typical for skin to react gradually to a treatment, and you might not notice any difference at first.On the other hand, if you feel that you’ve honestly given the product a sufficient amount of time to work and still aren’t seeing results, or it's getting worse, don’t continue to use it.
 Too many fragrances and chemicals in your product could be exacerbating the problem.Consider if things like your laundry detergent or hair shampoo is accidentally leaving the residue of harsh chemicals on your sensitive skin.
 This will further clog pores and make acne or other rashes worse. Not to mention, the more gunk that makes its way into your pore without leaving, the more stretched out it will be.

