 Before starting your snowblower, you’ll want to make sure that the oil level is at the “full” mark. If not, top off as needed, according to the manufacturer’s instructions., Your snowblower’s manufacturer will recommend a specific fuel type/grade. You’ll want to have plenty of fuel before you begin. Make sure it's fresh, especially if you haven't fired up your snowblower in a while.Drain your gas if your snowblower has sat longer than a month with ethanol fuel in it. Ethanol fuel can deteriorate over time, and bad fuel can cause engine problems., For safety reasons, you’ll want all drive controls set to “off” before starting your snowblower. Keeping your snowblower in neutral will prevent unintended activity once the machine starts., However, if you used your snowblower very recently (within five minutes), set the choke to the warm start setting, or about halfway., Turn it to the “fast” setting. Many models will identify this with a rabbit symbol. You should always start your snowblower on this setting., Your snowblower will have a fuel shutoff valve. To start using your snow blower, you will have to turn this to the “on” position. If you are unsure of the valve’s location, check the manual.Always make sure to turn the fuel shutoff valve back to “off” when you are done with your snowblower. This will reduce the risk that fuel will leak.
 Usually, this control is a simple up/down switch, much like a light switch. Turn it to the “on” or “run” position., Some snow blowers include a key as a safety feature. These models won’t run unless the key is inserted.If you need to quickly stop your snow blower while operating it, just remove the key.
 This is a bubble-like switch that helps circulate fuel. Pushing it a few times should be enough. Try twice if the temperature is above 15 degrees Fahrenheit (-9 Celsius), or four times if the temperature is below this.Don’t push the primer for a warm start (if you used the snowblower less than five minutes prior to starting again).
 Grasp the starter rope by its handle. Pull slowly until you feel it “catch” some resistance. Then quickly and smoothly pull upward to start the engine., If your model has an electric starter, take the three-pronged cord and plug the other end into an outlet. The outlet must be the same voltage as your snow blower.Read your model’s instruction manual if you are unsure of the voltage level.
 Push the button in short cycles of only five seconds until the engine fires and stays running. Overtaxing the starter can damage it.Disconnect from the power source once your snowblower is running.
 Let your snowblower run for a few minutes to warm up. Then, turn the choke to the “off” or “run” setting. Your snowblower is now ready to use.