 You have limited waking time when you’re sick, so use the most effective and efficient revision techniques to maximize the use of your time and boost your chances of success. Writing is a wise use of your time. If you rewrite key notes and concepts in your own words, it is more effective than simply reading them or saying them aloud.It’s best to do so with a pen or pencil. Research shows that writing notes out by hand (versus typing them on a laptop or other device) can boost your comprehension and memory.;
, Studies suggest that using practice testing, like flashcards or mock exams, is more productive than simply reviewing your textbook or notes. Besides more closely approximating the format of your test, these activities force you to recall, synthesize, and utilize information instead of just passively reading or repeating it., We all learn differently and favor different senses in our learning. Engage as many senses as you can in your study process and methods to boost your cognition and recall of information.For example, read your notes, rewrite your notes, and then quiz yourself aloud on your notes. If you follow those steps, you will have processed the information you’re revising in visual, tactile, and auditory ways, which can help ensure that you’re covering the learning styles that work best for you while bolstering your grasp of a concept.
 Your revising will seem more manageable if you divide it up into a series of sessions and set yourself a specific task for each. Since you’re ill, be realistic about how much you can accomplish.For example, you could break up sessions chronologically by studying a week or two of lectures at a time or thematically by studying a particular formula or concept.
Remember to only focus on one thing at a time for each session. Multitasking is not only stressful, it’s less effective than honing in on a single subject or goal., It’s easy to get tired when you’re sick. Exhaustion will seriously compromise your ability to study effectively, so be sure to pause regularly for rest and relaxation. Doing so will ensure that you’re taking care of and listening to your body. It will also help you maintain your focus when you are studying.


Even when you’re healthy, it’s best to take breaks every 25 to 50 minutes in order to recharge your concentration. Take at least 5 to 15 minutes between sessions to give your body and brain the respite they need to function at their best.If you’re sick, remember that brief but focused studying sessions will be more useful than trying to sustain your attention for hours at a time. Revising in short intervals is actually proven to be more effective than prolonged study sessions.