 At a school for the deaf, your child will be in class with other deaf or hard of hearing children. The teachers may be either deaf or hard of hearing themselves. Schools for the deaf will work with your child in sign language and other forms of visual communication. There are both local and residential schools for the deaf.

A school for the deaf will introduce your child to Deaf culture. This is important for many people, as it helps your child feel included and welcomed into the Deaf community.;
, Your child may be able to attend a mainstream or neighborhood school. These are ordinary public schools, where your child will attend school with hearing children. Accommodations, such as note takers or the use of an FM system, will be provided.Depending on their level of hearing, your child may join hearing children in a class or they may be in a special education class for deaf students. Some children may even spend part of the day in a class for deaf children and part of the day in a class with hearing children.In a mainstream school, your child will have the opportunity to communicate with hearing students. They will be able to live with you at home. That said, some deaf or hard of hearing children may find it difficult to keep up in a mainstream school. You may find that teachers are not adequately trained to deal with deaf or hard of hearing students.
 Many schools for the deaf are residential schools. This means that your child will live at the school during the week and come home on the weekend. Sometimes, residential schools are the only option for families, but some parents may not want to send their children away.

Residential schools will provide complete accommodation for your child. Teachers will have the proper training to teach children who are deaf or hard of hearing, and your child will attend school with other deaf children. Children will also learn and participate in Deaf culture.
Living away from the family may be difficult for both children and parents. There may be a difficult adjustment period. You also may not be able to be actively involved in their education.There are many schools for the deaf that are day schools, where your child will come home in the afternoon and live at home. The availability of these schools depends largely on area., Like all children, deaf children may have particular personality traits that make them suited for certain types of education.Some things you might consider include:

Does your child do better with more structure or less structure?
Does your child prefer to work alone or with other children?
Is your child artistic? Logical? Athletic?
How active is your child?
Does your child fidget or can they sit still for long periods of time?Does your child already have hearing friends? How well do they play and communicate with hearing children?, Your child may have their own preferences when it comes to school. Let them have a say in which school they will attend. Ask them what type of school they would prefer.

You might ask your child if they would prefer going to school with other deaf or hard of hearing children or if they want to enter a mainstream school with hearing children.
Consider bringing your child along with you to visit schools so that they understand what their options are. They can interact with teachers and visit classes.
If you are thinking about a residential school, you might ask your child how they feel about living away from home.
 Once you have an idea of the ideal school for your child, spend some time to look up schools that fit your profile. While you can use the internet to do this, it is also a good idea to contact your local school board, education agency, or state services for the deaf.

If you live in the US, you can contact a state department of rehabilitation services. Some states may even have agencies for the deaf.

Reach out to a local chapter of a Deaf association or nonprofit, such as the Hearing Loss Association of America (US) or National Deaf Children Society (UK and Australia).
 Depending on your child’s needs, they may require particular accommodations. Identify what your child's needs are and how they can be met in the classroom.

Children who are hard of hearing may use an FM system in the classroom. The teacher will wear a transmitter, and your child will have a receiver that is either hooked up to their hearing aid or worn as earphones. The teacher’s voice will be transmitted directly to the receiver.Children who are profoundly deaf will likely need an instructor trained in sign language or other forms of visual communication. Interpreters can be used if there are no teachers with sign language.
Older children may benefit from having a note taker. A note taker will ensure that your child does not fall behind because they missed something that the teacher said.Deaf or hard of hearing children can typically participate in classes as well as any hearing child if proper accommodation is granted. If your child has learning difficulties, however, you will need to factor them in as well.

