 Nowadays, the game of soccer moves fast. This means that a referee always needs to maintain their focus on the pitch. A few seconds of watching another game could determine whether you notice a serious foul, or miss the infraction completely. Always, always, always be alert.;
, If you´re not sure about a rule, or what technique to use while officiating, ask! Asking can lead you to valuable information that you may not even know about.
 You might just be sitting at home one day, surfing the channels of your TV. Why not watch a soccer game? FIFA certified referees have officiated countless number of games, and they know the proper techniques. Watch how they signal for throw-ins, offside, corner kicks, etc.
 Sure; you may have just learned the Laws of the Game, but you most definitely will forget some of them after you pick up the dusty rulebook a few years later. Therefore, you should frequently read the Laws of the Game. Also, make sure to be informed of any alterations of the Laws of the Game. Most likely you will receive an Email, so check your Email regularly. If not, go to FIFA.com on the Internet to read any changes.
 Almost certainly you will begin officiating youth soccer teams. Many youth leagues make changes to the number of substitutions, size of the ball and field, number of players on the field, the duration of the half, etc. Ask the league coordinator or other referees to find out about any modifications.
 There has never been a referee who has not blown a call. It happens, so after you blow a call, remain cool and do not let the fans, coaches, or players get your goat. Thinking about your mistakes will just cause you to miss another infraction, or make another incorrect decision. It is very difficult to control your emotions when you are being yelled at left and right, but it will show to everyone that you can remain in control and deal with the chaotic situation. Who knows, maybe there is an assessor in the crowd watching the game. He or she just might be impressed by your ability to handle the situation.
 You are being paid to officiate the game; therefore you should behave properly. Don´t talk to your friends in the middle of the game, talk bad to anyone, or act goofy. Don’t run around with your hands in your pockets, or look bored. Simply act mature, and take your job seriously.

