 The best tools for walking a husky are the front clip harness and the head halter. Harnesses also work, but if you want your dog to learn to pull use the harness for that job. Your husky can learn to pull in a harness and walk nicely with a head halter.


Train with the right equipment. Don't let your husky pull you with while wearing a collar or head harness (even just down the road on your skateboard). The dog can damage its neck and back. Always use a harness.
 Training your dog to come when called is called a recall. Recall training should only be practiced outdoors if your dog is on a leash. To be successful in the recall start practicing it as early as possible. Force-free methods - methods that reinforce with things your dog likes - work best in creating a solid recall.


One of the best way to train a solid recall is to start training your husky at a young age. Make sure it’s on a leash in an enclosed area (fenced in yard) and at a time when it is more relaxed—after a moderate amount of exercise is a great time. Keep some small tasty treats (tiny slivers of cheese or cooked chicken breast) in your pocket. Let your dog wander around then call its name saying “Come (insert name).” When he or she comes praise it and give it a treat.
Work on this training for short periods of time (5-10 minutes) over the course of a week. When your dog is coming consistently to you, you can stop giving treats and only giving praise when it comes to you. It’s an invaluable and potentially lifesaving lesson to learn.
Every time your husky has a chance to run free, either by choice or by accident, it will learn that running free is fun and it will want to be free to run as much as possible. Limit this from a young age if possible.
 This is especially important around cats and other small animals the dog might mistake for prey. In order to manage your dog's natural instinct to hunt, you need to keep your dog contained, train it to respond to your commands immediately, and give it outlets for its energy.Keep a husky contained for its own safety and the safety of other animals in your area. Keep it on a leash when in public and make sure any yard it is free to roam in is fully fenced.Train your husky to come on command. If your dog is stalking prey or actually attacking another animal, it's important to be able to get the dog's attention and stop it from continuing bad behavior. Voice control over your dog's actions is of utmost importance. It can take a lot of work to get your dog really well trained but it is worth the effort.Give your dog a lot of outlets for its energy and its prey drive. On a regular basis play fetch or tug of war with your dog, or simply give it lots of toys to play with. If you can focus the dog's energy on fake prey instead of real prey, you lessen the chance the dog will attack another animal.Sometimes a husky and cat relationship can work out without a glitch, but often it is a constant management situation. If you are really skilled at keeping doors shut, gates locked, litter boxes cleaned, and protecting your cat at all times, you can probably have a cat and husky in the same house.
If you have poor management skills, don't get a husky if you already have a cat. Huskies and cats live together peacefully if they are each properly socialized and introduced to one another.

