 To form the first-person singular form of the verb poder in present tense, you must take off the -er ending and change the verb stem from "pod-" to "pued-" to form "puedo."For example, suppose you saw a child jumping for something out of reach. You could say "puedo ayudarte," or "I can help you" before getting the object for the child.
If someone asks you to attend an event and you think you might have a scheduling conflict, you might say "iré si puedo," which means "I'll go if I can.";
, The verb poder also is irregular for the second-person form, so you must change the verb stem to "pued-" after taking off the -er ending to create this form in present tense.Consider context when using this pronoun and this verb form. Don't use it to address a stranger, someone older than you, or someone in a position of authority.
 If you want to talk about how a third person, animal, or object can do something, drop the -er ending. Change the verb stem from pod- to pued- and add an "e" to conjugate "poder."Use the same verb form for the singular second-person pronoun usted as well: "Usted puede" or "you can.", In first-person plural, the verb poder is conjugated regularly, just like any other -er verb. You don't have to change the verb stem. "We can" in Spanish is "nosotros podemos.", The pronoun vosotros is the informal second-person plural in Spanish. If you would refer to each person in a group using the pronoun tú, this is an appropriate choice to refer to the group.Vosotros is used primarily in Spain, and isn't used at all in Latin America., For the third-person plural, the verb "poder" also has an irregular form. After dropping the -er ending, you must change the verb stem from "pod-" to "pued-."Use the same verb form if you want to use ustedes: "ustedes pueden." This is the primary second-person plural pronoun in Latin America and the formal second-person plural pronoun in Spain., There are many common phrases, particularly using the first-person singular form, that you probably will get significant use out of as you talk to other people in Spanish.You can start with "yo puedo," which means "I can." Similarly, you can say "no puedo" if you can't do something that someone has asked you to do.
One of the first phrases you might learn in Spanish, either in a class or from a phrasebook, is "Puedo ir al baño?" This question means "Can I go to the bathroom?" In Spanish, the verb poder also is used when you are asking permission to do something.
Another common phrase using the verb poder is "no lo puedo creer," which means "I can't believe it."

