 Add your wax flakes into a double-boiler pot and heat the wax up to 150 degrees Fahrenheit. This will liquify your flakes and prepare them for proper pouring. To make a double-boiler at home, place your wax in a small pot, and place that pot in a bigger pot. Fill the larger pot with water and let it boil. Use a thermometer to gauge the heat of the wax and pour it into your chosen moulds when you're ready.


The Celsius equivalent heat is 65 degrees.
If you don't have a thermometer, you can tell the wax is ready for pouring by a fine film that develops around the edges of the pot., A mould will be the thing that dictates the shape of your candle. A muffin tray or cookie cutter shape can work to this effect, although you can make a candle mould of your own design by wrapping aluminum foil in a cylindrical shape. Once you have your mould prepared, pour the wax slowly into the hole. Take care to be cautious with it, as hot wax can be painful if it gets in contact with skin.


Be sure to coat your moulds with a petroleum jelly or cooking spray. This will make it easier to pick the candles out of the moulds once you're done with them., Because some of your "glow in the dark" candles may be fairly big, adding an effective wick to the candle may take some effort. Generally speaking, you'll want the wick to trace down to the base of the candle. Keep the wick straight, and try to gently nudge it into the liquid wax. DO your best to make sure it stays in the relative centre of your candle.


Tabbed wicks are the recommended option for wax candles, as they help to hold the wicks in place once they're settled.
 While your candle is hardening, give it time to rest and go do something else. After it's ready to be taken out, remove the candle carefully by its wick.
 However, due to the melting properties of wax, it may be difficult to mix the powder in thoroughly.With that in mind, a "glow in the dark" paint coating the outside of your candle is an easier substitute. These paints come in a variety of different colours, and should be applied generously to the candles you're preparing.


Wait until the candles have finished hardening before you cover them with paint.
If you want, you can use a combination of the "glow in the dark" paint and some of the powder as well. This will ensure that you get at least some of the powder's thoroughness, with the even spread that paint can offer.
 Alternatively, you can add glow powder to the exterior of your candles.To do so, you should finish your basic paraffin candle. Next, unwrap a length of parchment paper and sprinkle a generous dose of glow powder onto it. From there, lay the candle down and roll it around. The candle will pick up the pieces of glow powder.

