 If you can compare ideal portion sizes to other objects with which you're familiar, you'll get the portions right every time without having to meticulously weigh and measure the food you eat.One serving of protein is 3 to 4 ounces (around 88 to 118 ml): the size of a fist, the palm of your hand, or a deck of cards.
The recommended serving size for carbohydrates, such as pasta or rice, is one cup or 8 ounces (about 237 ml): the size of a baseball or a tennis ball.
For fruit, a portion size is the equivalent of a medium-sized fruit, such as an apple, or one cup (8 ounces or 237 ml): about the size of a light bulb.
A one-ounce serving of cheese is about the size of your thumb, or a pair of dice.
When it comes to snack foods, the serving size generally is the equivalent of a handful.
You can do an internet search for visual representations of portion sizes to get more ideas and find objects that are familiar and will work best for you.;
, The USDA website has a food gallery which shows what individual servings of various types of food look like on a plate or in a bowl. This can be particularly helpful when dealing with odd-shaped foods, such as chicken legs.Browsing through this gallery can help you get a handle on proper portion sizes for different kinds of foods – particularly foods that you eat on a regular basis.
You also can use the gallery as a tool when you start shopping for bento boxes, so you can best ensure that the compartments will hold individual portions of various types of food.
 If you have particular dietary needs, or if you are obese, you may want to consider having a certified professional look over your diet and help you determine the portions that are best suited to your needs and your lifestyle.For example, if you are vegan, you need to make sure you're getting adequate protein. A dietician who specializes in vegan diets can help you.
You also may need help if you have multiple food allergies or are on a specialized diet, such as a gluten-free diet, whether for medical reasons or as a lifestyle preference.
Dietitians and nutritionists are registered, and work at fitness centers, health food and nutrition stores, hospitals, and schools. If you're a member of a gym or fitness center, that may be a good place to start. You also might ask your doctor for a recommendation.If you want to check the credentials of a nutritionist or dietitian you are considering seeing, then visit https://www.cdrnet.org/


, You may be used to seeing huge portions of food, especially if you frequent all-you-can-eat buffets or fast food restaurants. By eating slowly and mindfully, you can adjust to smaller, more healthy portions.Before you start eating, take a few deep breaths and consider whether you're hungry, and how hungry you are. Pay attention to what your body is telling you.
Look at your food, at the colors and shapes. Take in the aroma with another few deep breaths.
Chew slowly, savoring each small bite. Put your fork or spoon down in between bites and focus on each bite as you chew it.
Evaluate your hunger situation several times as you eat. When you no longer feel hungry, stop eating.
 At a minimum, you want sections for fruits and vegetables, protein, and carbohydrates. You can adjust this configuration based on your dietary needs and the types of foods you plan to include.Go to a home goods store or a large discount store so you can evaluate a variety of bento boxes. You often can find them in grocery stores as well, but there may be limited options.
If you want a lot of variety in your bento box meals, look for boxes with six or seven compartments, so you can include small amounts of several different foods.
Keep in mind that portions apply to the type of food, not the particular food item. If you had carrot and celery sticks in your bento box, both together should be equivalent in size to one individual portion of vegetables. Just because you have two different vegetables doesn't mean you get two portions.
When you evaluate the size of the compartments, think about the kinds of food you plan to eat on a regular basis. For example, if you typically have a sandwich for lunch, you want at least one compartment that's large enough to hold a whole sandwich.
 While you can get glass or stainless-steel bento boxes, plastic typically is the most convenient and versatile. These containers also have the benefit of being lightweight and easy to store away when not in use.Good quality plastic bento boxes typically will run you around $20 a piece, but you may be able to get a discount if you're purchasing several. Stainless steel or glass typically will be more expensive. Price also will vary depending on the brand, although a higher price doesn't necessarily indicate the box is of higher quality.
Check product information and make sure the boxes you choose are freezer- and microwave-safe. You also may need them to be dishwasher-safe. Keep in mind that even though the box itself may be microwave- or dishwasher-safe, the lid may not be. Also, don’t microwave a plastic bento box even if it says microwave safe because this can release unhealthy compounds. Get a glass bento box if you plan to microwave your meals.
Choose the material that best fits your lifestyle and daily routine. For example, if you bike to work and are generally rough-and-tumble with your things, you may not want to get a glass container, which is heavier than plastic and may break if dropped.
Some types of plastic will stain, particularly with sauce-heavy foods. If you decide to go with plastic bento boxes, you may want to carry sauce in a separate container. Rinse out your box after eating, so the sauce has limited contact with the surface of the box.
Make sure the bento boxes you choose are leak-proof. You can test them by filling the bento box with water, putting the lid on, and shaking it or turning it upside down.
 Bento boxes can be difficult to wash and sanitize properly. If the bento box you buy is too much of a hassle to clean, you'll be disinclined to use it regularly. Make sure you can clean the box you choose in a way that is convenient for you.Bento boxes with removable dividers are not only more versatile, but also will be easier to clean because you won't have to get into as many corners and crevices.
Larger bento boxes may not fit in your dishwasher, particularly if they need to go on the top rack.
Lids may have specialized rubber seals to prevent leaks that must be carefully washed by hand to maintain their seal. If you put them in the dishwasher, they may warp and become ineffective.
 Particularly if you get bento boxes that have a limited number of individual compartments, you may want to pick up some cupcake liners that you can use when you want to include a small portion of another food that needs to be separated.Silicone cupcake liners can easily be washed and reused, and you can buy a dozen for under $10. This makes them an economical way to add temporary compartments to your bento boxes.
You can find them in many different colors and shapes if you want to get creative. Each regular-sized cupcake liner is about the size of an individual portion of most side items such as fruits, vegetables, or cheese.
You also may want to pick up some smaller silicone liners for "mini" cupcakes or muffins. These can be ideal for special treats that are only supposed to be consumed sparingly, such as candies.
 The number of calories your body needs each day depends on your gender, body mass, age, and level of activity. You'll get the most accurate measure of your caloric need if you know your basal metabolic rate.You can find calorie calculators online if you want to get a general, working idea of how many calories your meals should include.
Keep in mind that total calories refers to your intake over the course of an entire day. Not only must you divide this number by the number of meals you eat each day, but you also should account for snacks.
Remember to do this calculation regularly if you have a change in your level of activity, or if you gain or lose a significant amount of weight.
 There are 3,500 calories in one pound. Using this, you can determine how many calories you need to cut (or add) each day if you want to gain or lose weight.To lose one pound a week, you need to eat 500 fewer calories every day. So if you calculate that you need to eat 1700 calories a day to maintain your current weight, you would need to eat 1200 calories a day to start losing weight.
If you want to gain weight, the calculation works the same way, but in reverse. If your calculations revealed that you needed to eat 1700 calories a day to maintain your weight, you would need to eat 2200 calories a day to gain a pound a week.
 Bento-style lunches aren't just about providing a well-balanced meal – they're also an art form. There are a number of accessories you can buy if you want to express your creativity with your bento box.For example, you may want to invest in some stylish food picks or bento picks. While some of them may be a bit more cutesy than you would like, keep in mind that they serve an important function apart from decoration. They keep your food from moving around or shifting too much during transport, and give you something to hold onto while eating finger foods such as strawberries, so you can keep your fingers clean.
Egg molds can transform hard-boiled eggs into symbols or animal characters.
You also can use cookie cutters and mini bento cutters to shape vegetables or make cut-outs in sandwiches.
 Whether you're specifically dieting or just trying to eat more healthy, lean protein is essential to build strong muscles and provide you with consistent energy throughout the day.Chicken and turkey are good sources of lean protein. If you are a vegan, try including edamame or other soy products, as well as lentils and almonds.
Even meat-eaters should consider substituting their meat with an alternative protein source, such as tofu, at least once or twice a week.
Hard-boiled eggs are a staple of bento-style meals, and also a good source of protein.
 According to bento box tradition, your bento box must contain at least five colors. Colorful foods are higher in antioxidants. Following this tradition not only gives you a meal that's pleasing to the eye, but encourages you to go beyond your standard fare and incorporate less typical food options that you may not have considered otherwise.For example, look for red, yellow, and green tomatoes, or orange and purple cauliflower. These foods taste generally the same, but naturally bring more color to your bento box.
Always include some green in your box, in the form of leafy greens for a salad or cucumbers and celery.
Melon balls are another good way to get a variety of color into your bento box while still eating healthy food that's divided into proper individual portions.
 Use a small container or tube with a separate lid to carry the sauces, salad dressings, or dips you plan to use with your bento box meal. If you get a container that only holds an ounce or two, you can better control your portions than if you just use a whole jar or bottle.Make sure any liquids in your bento box are closed so that they won't get all over everything else in transit.
Some bento boxes have a small raised compartment designed specifically for liquids. The sides of this compartment go all the way up to the lid to prevent leaks – however, it may not be entirely leak-proof since it isn't sealed the same way the outside of the box is. Keep that in mind before you throw your bento box into your backpack or turn it upside down.
 Even if you're on a diet, you don't necessarily have to deprive yourself of the little treats you love. Just enjoy them in incredibly small amounts so you can satisfy your craving without blowing your diet.For example, if you're putting together a bento box full of sweet and salty snacks to eat at work over the course of a day, you might include a mini cupcake liner with a half a handful of chocolate candy or jellybeans.
These small amounts also can be a good way to add some fun and variety to your bento box meal while still exhibiting good portion control.

