 In addition to the federal labor board, many states have their own labor boards that are responsible for the execution of state labor relations laws.


Usually you can find out if your state has a process for handling ULP complaints by checking the website of your state's labor office. The U.S. Department of Labor has a list of the states and the contact information for the state labor office, including the website address.State laws typically cover public employees such as city and county government employees, and private sector employees not covered by the NLRA., Many states provide a form online that you can download and print to file a ULP charge. If you prefer, you can visit a local state labor office and get a paper form.
 As with the NLRB, most states require basic contact information identifying you and the employer or union you're charging with committing an unfair labor practice, as well as a brief factual description of what happened that gave rise to the charge.You may be required to list the type of relief you seek for the violation.If you have any other proceedings open or pending that relate to the same incident, you typically will be required to make a note of them along with their status and any relevant case numbers., As with the NLRB, most states require ULP charges to be filed within six months of the date the incident took place., After your charge is filed, an agent of the state board will investigate the charge. During this time you may be asked additional questions about your charge.


The investigating agent may request you to answer questions under oath, or may ask for names and phone numbers of other witnesses to the action that serves as the basis for your charge., Some states may require parties involved in charges of unfair labor practice to attempt mediation before a formal hearing with a judge is scheduled.
 If the investigation reveals sufficient evidence to support a charge of unfair labor practices, the state board may schedule a hearing.


During the hearing, both sides will present evidence and testimony to an administrative law judge. At the conclusion of the hearing, the judge or other board representative will issue an order on the charge.