 You can purchase rat poison at most hardware and garden supply stores. Rat poison contains warfarin, which can kill rats. You should place the rat poison where the rats spend most of their time. However, you should not use rat poison if you have pets because it can make your pets very ill. Scroll down to the other steps in this article for more pet-friendly options. If you do not have pets and choose to use rat poison, place it:


In rat holes and other dark spots where you have found rat feces, or where you have seen rats entering and exiting. If you would prefer a more humane way of getting rid of rats, see Step 4.;
, A rat trap is a specialized device that snaps shut when a rat steps on it. You place a piece of bait on the center or end of the rat trap, and when the rat goes for the bait, a section of the trap snaps shut, killing the rat. Place the traps near where you have seen rat feces or where rats enter and exit your home.Once you have set the traps, check them everyday. If a rat is caught and killed, its body should be removed right away. If you are concerned about killing rats and would prefer a more humane way to trap them, see Step 4.
 A glue board is a piece of plastic or wood that has had one of its side covered in a very sticky glue. You can put a piece of bait in the middle of the board. When a rat goes to get the bait, it gets stuck on the glue and eventually dies. If you are looking for a more humane way to get rid of the rats, see the next step.
 This sort of trap is intended for people who do not wish to kill the rats, but would rather remove them from their property and put them out in the forest or other natural space. To set up this kind of trap, place it where you have seen rats in your house. Put bait in the closed end of the trap. When the rat steps into the trap to get the bait, the door will spring shut.


Check these traps every day. If you find a rat, take the rat far away from your house and release it in a natural area like a forest or swamp.
 If you are concerned that you may have more than one or two rats living in your house, or if you don’t have rats and really don’t want them to be attracted to your house, make your house as unpleasant for a rat as possible:


Dispose of your trash properly. Spoiled foods must be properly disposed and trash cans should be kept sealed at all times to avoid attracting rodents.
Keep your food sealed up. If a rat can’t access any of your food because the food is in sealed plastic containers, the rat is much less likely to make your house his home.
Block up any potential entrances that rats could enter your house through. Any holes in the doors, walls or screens of your house should be sealed up to keep rodents out.

