 If you prefer hand wash your dog’s food or water dish (rather than than put them in the dishwasher), choose a mild, non-toxic dishwashing detergent.If you are not sure which detergents are mild, check the product labels for indications that the product would be soft on your hands. If the detergent is mild enough for you, then it will be mild enough for your dog’s food or water dish.


Organic detergents, although more expensive, likely contain non-toxic ingredients.
Harsh detergents and bleach are toxic to dogs.Harsh detergents could also cause stainless steel dishes to rust.You can also make your own mild detergent by combining equal parts of baking soda, warm water, and table salt.;
, It is not recommended to wash your dog’s dishes in the bathtub or kitchen sink because of the risk of cross-contamination. Your dog’s food or water dish could have bacteria from his mouth and his food,and you would not want that bacteria contaminating the dishes you and your family use. Instead, use a bathroom sink or large utility sink.If you choose to use the kitchen sink, you will need to disinfect it after washing your dog’s food or water dish., To hand wash the dishes, use a dishcloth or sponge that you use only for your dog’s dishes.Make the water as hot as you can tolerate. Consider wearing gloves while handwashing to protect your hands from the hot water.Using a circular motion with the dishtowel or sponge,wash both the inside and outside of the dish.
Pay special attention to areas where the food has hardened.
 Using hot water and mild detergent is a very effective way to clean your dog’s food or water dishes. However, a slimy substance called biofilm can accumulate in your dog’s dishes. It contains a combination of bacteria, algae, and fungi that could make your dog sick if he ingests it. Scrubbing and disinfecting the dish are the best ways to get rid of the biofilm and its harmful microorganisms.Biofilm's slimy, gluey texture can make it challenging to remove.The baking soda in your homemade detergent is abrasive enough to remove the biofilm.
To disinfect the dish after scrubbing it, mix one gallon of water with one tablespoon of bleach. Add this mixture to the dish and let it sit for about two minutes before rinsing it out. Disinfect the outside of the bowl, too.To make your dog's food or dish extra clean, you can clean and disinfect it, rather than doing one or the other.
 Your dog could become sick if he ingests detergent residue in his dish,so it is very important for you to rinse his dish completely with water. You can either dry the dish off with some paper towels or let the dish air dry before refilling it with food or water.


If you have disinfected the dish, it is very important to rinse away any bleach residue.If you choose to dry off the dish with a dishtowel, make sure the dishtowel is used only for your dog’s dishes.
 If you have used the kitchen sink, get it ready for human use again by disinfecting it with diluted bleach (one tablespoon or bleach per one gallon of water). Put the stopper in place and fill the sink with the bleach. Let the mixture sit for about five minutes. Next, release the stopper to drain the sink. Finally, give the sink another quick rinse and let it air dry.