 Look at the inside tag to determine what the waist size is. For example, it may list 30 x 32 inches, in which case 30 inches is your waist size.;
, Wrap the tape around your mid-section, right where your belly button is. Read the measurement at the point where the tape meets to find out your waist size.


Use a mirror to make sure the measuring tape is completely horizontal when you measure it.
If you are a woman who likes to wear your jeans slightly lower, you may want to measure your waist several inches lower.
Measure your favorite jeans in the same way to get a good approximation of size.
 The belt length is measured from the buckle to the center hole. This gives you plenty of wiggle room for different styles of dress.If your waist size is 30 inches (76cm), your belt size is 32 inches (81cm).



Casual belts are typically 1.25 to 1.5 inches (3.18 to 3.8 cm) wide.
Dress belt are typically 1.25 inches (3.18 cm) wide, and should never be 1.5 inches or more, as that is too casual., Brown, tan and black are the most common belt colors. They are also typical colors of leather.


Generally men’s shoes and belt should match.
Women may choose to match shoes, belt and other accessories, or use a contrasting color.
 A tongue buckle allows you to slip a piece of metal through a belt hole to secure it. A military-style belt is usually cloth with a sliding latch.


A military belt is usually bought in a generic size and then trimmed down to the appropriate length at home. Don’t forget to heat seal the ends with a lighter after you cut your belt to length.
A braided buckle does not need belt holes, since you can slip the tongue inside of the braided strips of leather., Leather or vegan leather is made to stand up to regular wear and tear for years. It can be treated with polish to condition the leather as it ages.


Fake leather is likely to wear out before treated leather., You can go a step further and match it to your cuff links or wedding ring as well., This will help you account for belt loop size and get an accurate fit.
 You should secure the belt with the center hole. If it is in one of the last holes, you will not have room to adjust it after a big meal.
 If you can afford the expense, buy a belt that can be repaired and treated in the future. If not, leather belts are sold at many regular clothing stores.
 They should be on par with shoes or watches. They are items that can be worn for many more years than normal clothing.


For this same reason, if you are unlikely to wear a belt again, choose one that is inexpensive. Save the money for a belt you will wear regularly.
 A store will be able to guarantee fit, but you might be able to find better deals for your favorite brands online.
 Take the belt home and try it on with all of your favorite pants or jeans. If it doesn’t fit through the belt loops, take it back for a different model.

