 As a tenant, it is your responsibility to make sure you read and understand the terms of your lease agreement with your landlord. A good landlord will make sure you understand the terms of your lease and be clear about their expectations. Understanding the terms will ensure you do not break the lease or put yourself at risk of getting in trouble with your landlord.Most leases will discuss the rent amount per month, the damage deposit amount, the allowance of pets in the rental, and the landlord’s expectations of cleanliness and maintenance. You should make sure you are clear about these requirements and are comfortable with them before you sign the lease.;
, A good tenant will follow the guidelines and rules set out in their lease. Breaking the terms of your lease could be grounds for your landlord to terminate your rental agreement and possibly evict you. You can prevent this by always making sure you are not breaking any of the rules in your lease. Following the rules of your lease will also ensure you maintain a positive relationship with your landlord.For example, if you decide you would like a small dog but your lease does not allow pets in the rental, you should not just get a small dog anyway and sneak it into your rental. This would be considered breaking the terms of your lease and could lead to eviction by your landlord.
You should also make sure you follow the less obvious rules in your lease, such as a rule where no overnight guests are allowed without the approval of your landlord. Rather than risk upsetting your landlord, you should reach out to your landlord and follow their requirements. This will help to maintain a relationship that is transparent and honest with your landlord.
 A good tenant will always pay rent on time every month, no excuses. Landlords appreciate tenants who do not miss rent or pay rent late, as they do not want the hassle of having to track down a tenant or chase after them for rent. Missing a rent payment could be grounds for eviction so always try to pay your rent on time every month, without fail.If you think you may be short on rent for the month, you should reach out to your landlord and let him or her know that you are struggling financially. Your landlord may appreciate the advanced notice and work with you to address your rent, or possibly allow you to pay it late if you have a history of paying rent on time. Communicating with your landlord is a better option than simply missing a rent payment.
 Your lease will likely specify the noise requirements for the rental. Your landlord may set a specific time at night where loud noise is not permitted, usually after 9 or 10 pm. You should follow these noise requirements and avoid hosting a big crowd or playing loud music after the specified time.


If you are planning to have a party or a get together, you should notify your landlord beforehand. Your landlord may bend the noise restriction if you are respectful and are willing to quiet down if someone else in the building complains.
 Your landlord is not responsible for the loss or theft of your personal property in the rental. You should protect your belongings by getting renter’s insurance so you are covered in the event of theft or a fire in the building.Often, renter’s insurance is not very expensive and requires you to pay a fee once a month to an insurance provider. You can purchase renter’s insurance for a high amount of loss that will cover all of your personal possessions in the event they go missing or get damaged.
 A good tenant will make sure the rental property is clean and tidy on a day to day basis. This means that as a tenant you may need to create a cleaning schedule where you clean high traffic areas once a day or once a week. If you have roommates, you may split up the cleaning duties so you are all responsible for keeping the rental tidy and free of dirt or debris.If the rental has carpet, you should make an effort to keep the carpet clean and stain-free. Avoid eating or drinking in areas with carpet. Put down rugs and mats on the carpet to protect it.
 If you are allowed to have small pets in the rental, like a cat or a dog, you should make sure you clean up after them. This means not allowing the pet to go the bathroom in the rental, unless it’s a cat with a litterbox. You should make sure you clean and empty the litterbox often so it does not make the rental smell or appear unclean.If you have a pet that sheds, like a small dog, you should also get in the habit of vacuuming the rental once a week. This will help to remove the dog hair from the floors and prevent the dog hair from building up in the rental.
 As a good tenant, you should make every effort to treat the rental as if it is your own home. This means maintaining the rental and not damaging the rental in any way. You will be responsible for the payment for repairs for any damage you cause in the rental so you should make every effort to treat the rental with care.Be careful with the light fixtures in the rental as well as the kitchen appliances, as these are considered the property of the landlord and will cost you if they are damaged. You should also treat the bathroom items in the rental, such as the toilet and the shower, with care as these are also considered property of the landlord.
You may want to take pictures of the rental on the day you move in so you have a record of the appearance of the rental. Your landlord should acknowledge any damage that was already present when you moved in, as documented in the photographs, so you will not be held accountable for any existing damage in the rental.
 If your rental needs repairs or maintenance, do not try to do it yourself. This could lead to further damage or issues that you may be responsible for paying for as the tenant. Instead, reach out to your landlord so he/she can address the issue properly.Do not be afraid to contact your landlord about repairs or maintenance, as this is part of their responsibilities as a landlord. Your landlord should be willing and ready to address any repairs or maintenance issues in the rental. You should not be responsible for doing repairs or maintenance in the rental, as this is not your job as the tenant.
 You should always submit written requests to your landlord by email or text message, as this will ensure there is a paper trail of your correspondence. It may also help keep your landlord organized if you always submit requests in writing and save the request in your records.You may submit written requests for repairs or maintenance. You may also submit a written request about having guests stay in the rental or about having a gathering of people at the rental. Try to be transparent and honest with your landlord, as this will help foster a positive relationship with him/her.
 Your landlord should give you 24 hours notice before entering the rental. Often, landlords will enter the rental to do a professional inspection of the rental or to show the rental to potential renters or buyers. You should always be notified as the tenant before these visits occur, out of respect and convenience.You may want to clarify the rules around landlord visits with your landlord when you sign the lease for the rental. This will ensure you and the landlord are both clear on the expectations for visits or inspections.
 When it comes time for you to move out of the rental, you should do so with respect and within the agreed time frame. Make sure you leave the rental as you viewed it, clean and damage-free. Leaving the rental in excellent condition will ensure you get your damage deposit back and a good reference from your landlord for your next rental.You should always give your landlord advance notice before you move out of the rental and make sure your move out date adheres to your rental agreement. You should arrange a walk through of the rental with your landlord on your move out day to ensure there is no damage or issues with the rental.
You should use the photographs you took of the rental the day you moved in as a guide for how you should leave the rental when you move out. Make sure you clean the rental extensively and leave no trace of your presence.

