 Though you may want to jump to conclusions once you're both in your underwear, it's important to make it clear that you'll be having sex so things aren't awkward and there are no misunderstandings. Here's how to move past that hurdle:


Say, "Are you ready?" or "Do you want to?" Make it clear that you want to take it to the next level.
If she agrees, be prepared with a condom. Be smooth about putting it on, and try to be as efficient as possible so you don't kill the mood.
 Men are often ready for sex before women, and even if you've had some great foreplay, you need to spend more time on your girl's body before you start getting it on. Here's what to do:


Caress and kiss her body--all over. Kiss her neck, her shoulders, her breasts, her belly, and the insides of her thighs.
Tell her how much you like her. Whisper a few lines about how sexy her body is, or how much you love a certain part of her.
Touch her genitals gently. You can tease her a little bit by touching her and then moving your hand somewhere else for a little while--this will leave her wanting more. Once she's ready for intercourse, you should go for it.
 There are dozens of ways to have great sex, and once you start, you need to feel out your woman to see what she's comfortable with and what she's into. Here's how to get a feel for your sexual style with your new partner:


Try different positions. Start by being on top and see if she likes being on top or even having sex in a more adventurous way. Don't try anything too crazy at first--get a good rhythm going before you get creative.
See if she likes to be gentle or aggressive. Try some light biting or some intense touches to see if she reciprocates. Some women like to be fun and aggressive but are waiting for you to make the move. But if she likes to be gentle, then take your time, and hold her lightly.
Try dirty talk. Dirty talk is not for everyone, but if your lady is into it, it can go a long way in turning her on. Tell her what you're doing to her, what you'd like to do to her, and compliment her body. If she doesn't reciprocate, tone it down.
 Both partners should feel satisfied after your time together, and before you finish, you should make sure your lady has a good time. Here are some ways to finish strong in the bedroom:


Remember that many women don't orgasm from sex, so if she doesn't orgasm, touch her until she does.
After you finish, don't immediately run out of the room or hop in the shower. Take some time to stay in bed and caress your lady and tell her how great it was.
Don't be disappointed. If your lady didn't reach her climax, or if you orgasm prematurely, don't be discouraged. This happens more often than you think, and handling it with calm will show her that you're confident in who you are.
 Once you've wrapped things up in the bedroom, there are a few things to do so your girl wants to sleep with you again, whether it's later that night, or later that week. Here's how to end things on a good note:


Offer to shower together to clean off. If she's game, kiss her gently while you're showering.
Don't be reserved after you have sex. You should give your lady some space, but show that you're the same funny, amazing guy she was making out with hours ago.
Tell her you had a great time and want to do it again soon. When she leaves, walk her out like a true gentleman. Put your coat on her, drive her home or call her a cab, and kiss her at the door.
Play it cool. Don't say, "When can we hook up again?" Instead, just tell her you had a great time and that you'll call her soon.
Make her think about hooking up with you. Once she's away, the occasional sexy text will remind her of the hot time she had in the bedroom. If you're smooth about these gentle reminders, she'll be wanting more faster than you can restock on your incense and candles.

