 These cars cannot be sold without undergoing testing and inspections to make sure all components function properly.While these vehicles may cost more, you can be sure of getting a reliable vehicle without having to do a great deal of research.


Be aware that not all cars sold at dealerships are certified.
Check the sticker to see if the car is “as is”. This means the seller makes no guarantees as to the vehicle’s condition. Any repairs will be your responsibility.;
, You can look up dealer reviews online at sites like Car.com, Edmunds, or Dealer Rater. A good dealership will provide the vehicle history report and service record for their used cars for no additional cost.
 Private owners typically list their cars in the newspaper or on craigslist. You can often get the best deals here, but you must be extra vigilant if you want to locate a reliable car.
 Use a trusted site like Kelley’s Blue Book, Consumer Reports, or Edmunds to look up information about the models you are interested in. Avoid models that have a history of complaints, recalls or functional problems.
 This report will tell you whether the car has been in a significant accident or had the odometer rolled back.


You will need the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) to order the report. It is often located inside the drive side door jam or on the driver side dash. If the report is negative, do not by the car.
 This will tell you how much people in your area are paying for the car and protect you from paying too much.
 You can get a feel for how trustworthy you think he or she is. You can also save a lot of time by asking a few questions before you show up to test-drive a car. If the seller is evasive or the answers unsatisfactory, you may want to look elsewhere. Be sure to ask:Why are you selling?
Does the car need any repairs?
Has it ever been in any accidents?
How many people have owned the car?
Do you have all the records? Can you provide them?
Can I have a mechanic examine the car prior to purchase?

, Never buy a car without the title. It is what establishes your legal ownership of the vehicle. The service records will show if the car received its scheduled maintenance on time.
 Look for obvious damage such as dents and scratches on the body, rust or cracks in the windshield, but also be aware of less obvious signs the car has been in an accident:Body panel colors that do not match (often a sign of a major repair).
A fresh paint job (often used to conceal rust).
Misaligned seams where the trunk, hood, and doors closed (a sign that the car may have been in a serious accident).
Steel panels repaired with filler. A small magnet should adhere to all steel parts.
 If the tires need to be replaced, then you can negotiate a lower price to cover the cost. Tire wear may also reveal alignment or suspension problems.Look for:


A reputable brand name (Michelin, Bridgestone, Goodyear).
All of the same make.
Free of any cuts, bubbles or cracks.
Worn evenly (uneven wear indicates an alignment or suspension issue).
New tires on a low mileage car (a sign that the odometer may have been rolled back)., Most obviously, the car should rest levelly. But don’t be shy about testing it to check for less obvious problems, as suspension repair is very costly.Make sure:


No creaking noises are produced when you bounce the vehicle’s corners.All corners respond the same to bouncing.
When you tug back and forth on the top of each front tire, there should be no play or clunking or ticking sounds, which indicate the wheel bearing or suspension joints need repair., Cars whose frames have been damaged and then straightened are less safe in an accident. Look under the car, under the hood, and in the trunk. Make sure no part of the chassis is bent or cracked, and look for signs of post-accident straightening:A door or trunk that does not open and close easily.
Holes or gashes on the frame, where a straightening machine was attached.
A replacement hood, trunk, or doors.
Welding marks under the hood.
An inconsistent finish, caused by repainting after repairs.
 A cracked block or blown gaskets will likely cost more to repair than the car is worth. Make sure:


It is free of fluid or oil leaks.
The oil filler neck is not coated with thick, black deposits.
The battery terminals are free of corrosion.
The oil dip stick is free of dark, black oil.
The radiator fluid is not foamy and has not oil droplets in it. This is a sign of a defective head gasket or cracked block or cylinder head, allowing coolant and oil to mix.There are no odors while the engine is running.
The exhaust is neither blue (burning oil) or black (excessive oil consumption).
Be aware: an extremely clean engine may have been cleaned recently to remove signs of leaks. Be sure to check it again after the test drive.
 You want to be sure the car is easy to get in and out of, comfortable, and has not obvious problems. More importantly, you want to make sure there is no flood damage, which not only harms the interior, but also damages the engine in a number of ways. Never buy a car that has suffered flood damage. Be sure to check for:


Cracked or overly worn seats. Mineral deposits will result in seat discoloring and indicate flood damage.
A heavy scent of air freshener, which may be concealing engine smells, cigarette smoke, mold or other unwanted odors.
Broken gauges.
Illuminated warning lights.
A functioning stereo (damaged electronics may indicate flood damage).
A heater and a/c system that work.
Windshield wipers that work and fluid that dispenses properly.
Functioning seatbelts.
Seats that adjust properly.
Functioning window and sunroof (if applicable).
Car alarm that works (if applicable).
Trunk and diver-side door that lock and unlock with the key.
Headlights and hazards that work properly.
 This will allow you to hear engine noise, squealing belts, etc.
 If you will commute by highway or are planning on long road trips, be sure to get the car up to highway speed. If you will be driving in the mountains, find a steep hill to drive up.
 This is easiest to do when getting on the highway. You want to be sure the car has adequate power to get up to speed and merge safely. In addition, be alert to signs of engine or transmission problems:


Make sure the car downshifts swiftly and smoothly. Sudden loss of power, clunking sounds, or a delay or engine revving before a shift indicates a worn clutch.Listen for excessive engine noise.
 Clunking noises and grinding when in reverse are signs of a worn transmission., This is easiest to do in a parking lot or when coming to a stop sign. First make sure no cars are behind you. You don’t want to be rear-ended during your test drive. Make sure:


The vehicle does not pull to one side when braking (indicates the brake pads are wearing unevenly or the break fluid needs replacing).There is no grinding or squealing noise when applying the breaks (indicates worn break pads).
The break pedal does not vibrate (indicates warped rotors or poor vehicle alignment).The wheels do not lock (if the car has antilock breaks).
 The steering should be easy and responsive. The ride should be smooth. Make sure:


The car does not drift to one side.
The steering wheel does not shake or vibrate excessively, particularly when turning (indicates problems ranging from an unbalanced tire to a slipping belt to a loose steering rack).There is no resistance in the steering wheel when turning (indicates low power steering fluid or other problems).
There are no strange noises when turning: clicking, clunking or squealing (often indicates a failed power steering pump).
The car does not bounce when going over bumps (a sign of suspension failure).The car does not dip in front when stopping (another sign of suspension failure)., The dipstick is usually in the rear of the engine compartment. The fluid should be bright red to light reddish brown. Dark brown, black, or mustard colored fluid, or a strong burned smell, can indicate a major transmission problem., Your own inspection and test drive can identify obvious problems, but a mechanic can find dozens of things you might miss.
, Be sure to ask what repairs he or she recommends, what repairs he or she anticipates in the coming years, and in particular, what repairs the car needs in order to pass inspection for registration in your state. If the car does need repairs, you may be able to negotiate with the seller for a lower selling price.
 If your car comes back with a clean Vehicle History report, aces your inspection and test drive, and gets a clean bill-of health from a trusted mechanic, then you can be confident you are purchasing a reliable car.

