 This is located northeast of Winterhold.

You must be at least level 15 to do this quest, and you must have done the “Elder Knowledge” quest, which is a part of the main storyline.;
, Head forward through the bridge and toward the door directly in front of it; this door leads inside the Hall of Elements., Enter the door on your right to get to the Arcanaeum, follow the stairs to the second floor and you’ll see that you’re in a library., Urag gro-Shub is the orc at the main desk of the library. He’ll ask you questions; answer with the following:

“I’m looking for the elder scroll”
“Tell me more about the Elder scroll”
“Alright do you have one I could use?”
“What about the Dragonborn?”
After you answer correctly, he’ll bring you two books.
, Tell him the following:

“This ‘Ruminations’ book is incomprehensible” and then “Where did he go?”
Urag will tell you to go north toward the ice fields.
 Leave the college of Winterhold and head north, and keep going until you see a black mountain shape on your map bar. You’ll see a small boat and a makeshift door near it; this is Septimus Signus’s outpost., You’ll arrive at an ice cave, go below toward the lower part of the cavern and you’ll see Septimus Signus.

If you’re having a hard time finding Septimus Signus’s outpost, head north toward the Sky Temple ruins first, then head northwest until you see the boat.
 You’ll be informed of the Elder Scrolls, but he will also ask you to do something for him first and he’ll give you the Elder Scroll in return. The quest “Transcribe the Lexicon” will start after you speak to him., It’s directly southwest from Septimus Signus’s outpost; an easier way to find it is to open your map and place the marker on that location.

Skyrim will automatically show Alftand in your map, so don’t worry about having to go around for ages trying to find it.
 Within Alftand you’ll see that the quest cursor will point you deeper into the area and into the Alftand Glacial ruins. Enter the ruins and follow the only path available inside it. You’ll hear people talking, so if you’re level is low, tread lightly., After you reach the table with Dwarven Spiders on top (near the bloody gate), go up the inclined path and continue going deeper into the ruins until you hear another voice. Look to your right and you’ll see a Khajiit named J’darr., He’ll try to kill you, so dispose of him before he does., You’ll see a glowing stone inside a gold ornament. Two Dwarven spheres will attack you in this area; take them down before pushing forward., Continue walking through that path until you reach the end, and two Dwarven spiders will spawn. Kill the spiders and go through the large golden door., Continue going forward and up the staircase, then turn left at the top of it. Turn left at the end of the next corridor, but be careful of the pistons that could push you off the ledge.

On the end of the first corridor after you enter the gold gate, there’s a chest, but it’s lined with a trap. If you want the chest, just go a bit to the left and avoid the embossed piece of the floor.
 Enter it to get to the Alftand Animonculory. Keep going forward and enter through another golden door, turn left at the corner and kill the Dwarven Spider., Continue walking forward until you see another set of stairs. Run up the stairs but avoid the embossed tiles that are lined with gold.

If you happen to step on one, a booby trap will activate, run down the stairs and try again when it does.
 You’ll see that the lever is on the other side of the metal bars. Get really close to the bars, and you’ll be able to activate the lever. Head down the stairs and jump onto the circular platform below it., Use it to go further down until you reach the golden door that’s protected by a flame torch. Wait for the flame to stop before going through it, then enter the door.,, Afterward, continue going deeper into the ruins, head down the stairs, and you’ll be attacked by more Falmers. Dispose of them and ignore the lever for now, turn left and continue going down deeper., Go down the stairs and open the door to Alftand Cathedral., Be careful when you do—the floor is lined with more booby traps. Head through the golden door and up the stairs, you’ll be attacked by more Falmer; kill them and go up the stairs to your left. Flip the switch and head through the newly opened gate., After you kill it, you will obtain the Lift key. Head up the stairs and through the door, but keep out of sight. There will be two enemies here that will try to kill each other; wait for one of them to die before taking out the other one yourself., A staircase will appear, use it to get to black reach., Go southwest until you reach a small canal; turn left from there and cross the bridge., Head for the tower and enter the door. Inside there’s a lever; pull it to reach the tower of Mzark., Turn left at the room where a giant Dwarven sphere is embedded on the floor. Climb up the stairs and you’ll see a large machine.,

From the right, press the second button 3 times.
Press the third button twice, and the last button will open.
Press it the last button, and the machine will activate.
 Head back up and take the lexicon back from where you placed it., You’ll see a tower toward the south. Head there and activate the Dwarven machine to release the bars on the gate. Go inside and use the lever to exit back into Skyrim., Head inside and talk to Septimus, tell him “I’ve inscribed the Lexicon” and he’ll take it from you. He’ll ask you to do more tasks., You’ll see something less than pleasant blocking your way. Talk to it and choose “I am your servant, my lord” at the end of its dialogue. Now head back out into Skyrim., To get there, go southwest from Solitude and follow the stream and climb up the mountain until you find Liar’s Retreat., Be careful, there are a lot of Falmers here, and they are very hard to kill. Once you’ve killed the Falmers, take their blood and head into the next corridor., Kill the orc there and take his blood. Leave the room and head toward the right side of the corridor. Enter through the second door and collect blood from the dead wood elf between the beds., Keep going until you see another dead bandit; harvest blood from him, and you’ll have 4 types now., You can find it north of Whiterun.

If you’ve finished the quest for Amren’s sword, then you’ve already cleared this place and you’ll be able to fast travel to it.
 You’ll be taken back outside, and you’ll see a high elf that died in the pitfall. Crouch and take his blood, then backtrack into the cave and back out Skyrim., Fast travel back to Septimus Signus’s outpost and give him the blood. Follow him inside the Dwarven entry that opened., You now have your Oghma Infinium!