 As their name suggests, salad greens are useful for creating salads. You could use your salad greens to create a Caesar salad, a summer salad, or a sweet citrus salad.For instance, make a sweet citrus salad by mixing one cup of kale, one cup of romaine lettuce, one sliced orange, ¼ cup sliced almonds, and one tablespoon poppyseed dressing.
If you choose to add dressing to your salads, ensure it is low in calories and fat. Use a lighter vinaigrette and avoid heavy, creamy dressings like thousand island.Check the nutrition facts label on the dressing bottle to discover the fat and calorie levels.
To keep your salads low in calories and fat, avoid topping them with bacon, cheese, fried chicken, or tuna salad.
 A smoothie is a type of blended drink. Some salad greens taste good in smoothies. For instance, mix two cups of spinach, three ice cubes, one banana, one cup of milk, and three strawberries in a blender on high for about twenty seconds. Pour the smoothie into a cup and drink it.Not all greens are good in smoothies. Kale and spinach are the most common salad greens used in smoothies. Explore other options through experimentation, swapping out recommended greens for others in an equal amount.
You could use frozen or refrigerated salad greens in your smoothies.
 Collards or spinach can be a bit chewy when raw, but when steamed for a few minutes, they soften right up. Place one or two cups of spinach or collards on a steaming tray. Fill a pan with ¼ cup of water and boil it. Place the steaming tray over the pan. Check the salad green you’ve selected for steaming every few minutes to ensure it does not wilt too much.There is no correct way to define how much wilting constitutes “too much.” Some people prefer their salad greens very wilted when they steam them. Others prefer crisper salad greens.
Alternately, you could place a few cups of spinach or kale in a large microwave-safe bowl with four to eight tablespoons of water. Cover the bowl loosely with a paper plate or piece of baking parchment. Microwave the salad greens for about five minutes. Pour out excess water and consume the steamed salad greens.
 According to the USDA, a healthy person will eat two cups of salad greens per day. Of course, if you eat a bit more, there’s nothing wrong with that.Eat a variety of salad greens. If you eat the same salad greens every day, you will get bored of eating them.
To keep your salad-green consumption enjoyable, swap out the greens you eat from time to time.For instance, if you usually eat a salad of kale and romaine lettuce, try a salad of spinach and iceberg lettuce instead.

