;
, Ask about the admission price, any additional charges (tech card, parking, etc.) and also if they give out time-slips after races. They often do, but, during some events your time will be displayed on the board only, with no time-slip. In this case, have a friend stand near the track to record your time and speed after each run if you really want to know it. If you've never been to a dragstrip before, ask if they have a website providing a layout of their facility to familiarize yourself with the individual areas of the track. If not, ask for a map once you arrive.
 Inspect, change, or top off all oils and fluids. Check your brakes, steering, and suspension for wear and repair if needed. If you have a nitrous system, have your bottle filled. Though, most tracks sell nitrous and fuel, but expect to pay more. Put the tires you will race with on your car (or bring your race-only tires separately) with the proper air pressure. Don't top-off your fuel tank, as it makes your car heavier than necessary. Ideally, you want to race a streetcar with a 1/4 tank or less, depending on the vehicle and tank size. Do not run out of fuel completely. Once you feel your vehicle is ready to begin racing, drive to the track.
 Usually, they'll provide paperwork to sign and an armband or something to indicate that you're authorized to race. Go back to your car and move to the staging lanes if racing has begun.
 These are located at the beginning of the dragstrip, and clearly marked with painted lane stripes and numbers. Ask a track attendant for help if you can't find them. Follow all directions from track attendants carefully to avoid a collision, and remember top speed is 10 mph (16 km/h) in this area at most tracks. A track attendant will come alongside your car to ensure you've registered, and you may or may not get a number on your car window. Now, mentally prepare to go racing, and make sure your car is set up to do so also. You may wait a while in the lanes, so while it's OK to get out and chat with other racers, stay near your vehicle so you can move it forward at any time. Ask other racers questions, as with few exceptions, they'll be willing to provide advice.
 Some will drive through the "water box" (wet area for doing burnouts), others will drive around it. If you have street tires, it's best to drive around it and proceed onto the dragstrip. With slicks, drive into it and wait for the signal to do your burnout. In either case, don't do anything until a crewman signals you that it's OK to proceed. Generally, one person will signal you to pull out of the staging lane onto the track, where another will wave you forward. Slowly drive around or into the water box, and continue to follow hand signals. If doing a burnout, wait for a crew member's signal.
 Each lane has it's own set of lights in order from top to bottom: 2 small bulbs at the very top of the tree (Pre-Stage), 2 identical small ones under that (Stage), 3 large amber bulbs, a green bulb, and a red bulb. Roll you car forward slowly until the first set of bulbs are lit (Pre-stage), this indicates your front tire are approximately seven inches from the starting line. Continue to creep forward until the second set of small bulbs are lit (Staged), then stop.
 When you see the green light, GO! Keep racing until you reach the finish line, at which point you should begin to slow down and decide which turn-off you are going to take. If you have smoked your competitor, make sure you have his/her vehicle in sight before you turn off...you don't want to hit him while turning because he was in your blind spot!

, If it doesn't make any sense to you, ask another racer to explain it, but basically it shows your reaction time (R/T), time until your car reached the 1⁄8 mile (0.2 km) mark, your speed at that point, time until you car reached the 1⁄4 mile (0.4 km) mark, and again your speed at that point.
