 Most gangsters will want respect. If you love your gangster enough you will understand this basic need of theirs...and listen to them when they talk. Gangsters secretly want to find that person they can speak their mind to.;
, Gangsters do not want to be arrested although it happens sometimes. Maybe they did something bad, or they were with a friend who did something bad or they were at the wrong place at the wrong time. True gangsters usually deal with the prison life at certain times in their life. If you love your gangster you have to forgive them because this is their basic lifestyle of crime, illegal deeds, or supporting that life.
 Most gangsters need a "stable" base to return to. If they truly love you they will either want you to do good in life, or they will start asking you to do things that they do themselves. Gangsters don't want to feel alone in the world. It is up to you to be strong and teach them that you are living the right way or you do what they ask...but you risk getting in trouble in the long run.
 Just accept their friends for who they are and don't ask a lot of questions about what they do. Most of them if they are true gangsters will be secretive and hate it when others pry. Instead focus on the fun times and drink and do what they want to do...(and if you are uncomfortable with them then maybe you should not date or love a gangster....because this is the lifestyle they chose and their friends are part of it).
 They will look to you to have a good sense of humor and bring some sunshine to their life.
 Most gangsters want the good life. Wearing fashionable clothes and designer clothes are a big part of the lifestyle. Things like necklaces, fashionable jeans and expensive sneakers are apart of the gangster look. Most of the time they want a mate that is "gangster" appropriate to show around.
 It is unforgivable and no matter what you do for them they will not forgive you for cheating. Gangsters need to be the only one in a love relationship.
 This is a big one. Most gangsters will love specific bands or groups for good reasons. Many gangsters listen to music because they admire the artists who sing about their lifestyle or because they aspire to live that lifestyle that the artists are singing or rapping about. Either way a gangster and their music are inseparable!

, Most gangsters are searching in the world for love and respect. The sad fact is that many of them don't believe that their partners are faithful or that they are really loved by anyone. Gangsters have deep emotional issues that they cannot safely express and this can make them feel alone and depressed sometimes. When they break it off, even if you haven't done anything wrong, it may be because they don't want to admit their deep fear of commitment or of truly loving and needing someone. This usually heals itself in time after the gangster becomes mature....but that can take years sometimes.

