 Try to run every day or as many days as you can.;
, Before you run, remember to stretch. Stretching your body is one of the most important things to do in physical exercises. It can prevent sore muscles or pulled muscles from happening. Before you run, spend 10 to 15 minutes stretching your legs, arms, and back. For instructions on how to stretch or examples of stretches you can do, see articles about stretching.
 It's harder to run in jeans than in basketball shorts or sweatpants. Wear T-shirts made of cotton or sweat-resistant materials. Make sure your wardrobe is not tight, itchy, or uncomfortable. And it's okay if your tee is loose fitting. Loose fit tees are perfect for running.
 Most runners wear a basic pair of tennis shoes, and that's okay. But sometimes if you are running on a trail it's best to use trail shoes. And if you are running on a track, track shoes work perfectly. With your shoes it is important to make sure they fit you snuggly but are not too tight or too loose. Tight shoes may hurt your feet, and shoes that are too loose might slip off your foot. If your feet hurt after you run, particularly the soles of your feet, consider getting insoles. Insoles are easy to put in, and provide extra padding when you are running.
 When running, it's important to drink water. If you are planning to run, bring a water bottle that is all the way full with fresh water. Take a sip right before you start to give you a small energy boost. When you get tired or thirsty drink more water. Refill the bottle if necessary.
 A great way to practice long distance running at first is on a track. To begin your run, get your body moving by lightly jogging (or walking) a lap around the track. Don't wear yourself out right away though.
 After the first lap,(often called a warm-up lap) jog faster. After completing each lap, go a little faster if you are able to.
 Throughout your run, it is important to drink plenty of water. After each lap it is a good idea to take a sip. Refuel when you feel tired or if you are thirsty. If your throat hurts or is dry, it is time to take a drink as well.
 After you get tired of running, walk one last lap. This final lap is called a cool down lap. Cooling down your body is a good habit in exercise.
 When you complete your run, make sure not to attempt any other strenuous physical activities. Rest your muscles if they are sore, and continue to drink water during the day.

