 You may want to focus on customer or employee satisfaction, quality, efficiency, or productivity in specific departments, products, or services. Make a list of all the areas in which you’d like to see positive changes, and then pick one to start with.


If you don’t know where to start, work out a way to prioritize your objectives. For instance, you may want to begin with the areas that affect your customers the most or with an area that has the most opportunity for immediate improvement.
 To focus your application of kaizen principles, you will need to take time to document and assess existing work processes. This should include recording the steps currently involved, the time and resources required for each, and the overall results of the process.For instance, if you’re evaluating a design process, you would need to document each stage of the process as well as the personnel, time, equipment, and costs involved in each stage. You would also need to have the figures for how much is produced and how much profit is generated from the current process.
Many businesses do this through “value stream mapping,” which charts each step in a process and assesses the value and/or waste generated by that step. Once you know how well each step is functioning, it’s easier to identify places for improvement.The more information, input, and data that you have about how a process presently works and the results that it produces, the better positioned you’ll be to change it for the better.
 When you’re trying to make changes in a specific area, it’s good to have an idea of where you’d like go. That way, you can identify gaps between where you’re at and where you’d like to be. Those gaps are precisely where you should implement kaizen principles.For instance, if you’re trying to improve customer service, you may notice that your current state for an average response time to an online inquiry is 72 hours while your future state calls for a response time under 24 hours.
 Once you have laid out the information and vision for a target process, it’s time to tap everyone associated with that process to come up with potential actions that you could take to improve it. Having many people with diverse perspectives involved in your brainstorming session will increase your chances of generating a robust array of solutions.
 Break down your improvement plans into a series of small changes or steps. Decide on a reasonable timeframe for implementing each incremental change.For example, if you’re trying to improve the quality of a particular product, you might start by enhancing the processing of its core materials, then work on honing the manufacturing equipment, and then improving the procedures for quality control.
 The steps are: sort, straighten, shine, standardize, and sustain. That is, sort out what’s not necessary, organize what’s left, keep the process clean and waste-free, standardize how it operates, and continue to maintain and improve the standards you've set.For instance, if you’re applying this to a manufacturing process, you might start by eliminating unnecessary equipment from your work site, making sure that the remaining equipment is arranged in a logical manner for the workers, and ensuring that there is a maintenance policy in place to keep your newly organized space clean and high-functioning. Then, you can use your improvements to designate a new manufacturing protocol that you continuously evaluate for possible tweaks to make it more efficient.
 Everyone who is involved in a process, regardless of their rank, should be involved with kaizen planning and decision-making. This ensures that the people who know the process best are on-hand to offer possible improvements. It also means that everyone is already “on board” when it comes to implementing incremental changes., Keep the process on track by ensuring that everyone has an updated working plan or a list of the required activities and timeframe for each step. Measure improvements as you go to check that the process is working.For example, if you’re applying kaizen to make a manufacturing process more efficient, you should record how much time is being saved and how many more units are being produced per hour. That way, you can check to see that the changes being implemented are actually leading to the expected improvements.
Kaizen calls for continual evaluation of a process. Once you’ve made the first round of improvements, it’s time to check back to make adjustments or see what other actions can be taken to improve.

