 You can take a fiber supplement, such as a wheat, psyllium, or methyl cellulose supplement each day. These supplements can help to bulk up your fecal matter, thus making it easier to eliminate from your body.


Your doctor may prescribe a low sub-therapeutic dose that you gradually increase each week.
 Stool softeners are laxatives, which means that they incorporate fat and water into your stool, making it soft and easier to pass out. These medications are generally used for people who have a short history of severe constipation (which means that they are not frequently constipated).


Docusate is often prescribed for people who should try to avoid straining while they defecate. It’s usual dosage is generally 50 to 500 mg, taken at bedtime.Senna is also a normal prescription. It works by acting directly on the intestinal mucosa to make it easier to pass out stool., These laxatives are saline (or salt water) based, and are often prescribed for people with acute constipation so long as there is no intestinal obstruction. There are three different kinds: magnesium hydroxide, magnesium sulphate, magnesium citrate.Magnesium hydroxide works by causing your gut to retain water, which helps to stimulate your colon’s activity, which relieves constipation.
Magnesium sulphate has a similar mode of action, but works more quickly. It can be effective in three hours if it is taken orally, and can have effects in 15 minutes if it is administered through the rectum. However, it is not recommended for children or people with kidney diseases.
Magnesium citrate acts in the same way as the two previously mentioned saline laxatives, but you must discuss taking this laxative with your doctor as it will not work for all people.
 As the name suggests, these laxatives work to lubricate your intestine, which helps to facilitate the passage of stool. They should begin to take effect about eight hours after your take them. They contain mineral oils like fleet and kondremul. You should only take these laxatives after talking to your doctor.


The normal dose for fleet is 15 to 45 mL per day while the dose for kondremul is 30 to 75 mL taken each day., These laxatives use osmosis to help distend your bowel, which increases the movements of the colon. Osmosis is a process that brings water to your intestinal tube, which causes the tube to open up.


The usual dose is 15 to 30 mL each day. It should begin to take effect 24 to 48 hours after you consume the medication., These laxatives help to stimulate the movement of your gut muscles, which helps to push stool out. There are several different kinds of stimulant laxatives, including:


Senna leaf extract, bisacodyl, and castor oil.

