 If you're at a work event, ask someone his opinion on a recent work situation. For example, if the company's been considering a merger, ask him what he thinks of it.Try not to share your own opinion on topics before you know more about the other person's perspective. If he doesn't share your opinion on a topic, move on to another topic.
Asking for advice about small topics is a good ice-breaker. An example might be, "I'm not sure about this tie - do you think it's appropriate?";
, There's always something to comment on, whether you're outside or inside, at a large event or a small one. If there's been a speaker, a presentation, or entertainment, say something about it in a way that encourages response.You can make a comment about the environment anywhere. If you're on an elevator with someone, notice if there are ads posted on the wall, or how quickly the elevator is moving. If you're in a restaurant, notice something about the decor.
Make a comparison between this event and others like it. For example, "This is way better than the holiday party last year!"

, This works best if you can work it into a current event or something happening at the event. For example, "I recently read a book where an old woman left his fortune to a man she barely knew. What would you do if someone left her fortune to you?"

Open-ended questions invite more conversation than questions with a clear answer. The hypothetical question is only one example of an open-ended question.
This is also a good conversation starter for a group of people. If there's one person you're trying to get to know, ask the person the question directly, even as you invite the whole group to answer.
 People are more likely to respond to positive comments, compliments, and praise. Starting a conversation with someone you don't know is a good chance to practice the old adage, "If you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all."Be modest and humble as you talk. No one likes a know-it-all.
Find something positive to mention about any topic. If you hate 95% of the topic, seek out the 5% for comments.
 People usually like to be asked about their pets, children, or hobbies. See if he has pictures, and ask to see them. You might find you have things in common that spark more conversation.

Following a compliment with a question can be a good strategy. For example, "I really love that jacket - where did you get it?"
Invite the person to share an opinion with you. For example, "That presentation was really great - didn't you think so?"

