 Parrots vary widely in size, color, lifespan, and habits.Understanding the differences between these birds, and knowing what to expect in terms of their cost, care, and habits is crucial to deciding which, if any, is the right one for you.Smaller varieties (Budgies and small Parakeets,Lovebirds,Cockatiels,and Parrotlets) are best for beginners. They are smaller, quieter, cheaper, and have relatively shorter lifespans (10-30 years).
Medium-sized parrots (Caiques,smaller Conures,Lories,and larger Parakeets) are a bit bigger, make a little more noise, cost a little more money, and live slightly longer (up to 40 years). These parrots require more space, more food, more interaction, and a longer commitment than smaller varieties.
Large parrots (African Greys,Amazons,Cockatoos,and Macaws) are loud, costly, and can live long lives (more than 50 years). They require a lot of attention and interaction, as well as a lot of space.;
, You should also look into parrot sanctuaries if you have any close to you. Many of these have classes on parrots that are a good resource to first time bird owners, or people looking into adopting an older bird. Remember, if you get a baby parrot, his or her personality is not guaranteed! Just like with a child you experience babyhood, puberty, young adult, and then adult stages of life.
 Spending time with parrots is a good way to see what it might be like to have one as a pet. And since each parrot has its own personality, this is an opportunity to get to know some parrots. The more parrots you can spend time with, and the more experienced parrot people you can talk to, the better equipped you’ll be to make a responsible decision about owning a parrot.


Breeders tend to have mostly babies, and baby parrots act very differently than adult parrots. They are often quieter, more friendly, more adaptive to change, and more interested in cuddling.
 Parrots are complex and misunderstood animals.While parrots are beautiful and some can learn tricks, if you are looking at a parrot because of its appearance, don't waste your money or time. Parrots are intelligent additions to your family and need the right kind of attention, varied activity, and a fresh diet.Caring for a parrot is a lifetime commitment of time and energy every day., Parrots are companions, not ornaments; they want significant daily interaction and stimulation, in addition to training. If a parrot would be left alone all day in your home, then it is probably not a good pet for you. Larger birds require more handling and training than smaller varieties. Improper care or handling of a parrot can lead to behavioral and even health problems.


While a cage is a practical necessity and a home for a parrot, this doesn’t mean that they’re happy while in them. All parrots need cages large enough for them to be active in as well as time outside their cage.They also like to be handled, and may learn to talk or mimic sounds. And they will definitely make a lot of noise; parrots are naturally noisy and will do flock calls several times throughout the day, though smaller parrots have a quieter call then others. Most parrots are not good for people living in apartments or who don’t like noise.
Parrots bite to communicate that they don’t like what is happening to them. If you don’t like being bitten or the idea of going to work with a bite on you face, a parrot may not be right for you.
Parrots are masters at hiding illness; as a defense mechanism that evolved in the wild, they do not show signs of illness unless they are extremely sick. It takes a caring and attentive bird owner to catch the early signs of illness.
 There is no such thing as a parrot who isn't messy. Parrots can, and will, fling food and they will poop almost everywhere. They'll make a big, big mess! It's really ideal to have the parrot cage on a hardwood or tile floor. Expect to vacuum or mop around the cage daily. You’ll also need to wash bowls and toys, and clean the bottom of the cage daily.
 Parrot diets vary greatly, though the core of their diets consist of pellets, fresh fruits and vegetables, and whole grains.Cooking for your parrots is a great way to display your love for them. Its also a great way to offer them more food and expand their eating options and habits.
Parrots can also eat in moderation almost anything that humans eat, including cooked meat and fish, and cheese.
 Visualizing startup and recurring costs will help you to decide if you're financially capable of providing the care and conditions that a parrot needs to thrive.For a small parrot, initial costs could be $110 to $150 with annual recurring costs of $300 to $500. Larger parrots could cost $1,500 to $11,000 initially and then $700 to $1,200 annually.
 At the outset you will need to consider the cost of:


the parrot. A parrot can cost anywhere from $20 for a Parakeet to $12,000 for a Macaw, though most people spend between $50-$2,500 for a hand-fed baby parrot.
a cage. Cages can cost between $35 and $1,000. This can be expensive, especially for larger birds, but think of it as an investment. The initial purchase of a cage and other essentials will last for years to come. If you can't afford the cage you want for the parrot you want, rethink the purchase.water and food bowls. You should have 3 bowls in the cage at all times: one for fresh water; one for the regular diet; and one for fresh daily food. You can add a fourth bowl for treats and toys if you like.
 In addition to costs at startup, you have to consider the cost of a parrot’s upkeep. Be prepared to spend regularly on:


food. Seeds and fresh food will cost between $10 and $60 a month, depending on the size of bird.
toys. Healthy and happy Parrots love to chew and destroy items. You should buy several toys of every type that are appropriate for your parrot, including acrylic, wood, and rope toys. Replacing toys will cost between $10 and $40 per month. Cardboard boxes and empty toilet rolls also work well.
cleaning supplies. A dustpan and brush, reusable rags, as well as carpet cleaner are musts.
trips to an avian certified veterinarian. A typical annual checkup will cost between $50 and $75, while a typical exam if the bird is sick or requires medication could cost between $200 and $500. Real emergencies could cost upwards of $1,000. You need to have the financial ability to pay high veterinary bills if the need arises. Avian medicine is more specialized and expensive than medicine for other common domestic pets.

