 This form is simply a guide for when to play certain chords. Each bar (or count of "1,2,3,4, 1,2,3,4, 1...") is assigned a chord, and together they form the melodic backbone of 95% of blues songs. To make it, you simply take the first (I), fourth (IV), and fifth (V) chords of the major scale and make them into chords. Once you know the form in one key, like "E," you can then easily transpose the song into any key you want. For the key of E, your chords are E, A, and B.









While the following article uses easy to form power chords, you can also uses seventh chords, minor chords, or minor sevenths.

Before beginning, make sure you review the major and minor scales for guitar.

The blues are in simple 4/4 time, like almost all radio songs. If this is a struggle, review rhythm and time signatures.
;
, Use a "swung", chugging rhythm to give the song a blues feel — your strums should sound like "dun da-dun da-dun da-dun..." It can help to listen to early blues recordings like Robert Johnson's "I Believe I'll Dust My Broom" to get this rhythm down.br>









If you count out, like "1 and, 2 and, etc," think of a big strum down on the number, then a quick upstroke for "and."
If this is difficult at first, start with a strumming pattern that works for you until you get the progression down.
 The first chord you play is going to be the key of the song. So, if you start with an E, your songs will be a twelve bar blues in the key of E. You'll hold this E for four full bars.









It always helps to practice with a metronome to ensure you play each measure the correct number of times.
 Next, in a 12-bar blues, you play the fourth of the starting chord for two measures before returning to the starting chord. Since A is three notes above an E in the major scale, it's the IV chord in the key of E.
 The last four bars of a 12-bar blues are called "the turnaround." In the turnaround, you play the fifth, the fourth, the starting chord, and then repeat the fifth one more time. B is the fifth of E since it is one note above A, the fourth, so we play B, then A, then E, then B again.
 That's all there is to a basic 12-bar blues — just play E-E-E-E-A-A-E-E-B-A-E-B until the song's over (note that, when they're performed live, most 12-bars have a special ending that will vary from song to song.) To get the full 12-bar experience, try getting a friend who's more experienced at guitar to solo over your chords — with a little practice, you should soon get the hang of this simple but important blues progression.









To play in a different key, simply pick a different starting chord and shift the fourth and fifth accordingly. For instance, if you want to play in the key of C, you'll use C as your starting chord, F for the fourth, and G for the fifth. You can find a good guide for playing the 12-bar in different keys here.
Looking to spice up your progression? Check out Wikihow's ways to spice up your riff.
 Real blues musicians often use a special kind of chord called a "7" chord (or a "dominant 7th chord") to make the song sound a little "bluesier." These chords are the same as major chords, but with one note different. For a quick rundown of how to finger the most common 7 chords, click here.









You have two options when you substitute 7 chords into a 12-bar blues: you can either change the fifth to a 7 chord (for instance, in the key of A, E would become E7), or you can change every chord to a 7 chord (in the key of A, A would become A7, D would become D7, and E would become E7.) Different options sound better for different songs, so try experimenting to find the chords you like.