 One of the more challenging moments of starting a conversation is the opening lines. You can tackle this challenge head on by starting with a friendly smile, making eye contact, and using small talk. Small talk is good at breaking the ice and being friendly while still being casual and calm.Try to use small talk that is direct but also open ended. Rather than say, “Hi, how are you?”, frame the conversation by saying, “Hi, how was your weekend?” or “How was your day?” This gives the guy a chance to tell you about his weekend or his day, leading to more conversation and connection.
 Once you have broken the ice with an engaging question, you may then ask follow up questions about something the guy mentions in his response. Focus on maintaining positive body language as you ask him questions as this will indicate to him that you would like to continue the conversation with him.For example, if the guy mentions he struggled with a test that day, you may ask, “What did you have trouble on?” or you may say, “I remember taking that test, and it was difficult. I can study with you next time if you’d like?” Be helpful and open, as he will feed off of your positive energy and respond in kind.
You may also ask him thoughtful questions that will help to create an interesting conversation. For example, maybe you both just handed in a difficult assignment and are talking in the hallway. You may ask, “Did you find the assignment difficult?” or you may make a light hearted comment that you can both bond over, such as, “I hope I passed. How do you think you did?”

, During the conversation, you should also be willing to share information about yourself and respond to his questions. Providing detailed answers to his questions will show him you are engaged in the conversation and interested in connecting with him. Though you may be a bit uncomfortable sharing information about yourself, it will help the guy to feel more at ease and indicate to him that you are trying to build a relationship with him.For example, if he asks you “How was your weekend?” avoid answering with “Good” or “Okay”. Instead, you may tell a funny moment that happened over the weekend when you were out with friends or family. Or, you may tell him you spent most of the weekend studying or reading, but you did get a chance to go for a walk or go to the gym. Try to be honest and also focus on details that might add interest to the conversation.
 You can also foster good conversation with the guy by being a good listener when he speaks. You can do this by maintaining eye contact with him, nodding your head, and smiling when he speaks. You can also take a moment to process what he is saying in a thoughtful way before you respond to him to show him you are listening.Being a good listener also means asking thoughtful questions and then not interrupting the guy when he speaks. Demonstrating good listening skills will also allow him to show you the same courtesy when you are speaking.
 Humor is always a good way to get over any awkwardness, especially if you are talking to a guy for the first time. You can make a joke by commenting on something you did over the weekend in a funny way or by referring to yourself in a self deprecating way. Jokes are a good way to add some levity to the conversation with the guy and connect with humor.For example, maybe you and the guy both just took a difficult test. You may make a joke about wishing you could text a friend for the answers or regretting your Netflix binge instead of studying. This is a funny way to talk about the test and joke around with the guy, making the conversation feel more relaxed and casual.

