 There are pro's and con's attached to sending money orders through the mail. Benefits include extra security, no need for a bank account, the chance to make a transaction with a single payment, and the ability to send money overseas. Possible problems in sending a money order include extra fees, extra paperwork, the need to go to a bank or post office instead of going online, dealing with limitations on the amount of money you can send, and occasional delays in sending and receiving money. Consider your options carefully before choosing to send a money order abroad.


If speed is important, consider wiring money instead of sending a money order. Western Union transfers can be done almost instantly, whereas money orders must physically traverse whatever distance is involved. If you have to send more than $700 internationally, you might run into money-order limitations, meaning you would have to purchase more than one money order.;
, Not all nations do. At last count only 29 countries accept American money orders. Any nation is free to place specific restrictions and conditions before accepting foreign money orders. Before proceeding any further, check with your post office about which nations will accept your money order and which might require extra paperwork on your part. , Talk with a clerk at the service window. If you don't know where your nearest post office is, use a post office locator online such as the one at https://tools.usps.com/go/POLocatorAction!input.action. All full-service U.S. post offices can issue money orders. Other places that sell money orders include credit unions, banks, and certain large retail stores. , In the U.S., they may be purchased for any value up to $700. (Certain countries -- El Salvador and Guatemala, for example -- will not allow money orders larger than $500.) The clerk will furnish you with the appropriate paperwork to fill out.
 You may use cash, a debit card, or a traveler's check. In addition to the face amount of the money order, you will pay a small transaction fee. In the United States an international money order carries a fee of $4.50. This is added to your total when you pay the clerk.
Note that a traveler's check can be used only if the money order is for at least half of the traveler's check's value. For example, if you have a traveler's check for $500, you can use it to purchase a money order worth at least $250 (or more than one money order totaling at least $250.) , There are a number of lines to fill out on the form, and it is essential that you do so correctly. Be sure that you use only blue or black ink and that you print everything correctly and legibly. Most money-order forms will ask you to enter the following:


Today's date
Your full name
Your full address
The recipient's name
The recipient's full address
The amount of money you are sending
A description of the purpose for the money

, Complete all address information, and affix the proper postage. The appropriate postage depends on the weight of the letter and its destination. A one-ounce international letter requires postage of about $1.15. , When you send money orders you can choose to increase the amount of security and insurance on your envelope. Indemnity coverage is provided free of charge, which means that you can request that a lost or stolen money order be replaced for a nominal fee. If you'd like your money order to have more security, insurance is available, as well as other features including registered mail or restricted delivery. You can ask the postal clerk about the costs and benefits of these extra services. , Make sure that the postal clerk provides you with a receipt for your money order. Place the receipt somewhere safe where you can find it later. For example, a wallet, filing cabinet, or desk drawer might be good places to store your money order receipt.


If your money order is lost or stolen, your receipt will help you get your refund quickly. There is, however, a fee of $6.10 for money-order replacements. , Use the Postal Service's tracking feature to predict when your money order will arrive at its destination. This feature will allow you to monitor where your money order is at all times, and it will let you know when your money order is expected to arrive at its destination. This will help you ensure that the money has gone to the right place and person.


If your package goes astray, contact your post office immediately. They will give you the forms to begin the money order replacement process.

