 There will be a young woman and an old man officer. Click on the old man. He will tell you that he is too old for zombie attacks; then a younger officer will come out. He will say his police force consists of cowards and will ask you if you have the guts to stop the zombie outbreak. Select the third option, “Anything else I need to know?” and he will give you a flashlight and a clue notebook. Go to your backpack and equip the flashlight. Enter the Fort Savini Tunnel.
 You will need to jump over the cars and avoid the zombies—jump over them. You will find that your flashlight bothers them, but it is not strong enough to drive them away. Keep going left until you see the white truck with the flashing red light on top of it. Right in front of the truck, on the wooden plank, is a set of car keys. If you shine your flashlight on them, they will sparkle a little. Grab the keys, and proceed to the left. Then click on the lever below the truck.
 Jump over the cab of the truck, onto the bed of the trailer behind it. You will see a lever on the side, right between the truck cab and the green car on the back of the bed. Click the lever. Walk left a little so you are right in front of the green car’s door. Go to your backpack and click “Use” on the car keys you found. The key will fit, and you will be able to see the inside of the car. To the left of the steering wheel will be a button labeled “lights”. Click the button, then “Close”.
, In fact, look up and to the left a little bit and you will see his lunchbox. Your goal is to access the lunchbox for the important pass inside. Go left and jump on the construction sawhorse that is on the other side of the building. Jump on the fence, and then on to the metal ledge. Jump on the concrete blocks stacked on your left, and then to the next ledge. Go right, jump on the blocks, to the next ledge, to the right again, on top of the blocks, and to the next ledge. Jump on to the top-most ledge and then into the crane-operators seat (its yellow and you will see a red and blue lever). Click on the levers.
 Jump to the ledge with the lunchbox. Click on the lunchbox and move the trash around until you find Joe’s purple subway pass. Now jump to the ground and go left into the Smoothie Shop. Grab a pamphlet out of the bin, then exit the shop and move right. Enter the subway station area.
 Go to your backpack, click “use” on Puddy’s subway pass, and proceed left to the next area. You will see two wires and a lightbulb hanging out of the wall. Grab the lightbulb, jump over the zombies, and go left to the next area.
 Click on the pile of rocks in front of it, and then go right back into the financial district area.
 You will find yourself in front of the Shady Side apartments building. You need to go left, past the door marked 149, and past Fred’s Fruit Stand, until you are in front of the fuse box and the street light. Click the fuse box and click switches number 2, 5, 8, and 9. All the other switches need to be off. Jump from window to window, where the lights are on, and avoid the windows where the lights are off with zombies in the windows. Go up to the roof, go left a little, and then enter the door on the left. You will land in the lobby of Shady Side Apartments. Go left, jumping over the gap in the stairwell, and avoiding the zombies, and enter Apartment #7. This is Dr. Romero’s apartment.
 The note will be added to your clue notebook for later. Exit the apartment.
 Enter Apartment 5, which is Joe Puddy’s apartment. Go right a little and retrieve the bolt cutters on top of the tool cabinet. Next, run left and click on the note on Joe’s fridge. The note will be added to your clue notebook for later research. For now, exit the apartment. Now run left a little, down the stairs, and to the left. Enter Apartment #1, which belongs to Gamer Guy. Gamer Guy (you wonder why he isn’t a zombie, right?) will invite you to come in and hang out. Run right and click on the garbage pail right under the anime poster. Sift through the trash and click on the empty Valley Rain Soda bottle. A new clue (the ingredients list for the soda) will be added to your clue notebook for later. Now run right and get the camera on the stereo in front of Gamer Guy. Click on Gamer Guy, and he will tell you he lived off of cheese curls and Valley Rain soda. He will invite you to play a game, but you don’t have to.
 Run up all the stairs and into the lobby on the top level, jumping over the zombies, and exit onto the roof. Jump off the roof to the left. You will land in a pit. Jump out of the pit, to the left, and jump over the zombie. Go left into the Chinatown area.
 Now jump onto the string of Chinese paper lanterns. Click your backpack and then “Use” on the lightbulb. The lanterns will light up. Now jump to the ground, over the zombies, and enter the Karaoke Bar. There will be loads of zombies on the dance floor! Click on DJ Saturday, on the stage, and she will tell you to get rid of the zombies.
 Now move right and shine the light on the other disco ball to get the zombies away from the light switches. Click the switches to light up the dance floor!

, She will tell you she doesn’t know why she didn't turn into a zombie and will leave. Click on the sparkling silver bowl on the shelf right next to her. Now click on her computer and press “Find My Phone”. Enter the user name as “doctor” and the password as “awesome”. You will see that Dr. Romero’s phone is in the underground secret bunker! Unlock the bunker door and then exit the Karaoke bar. Now go left to the wharf and use your bolt cutters on the lock. However, don’t go inside the Wharf. Instead, go right and jump on the string of Chinese lanterns. Then use your light bulb on the Chinese lanterns. That will scare the zombies away. Now drop into the manhole that the zombies just uncovered! You will drop down by the train. Enter the train, go right, and click on the control panel to start the power. Now click on the lever to start the train. When it stops, exit the train and jump onto the ladder directly overhead. Now jump onto the landing and click on the Secret Bunker door. You will see a short scene where you hear a noise, zombies start chasing you, and you run into the secret bunker. Then, you will see Dr. Romero as a zombie, locked in a cage. Run left, drop down, and then run left to the red phone. Dial 555-3946. Dr. Romero’s phone will pop out of the cage, along with a slip of paper. Run right and retrieve them. Watch the four videos on Dr. Romero’s phone and then run left again to the white board. You will have to look at the information in your clue notebook and mark which fruits Gamer Guy, Joe Puddy, DJ Saturday Night, and Dr. Romero ingested. It should be: Joe Puddy: blueberries, bananas, and strawberries; DJ Saturday Night: raspberries, strawberries, and bananas; Gamer Guy: blackberries, cranberries, and strawberries; Dr. Romero: raspberries, blueberries, cranberries, and blackberries. You will see that blueberries cause people to turn into zombies in the game. Close the white board. Grab the cup of coffee out of the machine on the left. Then exit the secret bunker by jumping up the fruit crates and jumping up to the left. This exit will take you to Shady Side. Jump left out of the construction pit, through Chinatown, and to the Wharf.
 Go right, jumping over the zombies, until you see a container with a tarp over it. Click it and enter. “Use” the coffee in your backpack. Give it to the man living in the container, and he will give you a key card. Talk to him and he will say he will light the way for you. Exit the container, and jump up to the left. Follow where the spotlight leads you. Use the camera flash to light up where you need to jump. You will end up at the crane. At the crane, use the key card. There’s a scroll bar in the middle of the computer screen that pops up. Use it to find the entry for October 22, that originated from Cleveland, and that contains the blueberries. Click it to start the crane. Maneuver the crane left and right as the block of shipping containers come at you. You are trying to get the crane through spaces between the containers. Make it past the containers, and you will see a highlighted crate. Click it. Go past the crane and jump down to the green shipping container. Equip the camera in your backpack, and then enter the crate. Click the camera at the bottom left of the screen when the zombie comes at you, then jump over him to the pile of blueberries in the middle of the crate. Click it to get a sample of the fruit.
 When you reach the subway gate, use your subway pass. Head right until you see the train. Jump up on the cars and then go up to the secret bunker using the ladder.
 Go to your backpack, use the blueberries, and use your mouse to turn the crank. Keep turning it until you get a medical gun filled with the antidote. Shoot Dr. Romero with the gun to cure him. Jump up the fruit crates to the entrance and click on the wooden board pile. Go to the computer and Dr. Romero, and process the antidote again. Turn the crank quickly so as to get the gun before the zombies break in! You’ll get another medical gun.
 Scroll back and forth and make sure the zombies don’t get near you. When you’ve cured all of the zombies, you will be saved! You will get your island medal as you go back to the blimp.
,, The pig will say "I won't tell you unless you have an apple.", Click two times to jump.,,, The line will be to long, so you'll run to the toy section and you will see something that will say barf slime. Click on it and run back to the line open the bag of barf put it on the floor in the back of the line. People will scream and run.,, Reach in the bag and give him the apple.,