 In order to send and receive faxes using a fax machine, you will need to make sure that your fax machine is plugged in and connected to your landline phone connection.A dedicated line is recommended if you plan on faxing frequently because you will not be able to use the fax machine and the phone at the same time.
You should also make sure your fax machine has toner and paper if you plan on receiving faxes.
If you don't have a fax machine at home or at work, you may be able to send one for free from your local public library. You can also go to a store such as Kinko's or The UPS Store to fax your documents for a fee. These options work best if you do not expect to send faxes frequently.;
, All fax machines are different, but you will usually have the option to adjust certain settings. Read your user manual in order to learn more about the specific features that are available on your machine.If you want to know for sure that your fax was transmitted successfully, turn the confirmation page setting on. When this feature is turned on, the machine will print a page after you send a fax, which will let you know if it was successfully transmitted or not.
You can also set up a fax header, which is a line of text that will appear at the top of each document you send. It typically includes basic information about who the fax is from.
If you plan on receiving faxes as well, you can choose between automatic receive mode or manual receive mode, which will require you to accept each incoming fax.
 Using the original documents instead of photocopies will provide the recipient with a document that is cleaner and easier to read.


Use a cover sheet on top of the pages you will fax. The cover sheet should contain information such as the sender's name and fax number, the recipient's name and fax number, the date, and the number of pages included in the fax.
 Many machines have both a paper feeder and a flatbed screen. If you have only one page, you can use either function. If you have multiple pages, the paper feeder usually works better.


When using the paper feeder, you can insert all of your pages at once. Your fax machine should have an icon that indicates which direction that papers should be facing in the paper feeder. Some fax machines also offer the option to scan and fax both sides of a document, so check your user manual to see if this is possible on your machine.When using the flatbed screen, lift the lid on the top of the machine and place your document face down on the glass screen. Make sure to line your document up with the markings provided on the screen and close the lid before continuing.
 When entering the number, be sure to include the area code, country code, and any numbers that you need to dial out. You should enter the number exactly the way you would if you were calling the number using a phone., After a few seconds, you will hear the machine begin to transmit the fax and the papers will begin feeding into the fax machine.The button on your machine may say "go" or "fax" instead of "send."

, Some machines will display a message on the screen to let you know if your fax was successfully transmitted. If you configured your settings to receive printed confirmations, your machine will print a page that details the status of your fax.