 If you have dietary restrictions due to your age, it's easy to forget these on vacation. Many people want to unwind a little on a trip, but keep in mind dietary restrictions do not take vacations. Mind what you eat on your trip, including when you eat out at restaurants.Try to eat in more on your trip. Buy some food to have at your motel or wherever you're staying. You have more control over food you prepare yourself, helping you manage restrictions.
Be aware of dietary restrictions during holiday events. If possible, request family members make dishes that are compatible with your diet.
Pack extra food. As a senior, you want to keep your energy up. Eating in the airport and on the road can get pricey, and you may not be able to find food that matches your dietary restrictions. Take some small snacks with you so you have something to eat between meals if necessary.Talk to your doctor before leaving for a trip about how to manage your diet. Your doctor can give you advice on what kinds of food to order at restaurants that are safe given your current health and any existing medications.
 It can be hard to remember all your meds on a vacation, especially if you're in a different time zone. Make sure you pack any medications you're on before a trip and remember to take them regularly, even while you're traveling.Never pack medication in checked luggage, in case your luggage gets lost. Always keep it in your carry on.
Keep paperwork on you listing your medications in the event you need medical assistance on your trip.
If you're traveling out of the country, make sure all your meds are legal overseas. You may need paperwork from your doctor to bring certain medications into a given country.
 While you're traveling, make use of senior discounts. The holidays can get expensive, so opt to save money where you can. You can sometimes get senior discounts at places like hotels and restaurants. Ask about senior discounts while you're traveling.For some discounts, like booking hotels, ask ahead of time when making the reservations. If you're staying at a hotel, you can ask someone at the front desk for places that offer a senior discount.
You can also simply ask when you reach a destination, like a restaurant, whether they offer senior discounts.
 It can be tempting to stock up on souvenirs to bring home to friends and family members as belated holiday gifts. However, you do not want too many items clogging your bag, especially if you're a senior. Minimize your purchases on your trip to keep from straining yourself carrying things throughout the day and on your return trip., You will likely be walking more than usual while traveling. Seek to stay comfortable and avoid strain when walking if you're a senior.Opt for comfortable shoes. Things like heels can cause injury or strain when walking.
Go for flats and tennis shoes instead to keep you steady on your feet when walking.

