 If you're playing on Peaceful difficulty, increase the difficulty until you're done taming your wolf. Wolves will not show up in Peaceful mode, and neither will the skeletons you need to kill to gather bones. Once tamed, the dog will not disappear when you change the difficulty back.;
, You can find bones in Survival mode by killing skeletons, or by opening chests in desert and jungle temples. Gather at least 5 bones for each wolf you plan to tame, and preferably 10 to be safe.


While you're hunting skeletons, kill zombies as well and gather rotten meat. This comes in handy to feed your dog.
If you're in Creative mode, just add one to your inventory.
 Wolves can be found in forest and taiga biomes, usually near spruce trees. They are not hostile unless you hit them.


If you don't mind starting a new world, you can find world seeds online that create worlds with many taiga biomes.
In Creative mode, you can spawn a wolf anywhere.
 When you hold a bone, wolves will usually move toward you. Be very careful not to click on the wolf, or all surrounding wolves may attack you.
 A Tame button will appear. Press this button, and you'll use up a bone and have a chance to tame the wolf. Ashes floating above the wolf means the attempt was unsuccessful. Hearts and a collar means that you've tamed the wolf. This will often take 3–6 tries. It can take more if you're unlucky.


Be very careful to click the Tame button and not the wolf. It's easy to click the wolf accidentally and turn it hostile.
 Your dogs will follow you around until you move your character's hand over them and press the Sit button that appears. Hover over them again and press Stand to make them move again.
 Dogs will attack most enemies once the enemy has hurt you, or once you hurt the enemy. They will not attack certain types of enemies, such as creepers.
 As a dog takes damage, it lowers its tail. Equip a piece of meat (of any kind) and feed it to the injured dog to heal it. Even rotten meat will work.


You cannot feed a dog bones. They only work on wild wolves.
 You can dye your dog's collar by hovering over it with dye in hand and pressing the Dye button on your screen.


You can find dye ingredients in treasure chests.
 Once you've tamed two wolves, bring them to the same location. Feed a piece of meat to each one by equipping the meat and hovering over the dog. Once both dogs have eaten, hearts will appear over their head. They will approach each other and a young dog will appear. The young dog is already tamed.

