 The easiest thing to do is to lick it. But make sure you lick the side that has the number and suit, not the back side. Once dampened, align it with the card below it, and place the two cards (which will look like one) on top of the deck.


This trick does require a second of set-up. Make sure you're alone for this part (you also likely don't want someone to see you licking a card).;
, Rifle through the deck until you get to the last 2 cards of the deck – the cards you preset. They should still be stuck together.


Take this moment to show your audience that this isn't a trick deck – it's a normal deck of playing cards with all 52 cards in random order, etc.
 Show the card to your audience, telling them that this is their card. They should memorize it and keep thinking about it throughout the duration of the trick.


You yourself should not look at the card(s). The back of the cards should face you at all times.
 Say that you will take the card and put it in the middle of the deck and make it appear on top. What? Crazy talk. Does your audience want to take any bets? Make it a grand gesture and try to get your crowd smiling.


In fact, they could take the top card and make it appear on top – but you'd just have to be sure they didn't look at the top card in the process.
 Not the two together, but the card that's stuck on top (it shouldn't be difficult to pry up). This was your dummy card that your audience doesn't know about.


What's left underneath the dummy card? The card your audience thought was on the very top, but actually wasn't.
 Have them say the magic word, do a dance, or count to five to get the card to "magically appear" at the top of the deck.


This is the funnest part, so take your time. Start asking them random questions, sitting back and stewing in the suspense. You know it's there, but they don't. Let them fester for a second in the suspense – all in good fun, of course.
 How'd you do it? You'll never tell. Maybe you really do just have magic powers?


If they ask you to do it again, say you're spent. You can only do so much magic in one day. Either that or you'll need a second to sneak away and line up two cards again.

