 Individual rubber stamps are not too expensive, but buying a lot of them can add up quickly, so choose some general designs that have meaning to you and that you can reuse.;
, If you remember the standard off-red or black stamp pads that are usually used with date stamps, look again. Stamp pads come in all colors, and they even come in multiple colors. Choose one or two colors that suit your style to get started.
 Water based markers are the least expensive way to add lots of custom colors to your stamp. The best part is that you can color directly onto the design, so you can make only those parts you want a certain color.
 If, during the coloring process, the ink has dried out, breathe warm air over it to re-moisten it a bit.
 Do not rock or jiggle the stamp. That will cause it to smear. Lift the stamp carefully.
 You can add your own calligraphy, drawing, or writing, or use it in conjunction with other stamps. Balloons, for example, could be part of "happy birthday" or "congratulations" or "thank you", or you could draw a clown to go with them. Things like balloons and flowers can also be part of a larger bunch. Stamp yourself a whole garden, if you like.
 A simple way to add depth and visual interest to a stamped project is to cut out around your stamps. Then, attach them to your card or scrapbook with a bit of folded paper (or another material to add thickness) behind them to make them pop up, out of the page.
 To improve the life of your stamps, and to remove ink for next time, blot the rubber stamping surface against a moistened paper towel. Don't get the wood backing wet. Then, allow them to dry thoroughly before putting them away.
 You can carve your own stamp out of a potato, a sponge, an eraser, a piece of wood, or another block of soft material. Remember to start with a flat surface and carefully carve out any part you don't want in the stamp. You can trace the design with a pen, first.


A potato is a good, inexpensive material if you want to try your own stamp or you're using a messy color, such as paint, but it won't last long.
A cellulose sponge will produce a stamp with a built-in texture. Even if you don't cut it up, it can be great for creating a textured background.
You can attach your homemade stamp to a backing, such as wood or cardboard, or use it directly if the material is stiff enough.
Remember that any design you do, and especially any letters you cut must be the mirror image of what you want to appear on paper.
 Look in your local phone book or on the web for "custom rubber stamp". Many shops will cut a design that you give them.

