 Wait 24 hours to see if there are any adverse skin reactions.


If you suffer from a skin-related disorder or take medication that can affect your skin, consult a doctor before using this cream.
If your skin shows no irritation, continue using the cream.

Do not use the cream if the cream itself is not all the same color, or if the tube it comes in is damaged.
Avoid letting the cream make contact with metal or cloth, which can damage or discolor the material. In case of accidental contact, clean the surface immediately with water.
Keep Veet hair removal cream out of reach of children. In case of accidental ingestion, consult a doctor immediately and show the outer pack of the product.;
, Only produce enough cream to cover the intended area.









Avoid making contact with eyes. If you get any cream in your eyes, rinse with plenty of water and seek medical attention immediately.
 Use the spatula tool that is included to evenly apply the cream and fully cover hair.









Apply the cream to the surface of the skin rather than rubbing it into the pores.
The removal cream is designed for legs, arms, underarms and bikini lines. Do not use the cream on the face, head, breast, perianal or genital areas as severe irritation and burning can occur. If you apply the cream to these areas and experience irritation, wash the cream off gently and consult a doctor.
Don't apply the cream to moles, scars, spotty, irritated or sun burnt skin. Avoid contact with skin that has been shaved in the last 72 hours.
Avoid contact with broken or inflamed skin. If cream gets into broken skin, wash it with lukewarm water and 3% of boric acid solution. Talk to a doctor if the pain is not alleviated after rinsing.
Don't use this cream immediately after a hot bath/shower. The cream contains alkali and thioglycolate, which can more easily irritate tender skin.
 Be sure you carefully time this period as leaving the cream on longer can seriously irritate skin.


If you experience any smarting or tingling during use, remove the cream immediately and rinse thoroughly with water. If this sensation persists, seek medical advice.
 First, use the head of the spatula to test a small area. If the hair comes away easily, remove the rest of the cream with the spatula.









Use a soft sponge or washcloth to remove the cream if the spatula is too abrasive.
If needed, you can leave the cream on longer before fully removing. Do not exceed 6 minutes, as your skin will likely become irritated and produce a painful burning sensation.
 Wash away the residual cream and any stray hairs.









The best way to do this is to take a shower and use a Loofah or sponge to softly scrub the area.
 Do this gently as the area may still be tender after using the removal cream.










Always wait 72 hours between cream applications. This will reduce the amount of irritation and inflammation sustained to the skin.
Do not apply antiperspirant or perfume to the treated area, or sunbathe before 24 hours has passed. Skin may be tender and will be especially sensitive to the sun or to the chemicals in said products.

