 Find a pet store, not a regular store, and make sure they have quality items that won't break on you. This is important, because for example, if the cage breaks, you're in trouble until you can find a new one.;
, Make sure that you get materials first and then select your guinea pig/s so you have enough time to put them in a good place in your house. Be sure you have enough money as well. Here's a list to help you buy the right materials.


A cage (the best kind is with a plastic bottom and metal cage bars) - If you plan on having 1 guinea pig, purchase the smaller size they have. If you plan on having 2 or 3 guinea pigs, purchase a larger option. Make sure you don't confuse guinea pig cages with hamster cages, as guinea pig cages are much bigger. They're more like the size of a rabbit hutch, since guinea pigs can get pretty big.
Bedding - Steer clear of wood-chip beddings - guinea pigs are allergic to cedar. There will be other types of wood-chip beddings, but they aren't the best at locking in odor, and your guinea pig/s will chew on the bedding and ingest it, which is detrimental to their health. Choose a paper-based bedding. Try not to get the ones that are dyed - that also isn't very good for a guinea pig's health.
Hide-out (place for guinea pigs to hide and rest in) - Guinea pigs like a hide-out to sleep in and rest in, so make sure you purchase one. A wooden hide-out is the best option, as they can and will chew on it, which will provide as a kind of chew toy. A plastic option is okay too, but it's not so good for the guinea pig/s to chew on. Make sure it's big enough to fit the number of guinea pigs you want to take care of.
Chew toys - Buy a few additional chew toys for your guinea pig/s. Their front teeth grow like beaver's teeth, and they need to chew on something to keep them at a good length. Wooden chew toys with little or no coloring is your best bet.
 In addition to purchasing dry food, you will also want to have some fresh fruits and veggies lying around, such as lettuce, carrots, tomatoes, celery, watermelon, grapes, etc. Here is a food list to help you along.


Dry food - Purchase dry food that has not only pellets, but also some dried things, such as dried cranberries and seeds. These types of dry food are better for your guinea pig/s and the guinea pig/s will enjoy something besides pellets. Make sure the food also has vitamin C supplements - guinea pigs don't make much of their own, and they need a supplement.
Hay - Your guinea pig/s also need hay to eat. Your best bet is timothy hay. Make sure you get a hay rack for the hay too. A metal hay rack is the best option since they will likely chew on a wooden rack and break it or swallow some of it.
Water bottles - Purchase glass water bottles and get the bigger option since the small one wouldn't have much space. Purchase a water bottle for guinea pigs, not hamsters. A guinea pig bottle is about the same size as a bottle for a rabbit. If you want, you can put vitamin C tablets in the water instead of purchasing food with vitamin C supplements. Guinea pigs can be given normal tap water. If it's okay for you to drink, it's okay for them. Another option is giving them water from a filter.
Treats - Get a small bag of treats for your guinea pig. Treats can be given once or twice a week, and guinea pigs enjoy them quite a bit.
Food bowls - Consider getting a ceramic food bowl, since it can't be chewed on and will last you a very long time. If you get more than one guinea pig, buy 2 food bowls.
 Brushing your guinea pig's hair is very important, especially if they are long-haired. Brushing guinea pigs' hair will also prevent knots and hairballs.
 Take off the top of the cage and pour in the bedding. Spread it out until you have an even, 1-inch layer of bedding. This will be enough for 2-3 weeks, depending on the number of guinea pigs you have.
 Make sure to arrange them so the guinea pig/s will have space to run around and get to all parts of the cage. Put the top of the cage back on by clamping it down.
 Follow the instructions given with the water bottle/s you purchased to place them on the outside of the cage.
 Place a mat or an old clean rug underneath the cage if you have a wooden floor to prevent scratches (guinea pigs can actually move the cage overnight).

