 Depending on your style, this step can vary a lot but the basics are this: Take showers regularly and brush your teeth. Those are the absolute basics, but they will still go a long way in improving your chances of getting that special girl’s attention. No one wants to cuddle up to a dude who smells like B.O. and has breakfast stockpiled in his teeth. Bust out that body wash and invest in a great toothbrush.


Beyond the basics, there are a lot of ways that guys can groom themselves so that they look their best. Hair mousse can turn your fuzzy bedheaded look into a subtly sculpted thing of beauty. Don’t put gobs of mousse on your head though--grease hair can be a turn off for some girls.
If you’re rocking a beard, keep it in check. Some women really dig facial hair, but even the manliest of beards can go the way of Rip Van Winkle’s absurdly long beard if they are not properly maintained. Invest in a beard trimmer.
Aside from beard sculpting, take a good look at the rest of your body hair. Pluck that unibrow, clip those nose hairs, and keep any ear hair you might have to a minimum. Most girls--even ones that love beards--balk at excessive hair in other places besides your chin, chest, and more private parts.
Clip your nails. Girls often notice hands, so make sure yours don’t look like they might belong to Big Foot. Cut off those talons and scrape any dirt out from under your nails.
Moisturize. While this may seem like an unmanly thing to do, when you have the girl of your dreams on your arm, you will not want that arm to be dry and flakey. Use lotion to give your skin a softness that she won’t be able to resist touching.
 Everyone has their own style, and that is completely fine, but its really best to avoid the ‘slob’ style. Don’t wear sweatpants every day of the week, and try to change your shirt before heading out of your house each day. Apart from that, try to keep in mind that girls like when guys put a bit of effort into their look, even if that just means throwing on a stylish flannel, tightish pants, and a pair of rocking thick-rimmed glasses (see How to be a Hipster.)


If you are trying a catch a gal’s eye who happens to work at your place of employment, try to play up your professionalism. Invest in some classy suits and some great ties. If you don’t know how to do that, enlist the help of your best girl friend.
 Posture plays a big part in how women perceive guys. If a guy is hunched over in a corner, avoiding eye contact and not talking with anyone, they are most likely not going to walk over and start a conversation. Stand up straight, make eye contact, and smile. Keep in mind that you want to have good posture, but you don’t want to make it weirdly obvious that you’re standing up super straight. Carry yourself with ease.If you don’t know how to carry yourself with ease, look at your role models. Watch lead guys in movies who manage to charm their ways into the lead girls’ hearts.
Keep her body language in mind too. If she's shifting her weight a lot and not making eye contact, she's probably uncomfortable. It may be the conversation topic, how close you are standing or sitting next to her, or something else. Respect her feelings, and change the subject or step back, if necessary, depending on what is bothering her.
 While you are probably a great guy, it is important to remember that some girls really like guys who work out. Plus, the gym is a great place to catch the attention of that special girl. If you want to attract that drop dead gorgeous girl you’ve been crushing on, you have to keep your physique in good condition too. Start an exercise routine that includes cardio and weight training so that you can both buff up your muscles, and get in incredible shape.


Keep in mind that most women like a toned guy, but are not attracted to a dude who looks like Arnold Schwarzenegger when he was Mr. Universe. If you are having a hard time raising your hand in class because your muscles are about to rip through your shirt, it may be time to tone the weight-lifting down a bit.

