 You can’t agree to every opportunity or request presented to you. Saying no shows others that you value your own time and care more about delivering quality results over quantity.


The delivery of the message is just as important as the message itself. Be polite, frank, and decline with a smile. It’s not personal, you just don’t have the time to take on anything extra right now.
Don’t feel guilty about saying no when you have to. Feel good about standing up for yourself., Whether it’s an idea, a thought, or a protest, avoid remaining passive if you have something to say. Don’t be afraid of voicing your opinions and bringing ideas to the table, even if it makes you a little nervous. People appreciate when someone has the guts to say what they think.


If you aren’t used to speaking up, try practicing what you want to say beforehand.
Voicing your opinions doesn’t mean verbally passing judgement on everything going on around you. Voice your opinions when they matter.
 No one respects a pushover. You can’t please everyone, nor should you try, and allowing yourself to be taken advantage of because you’re nice shows others that you don’t respect yourself.


Being too nice can also have the undesired effect of people thinking you are fake and disingenuous.
 The only time you need to apologize is when you’ve done something wrong. Unfortunately, many people get in the habit of saying “sorry” almost automatically, without even thinking about it.


Reserve your apologies for situations that actually call for them.
Stop taking the blame for every little thing that goes wrong around you.
 If you are being taken advantage of or mistreated, you don’t have to resign yourself to enduring it silently. Stand up for yourself. Standing up for yourself doesn’t mean lashing out in response – that will only make things worse. Instead, be tactful and polite when you do it.


Standing up for yourself can be scary, but that’s precisely why other people will respect you for doing it.
When you speak up, make sure you literally speak up – do not mumble, trip over your words, or look down at your feet in embarrassment. You have every right to stand up for yourself.

