 It's important to know the four band members: Roughton 'Rou' Reynolds - vocals/electronics, Chris Batten - bass, Rory Clewlow - guitar, and Rob Rolfe - drums. Learn the band's history: how did they start out? How did they get their name? Where are they from? Do your homework. Use their official website and Myspace. Get as much information on them as possible.;
, It's impossible to be a true Enter Shikari fan without knowing their music and knowing it well. Listen to as much of their music as you can - not just the well known songs like Sorry You're Not A Winner and Jonny Sniper. Download their entire back catalogue. Rou has stated that he doesn't mind fans file-sharing songs if they're tracks that aren't available to buy anymore. B-sides, demo tracks, and remixes are all compulsory listening for a true Shikari fan. Aim to know their music so well that you can sing every song off by heart.
 Knowing the nitty-gritty about the band guarantees you credibility and respect from other fans. Always remember that 'We Can Breathe In Space, They Just Don't Want Us To Escape' is actually one of the band's old demo songs, but was re-recorded in 2008 and released as a single. Shikari were the second ever unsigned band to sell out the London Astoria. Rob, Rou and Chris were in a band called 'Hybryd' before being joined by Rory. And please, please, pronounce the members' names right: referring to Rou as 'Roo' is a running joke in the Enter Shikari fanbase and will get you laughed at.
 Being a member of the Forum has many advantages. It gives you the opportunity to talk with other fans and ask questions about things you aren't sure of; the band are all members, so you have a chance of talking to them; and the members of the forum are known to the band, even getting a mention in the Take To The Skies album notes. Sign up, and get to know the 'regulars': these tend to have a high post count, and are worth getting friendly with, as they all often attend shows together and many of them are personally known to the band. Pay particular attention to 'Ambush Reality', also known as Ian, as he is the band's manager. Most of the "Dedicated" ESF crew now post on their own forum, which anyone can join. It was set up by 3 guys called kappa99, malky and kit. Its called The Zone and is a really friendly place.
 Enter Shikari are well known for their amazingly energetic and riotous gigs. It's a necessity to see them at least once, and the majority of fans go to as many as they possibly can - some more than 10 dates in a tour - leading to why they have such a tight-knit fanbase. Check their Myspace and Forum often for upcoming shows and tours. It's worth following the band around, as this how you become a well known face to the band.
 Many fans collect Enter Shikari memorabilia to show their appreciation for the band. If you're not into collecting, this isn't necessary. A couple of T-shirts and a hoodie are the essentials. You can buy these at shows or online. The band's singles and album are also compulsory for every fan. If you would like to go a step further and show your love for the band through your collection of merchandise, like many fans, there are many things you can buy. A lot of the band's discography is released in different formats, such as CD, vinyl or special edition. Try to get hold of every format. Ebay is a good way of doing this. Ebay can also be used to find rare Enter Shikari items such as old EP's (the Nodding Acquaintance EP being the rarest), limited edition promos, and old tour shirts that are no longer sold. There are a number of T-shirts and hoodies available, as well as other forms of merchandise such as keychains and posters. Become familiar with the more unique items such as the Enter Shikari fingerlights and the Jonny Sniper condoms.
 Enter Shikari are known for having a close relationship with their fans. It won't be hard to meet them if you're dedicated enough. The band often come out before and after shows to meet fans, so either get there early or wait around outside the venue after a show. If you get to meet them, remember to tell them who you are (this can help them to recognise and remember you if you meet them again). They are always very friendly and happy to meet their fans, so don't be shy about talking to them. If possible, ask them to sign a CD/picture, or get your photo taken with them.
 Show off your obsession with the band in ways that are unique to you. Use your talents - if you are good at art, try drawing the band or designing Shikari-related artwork - you could even send it to them! If you like music, learn to cover their songs, or make your own remixes. Enjoy writing? Try writing reviews, fanfiction, or even making your own fanpage. Put posters up in your room. 'Enter Shikari walls' are popular with fans, particularly those on the Forum - decorating a wall in your house or bedroom with anything related to Shikari: drawings, magazine articles, posters, ticket stubs, stickers, anything! Buy magazines that feature the band to keep up with the latest news and interviews. Watch the videos on their Youtube channel - these will help you to understand inside jokes popular with fans, such as 'Eggstick'. Keep up with the latest events, such as single releases, new music videos, upcoming shows etc. Show your appreciation for the band in any way you want.
 Enter Shikari's new website has a specific section reserved for people who register as Lions. Becoming a Lion gives you special access to forums, videos, pictures and special behind the scenes stuff. You may even get an early crack at discounts and stuff from their merchandise store. Plus, you get to meet other fans.

