 Doing so will ensure you do not pay too much to rent your space. In addition, your booth will not look sparse because of its being too large for your products.


Quantify your inventory. Estimate how much you have to display and how much square footage you will need in order to display your inventory in an attractive manner. Too much or too little space can detract from the appeal your booth will generate.
Calculate square footage. Fair booths are typically priced to rent according to size, and will be listed in 2 dimensions--width and length. If the booth sizes are listed (in feet) as 10X10, 6X8 and 3X4, then the square footage of each booth is 100, 48 and 12, respectively.;
, Include the dates of the fair, what time you need to arrive to set up, how late you're required to stay and any deadlines required to sign up for a booth at the fair.
 Read it carefully and make sure you understand each responsibility both on your behalf and that of the organization running the fair. The contract should outline exactly what's expected of you before, during and after the fair operation hours. This document will be your guide to when to set up your booth, what to do in case of foul weather (if the fair is outdoors), what the refund policy is and other general expectations.
 If something in the contract or any other information published by the organization running the fair leaves you with questions or concerns, contact the organization to address them. If you wait until the day of the fair, it may be too late to procure a refund if your concern would determine your participation. Furthermore, the organization's administrative team may not be at the fair or might be hard to reach. By addressing any concerns upfront, before you send in any money, you will be able to rent a fair booth without worry.
 Doing so not only helps to reserve your booth space, but sets you apart as a conscientious individual. If you send in the required paperwork on time, complete with payment, you will more likely be remembered as someone with whom it is easy to conduct business.

