 Each player is dealt 4 cards face up - this is their "fort" and their stronghold. They are then dealt 4 cards face down that they can pick up and have in their hand this is their "army". The remaining pack is placed face down on the table. This is the "barracks".;
, If there are cards of the same value in your fort, they should be placed on top of each other, forming a "watchtower" (so that other players can easily see how many of them there are). Players can "burn" a card once before the start of the game, provided nobody else has more than one of these in their fort. Burning means placing a card on the bottom of the barracks, and picking a fresh one up off the top. If you burn a royal card or an ace, you may pick up two cards.
 The first thing they do is pick up a card from the reserve pile or "barracks". The player can put as many cards as they want into their fort from the army keep them in their army where no one knows what the card is. Players can also burn a card in their fort once per turn. A player can put a card they picked up straight into the fort and then burn it straight away, but previous rules still apply.
 If the player has more than one card of the same number they can place these cards on top of each other to build 'watchtowers'.
 Before a player ends their turn, they can challenge another player for a card in their fort. The attacker then selects whether it is a 1 or 2 card challenge (although this is limited by the number of cards the opponent has in their army). The attacker holds their army out to the defender so that the defender cannot see the values of the cards, and the defender selects 1, 2 or 3 cards (depending on whether it is a 1 or 2 card challenge) and places these face down on the table. The defender then does the same for the attacker, who selects an equal number of cards and places them face down next to the defenders chosen cards. The cards are then turned over. For each pair of attacking and defending card, the highest card wins (aces are high). If the attacker wins both - attacker wins, If the defender wins both the defender wins, If the cards are both equal or they win one each it is a draw, if one card is a draw and the other is a win then the player who wins - wins the battle. Whoever wins the battle gets to keep the "soldiers" and they are placed into the winner’s army, if it is a draw however, the cards go back to their respective owners' armies. If the attacker wins the fort card from the defender also goes into his army, but if it is a draw or the defender wins the card stays in the defender's fort. If the attacker wins the challenge or "battle" they can then do anything they want with the cards they have won - burn them, put them in the fort or keep them in the army. (Remember though that you can only burn one card a go).


You can only challenge for the same card 3 times. If you lose on the third time, the card is taken from the defender's fort and put at the bottom of the barracks and the defender is given a new fort card from the top of the barracks. You can challenge for a watchtower card but you need 6 cards in your army to challenge for the card on top of a double watchtower or 10 cards for the top of a triple watchtower. If a royal or ace card is used in a battle, regardless of whether they win or lose, they have to go back into the barracks after the battle. When challenging, if you end up with no army cards left your fort is vulnerable and anyone challenging for your fort cards can just take the one they want, however the must have 6 army cards for a double or 10 for a triple watchtower. Similarly, if you just have army cards, you have nowhere to base your army and so if you loose a battle you automatically lose the game (this shouldn't happen though as you can put as many fort cards down a go as you want).
 If a 7 is drawn in a challenge the number of the card it is fighting has no bearing on whether it wins or looses. If it is the attackers 7, then it beats any card, but if the 7 belongs to the defender any card beats a 7.
 However, if you get the card to complete your watchtower by picking it from a barracks, a "free-for-all" takes place. The person behind you in the turn of play chooses a face down card from your pile, and you chose a card from the person behind you e.t.c until all the players have a card out, face down in front of them. The cards are then turned over and the person with the highest card takes back their card and the card being battled for, the other players retain their cards. If you then have a watchtower, you pick up all the fort cards and put them in your army and you are now on a "campaign". On a campaign, you do not pick up at the beginning of your go, nor can you be challenged for your watchtower cards. You must gain cards by taking them from other people's forts, but you could still lose all your army cards. On a campaign, royal and ace cards have no limit and can be used over and over but you must still challenge as before and must have the appropriate number of cards to challenge for a double or triple watchtower. If you lose all your army cards you have lost your campaign and so you lose your watchtower. 2 of your 4 watchtower cards are returned to the barracks, 1 remains as a fort card and 1 becomes an army card. 2 more cards are then drawn from the barracks to make 3 fort cards then 2 cards are drawn from the barracks to make 3 army cards and the game carries on as normal. Remember that a watchtower cannot be challenged but if two people are on campaigns, when other people in the game are still playing as normal, they can have a battle. In this case a three-card challenge takes place, and the winner keeps all the cards from the battle. Though, if all the players in the game have a watchtower a showdown takes place.
 The player with the lowest number of army cards places shuffles their deck and places their cards face down in a line, if the number of cards is an even number the card placed down last is removed to the barracks. The player or players that have more cards then shuffle their decks and remove from the top a number of cards so that they have the same amount as the first person. They then place their cards in a line next to the first person's cards so that each card is paired with another card (or if it is a three or four way showdown other cards). The cards are then turned over to reveal a winner (where the highest number wins, if the numbers are equal it is a draw) of each pair or set of cards and the winner keeps those cards as a "trick". The winner of the showdown and therefore the game is the player with the most tricks at the end of the showdown. If, due to the numbers being the same it is a draw, there is a battle of the watchtowers. In this, the player(s) draw a number of cards from the barracks equal to the number of the card number of their watchtower (e.g. if their watchtower is 4 8's then 8 cards - all royals and aces are 10). The person with the lowest cards then shuffles and lines the cards face down as before and the person with more cards shuffles and removes as before so the players have the same amount of cards and another showdown takes place. Again, if the watchtower number is an even number, a card is removed. This time if the final result is a draw the cards are reshuffled and the same cards played against each other again. This continues until a winner emerges.

