 The department will tell you if you are in an area that is prone to flash floods or landslides; it's important to know what to expect before you begin planning. You can also find out the warning signals, evacuation routes, and locations of emergency shelters that are used in your community. This will influence your family's flood plan., You and your family need to discuss what you will do to escape if there is a flood in your community. What will you do if everyone in your family is at home? What will you do if everyone in your family is spread out across the city? Having as many plans as possible can help you find the best methods of escape.Having an out-of-state relative or friend as your contact person in case your family is separated increases your chances of being reunited. Everyone in your household should know the name, address, and phone number of this person.
 If you are under flood watch or warning, then your family should be prepared to gather your emergency supplies and to listen to the local radio or TV station for updates on what to do. You should also gather your outdoor possessions, such as trash cans, grills, and lawn furniture, and tie them down securely. Lastly, you should turn off all of the utilities if it looks like you need to evacuate. Here are some other things you should do, in case you are forced to evacuate or stay:Fill your water containers with enough drinking water to last you 10 to 30 days. Fresh water may become unavailable for long periods of time, and you may not be able to get to the store to buy some.
Sanitize your sinks and tubs and then fill them with clean water so you have them on hand. This way, if you are stranded and the water is shut off, you will have fresh water on hand. Flood water is not sanitary.
Fill your car's tank with gas and put your emergency kit in your car. If you don't have a car, then make arrangements for transportation.
Put your important documents, such as medical records, your insurance cards, and your ID cards, in a waterproof bag.
Find a shelter where you can put your pet, if you have one. Make sure that you have a leash/crate/carrier, extra food, medications (if needed) and shot records.
Keep an ear out for disaster sirens and signals.
 If you are given an evacuation order, then you should listen and get out of your home as soon as you can. Trust that the authorities know what they're doing and that you'll be out of harm's way once you leave. Your family should know what to do if you have to evacuate because of a flood and should be prepared to act. Here are some tips to follow before and when you evacuate:Take only the most important items with you.
Turn off your gas, electricity, and water, if there's time.
Disconnect your appliances.
Follow the evacuation routes given to you by the authorities.
Don't walk across highly flooded areas.
Continue listening to the radio for updates.
Head to a shelter or a friend's home. Make sure that this friend does not live in an area where evacuation is mandatory.
 Prepare to turn off any electrical power in your home before you leave. If there is standing water or fallen power lines nearby, then you should turn off your gas and water to avoid electrical shock when the power comes back on. You should also buy a Class A, B, or C fire extinguisher, and ensure that all of your family members know how to use it. You should also buy and install sump pumps with back-up power in case you need it. Here are some other things you should do to prepare your home:Install backflow valves or plugs in your drains, toilets, and any other sewer connections to keep the flood waters out.
Anchor the fuel tanks in your garage to the ground. If the tanks are torn free, they can be swept downstream and will cause damage to other houses. If they are in your basement, then you don't need to anchor them.
Download your electrical panel by turning off one breaker at a time. Turn the main one off last, to avoid a large electrical arch.
 If you really want to prepare your family for a flood, then you should be prepared with several key items that will increase your chances of safety and survival. Here are some of the items you will need to pack:


Enough containers to hold three to five days worth of water supply
A three to five day supply of non-perishable food and a mechanical can opener
A first aid kit
A battery-powered radio
Flashlights
Sleeping bags and blankets
Baby wipes for cleaning your hands
Chlorine or iodine tablets for purifying water
Soap, toothpaste, and other hygienic supplies
An emergency kit for your car that includes maps, booster cables, and flares
Rubber boots and waterproof gloves

