 It'll take some time for your oven to reach the proper temperature, so it's best to pre-heat straightaway. This way you can do other prep-work while waiting for the oven to heat. Generally, pre-heating takes between 5 and 15 minutes, depending on your oven. Set your oven to 425°F (218°C)., Straight from the spiralizer, your soon to be veggie fries will likely be in long ribbons. Take a kitchen knife or pair of kitchen scissors and cut the spiralized veggies into fry-length segments. Then:


Put these in a container and drizzle oil (like vegetable oil or grapeseed oil) onto them.
Add a little salt, pepper, or other seasonings to the mix. Be sparing when adding seasoning. You can always add more later, but adding too much might ruin the fries., Lay out your spiralized food onto your baking sheet in a thin, outspread layer. Clumping or layering your fries too thick will cause them to bake unevenly.


Prevent uneven baking by baking your fries in batches or using two baking sheets if you feel that the baking sheet is too full.
By layering your baking sheet with aluminum foil, you can save yourself time when cleaning up. After baking, all you'll need to do is throw away the foil., Your oven should be heated by this point, though if its indicator says it is still pre-heating, you may have to wait a few minutes. When the oven's ready, place your tray on the middle rack and allow it to bake for 20 to 30 minutes.


Especially toward the end of the baking time, pay close attention to your fries. When they are golden and crispy, your fries are done.
Be sure to use an oven mitt or potholder to protect yourself from the heat when removing your baking sheet from the oven.
Extreme heat can damage some counter tops. You may want to lay out potholders on which you can set your baking sheet to cool., Right out of the oven, your fries will be quite hot. Give them some time to cool, then sample one to evaluate its seasoning. If the fries need more seasoning, like salt, now's your time to add some. After that, serve and enjoy.

