 Once you have figured out what type of pet is right for you, it is time to go out and find your new family member. A great place to start is your local animal shelter. Most shelters have regular visiting hours. Go and look at the animals that are available for adoption.At a shelter, you will find a wide variety of animals. There will likely be many breeds of dogs in all stages of life.
If you are looking for a cat, you could try a cat oriented shelter. Many cat shelters allow the cats to roam freely around enclosed rooms, so you will be able to interact with them.
There are rescue organizations for many types of animals. Your city might have a rabbit rescue, or even a shelter that takes in birds.
If possible, visit more than one shelter. You can get a sense for what types of pets need homes.
Be aware that there are procedures to follow when adopting a shelter pet. You may need to pass a background check or supply a reference. This is for the safety of the animals.
 When you visit the shelter, spend some time speaking to the people who work there. They spend a lot of time with the animals and they can provide you with some valuable insight. For example, if you are looking for a pet for your kids, ask a volunteer which dog is gentle and playful.The volunteers can tell you about the animals behavior. They will know which cats love to be held and which ones prefer alone time.
If you have other animals at home, take that into consideration. Ask the volunteers or staff members which animals interact well with others.
 Get to know your potential pet before bringing it home. Consider visiting the shelter more than once. You want to see if your future pet has an even temperament.If you are thinking about adopting a dog, ask if you can take it on a walk. It's important to see how dogs react to new sights and sounds.
Take your family members with you. Each member of the family should spend a little time with the animal before you bring it home.
Make sure you like the animal's personality. For example, if you want an animal to snuggle, don't get a cat that hates to be held.
 Pet stores are great options for purchasing some pets. For example, you can find a lot of fish, parakeets, and hamsters.Talk to the pet store employee about the needs of each type of pet.The humane society recommends that you do not purchase a puppy from a pet store. Even if they say otherwise, many stores purchase dogs from inhumane puppy mills.
Some pet stores host adoption events. These are special times when shelter animals visit the store to meet potential owners.
A shelter event at the pet store is a great way for you to meet several animals at once. Bonus: you can purchase all of the supplies you will need.
 If you have your heart set on a particular type of animal, it might be a good idea to talk to a breeder. For example, if you are interested in getting a labradoodle puppy, you might not be able to find one at your local shelter. Breeders are good if you know what breed you want.Do some research before choosing a breeder. Many breeders raise animals in poor conditions.
Ask employees at your local humane society if they know any responsible breeders. You can also read online reviews from previous customers.
Ask a local vet for a list of reputable breeders. You want to find one that breeds and treats animals humanely.
If you are looking for a larger pet, such as a horse, a breeder is a good source. A breeder should be knowledgeable and help you find the right animal for your needs.

