 Exercise tones your skin and improves your circulation. It also improves your overall health, which shines through in your skin. Sweat is actually helpful for cleansing dead skin cells and oil from your skin. Incorporate the following types of exercises into your routine three or more times per week:


Cardio exercises like power walking, running, biking, or swimming. These exercises get your blood pumping and give your skin a healthy hue.
Weight training exercises with dumbbells. Strengthening your muscles improves your skin tone, making it look smoother.
Yoga and flexibility exercises. These types of exercises tone your muscles and make your skin look tighter.
 When you aren't getting the nutrients you need, it shows in your skin. Get your glow back by eating plenty of fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains. Incorporate foods that are especially healthy for skin, including the following:


Avocados and nuts. These contain healthy fats that your skin needs to retain its elasticity.
Nutrient-rich plants. Focus on produce that contains vitamin A, E, and C, like sweet potatoes, carrots, kale, spinach, broccoli, mangoes and blueberries.
 Water plumps up your skin cells and makes your skin look fresh and bright. When you're dehydrated, your skin starts to dry out. Drink at least 8 glasses of water every day to keep your skin healthy. If you don't enjoy drinking glass after glass of water, these choices will also keep you hydrated:


Watery fruits and vegetables, like cucumbers, lettuce, apples, and berries.
Herbal tea and other tea that isn't caffeinated.
Try a glass of soda water with a squeeze of lemon for a refreshing alternative.
If plain water isn't your thing, you can make flavored water by letting fruit or herbs soak in the water before drinking.
 No matter how religiously you stick to your daily skin care routine, using certain substances will set you back on your quest for beautiful skin. Limit or completely cut out these skin-harming substances:


Tobacco. Tobacco stains skin and causes premature wrinkles. When it comes to damaging skin, tobacco is one of the worst culprits.
Alcohol. Too much alcohol can stretch skin out, especially around and under the eyes, because it causes the body to retain water. It also reduces Vitamin A in the skin and can cause broken blood vessels.Limit alcohol to one or two drinks a few times a week.
Caffeine. Drinking a lot of caffeine dehydrates your body, which has an adverse effect on your skin. Limit your coffee to one cup a day, and follow it with a big glass of water.

