 One of the main ways you can reduce the effects of an enlarged heart and help combat the underlying causes of the condition is through diet. You should eat foods low in saturated fats, sodium, and cholesterol. You should incorporate more fruits, vegetables, lean meats, and healthy proteins into your diet.


You should also drink 6-8 8 ounce glasses of water a day.Try eating more fish, green leafy vegetables, fruit, and beans to help lower your cholesterol and sodium levels and reduce your blood pressure.
You can also ask your doctor for a diet plan that is best suited for your particular situation.
 Put more physical activity into your daily routine. Depending on what underlying condition you have, your doctor may recommend different kinds of exercise. He may suggest light aerobic and mild cardiovascular exercise such as walking or swimming if your heart is too weak to take too much stress.


He may also suggest your do more intense cardio and strength training such as bike riding or running as you get stronger or if you need to lose a decent amount of weight.
Always consult your doctor before undertaking any physical activity, especially with a heart condition.
Combining eating right with exercise will help you lose weight, which is very beneficial for many of the underlying causes of an enlarged heart., There are certain bad habits you should avoid or quit all together when you are diagnosed with an enlarged heart. You should quit smoking immediately because it adds strain to your heart and blood vessels. You should also avoid drinking excessive amounts of alcohol and caffeine because they make your heart beat in an irregular rhythm and put a strain on the muscle.


You should also try to get at least 8 hours of sleep a night in order to help regulate your heart beat and replenish your body every day., As you go through your recovery, you need to see your doctor often. This way, he can keep a close watch on the state of your heart and let you know if your condition is better or worse.


Your physician will also be able to tell if you are responding to treatments or if you need to seek more advanced options for treatment.