 Borrow a mobile phone from your parents or older family members if you do not have your own. They are great for keeping you entertained with games, apps, music, and videos. Make sure you have the permission of the person you are borrowing the phone from before downloading anything.


If you need to connect to the internet to play a game, watch a video, or listen to music, make sure that you are wearing headphones or have turned down the volume;
, Ask your parents or older family members for permission before using a tablet or computer. You may already have games or apps that you enjoy, but you may also get help from your parents or older family members to help you find more that can help you pass the time.


While some apps are free others require a payment. Don’t purchase anything without permission from your parents or older family members.
If you have the permission to download something, you may need to know what type of computer or tablet you have. Some apps may only work with a certain type of tablet, like an iPad for example. Read the description of your game or app to be sure it works with your computer or tablet. Ask an adult for help if you are still unsure.
Use earphones so that you can make the volume as loud as you want without waking up the rest of the house.
 Whether you watch a movie on a tablet or binge watch an entire tv series, choose something you enjoy. Watch a funny movie or a scary movie to keep your mind engaged. If you watch a movie that you’ve seen many times or a very slow movie, you may fall asleep.


Plan ahead of time and ask your parents or older family members to help you download movies or tv shows for your tablet, phone, or computer. You may also ask them for help to PVR some tv shows if your tv is able to record them.
Use headphones to make sure that you do not wake up anyone else in the house.
 Whether you have a gaming console or are able to borrow one, video games can keep you occupied all night. If you are having trouble passing a level then switch to another game. The more you get frustrated, the more likely you are to get tired and go to sleep.


Borrow games from friends or family to make sure you are entertained throughout the night. You may have already completed all the games in your collection and a new challenge can help your mind stay alert.
 Make sure to use headphones when trying to stay awake with music. You do not want to keep the rest of your house awake. Listen to music with a faster beat as slow and quiet music may make you tired.


Create a playlist of your favourite songs that you know will get you energized the days leading up to your all-nighter. You may want to find music that will get you up and dancing.
Use an mp3 player, mobile phone, or tablet that’s portable so that you can move around while you listen to your music.
 Use an alarm clock as a safety net when you try to stay up all night. If you feel yourself drifting, set the alarm for 30 minutes or one-hour intervals so you can jolt yourself awake. If you don’t have an alarm clock, ask to borrow one from your family or friends.


A digital alarm clock may be set by going into the settings menu for personal preferences on volume, the type of alarm, and how long your alarm will ring.
Alarms work because they trigger your body’s natural stress response. Some alarms come with a snooze button that stops the alarm from ringing but restarts in a few minutes. While you immediately become alert once you hear an alarm, if you press the snooze button too much you will get your body to ignore its natural response which will leave you feeling groggy.Test your alarm clock. Make sure that the batteries are good or plug it in if it doesn’t run on batteries. If you are borrowing it, ask the person you are borrowing it from how to set it and to test it with you to make sure it works properly.

