 Jealousy is often abnormal when it comes in response to something abstract. For example, you may get jealous of your partner's aspirations, even before your partner achieves these goals. You may worry that your partner will abandon you or find someone better if they achieve their dreams. If you frequently get jealous over people's ambitions, or other abstract concepts, you may be experiencing abnormal jealousy., If you're abnormally jealous, you may seek out commitment soon to quell feelings of insecurity. You may feel the need to lock a friendship or relationship down to try and combat jealousy.With romantic relationships, how soon do you push for commitment? Do you want to move fast right away? Do you find yourself pushing your romantic partners to move in or make future plans early on in the relationship?
With friends, you may want to become best friends right away. You may want to hang out every day or text constantly, despite the fact you've just met this person. You may have difficulty accepting that it takes awhile to develop an intimate connection with someone.
 Jealousy is normal in some situations. For example, most people would feel jealous if they saw on Facebook that a friend threw a party without inviting them. However, abnormal jealousy occurs in many situations that are innocuous and may not warrant a jealous response.You may have jealous thoughts when you're having a difficult day, as this may affect your self esteem. You may also get jealous if a friend or romantic partner is away for work or a vacation without you. You may also get jealous at social events if a friend or partner is making conversation with others.
Due to this extreme jealousy, you may become hyper vigilant of others. This means you feel a need to monitor others behaviors to make sure you're not being forgotten or abandoned. For example, you may watch your partner talking to other people at a party. Instead of socializing yourself, you may trail your partner the entire time to make sure he or she is not flirting with others.
 Jealousy can cause a major rift in any relationship. If you've had a lot of friends and romantic partners distance themselves from you, your jealousy may be to blame. In the past, you may have even been confronted about your jealousy.
 If you're abnormally jealous, you may have extremely high expectations of relationships. Usually, these expectations are based around the insecurity that often drives jealousy. You may feel that the relationship would feel more secure if certain expectations were met.If you're dating someone, you may think that person should never be attracted to others. You may also believe you do not have anything to offer another person, which can trigger the sense your partner will leave you. You may be extremely fearful of your partner's past relationships, as you worry they're a threat to your security. You may not want your partner to be friends with his or her exes.
You may also feel you can force your partner to behave the way you want. If you feel neglected or abandon, you may pout or shut down emotionally. You may expect your partner to feel sorry for you and reassure you, which is not reasonable. Behaving in this way is manipulative, and will drive your partner away.

