 Hesitating and hedging will only make your shyness more apparent to those around you.Try not to make “umm” or “huh” sounds that indicate you’re stalling for time or use hedging words like “maybe” or “kind of.”
Don’t make every statement a question. This is a typical shy trait, and it will read that way to others. Questions have a raised inflection on the end, so pay attention to the way you say things., The goal should be to make your ideas clear to those you’re speaking to. Keep your sentences concise, and others will ask for more information if they need it. However, despite your best efforts, not everything you say will make complete sense to everyone around you, and that’s okay too.Shy people may continue to talk offering unnecessary details rather than allowing a lull in conversation. It’s okay to let the conversation lag. You don’t have to be the only person talking.
Don’t mumble or speak softly. If people can’t hear or understand you, they may assume you don’t think what you have to say is worth listening to., Especially if you’re going to engage in a high stakes social activity or business event, take time to think about possible scenarios and practice your responses. It may sound silly, but this is a great way to build confidence and feel more prepared to engage with others., Don’t make up an excuse for yourself. Honesty is the best policy. If you feel comfortable or are asked directly by a person you’re talking to, it’s okay to offer an honest explanation. Just don’t fixate on this topic as it might lead you to feel shy or nervous again. Admitting your shyness can be endearing, and make you seem more approachable.Even something as simple as saying, “I was a bit nervous the last time we spoke" works just fine.
 Be confident and clear when communicating, but always be open to having your mind changed by others. You may feel the urge to overcompensate for your shyness by being aggressive. The goal is to avoid ending social interactions with negative outcomes as this reinforces shy behavior.


Ask for additional information on a subject you disagree with to show you value those you’re speaking to, even if you don’t agree with them in the end. It never hurts to learn something new.
Offer alternative perspectives as questions rather than statements of fact. For instance, instead of saying, “That would lead to economic down turn,” ask, “what effect do you think that change will have on the economy in the next five years?”
Don’t say no. Agree and disagree at once by using a phrase like, “Yes and…” to encourage others by validating their perspective while still offering an alternative view., If you’re only conversing with one other person, ask for more information on the unfamiliar topic, or gently steer the conversation towards common ground. When in a larger group of people, it’s often possible to simply listen to others until you feel you have something beneficial to contribute.Think of specific topics that may be relevant at the social gathering you plan to attend, and try to find ways to subtly introduce these topics.It’s okay to talk about yourself. Try not to overdo it, but what other topic do you have more knowledge about? This helps people feel closer to you, and encourages them to open up and continue the conversation with information about themselves.