 If your items are extremely moldy and you don't want to throw them away, you can try putting them in boiling water to kill the mold spores and remove that musty smell. This method should only be used on items like towels, sheets, and other sturdy linens that can stand up to boiling water. If you place delicate fabrics in boiling water, they will probably fall apart. To boil moldy items,


Bring a large pot of water to a boil. You need enough water to thoroughly saturate the garment you're treating.
Place the garment in a separate large pot. Pour the boiling water over it, making sure it gets fully soaked.
Let it sit for five minutes.
Wring out the water. If it's still very hot, you may want to wear rubber gloves.
Wash the garment as usual in the washer. Dry it outside in the sun.
 Bleach is an effective mold killer. It will remove mold and mustiness from items that are safe to bleach, like towels, sheets and socks. Be sure to check an item's tag before bleaching it. If it says "Do Not Bleach," use a different method. Whenever you use bleach, do it in a room with plenty of ventilation, and protect your skin with gloves. To bleach your clothes,


In a large bucket, mix up a solution with half a cup of bleach and a gallon of water.
Place the musty clothes in the bleach solution.
Wash the clothes in your washing machine with detergent, as normal. Dry them outside in the sun.
 Ammonia has a strong smell that is toxic to the lungs, so make sure your laundry room is well ventilated before using. Put your clothes in the washer and start a wash cycle without adding any detergent. Add a cup of ammonia to the water. Let the cycle run, then do a second cycle with detergent only. Hang your clothes in the sun to dry.Never mix bleach with ammonia. It creates a gas that can cause lung damage if breathed.
Handle ammonia with care. You may want to wear clothes to prevent it from getting on your skin. If you breathe in ammonia, leave the area to get fresh air. Call poison control if you feel light-headed.