 All you really need is something to hold the litter, though there are more expensive versions that offer a self-cleaning function or grass on top (with waste collecting in a lower pan).The box should be big enough for your dog to turn around in.
The sides should be low enough that your dog can enter by himself, but high enough to stop your dog from peeing out of the box if he lifts his leg.
If you buy a box with a hood, consider cutting the top off to make the box easier for your dog to use and for you to clean.;
, Dog litter works best because it has larger pellets that are more absorbent. Dog litter ranges from simple clay to those with activated charcoal to control odor. For your own odor control, simply sprinkle baking soda on the bottom of the box each time before you fill it., You need to remove your dog’s waste every time he eliminates in the box, if possible. Having a scoop and trashcan nearby will make this much easier., You want the box near the places your dog spends most of his time, but also out of the way enough that you’re not watching him.


Don’t place the box near your dog’s food and water, as dogs will not eliminate where they eat.
Be aware that dogs have a tendency to dig in their box, especially at first. Place it so that any litter thrown out during digging will not cause too much of a mess., Your cat needs to feel ownership of his box, or he will start peeing outside the box to mark his territory. And if you have two dogs, it’s best to get each of them their own box to avoid similar issues with territoriality., Before your puppy or adult dog learns to eliminate in his litter box, he’ll need to be able to enter it on his own. You need to teach him that it is a safe, even fun space., Praise the dog for being in the box.
 Repeat your command, and again, praise your dog and act happy that he is in the box. Keep practicing until you are able to guide your dog into the box while giving the “use the box” command.
 Once your dog is comfortable being guided into the box, try using only your verbal command. Be patient and don’t repeat yourself. If your dog does not get in, simply walk away and try again later, or go back to guiding. If your dog does get in on command, praise him profusely. Keep practicing until he gets in immediately on command.
 Punishing your dog for peeing or pooping outside his litter box will only scare her and make it harder for him to learn. Consistency is the best way to train your dog.
 This will show your dog that it is ok to eliminate there and make him more likely to do so., Remove the food between meals. Regular feedings will lead to regular times when your dog needs to eliminate., Whining, pacing, sniffing around the house, or walking to the door are all signs that your dog needs to pee or pooh. Send him to the litter box immediately.
 All puppies should be sent first thing in the morning, just before you go to bed, and before they are confined or left alone.A puppy can usually hold his pee for the same number of hours as his age in months during the day.
Puppies can hold their pee longer at night. A 4 month old puppy should be able to make it through the night

, You don’t want your dog to get in the habit of eliminating in the house, so whenever he is not confined, watch him closely. Pacing, whining, circling, sniffing, and leaving the room are all signs that your dog needs to pee or poop. Get him to the litter box as quickly as possible., Use a small room with the door closed or blocked off by a baby gate. Locate the litter box in the room so that your dog can use it as needed., During litter training, you should always go to the litter box with your dog. Reward peeing or pooping with praise, treats, or play. , Dogs don’t bury their waste like cats do. You’ll need to scoop it out every time they pooh. At least once a month, empty the box out entirely and clean it. Your dog won’t want to use it if it gets too dirty., You don’t want to scare your dog, and you definitely don’t want to rub his face in the mess. Clap sharply in order to startle him; this will usually cause him to stop. Then quickly run with him to the litter box, encouraging him to follow you. If your dog finishes peeing or pooping in the box, give a reward. If he has nothing left, don’t worry about it.