 He can be found next to the Lumbridge General Store on the left.
 The woodcutting icon can be found in the statistics icon list., Click on the boot image in the top right corner next to the map., Go outside of Explorer Jack's house and click on the stack of gold coins to pick it up., Travel to the fishing shop and trade with Hank., Right click on a shop-keeper and collect the free bronze dagger, hammer, and tinderbox. Purchase any item -- and sell that specific item back., Click on it through your inventory for your character to hold it., Start a conversation with the man whom is fighting the goblin next to the General Store., Guide him to the graveyard (south of the Lumbridge Church) to Xenia., "Listen to" the musician by right-clicking on him to restore any energy., This will be automatically achieved if you have done the above steps in order., Locate him on the left hand side of the bridge and talk., Go to your Prayer tab and click it, then click it again to turn it off., Go inside the Lumbridge Church and click on the Altar to restore your prayer points., Go on the other side of the church to the river. Use your crayfish cage on the fishing spiral. Be sure to catch more than one crayfish for other tasks., Travel to Bob's Axes and trade with him to get the free items., Use the hatchet on a tree to cut it and get logs., Use your tinderbox on the logs to create it., Click on a crayfish in your inventory and click on the fire., Run through the Lumbridge graveyard and all the way south. Continue until you get to a mining area. Click on a tin and copper ore rock., Continue mining tin and copper, alternatively, until you get a level 2., Run back up to the Lumbridge furnace. Use one of the ores on it and see that the furnace will turn one copper and one tin into a bronze bar., Click on the anvil and choose "bronze dagger" from the menu screen., Climb to the 2nd floor of the Lumbridge Castle to the bank. Talk to a banker and get into your bank. Deposit everything, but be sure to have 11 coins, your cooked crayfish, and dagger in your inventory., Climb the ladder of the bank's wall to get there., Go all the way down the ladders and stairs, back to the bridge. Cross it and head north to the cow pen. Kill one and click on a cowhide to retrieve it., This would restore some of the health that you might have lost., Go south and then east to the border of Lumbridge and Al Kharid. Pay the toll to enter., Head south to the Tannery. Trade the tanner to tan your hide into leather., Run east to purchase a needle and thread from the crafting shopkeeper. Use the needle on your leather and it will automatically use the thread to make the gloves., This will make your character wear them., Use your "Home Teleport" and choose "Varrock" from the Lonestone Network. Run all the way to the west until you come across a mining area.,, Run north, past the West Varrock Bank to where you see two arches. Walk and explore around a bit until you have accomplished the task., Go back down south, through the bank, and east to the General Store. Purchase a jug and fill it up, using any water source (identified by a water drop icon)., Visit the Varrock Clothes shop and right-click on Thessalia., Use your "Home Teleport" and choose "Draynor Village" from the Lonestone Network., Visit the pigs in the pen.,, Go to the pottery wheel and select "Clay Pot". Fire it in the oven., Go to the Lumbridge Graveyard and speak with Xenia to start the quest.

To avoid running back from Draynor Village, use your "Home Teleport" and choose "Lumbridge" from the Lonestone Network.
 Go to the Lumbridge Church and speak with Father Aereck to start the quest., Run back up to his house to claim the reward of finishing all of the introductory tasks.