 One of the easiest ways to get a good Rainbow Dash costume is to get a rainbow-colored wig. These are typically available at costume stores, or you can order one online with a parent's permission.


To make your rainbow wig more like a mane, like Rainbow Dash has, get your parent to cut it into a mohawk, and try to style it so it falls back in a line down your neck, like a horse mane.
If you want, you can also order a rainbow tail online that looks a lot like Rainbow Dash's tail. Attach it to the back of a pair of sweatpants and you're in business.;
, To really get your costume looking right, try to get an aqua-blue hooded sweatshirt, t-shirt, or tank-top to turn into your Rainbow Dash costume. You don't really need to do anything to the shirt to make a costume out of it, just make sure it's the right color. With your wig, it'll start looking a lot like Rainbow Dash.
 Want to really go the extra mile? Cut some cardboard wings out of an old cereal box, or shoe-box with scissors. Get your parents to help you, if you need, and then get help sewing them on the back of your top, if you want to have wings.


Use markers or crayons to color the wings the same color as your top, so they match.
 Depending on how you want your costume to look, you could also kick up the rainbows another notch and get some ankle-warmers, or some whole leggings to match your top and your hair. Try and get the colors as close as possible.


Wear some rainbow-colored wrist-warmers, if you go with ankle-warmers, so it'll look like you're used to walking on four legs, like Rainbow Dash.
 Want to act like Rainbow Dash? Memorize some of the things she says and repeat them on a regular basis, when the time is right. Here are some Rainbow Dash quotes:


"It needs to be about 20% cooler."
"Careful Derpy!"
"What about "Super-Ultra-Extreme-Awesomazing?"
"I'm just glad I haven't been replaced by a bucket of turnips!"
"Time to take out the adorable trash."
"Hey. I could clear this sky in ten seconds flat."

, Rainbow Dash controls the weather in Ponyville, keeping the skies free of clouds for the Summer Sun Celebration. Unless rain is scheduled for that day, Rainbow Dash makes sure Ponyville always has nice, warm, sunny weather. You can't control the weather, but you can read the forecast, watch the Weather Channel, and try and find out what the weather will be like that day, so you'll be the one "in charge" or knowing.


Before you go to school, check the local news or the newspaper to find out what the weather will be like today. Memorize it, so you can seem as if you know automatically. "I'd say there's about a 41% chance of humidity today," you can say to your friends.
 Above all else, Rainbow Dash is athletic and sporty. She loves running, playing outside, and getting physical. Try finding outside activities that you like doing and get outside and get your hands dirty.


Rainbow Dash can be pretty competitive, so don't be afraid to challenge your friends to contests and races on a regular basis.
 In the episode "Read it and Weep" Rainbow Dash discovers her love for reading. She's a lot more than just athletic, she's also really smart and a big lover of books. Find some books that you enjoy reading and always have one on your desk.


In another episode, she even reveals that she's writing a novel, about a Pegasus who's pretty much the most awesome ever. Try writing a book if you've got some ideas for one.
 In one episode, everyone goes on a camping trip and Rainbow Dash tells scary stories that scare Scootaloo. Scootaloo is too embarrassed and scared to say that the stories frightened her, even though she keeps acting scared throughout the whole trip. Finally, Rainbow Dash notices and instead of giving her a hard time, tells her that the stories scared her too once, and agrees to act as a big sister to Scootaloo.Don't be mean to kids younger than you, including young siblings. Be nice to them and help them out any time you can.
 When Rainbow Dash goes to Wonderbolt Academy, she ends up saving lots of ponies from disaster when Lightning Dust gets reckless with a tornado. Since she controls weather, she swoops in and saves everyone. If you want to be like Rainbow Dash, you've got to be willing to stand up for what you believe in. Help others and be brave in the face of challenges.


Rainbow Dash isn't reckless. Being brave doesn't mean doing dangerous things. She's smart and safe at the same time.
 Rainbow Dash is a popular costume at cosplay conventions, and they can be great ways to hang out with other fans of the character, see other cool costumes, and see how you might be able to improve your own.


Typically, BronyCon, the My Little Pony convention, is held in August of each year. Check http://www.bronycon.org to find out about where it will be this year.