 If you're perpetually late, it may help you to keep track of what's making you late. Figure out if you're late due to psychological reasons or processing errors.


Ask yourself if you are always late by the same amount of time. If you are, your problem is probably psychological. If the time varies, it's probably organizational.Spend a minute at the end of the day taking notes on your lateness. What were you late to? What were you doing that prevented you from arriving on time? What feelings were you having?
Make note of any worries you had, or any times you got stuck.
Consider any errors you made in your calculations.
When you've done this for a week or two, look over your notes. Do you see any patterns?

, Do you stress intensely about things you feel you can't do, don't want to do, or can't find the resources to do? Does this lead you to cancel events, or arrive so late they can't really take place?


If you suspect this is the case, talk to a counselor about your anxiety. You may find talk therapy or medication to be helpful.
 If you're insecure about your importance to others, you may arrive late to prove your own necessity. Ask yourself if being late make you feel needed. Do you feel superior because others must wait?Does being late help you feel assured of another person's love for you? Does making people wait for you serve as a way of confirming that they're willing to sacrifice their time and presence for your sake?
If this is the case, you might want to talk to a psychologist about improving your self esteem.
 You may arrive late because you genuinely struggle with spatial and temporal calculations. You may have a processing disorder, or an attention disorder like ADD or ADHD.If this is your issue, you may underestimate the time you need. Try timing your regular trips so that you have an actual estimate available to you.
If you're going somewhere new, look it up on an app like Google Maps first.
Pad your time. Even if you look up the distance, you may need extra time, especially if you get lost on the way.

