 If you have a used one, remove the pages already written on. Try to make the book unique so that you can identify it if you don't label it.;
, However, if you are shy and don't want others to see, just don't label the book.


Write the warrior code inside the front cover if you want.
 Make as many Clans as you want - just don't make it too confusing!

, Come up with some names from nature - FireClan, SwiftClan, TreeClan, MarshClan, and WaterClan, or whatever you want.
 For example, AdderClan for a Clan that frequents a sandy, dusty area with lots of snakes. But you don't always have to, because these Clans are what you are making, and they will be your unique one.
 Make sure to set up the Clan camp strategically. If you don't, the Clan could easily be taken over. For example, if the nursery and elder's den was right beside the entrance to the camp, the kits could be taken away and the elders would be injured first. These two positions of the Clan are to be treated with respect, and making them bait is not honorable.
 Write down its history. How was it created? Who was it made by? Make a summary of this Clan. What does their territory look like? How do they hunt? What color are their pelts normally? You might also want to write down the current leaders and cats in the Clan, like the deputy, warriors, apprentices, queens, kits, leaders, and medicine cat. If you want, make a Clan symbol for the Clans, too!

, Where are the Clans located? Are they near the ocean, or in the deep jungle? Where are the boundaries? Question yourself on these matters, and you will probably make a good section of the biome good Clan territory!


Try to make a Gathering place, preferably in the center of all the Clan territories. Make a special mark to mark that specific spot, and a place for the leaders and deputies to sit.
Make a place where the medicine cats can communicate with StarClan every half moon- they need the guidance for their Clans. Try to make it mysterious, like when the medicine cats pick a plant, the fragrance makes them fall asleep.
 You can have loners, rogues, kittypets, Twolegs, and more. Make a Twoleg place - the Clans can have some adventures with them and their kittypets.
 To do this, you might want to make a group of your own at your school or social media. Talk about the Clans, and write this down for the diary. You don't have to do it for all the Clans - just one would be good enough. For the dates, write the following or make your own style:


For an ordinary day: If it were January 2, 2015, the date in the diary would be: First moon, leaf-bare (2015) Second day.
For a special occasion: If it were half moon and it was time for the medicine cats to go communicate with StarClan, the actual date would look somewhat like this: February 14, 2015. For the Clan style, it would be: Half moon, second moon. (medicine cats' name/s) went to (StarClan meeting place), leaf-bare (2015).
If you are doing this for all the Clans, put: First moon, leaf-bare (2015) Second day for WhiteClan.

Here's an example of an entry: Tenth moon, leaf-fall (2015). Tenth day. (Put your Clan name here) (next line) Today hunting was well. The leaves are beginning to fall. Snowpaw had a thorn in her paw-at least she's patient!



, If you are going to make up some medicines and diseases, make sure to pair them up properly so that you don't end up with a cough that can't be cured!

