 Say “NO” in a strong and loud voice or another loud noise. Dogs often get into a trance as they hump, but a loud noise might be enough to startle your dog out of that trance.Your tone should be assertive, but you need to keep anger out of it since anger can heighten a dog's energy instead of lowering it.
Try using another source of noise, like a whistle or air horn. Make sure that these noise makers are far enough away from your dog to prevent damage to the ears.
Make the noise when the dog is starting or in the middle of doing the behavior, not afterward.;
, Dogs sometimes mount people to get attention. Push the dog away or turn away from the dog so they don't get attention. You may also sit down or move away from the dog so they can’t mount you.To push the dog away, gently take the dog by its front legs and set those paws back on the ground.
Move yourself. Turning away from the dog or walking a few paces in another direction can work well as long as you remain calm.
 You may need to physically remove your dog from the area if they won’t stop humping. Say “No!” or “Nope!” when the dog humps. Then, lead the dog out of the room and into a quiet, closed room for a few minutes. Let the dog stay in that room alone for a few minutes until they calm down.When you take your dog to a "time out" area, make sure that there are no toys to play with.
Leave the dog for 30 seconds to three minutes.
Make sure that your dog is calm before releasing them, and when you release them, stay calm and act as though nothing happened.
 When humping is a persistent behavior, you will likely need to work with your dog every time another person or dog visits your house. Put a short leash on your dog and let them wear it around the house. When the dog needs to go to time out or you have company, you can direct your dog as needed. The leash can also help you remove the dog from aggressive situations.You could either use a tab or a drag-line. A tab is a short piece of leash measuring 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15.25 cm). A drag-line is a 4 to 6 foot (1.2 to 1.8 m) nylon cord.
 After you get your dog to stop its initial humping, redirect that energy into an acceptable behavior, like playing fetch or other games or activities.Aside from toys, you could also distract and redirect your dog by giving him or her an interactive toy that dispenses treats or by asking your dog to perform a previously learned trick.
 When you break your dog away from another dog or person it's been humping, you need to keep your dog away. If your dog moves back toward the target while displaying dominant behavior, put yourself in between your dog and the target to physically block your dog from returning.Dominant behavior may include growling or aggression, nudging, pawing, standing over another dog, or taking things away from the other dog.Stay calm as you step in front of your dog. If possible, consider leaning forward or gently knocking your dog with your hip or knee to send a message. Remember that the purpose is not to hurt your dog, but to snap it out of its fixation and let it know that you are taking command of the situation.

