 During the three days before you glycogen load, eat around two to three grams of carbohydrates per pound of body weight. This should increase your carbs slowly.For a person who weighs 160 pounds, you will be eating between 350 to 450 grams of carbohydrates.
 Glycogen loading is done by adding significantly more carbohydrates to your diet. Around 70 percent of your calories each day should be from carbohydrates during this period. To store enough glycogen to provide energy, try increasing your carbohydrates to around four or five grams for each pound of your body weight.To calculate how many carbs you need to eat, multiple four or five grams by your body weight.
For example, if you weigh 160 pounds, your carbohydrate intake during those few days will be around 720 grams.
 While you are glycogen loading, you should reduce the amount of fat in your diet. This helps your body have more room for the carbohydrates. It also doesn’t add more calories to your diet that you don’t need.For example, you wouldn’t have avocado, heavy oils, or nuts while carb loading.
 As you get ready for your endurance event, you want to make sure you eat enough protein. Protein can help your body process glycogen, and it can also be used for energy. In the weeks before your event, eat around 0.6 to 0.7 grams (0.02 to 0.02 oz) per pound of body weight.For example, you can eat lean chicken, grass-fed beef, fish, nuts, and Greek yogurt.
 Glycogen loading doesn’t mean you should eat any carbs you want. Simple carbs, like baked goods, cookies, donuts, or white pasta, are not going to give you the nutrition you need to do well in your endurance event. Instead, choose healthy complex carbohydrates.For example, try whole grain bread, wheat pasta, brown rice, oats, quinoa, barley, or other whole grains. Another good option may be energy bars or granola bars.
You can also try fruit, dried fruit, beans, legumes, or starchy vegetables like sweet potatoes..
Sports drinks, gels, and juices may help increase your carbohydrates. Make sure to combine these with complex carbohydrates to help balance the sugar.
 For snacks, you can eat foods high in carbohydrates. Go for grains, cereals, and granola, along with dried fruit. These foods can provide ample amount of carbs.Try raisin, dried cranberries, or other low-sugar dried fruit. Fruits like bananas, pineapple, apples, and melon also contain carbs. You may want to include low-sugar fruit juices.
Yogurt with granola, pretzels and crackers, oatmeal, baked tortilla chips, or cereal make good snacks.
 You may be more successful with your carbohydrate loading if you eat multiple small meals throughout the day instead of a few extremely large meals. Five or six meals throughout the day can help you get the amount of carbohydrates that you need without feeling sick., Figuring out exactly what to eat when carb-loading can be confusing. Add grains to each meal, like cereals, bread products, and rice. Fruit and fruit juice also helps increase your carbs. Drinking milk can also add carbs to your meals.For example, breakfast may include a bagel, banana or apple, nut butter, honey, cereal, or milk.
Lunch may consist of a meat, multiple slices of bread, carb-heavy vegetables like sweet potatoes or carrots, crackers, tortilla chips, and milk.
For dinner, you may eat meat, rolls, vegetables, and a banana or apple.

