 Digital tuners are usually small, battery powered devices with microphones able to pick up the notes of your guitar. Turn it on, then play an open E string. A light will flash when the string is tuned to the correct note. Adjust the string if necessary until the note is in tune, then repeat with the other strings.If you have an electric guitar, you can usually plug a cord directly into the tuner to check your tuning, instead of using the tuner’s microphone.;
, There are many guitar tuner apps available, and with smartphones at everyone’s fingertips, these can be a great option to keep things simple or to use when you don’t have another tuner. These apps work similarly to digital tuners, using your smartphone’s built-in microphone.Play an open E string and adjust until your app shows the note is at the correct pitch. Repeat for the other strings.
 If you use effects pedals with your electric guitar, there are models that work just like one of these. Instead of altering the guitar’s tone when you activate them, they serve as a digital tuner. Many also allow you to tune silently, which is a great option, particularly if you are playing live. Play an open string, and the tuner will light up to indicate when the pitch is correct.Many multi-effects units include built-in tuners.
 These clamp directly to your guitar’s headstock, and you can leave them in place while you play. Instead of picking up the tones with a microphone, they detect the notes by the vibrations running through the guitar’s wood. Play each string you want to tune, and the tuner will alert you when the note is correct., If you’re sitting near a computer, you can easily find a guitar tuner online by searching for one. Most tuner sites allow you to select the string you want to tune, listen to a tone of the correct pitch, and adjust the string as needed until it sounds the same.This method does not use a microphone. You’ll just have to rely on your ear to make sure the notes played on the web browser match the open guitar strings, adjusting as needed.
If you can’t access an online tuner, you can also strike a set of tuning forks or blow a slide whistle. Adjust each guitar string until it matches to pitch of the corresponding tuning fork or note on a slide whistle.

