 Purchase sight word cards from a department store, bookstore, or office supply store; you can also make your own sight word cards with large index cards and a bold marker, making sure to use large, clear lettering. Have your child read the word out loud while simultaneously underlining it with their finger; this will help your child to focus on the word and memorize it.Make sure to hold the card at your child’s eye level and have them repeat this several times; use the word in a sentence to deepen their comprehension of it.


As an additional step, have your child spell the word out loud with the sight card, then repeat it; this will allow them to memorize how it is constructed.
 The physical act of writing a word helps a child register it cognitively and retain it in their memory. Hold up a sight card and read the word slowly, tracing it in the air or on a table surface; repeat this process, spelling out the word. Help your child repeat these steps; eventually you can attempt the process without the sight card., Recognition of individual sight words should transfer to reading sight words in a full text or narrative; this practice will help your child make the connection between sight words and their meaning. Have them identify sight words within an age-appropriate story or book. In addition, you can ask your child to write out a sentence with a specific sight word in it; if they are too young for this exercise, try writing out sentences for them and allow them to circle the sight words themselves as you say them., Aim to correct your child’s mistakes in the most positive way possible by emphasizing the right answer, as opposed to criticizing the error (e.g. "You were very close! The answer is AWAY. A-W-A-Y.") Evidence suggests that children actually learn better by making mistakes than by not making them.To correct your child without being negative, remember to:


Let them know that you love them no matter what.Give them examples of some of your own mistakes, and how you learned from them.Praise them for accepting their mistake and trying to learn from it.Don’t bring up their past mistakes; focus on their improvement and resiliency.