 If you have noticed symptoms of eczema, then it is important to make an appointment with your doctor to get a diagnosis. Your doctor will perform a thorough health history to determine if anything else might be causing your symptoms.Tell your doctor about your symptoms including:when you first started to have the symptoms
whether you have undergone any treatments for skin problems in the past
any recent stress you have been dealing with
any cosmetics that irritate your skin
any scented soaps, lotions, or detergents that irritate your skin
any history of asthma or allergies

, After talking to you and examining your skin, your doctor may decide to refer you to an allergist. An allergist can perform allergy tests to determine if an allergen may be causing your symptoms. If no allergen is found, then your doctor may try a treatment for eczema to see if it helps. If your skin condition improves, then that will confirm that you have eczema.Some common allergy tests include:


RAST testing. RAST testing, or radioallergosorbent testing, is a low risk test to determine allergies. To conduct this test, the immunologist draws blood from the patient. Then, the suspected allergen (such as peanut protein, pet dander, etc.) is combined with the patient’s blood in a lab. After that, radiolabeled IgE human antibody is added to the patient’s blood. The antibodies will combine to the allergen. The severity of the response indicates the severity of the allergy.Skin prick test. Skin prick tests are performed under the supervision of a skilled allergist and immunologist. Since they will be exposing you to a potential allergen, anaphylaxis is possible. During the test, you will receive small doses of what you are allergic to (pollen, mold, dander, etc.) either via shots or placed under the tongue., Sometimes eczema can have severe side effects that require immediate medical treatment. Often, these side effects are the result of an infection due to broken skin. If you have been dealing with eczema on your own for a while, then you should see a doctor as soon as you can. You should also seek immediate medical attention if you:are losing sleep as a result of your eczema or you cannot concentrate because of the itching
are experiencing pain on your skin
think you might have an infection because you have noticed pus, yellow scabs, and/or red streaks
you are having trouble seeing because patches on your eyelids

