 Having decided on a human rights issue that is meaningful and important to you, you can now find a group in your area that works on the issue you are interested in.


Use a search engine to look up human rights groups in your area. For example, you can search for “women’s rights activism in Detroit, MI” to see what results come up. This will help you locate groups in your area.
Many national and international groups have local chapters, such as Amnesty International and the Red Cross.
If there are no groups in your region or area that work on the issue you care about, you can contact regional, national, or international groups about working remotely. You can make phone calls, write letters, or send emails on behalf of the organization without even having to leave your home. Human Rights Watch will instruct you on how to help with certain causes, which usually involve tweeting about the issue or writing or emailing your local and regional politicians., Once you have found a human rights group that you would like to join, search their website for a menu option that says “Join Now” or “About Us” or something similar. This should give you information about who you can contact and how to join the group or organization.


Reach out to the group’s leaders via email, social media, or a phone call. It is highly likely that they will be happy to hear from you and be grateful to receive your help. Ask them how you can get involved and where they need the most help. You can say something like, “I’m interested in getting involved in your organization. What is the best way for someone new to get involved?”
You may have to fill out an application to get involved with certain organizations. The “How to Join” page should direct you to this information and the application. This is more likely to be the case for paid positions.
If you can’t find contact information for anyone, you can submit your information or questions via an online form. This type of form, if applicable, can be found under “Contact Us.” They may also list a general phone number or email that you can use.
 Many local chapters of national organizations and smaller human rights activist groups will post a schedule on their website or post about an upcoming media on their social media accounts. These meetings are usually about direct activism and what its members can do in the near future, such as planning protests or rallies.


Monitor the website and social media accounts to see when the next meeting is and make a note on your calendar to attend the next one.
If the meeting is not posted anywhere that you are able to find online, email, call, or message a group/organization leader to find out when and if they meet.
 After you have contacted group or organization leaders and have attended a meeting or two, if applicable, you should be familiar with the organization and the work that they do and be able to take on an active role.


Regularly attend meetings and group activities. This will help you stay abreast of the latest news regarding the issues and what others are doing to help. This will also help you identify activities
Volunteer for activities that you are comfortable with. Depending on your experience and qualifications, you can help with things like stuffing envelopes for mailings, making phone calls, knocking on doors, travelling and building projects, working with law enforcement, providing resources, doing research, conducting on-site investigations of abuse, drafting reports/articles about human rights issues, or counseling individuals.

