 The most important element in a grunge girl's outfit is her plaid shirt. Token grunge girls were all over 90s TV shows. For example, Angela Chase and Rayanne Graff from My So-Called Life were always covered in plaid. Try to stay away from bright colors, focusing more on earth tones and darker colors, such as brown, red, burgundy, black, gray, mustard yellow, and dark green. The plaid shirt should always be oversized and even have holes in it.


Try looking at thrift stores or second hand stores for flannel shirts. These shirts will often have a worn, faded look, which is exactly the kind of plaid you want as a grunge girl.
If you buy your plaid new, avoid tight fitting or girly fit shirts. The grunge look is unstructured and loose. Try looking in the men's section or go a size or two larger than you normally buy.
You can wear the shirt either as an over shirt with another shirt underneath or tied around your waist. Avoid wearing it buttoned up. This is more grunge boy than grunge girl.
If you want something plaid that is slightly more girly, look for a checkerboard plaid dress that you can wear over ripped jeans.;
, The grunge persona came from a musical genre, so band t-shirts are a must. 90s grunge style icon Winona Ryder rocked band t-shirts as a main part of her repertoire. Try finding shirts from 90s bands that are popular in the genre, such as Nirvana, Silverchair, Soundgarden, Pearl Jam, and Stone Temple Pilots.


You can go oversized or fitted, depending on the rest of your outfit. If you go fitted, balance it out with a baggy plaid shirt or oversized overalls.
Vintage t-shirts are really the way to go. Try to find some original tour or album shirts at thrift stores or second hand shops. They are more authentic and have the added bonus of looking worn and grungy because of their age.
Some major retailers and department stores sell reprints of band tees. If you go this route, do something to make it look aged. Try washing it a few times to loosen the fabric. Cut off the armholes and make it into a tank top. You can also cut off the collar and wear it off the shoulder. , Despite the typically masculine attire related to the style, you can still show a little skin in the midsection. This style was popularized by 90s style icons such as Gwen Stefani, lead singer of the band No Doubt. Find a crop top, which can be a t-shirt or sweater, in a plain color such as black, grey, white, or maroon. You can also go for a subtle design. Just make sure it is short enough to show off your stomach.If you can't find an oversized top that is short enough, cut off the lower portion of any shirt. You can cut it slightly jagged to make it look more grunge.
They make some crop tops with asymmetrical hem lines. These look great with flannels tied around your waist.
 Being grunge isn't just about oversized clothes. Try a tight wife beater tank in white, black, grey, or brown. They look great under flannel shirts.


You might also be able to find a band tank. These can be fitted or oversized, depending on what you can find. If they are oversized, pair them with a black bra and let the straps hang off your shoulders.
 You can also add a little less masculine flare sometimes by wearing a baby doll dress, typically in floral patterns. Stay within the neutral and earth tones color palette. 90s grungers were all about mixing styles and adding a layer of irony to their outfits. The key is to add a flannel shirt over it or around your waist to make it go from preppy to grunge. One of the most influential style icons of 90s grunge was Courtney Love from the band Hole. She was also the wife of Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain. The grunge goddess rocked baby doll dresses all the time, mixing them with other grunge elements to create a messy, chic look.It doesn't matter if the patterns don't match. Matching isn't important when you're grunge.

