 Eating an all around healthy diet can help your libido. Obesity can lead to erectile dysfunction and lower testosterone in men and infertility in women.By following a healthy eating plan, you can safely lose weight.


Obesity may also lead to anxiety, depression, and self-esteem issues which could negatively affect sexual health.
 Avoiding processed foods also helps eliminate additional sugars and salt that are added to foods and emphasizes foods with the highest nutritional density and quality. Eating unprocessed foods helps you eliminate most of the things from your diet that lead to obesity, while replacing them with healthy, natural foods, like fruits, vegetables, and lean meats.


Keep your food as close to its original or natural form as possible. Eating natural helps you avoid synthetic pesticides, antibiotics, and hormones that can be found in non-organic or processed foods. These harmful additives can potentially affect your overall health and hormones.
 At least 80 – 90% of the total carbohydrates in your diet should be complex carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates are recommended to lower the risk of type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and obesity.Refrain from eating simple carbs.


Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods, such as whole grains, peas, lentils, beans, and vegetables.
Simple carbohydrates are often found in processed foods. A good rule is to never eat white foods. This means no white bread, white pasta, or white rice. Also avoid candies, cookies, cakes, and other snack foods.
This helps control weight gain because complex carbohydrates take longer to digest. This allows you to feel fuller longer, which generally means that you are likely to eat less.
 You should reduce the amount of sugar in your diet. You can avoid any added sugars by sticking to unprocessed foods. Reading labels can help you figure out how much sugar is in a food.


Simple carbs also include sugars added to foods, like glucose, sucrose, fructose, and high fructose corn syrup.
Processed foods include both simple carbohydrates and added sugars, which can increase the risk of various disorders including weight gain.
 Eating more fruits and vegetables can help you maintain a healthy weight. Increase your daily fruit and vegetable intake. These foods provide your body with essential nutrients, vitamins, and minerals needed for optimal sexual health.


Use as many organic fruits and vegetables as you can. Choose organic when possible since pesticide use is associated with decreased sexual health., Increase the fiber in your diet. Beans, legumes and vegetables provide great sources of fiber, but these foods also provide vitamins and minerals (including the important B vitamins) to boost your sexual health.


Fiber helps keep you fuller longer, which can help you refrain from overeating.
 When you eat meat, eat lean sources. Increase the amounts of skinless poultry you eat. Limit your red meat intake.


The poultry you buy should be hormone and antibiotic free and free-range.When you do eat red meat, make sure to eat grass-fed and antibiotic and hormone-free beef and buffalo.Don’t eat the skin on the poultry. The skin can be high in animal fat as well as any added hormones and antibiotics.

