 Herpes can easily infect a healthy person through direct contact with an infected person, be it from their saliva, skin sore discharge, or through sexual contact. The infected person can infect anyone even if the virus is in “dormant” state, meaning they are currently asymptomatic. Some patients don’t know that they have the virus until experiencing an “outbreak," which means having their first sore or a blister, signifying herpes.


The virus present in the saliva can be transferred through sharing personal items, like toothbrushes, dental floss, makeup like lipstick or gloss, used utensils, used towels, or through direct contact like kissing.
HSV-1 causes oral herpes, though some reports mention genital herpes arising from the HSV-1 strain. HSV-2 is generally reserved for genital herpes as semen or vaginal fluid can be the perfect mediums to transmit HSV-2.
Condoms should always be used for anal, oral, or vaginal sex, whether the infected person is asymptomatic or not. That said, even condoms don’t guarantee that you or your partner won’t get infected but they do dramatically lower the risk.
If you have any oral lesions, you should not give oral sex or receive oral sex from someone who has oral lesions without protection.
If a pregnant woman is having a genital herpes outbreak during delivery, the baby has a higher chance of acquiring the infection than if the mother is asymptomatic during delivery., An infected person with herpes will carry the virus within his or her blood stream for the rest of his or her life, but will not have symptoms all the time. However, there are some factors that can trigger the dormant state of HSV to make an outbreak.


Sickness in the body can trigger the virus inside you to be active, causing some of the symptoms to appear.
Stress or fatigue can put a load of tension on your cells, affecting many things in your body.
Any kind of medication that can cause any degree of immunosuppression, like corticosteroids or chemotherapy for cancer, can give HSV a chance to be activated.
Vigorous sexual intercourse can trigger genital herpes.
A woman's menstruation cycle can be a triggering factor, too, perhaps due to the hormonal disturbance, general discomfort, and weakness of the body.
 Symptoms may show up within 2 weeks of infection and can last for 2-3 weeks.Blisters, though the main side effect, aren't the only symptom that accompanies an active herpes infection. Symptoms include: blisters, painful urination, flu-like symptoms, pain in the legs, vaginal discharge, and swollen glands.


In men, herpes blisters emerge on the penis, buttocks, anus, thighs, scrotum, inside the urethra, or inside the penis. In women, they appear on buttocks, cervix, vaginal area, anus and external genitals.They are painful and itchy, especially in the first outbreak
Genital herpes patients can experience painful urination or defecation due to the presence of the irritated blisters around the genitals or rectum. In some case, this will be accompanied by discharge from the vagina or penis.
As HSV is a viral infection, flu-like symptoms can appear in some patients, such as having fever, headache, general weakness, and enlarged lymph nodes.
Swollen glands (lymph nodes). These are usually located in the groin but can also be found along the neck.
Some other causes of genital sores that your doctor may want to rule out are fungal infections (caused by the Candida fungus--candidiasis), Hand-Foot-and-Mouth disease (caused by the Coxsackie A type 16 virus), syphilis (caused by the spirochete, Treponema) and a Herpes zoster (Varicella zoster/ human herpesvirus type 3) infection (the same virus that causes chickenpox and shingles).
 Your immune system will detect the HSV virus when you are infected or when you experience an outbreak. It then starts to develop some antibodies to fight the virus; the lymph nodes swell as a result of producing and overload of more antibodies and the body's temperature elevates to create an undesirable environment for most bacteria and viruses. Once your body gets the virus under control, generally a few days, the symptoms will fade.


However, the immune system can’t get rid of the virus entirely; each person with HSV will continue carrying it. That being said, the antibodies formed will help to prevent the patient from having another outbreak in the future. This remains true through both HSV-1 and HSV-2 and in instances where both are present., HSV-1 and HSV-2 can be diagnosed during an outbreak by examining the sores and taking a sample to be tested in a lab. There are also blood tests that test for antibodies to the virus.Your doctor will ask about your medical profile, about other people you may have shared personal items with, and your marital status. He or she should also ask if you have had any sexual activity with a partner or partners and what sexual safety precautions you take.


The first and most effective test is called a herpes culture. A swab from the fluid or discharge of the sore or blister is taken to exclude any differential diagnosis from any other conditions.
In some cases, other blood tests can be performed in case of absence of blisters. These are supposed to measure the antibodies formed against HSV-1 and HSV-2. However, these tests are not always accurate.Therefore, it's best to go for the culture.

