 Before you even pick up the phone, you should consider how you are going to approach the customer. The telemarketing company you work for may provide a script that you can follow during the call, but it may be useful to consider what you as a telemarketer want to communicate to the customer. Often, you can be more successful during the call if you take the customer into account and speak with passion and genuine enthusiasm.You should consider what you want the customer to do as a result of the call and what you want to achieve by the end of the call. This could be donating to the cause you are calling for, purchasing a service or item you are selling, or simply listen to information on a product and agreeing to a follow up call.
You should come up with a secondary objective for every sales call. This should be a simple action or agreement from the customer that you should try to accomplish every time you call a customer. This will help you see each call as an accomplishment or a success, even if you do not achieve the primary goal of getting the customer to donate or buy the service or product.
For example, you may have a secondary goal of getting the customer to agree to accept information or literature on the product or service and be okay with being placed on a follow up call list.;
, To improve your chances at a sale or a donation, you should work with your boss and/or your co workers to profile potential customers. Analyzing the customer call list and focusing on certain customers who have been open to donations or sales in the past will increase the likelihood of success.Often when you are cold-calling, you do not have access to very much information on the customer or their needs. You will need to get this information during the call instead. But focusing on strategic call lists, where you separate customers who have been receptive in the past and focus on them first, early in the day or in the week, can improve your confidence as a telemarketer. One sale or donation early on from a receptive customer can help you survive the rest of the work week.
 In a recent study, nearly 75% of all telemarketing calls reach the customer’s voicemail. Leaving an effective voicemail may encourage the customer to call you back and increase their interest in your product or service.To create an effective voicemail, you should keep the message short, no longer than 45 seconds. You should also mention the purpose for your call and describe the solution or improvement your company is offering. You should also say the customer’s name at the beginning and the end of the message and offer a callback number at the beginning and the end of the message.
A sample voicemail could be: “Hello Jenna. This is Pierre with TeleMarket Solutions. My phone number is xxx-xxxx. The reason I’m calling you is to talk about marketing strategies in online media to improve your business’ sales and boost your business profile online. If you are interested in elevating your business’ online presence, please contact Pierre at xxx-xxxx. Thank you for your time and I look forward to hearing from you, Jenna.”

