 Global Village allows Habitat workers to immerse themselves in a new culture while they build homes internationally. Global Village trips last anywhere from one week to a month and are available in over 40 countries. Visit Habitat's Global Village website to search for upcoming trips and sign up to serve Some Global Village trips allow you to volunteer towards a specific cause, such as disaster recovery, energy efficient housing, or working with vulnerable populations such as children or the disabled. Habitat also offers women-only trips for female Habitat volunteers.
Most Global Village trips do not require you to learn the language before you leave, although it is recommended that you study the culture and basic language skills beforehand.
 College students can organize a volunteer trip during their semester break to build houses for poverty-stricken communities in the US. Habitat provides housing and meals in exchange for work through a scheduled week. Students interested in volunteering as a group can contact their local Habitat community leaders to organize a Collegiate Challenge.


Collegiate Challenge accepts help from students age 16 to 25. Although they only accept groups of five or more, they do not require these groups to be an official campus organization., If you love to travel and help your community, the RV Care-a-Vanners invites anyone with a recreational vehicle to work with communities across the United States on scheduled builds. Care-a-Vanners can help communities rebuild after a disaster or assist Habitat affiliates build in poverty-stricken communities.To volunteer with Care-a-Vanners, you must have your own RV. Those who have an old recreational vehicle in working condition can also donate their RV.
 Disaster Corps volunteers travel to areas hit by natural disasters or other tragedies as they rebuild their community. Corps volunteers might provide post-disaster assessment, logistics, resource development, or construction management. To volunteer with Disaster Corps, fill out a training application during scheduled periods to be offered consideration.Habitat requires that Disaster Corps volunteers are at least 18 years old and are US citizens. Disaster Corps volunteers are also chosen based on other criteria, such as physical stamina, high-pressure stress management, leadership skills, and availability on a short-term notice.
 If you're at least 18 years old, you can volunteer on a long-term build project in the United States or abroad. Volunteers commit to any period between one month to a year, depending on their availability and local need. To get involved, Habitat encourages potential long-term volunteers to visit their long-term volunteer opportunities site for more information.If you're interested in a career with Habitat for Humanity, join AmeriCorps. AmeriCorps workers are paid full-time to help people throughout the United States build stable homes. AmeriCorps workers assist volunteers, Habitat leaders, and local families as they better their community.