 As soon as you are finished cooking, get out cleaning wipes and go over the entire area. Wipe down the stovetop, which will prevent grease from accumulating. Go over the countertops as well as any other preparation areas. If you used the microwave or another appliances, don’t forget to wipe them down as well., Develop a pattern that you follow for each surface area of your home. For your countertops, make horizontal wiping motions starting with the upper left and moving in the right direction. You can follow a similar pattern when wiping down a tub or even a sink.Depending on the surface, you can adjust your pattern by using small, circular rubbing motions instead of horizontal swipes, for example.
It is also a good idea to use a thin cloth for cleaning, so that you can feel the edges of the surface and keep to the pattern., It is difficult to follow a cleaning pattern in large areas, such as when you are mopping the floor or vacuuming. Split these spaces up into smaller units, divided by landmarks, such as changes in tile or furniture. Finishing cleaning each section completely before you move on to the next one.For example, if you are sweeping, gather the dust and debris from one section before heading into the next one.
 These wipes come in packaged containers that you can position throughout your home in designated cleaning areas. They are also easy to use and do not require applying spray to a separate cloth. This also ensures that you use the right amount of cleaner for each particular space.If you are using a variety of types of cleaning wipes, make sure to label them on the side using braille or another labeling system.
 You will end up going over certain areas twice, keeping your home cleaner in the long term. Keep in mind that you won’t regret over-cleaning, but you might regret missing certain areas., This is especially important if you use cleaners in bottles, as opposed to wipes. Use a system of labeling for the bottles and store them in a space away from your food preparation areas. You also want to keep these cleaners apart from any heating elements, such as your oven., After each cleaning session, take a few minutes to wash your hands thoroughly using warm water and soap. This will help you to remove any cleaning agent from your hands. Make sure that anyone who helps you clean washes their hands as well.