 Try to touch all three sides (don't worry about the back) of your mouth at the same time. Stretch your tongue so you are applying pressure to each side. You may even feel like your tongue is going under your teeth. You need to keep your tongue flat as much as possible while practicing this clover shape.
 If you are unable to make a taco shape, practice that first. You should be able to make and hold a taco shape without any support. This means if you still need your lips to hold the taco shape, you are not ready for this trick.
 The goal here is to practice moving the tip independently of the sides and middle. You will need to start by touching the tip to the bottom of the front teeth. Try to keep the sides at the top of your mouth. You may need to press the sides against the top of your mouth to keep the shape.


Touch only the tip of your tongue to the bottom of your top front teeth. If any part of your tongue is touching the bottom of your front teeth or any teeth try to pull your tongue back. Hold your tongue's tip to your front teeth while you do this. This, in and of itself, will help you differentiate the muscles in your tongue (i.e., front middle and front sides).
 Do this only with the tip of your tongue. Do this without moving the sides of your tongue. Do not let them slide back in your mouth. If they move, start over. You will know you have successfully accomplished this when your tongue folds onto itself in the middle.


This will be the hardest part and take the longest to practice and perfect. If you are going to get stuck, this is where it will happen.
If you are having trouble here you may be moving the entire front of your tongue instead of just the tip. This may be difficult to overcome. If you feel the sides of the front of your tongue moving with the tip, slow down and start over. They will need to be relaxed or they will push the sides of your tongue back into your mouth.
 Most likely the sides of your mouth are still holding the sides of your tongue steady. You may even be using your top teeth to hold the middle fold. Practice extending your tongue out of your mouth while holding the shape. With enough practice you will be able to create the fold without the help of your teeth.

