 When you’re juggling classes, homework, extracurricular activities, and your social life, it’s easy to end up with too much on your plate. If you have family or work obligations, college life can feel even more overwhelming.


Don’t take on unnecessary obligations, e.g. extra courses beyond the required courseload per quarter or semester.
If you feel overwhelmed by your school workload, talk to your academic advisor about putting together a more manageable schedule.
 Your workload will feel less overwhelming if you approach it in an organized way. Write out a schedule that clearly shows where you need to be and what you need to be doing at any given time during each day of the week. Include all of your classes, but also block out time for other important things like studying, eating, exercising, sleeping, and having fun., Write them down on a calendar or in a planner, or use a program like Google Calendar to help you stay on top of the things you need to do. That way, you will be able to prepare in advance for important assignments and events., Take a little time every week to assess which assignments are most important, and which ones will take the most time to complete. Come up with a plan for tackling the high priority tasks first, and then dealing with smaller and easier tasks.
 Forcing yourself to keep working when you’re too tired or stressed to concentrate is counter-productive. If you feel yourself becoming tired or distracted while you’re working, take a few minutes to walk around and stretch your legs, eat a healthy snack, or even put your head down for a quick nap., Meditation can help you feel more relaxed and can take your focus off of things that are worrying you by helping you stay in the moment.Find a peaceful place on campus where you can meditate without distraction.
Sit in a comfortable position and close your eyes. Try focusing on just your breathing. If you feel your mind start to wander, gently redirect your attention to your breathing.
After a while, allow yourself to think about how you are feeling, mentally and physically. Do your best to acknowledge your feelings without judging them.

