 For many people, the easiest time to work it in is in the morning. Some studies indicate a morning workout leads to more restful sleep. Many people prefer to exercise in the morning because it helps them to wake up and be energized for the day. It’s possible the exercise sets a body up for the rest of the day, exposing us to sunlight, and even aligning the circadian cycle for the day.You can also exercise in the late afternoon or early evening. Although you may already feel exhausted during this part of the day, exercise at this time may energize you for a few minutes, free up some room for dinner, and use up your remaining energy stores. Some studies even indicate afternoon exercise may be most beneficial for the circadian rhythm. On top of that, the energy release could cause you to have deeper sleep.
As a result of increased body temperature and other factors, some recommend building in a buffer between working out and sleeping. Exercise before sleep, however, has been found in some studies to actually improve the quality of sleep., While many people have a variety of excuses for skipping exercise, failing to exercise may create the lethargy that ends up in a vicious cycle of insomnia and fatigue. Try a few motivation techniques to ensure you get your necessary exercise.Give yourself a visual cue to work out by keeping your workout gear in plain sight. Seeing your running shoes every day could almost shame you to put them on for a run.
Buy plenty of workout clothes. Don’t let laundry day act as an excuse for skipping the gym.
Associate your workouts with a cause. There are plenty of ways to fundraise for charity for great causes that link up well to exercise. Get pure donations or iteration-based donations for a charity you feel connected with and you’ll feel too guilty to become lackadaisical.
 When, where and how you exercise can affect your sleep cycles. If you don’t have a lot of time, try one of the following suggestions:


Do crunches during your commute. Squeeze your abs for 30 second intervals, relax, then do it again.
Use foot power to get to work. Even if it’s jogging from public transportation to your house, fitting in a few minutes every day can make a big difference.
Squats around the house are easy to do if you fit them into your daily routine. Picking items up off the floor, grabbing the oven door, putting on your shoes, there are literally unlimited ways to integrate squats into your life.
 Even if you don't have time to exercise on a given day, you can still help yourself rest better by staying active instead of being sedentary. For example, parking your car farther from a building and forcing yourself to walk, or taking the stairs every day can have positive effects on weight and sleep. They also use up excess energy and add to your body's need to rest at night.

