 The rolling method can help you to reduce wrinkles and save space when you're traveling. You can also fit more into your bag when you use this method. It works on all different kinds of clothing.








Fold a pair of jeans in half, lengthwise. Roll up the length of the jeans from the bottom to the cuff.
Place a t-shirt face down on a flat surface. Fold its sleeves back onto the main body of the shirt. Fold the shirt lengthwise once before rolling it up.
For long-sleeve shirts place the shirt face-down. You'll fold the sleeves back and down so that the cuffs almost touch the hem of the shirt. Fold once lengthwise and begin to roll from the hem of the shirt.
For nice trousers, place them on the flat surface and smooth so it's free of wrinkles. Fold one leg over the other, fold in half from the cuffs up. Smooth again. Begin to roll up from the folded knee.
For skirts and dresses lay them face-down on a flat surface. Smooth to avoid bunching of the fabric. Fold the clothing lengthwise so that one half is covering the other half. Smooth again. Fold from the bottom, so hem touches the neckline. Begin to roll from the bottom.
 You'll need to use an organizer pouch, a flat rectangular item used to carry things like brushes and make-up or jewelry, that you don't want to get lost in your bag. To form a pillow shape put soft items, such as underwear, socks, a swimsuit and a laundry bag.Begin piling the heavier items (like jackets) on the bottom. Most garments will lie face up. Only tailored jackets should lie face down with the sleeves positioned as naturally as possible. Place skirts or dresses on top of the jacket. Fold any skirts in half lengthwise. They should alternately be oriented left and right as they are added.
Follow with (buttoned) long-sleeved shirts and T-shirts that alternate pointing up and down. The shirt collars should line up with the armpits of the next shirt. Add pants (trousers) or slacks, alternately oriented left and right. Include any sweaters or knit garments, alternating up or down in orientation. Shorts should go on top.
Place pouch in the middle of the pile and align its edges with the shirt collars and waistbands of skirts.
Wrap and tuck the trouser legs around the bundle. Wrap clothing tightly to avoid wrinkles but do not stretch out the clothes. Wrap both sleeves and the bottom of each shirt or sweater around the pouch. Tuck in long sleeves around and under the pouch. Now, place your bundle in your suitcase.

