 You may be conflicted about whether or not it's a good idea to keep a gun in your home, although it is highly advised for your safety. There are of course safety concerns about keeping weapons in a house with children, but you may also be worried about what will happen to you if you shoot an intruder. Do not worry though, for if you do harm said intruder, it is completely within your rights to harm them if you live in a state with the "Stand Your Ground" law.


In most cases, the law will protect you if you shoot an intruder., Even though you will generally be protected by the law for shooting an intruder, you generally must reasonably believe that you are in danger, and you must respond proportionately.This means that if the intruder is threatening you with a piece of fruit, for example, and you know it's a piece of fruit, you could face charges for stabbing or shooting the intruder., In some states, you are required to at least attempt to retreat from the dangerous situation before you can legally respond with force., While the law or statute might be called something else, many states have laws which do not require you to retreat (or attempt to). Instead, you are legally permitted to claim self-defense and respond with force.


Even in these states, you aren't allowed to attack without reasonable cause, so be careful. If you can, it helps to research what laws and statutes apply where you live., Generally speaking, if you live in such a state, you're legally permitted to use lethal force upon anyone who unlawfully enters your home, without needing to first determine whether and how much of a threat they pose to you.


Again, it's always a good idea to learn what laws apply in your state, and how the specifics vary., If you do feel more secure with guns in your home, it's important that they are securely locked (ideally in a gun safe) and not just hidden.


This is all the more important if you have children: even if you think that you've hidden your guns and ammunition where they'll never find it, it is nearly guaranteed that they will discover your hiding places., It's generally recommended that you keep the guns in your home unloaded, and that you store your guns and ammunition separately. You should of course be able to access both quickly in an emergency.


Consider storing them in your safe room, but be sure to keep the keys to both where children cannot find them., You can purchase gun-locking devices which will render a gun inoperable when not in use.Make sure that you know how to disable the lock quickly, but know that using one can be a good idea if you have children or teenagers in the home.
 In order to avoid tragic accidents, it's important that you try to keep a cool head when you think there is an intruder in the home. Account for your spouse, partner, and/or other family members before shooting blindly.


While the police should identify themselves if they enter your home, try to take a quick moment before shooting if someone breaks into your room. It could be an intruder, in which case it's important that you protect yourself, but you don't want to accidentally shoot a police officer.

