 Many times you threaten your own mental health by putting far too many tasks on your to-do list and attempting the impossible. Spend a few days figuring out how long it takes you to complete your daily tasks. Then, build a schedule around that with extra room for travel, emergencies, and breaks.


Make it easier on yourself by tackling the grueling projects first. Also, be sure to include time for basic activities like cleaning, eating, and exercising.;
, Many people open their eyes then reach for their phones when they wake up. They check their emails, social media pages, and texts. Starting your day off by finding out what other people need from you can stop you from being proactive and instead, reactive.


Rather, start your day off by focusing on you. Make yourself some coffee, take a shower, spend some time reading. Putting your needs first when you wake up can set the tone for a great day.Be sure to disconnect from all of your devices for a while every day. Being constantly distracted by emails, texts, and social media messages can cause tension.
 Stress is extremely bad for your health. Too much of it can damage your brain. Creating a routine that involves as little stress as possible can not only make for a good day, but can boost your mental health, as well.


Do what you can during your daily routine to reduce the stress. This may mean carpooling to work or leaving earlier to avoid traffic, delegating some of your responsibilities to other people, or doing whatever you need to do to eliminate as much stress as possible., Life is full of responsibilities and people often don’t make time to just have fun. You can boost your mental health by adding something you enjoy doing into your daily routine. You may have to put your needs in front of others to achieve this, but it’s necessary.


Play a sport, a musical instrument, or a game. You could read a book, take a trip to the park, or even stop for a cup of tea. Do whatever you love once a day and you’ll feel and see the positive effects.Pay attention to how often you do things you don’t want to do. Frequently doing things you don’t want to do may mean that you need to say “no” more often.
Keep in mind that it is also okay to just do nothing sometimes. You don’t always need to be busy.
 Seeing people you love and appreciate each day can have a positive impact on your health. Make it a priority to see your friends, family, significant other, kids, or whomever you respect and have adoration for on a daily basis. Seeing them can boost your happiness, reduce your stress, and improve your overall health.


Use technology to see your loved ones each day if doing so in person isn’t possible. You could also join a group or attend a class to meet people if you don’t have many who bring you joy.