 When you are training your English Springer Spaniel, do not get annoyed or angry enough to beat, hit, or punish them. This training method is not beneficial to your Springer and they may act up if you try it on them. You will also run the risk of having your Springer be scared of you or hate you, which is not the kind of relationship you want with your dog.


If you do not train your Springer in the right way, they can become pushy and obnoxious instead of affectionate, loving, and loyal.;
, The most used and beneficial training method is rewards based training. This will treat your English Springer Spaniel to associate doing the things you want them to do with pleasant activities and things, such as snuggles or treats. To use this method, give a specific command to your Springer. When your Springer follows it, give them a reward, such as a treat or other reinforcement.


This will show your dog that doing the right thing brings pleasant things.
As you train your Springer, start small with easy commands, such as stay or sit., When your English Springer Spaniel is not doing what they are supposed to do, express your unhappiness calmly with sharp, short commands. Keep it simple with short phrases such as "No" or "Uh oh". This will get your point across without having to punish them.


As soon as your Springer starts behaving correctly, praise them for it and show them affection.
Remember to keep your calm demeanor and don’t get mad. This is not productive., Since English Springer Spaniels are so energetic and have tons of stamina, you want to train them early. Your Springer is a natural hunter, so they will look to you for guidance and training.You should start training your Springer when they are still a puppy, so they grow up doing the right behaviors and listening to you.


You can start training your English Springer Spaniel at the age of 8 to 10 weeks old. Any earlier is too young for your Springer to learn anything., Your English Springer Spaniel will thrive on socialization, so make sure you start taking them places and introducing them to others early on. This means you should take your Springer to dog parks, bring them to friends' houses, or invite your friends over to your house to meet them. You want your Springer as comfortable as possible around other people and dogs so they can be more fulfilled. You can also take your Springer to socialization class, where a professional will help you and your dog interact with other young dogs as well.
Take your Springer to have all their shots before you take them around other animals.
 Your English Springer Spaniel is smart, but no dog can be trained right away. Your Springer will take time learn different things as you teach commands to them, you just have to be patient. If you keep with the different types of training, your Springer will get there eventually.


Your Springer may not respond to all forms of training. Keep being patient as you switch between training approaches until you find the one that works best.
For example, if a specific form of treat is not working for your Springer, try a different one. If your approach to teaching your Springer how to sit is not working, try a different environment or treat.