 If you have served at least 90 days on active duty or at least one day during wartime, you qualify for funding from the Veteran’s Administration through benefits known as the “Non-Service Connected Improved Pension Benefit with Aide and Attendance” (Aid and Attendance for short). You must meet the medical qualifications required by the VA and have an income that is below a certain limit. If you have service-related injuries or a disability, you can also qualify for benefits.


Apply for these benefits through the VA. You will need to provide a copy of your military discharge papers, proof of a valid medical condition and a completed formal application form. The application form, “Veteran’s Application for Compensation and/or Pension”, can be found here.
The average maximum benefit is $1,949 a month for married veterans, $1644 for single veterans and $1056 for a surviving spouse.
 If you are struggling to come up with financial assets you can leverage or you have no savings, and your income is low, you may be able to apply for government assistance through Medicaid. Medicaid is organized as a partnership between your state government and the federal government, but your state program may go under another name. Look up the name of your state’s healthcare program online or in the government pages of your phone book.Medicaid requirements vary from state to state. Often, you must have less than $2,000 in assets, including your home and your car, to qualify for assistance for long term care through Medicaid.
Not all assisted living communities will take Medicaid and Medicaid beds are often limited. You can get help with applying for government benefits by setting up a free consultation with a Government Health Insurance Counselor.If the Medicaid office suggests that you try to qualify by gifting your assets and money to your children or other family members, do not do this. This is known as “Medicaid spend-down” and is being regulated by the government. If you are caught doing this, you will incur steep penalties and be disqualified from receiving Medicaid for a period of time.
 SSI is administered on a state basis. It acts as a government safety net for individuals who are partially or totally disabled and require financial assistance for daily living. You will receive SSI in the form of monthly payments that you can then use to pay for nursing home care or assisted living.Contact your state’s disability department to qualify for SSI. You will need proof of your financial status and confirmation from a doctor that you cannot work due to a medical disability.

