 A horse can have a green star by excelling in one or more skill. They can inherit the skills by their parents. Having a green star can make them easier to train and win competitions. To check if your horse has one, click on genetics on the bottom of the page and it will say if it has a single star or more.
 These are items that allow you to draw a horse and then scan them onto your computer—they are 4 passes.
 Choosing a mainstream breed if you are only just starting to get serious about breeding is recommended, mainly because the coverings are cheaper, and there has been more progress, therefore allowing you to get a better GP.


The drawback with that is that it is harder to become the best breeder of them because everyone will be one step ahead.
If you choose to breed a less common one, there will be less progress, therefore making it harder to get a good GP, but it will also make hitting the top breeder of that breed a lot easier.
Breeds include donkeys, shires (can only breed 3 times), and Quarter Ponies.
 Make sure that you have sufficient funds to buy good quality horses. If you don't, make sure you wait. There is no point in starting with inadequate breeding stock. Also, make sure that they are purebred and are of breeding age.

Make your best stud immortal. He can cover even more mares than before.
 Make sure that your affix is something that will grab some one's attention., Go to 'My Horses', then go into your 'My horses without a breeding farm' tab. You will see a small icon down the bottom left of the screen, click it and follow the steps. Then move the horses that you just bought into that breeding farm. Annoyingly, you can't put your affix on the horses you just bought, so just name them.






If you want, you can BLUP your mares and stallions. Some people like to BLUP their mares and stallion before breeding. To do this, train your stud a lot. When he is a foal (eight months), play with it to gain him an extra 60 skill points. Reach 20 competition wins, age 10 years and earn all possible skill points in his top 3 disciplines to achieve 100 "BLUP" (Best Linear Unbiased Prediction). It might cost you a bit of money, and you might lose the horse for 1-3 days.
 Do any training with them until they are both 2-3 years.;
, People with pages attract more viewers. Show your best stud and say his BLUP, green stars, his breed, his stud price, and name. Also say how many coverings he is offering. That will make it easier for people to find him.
 Go to your sales page and scroll down to the bottom right corner and click on the 'Cover a mare' icon. Then reserve a covering for each one of your females. Your male will be quite tired now, so look after him and bed him down for the night, you won't need to use him for a while.
 Name it whatever you like, but make sure it's not offensive.
 Note what its genetic potential is.
 If it's female, age it to 2 years and 6 months.
 Pick any horse you like, but you have to pay fees. When the foal is born you will not have to pay the vet fee; you pay it when you cover your mare.
 You can even sell the foals to gain more money when you reach 10 days!


Keep at least 1 horse out of the 4 that you will produce, but if this is how you can sell the other three.
First, click on the + icon beside its name and then select the 'sell' option. depending on the breed, GP, and gender, the price will be between 500 - 30,000 e. foals don't tend to exceed 30,000 e for normal breeders. To get a rough estimate of how much to sell her for, compare the prices of horses of similar breed and Genetics, and look at the video bellow if you are selling an older horse.
Now that you have sold your horse you will have made a profit. In order to keep your breeding going, you need to use it wisely. The best type of things to buy is food, good tack, spurs, whips, bell boots and the like. You should also keep some so that you can produce better horses and therefore get more money. Also, if your horses get better, you can even sell them for passes!!

