 Carry necessary items (ID and money) in a wallet, tucked safely in your pocket. If you don't have pockets and/or there are additional items you prefer to carry, such as makeup, keys, and a phone, consider putting them in a bag that wraps around your stomach and can be hidden from view, or a backpack strapped around both shoulders so that it can't easily be snatched.;
, Don't carry any more cash or credit cards than you absolutely need to do your shopping that day. Usually, one credit card is enough, and you should have the customer service number written down somewhere (see tips) so that you can report the card stolen immediately if your purse is snatched. Decide even before leaving the house whether the contents of your purse are worth getting hurt for.
 You may think that you're exposing yourself to more purse snatchers, but they are more likely to strike in dark, isolated areas because they don't want to get caught. Walk briskly and confidently. Bring a friend.
 Look at the person who might approach or pass you. Do not look away. Look directly at their hands or at what they might be carrying. They prefer to strike and run, and not be recognized. If you do not appear to be vulnerable and will be able to give their description, they just might keep walking past you.
 If possible, wear it underneath a coat or jacket. Also, secure the latch or zipper. You might be tempted to wear your purse diagonally on your body (over the neck as well as the shoulder) or loop the strap around your wrist to prevent the purse from being easily snatched, but keep in mind that if someone does try to steal your purse, a hard yank on tightly wound purse strap can cause injury.
,, If someone pulls it away from your hands or your shoulder, let it go! It is more important to avoid injury than save a purse. Never fight to keep it.
 If you suspect that someone seems to be lurking someplace that they do not belong, contact security if you are in a mall, or contact the manager if you are in a supermarket. Better to report your suspicions and be wrong, than to ignore it and be robbed or hurt.

