 Obviously, you can't play without a pair of boots. Once you do plan on getting a pair of those, always go for the one that are light, and have less studs. This enables you to dribble and change your pace much easier.;
, Creativity is one of the few things that can help you get much more clever on the ball. Always make love with the ball, dance with it, and do any trick that comes to your mind with it. Create imaginary defenders and dribble past them.
 Never be reluctant once you're in possession of the ball, Maradona never ever hesitated once he had the ball. Even if you're a professional player, seeing those thousands of people watch you should give you confidence and strength, not the opposite of it.
 Dribbling was the main aspect of Maradona's game. if you want to surpass Maradona or just be like him, you have to master the art of dribbling. Practice by juggling and doing inside&outside touches. These exercises are very essential and will you far more skillful on the ball.
 Maradona brutally humiliated and dribbled past any defender that had the motive to steal the ball from him. Always try to change the direction of the ball once a defender is near, this is what Maradona did. If you see a defender coming right at you, use your left/right foot to dribble past him. For example, if a defender is coming from the middle, use your left foot to kick the ball to the right side and then use your right foot to stop the ball once you kick it to your right. Always dribble around defenders, and in tight spaces.
 This will only worsen your ball control and you will not be able to dribble that well. Maradona always dribbled the ball with the laces of his boots.
 Michael Jackson's foot-dance practicing will help you a lot too, this might sound a little funny but it actually does work.
 Touches will make your ball go a little forward and this is not what you want to do.
 Of course, if you want to be like El Diego, then you have to watch him play. See footages of his dribbling skills on YouTube or somewhere else and try to copy his foot-tricks.
 If you want to be a fantastic footballer then you'll have to work hard and practice regularly. As the famous-saying goes, "practice makes perfect." Players like Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, Eden Hazard and Franck Ribery practice a lot and this is the main reason why they're so good. Spend your time with the ball daily.
 This is the most important thing, you need to have pleasure, and great amount of joy once you're playing football. Don't let anybody let you down, keep working hard and one day, you might even be on television!

