 That way, you can gain time in the morning.;
, This will save you from having to dig through your closet, or search for that homework assignment in the morning.
 Choose your outfit and even your underclothes for the next day. Get into a habit of doing this every night.


A lot of time in the mornings is easily wasted by just rummaging and looking for clothes, so save some time by simply picking out the outfit that you want to wear the night before.
 This is an ideal way to relax at night, warm yourself up (or cool down) and be clean or the next day.
 Pack what can be packed into the lunchbox and keep perishables in the refrigerator for grabbing quickly the next morning.
 Pack the bag the night before so that there is no last minute rush.
 If you want to sleep in, get up 15 minutes prior to the time that you have to leave for school. Right when you hear your alarm go off, jump out of bed and make the bed (this should take about half a minute).


Get up at least one hour early if you want extra free time.
 Dash to the bathroom and get dressed, brush your hair, brush your teeth, put on makeup, etc. Allow about three to four minutes for this.


Gently scrub your face in circular motions before rinsing with warm water.
Poor brushing can result in tooth decay, enamel loss, and cavities, so make sure to do a good job!

, Give yourself about 5 to 6 minutes.


An alternative is to take fruit, energy bars and a toasted sandwich to eat as you leave or travel

, Or if you have extra time, chill before you leave, but try to be at the bus stop at least 5 minutes before the bus is ready to pick you up.
 You don't have to use foundation, just skip to concealer! Warm it up in between your fingers (make sure to wash them well first though!) and then apply to the needed areas around your face; acne, pimples, redness, scars, under eye circles, etc.
 Take a matte brown eyeshadow with a soft fluffy brush and outline your eye crease with it. If you have trouble finding where your crease is, just poke around your eye socket until you find it. Blend out, tapering the ends slightly. This will make your eyes appear larger.
 Take a white or peach (peach is better for school, it looks more softer), and outline your waterline; it makes you look more awake and alert.Taking a liquid black eyeliner, put a thin line on the upper lash line. Remember, less is more. You don't want to end up with raccoon eyes!

, Using an eyelash curler, curl your eyelashes. Then, swipe on a coat of mascara. Work from one eye to the next, and wait for it to dry completely before adding another coat of mascara, or else you run the risk of it clumping.
 The great thing about this is that you can double up the lipstick as blush too. Choose a light peachy or coral color (no shimmers or glitters) and apply this to your lips. Then, taking a large blush brush, carefully dab it onto the lipstick bullet and apply it to the apples of your cheeks. It will instantly give you a rosy and healthily looking glow.
 Maybe your concealer slipped, or your lipstick rubbed off on your teeth. Now is the time to fix it.

