 One simple way to reduce fear is to play the game with the lights on. Shutting the lights off and then playing a game that frightens you is a recipe for disaster. Keep the lights on if you tend to get scared.Play the game in a brightly lit area of your home. Switch on any lights nearby.
If possible, play the game during the day. In addition to helping you avoid darkness, playing during the daytime can help. You'll have more time to do something afterwards, like go for a walk or talk to a friend.;
, Music and sound effects can greatly enhance the scary aspects of a computer game. Hearing eerie music and disturbing noises is unlikely to help you remain calm while playing a video game. Switch the sound off for a calmer experience.You can also play calming music while playing the game on silent. Replacing a disturbing soundtrack with a more lighthearted one may make for a better gaming experience.
 If you start to get scared during gameplay, see if you can find a way to incorporate humor. Make your character move in a manner that looks like they are dancing. If you are able to name characters, try giving characters funny names. A villain with a silly name is less likely to scare you than a villain with an intimidating name., In many computer games, easy mode can feel less scary. You'll be able to more easily defeat any villains in the game. This will make the gaming experience less intimidating. If the game offers different levels of difficulty, select the easiest level., Playing a game alone can contribute to you getting scared. If you play the game with a group of friends, you may feel more relaxed. Try to get a group of people together to play the game. This will calm your nerves.If you're embarrassed about being scared, you don't have to tell people that's why you want to play in a group. You can simply say you want to play the game together.
Choose people who have a higher tolerance for frightening media than you. Their laid back nature will rub off on you.
 It can help to know why you're afraid of the game. This can help you see where your fears are irrational. Ask yourself, "What am I really afraid of? Why is this game bothering me?"Think about why a game may trigger fear. If you're superstitious by nature, for example, a game about ghosts may remind you of a longstanding fear of the paranormal.
Once you've identified your fear, you'll be able to separate that fear from the game. You can think to yourself, "I'm afraid of something else and not this game. This game is not related to what's really bothering me."

, Visualization can help lessen your fear of frightening media. Before playing the game, try to picture yourself playing the game and enjoying it without getting nervous. This will help prime your mind and body to relax during game play.Picture yourself sitting calmly and playing the game. Imagine yourself laughing and enjoying yourself. Use all your senses. Think about the sounds, smells, and physical sensation that go along with the game.
If you spend a minute visualizing yourself enjoying the game, you won't go into the game with nerves.
 You may unknowingly exaggerate the consequences of your fear. For example, "I won't sleep all night if I play this game." This is probably not true. While you may have trouble sleeping, you will probably not be up all night simply because of a disturbing video game.Be honest about the consequences of playing the game. Will it really affect you that much to get a little scared? What's the worst that can happen if you play the game?
Chances are, the fear will be difficult to deal with. However, it will not be insurmountable. If you truly enjoy this game, it's probably worth scaring yourself a little.
 Be aware of what you're feeling when you play the game. When you find yourself having a fearful though, counter it with positive self-talk. This will help you keep your emotions in check as you play the game.Check for when you're having a fearful thought. For example, you may think something like, "I wonder what I would do if I really saw a ghost. I would be so scared."
Counter this with some positive and rational self-talk. For example, "It's very unlikely I will ever see a ghost and, if I do, I trust myself to keep my cool."

, After you finish up with the game, don't dwell on it. This will only make your fear worse. Instead, find something relaxing to focus on to help you calm down.Try to concentrate on your immediate surroundings. This can really help you remove yourself from fearful thoughts. Think about how your body feels, how you're sitting or standing, or any sounds nearby.
You can also focus on your breathing. Take a very deep breath, making sure to inhale through your nose. Place your hand on your belly before breathing, and try to breathe in a way that makes this hand rise. Hold the breath for a second or two and then slowly exhale through your mouth., Stress and fear can easily be combated with physical exercise. Try doing something like going for a walk, a run, or a bike ride after the game. You can also do something like jumping jacks or pushups in your living room. A light workout can help reduce stress and anxiety over the game.For added relaxation, try listening to calming songs while you exercise. You can make a playlist of your go-to relaxation songs to play during a workout.
 Keeping your feelings bottled up can make stress and fear worse. To calm your nerves after playing a game, call or text a friend. You don't have to explain the situation if you're embarrassed. You can simply chat about other things until you start to calm down., Relaxation techniques are practices you can use to calm down. If your mind is reeling from an unpleasant experience with a video game, a few good relaxation techniques can help alleviate the problem.Try imaging something relaxing. You can, for example, picture yourself floating on a cloud.
Listen to relaxing music. A soothing playlist can help take your mind off of a scary computer game.
Simply taking slow, deep breaths can help ground you after playing a scary game.
 You may have a nightmare after playing a scary video game. If this occurs, there are many ways you can cope. Try to stay calm after a nightmare and get yourself back to bed.If someone else in your house is awake, talk through your nightmare with them. You may also find one of your friends is online or awake to text.
Envision something relaxing after a nightmare. Picture yourself sitting on a beach, for example.
If you have a nightlight, turning that on after a nightmare may help.

