 If you’re dealing with the loss of someone you love, then you should give yourself the time you need to grieve and come to terms with your feelings. You won’t be able to stop missing the person if you don’t give yourself the time to slow down, express your emotions, and grieve the loss of the person who is gone.Every person’s grieving process is different as noted in the above section. If you need to be alone for a while, make sure your friends and family members understand by telling them, “I am grieving and it is a struggle, but I am working through it. I hope you understand that it is going to take some time, and I’m not sure how long. I guess I am the only one who can figure that out.”
If you spend too much time by yourself and are feeling lonely as a result, make sure to spend some time with others.
Write in a journal,talk about your feelings aloud, go through old photos of the person you lost, or just cry. If you don’t cry, don’t feel guilty about it. Everyone has a different way of expressing sadness.
 This is a healthy way to move forward and to remember the person who is gone, and continues their legacy. This can mean talking about the person with your friends or family members, sticking to some of the traditions the person used to love, whether it was volunteering in your community or reading to your children, or even listening to the music the person liked.


If doing the things the person used to love increases your sadness and longing, then change your routine. However, once you feel yourself beginning to move forward, return to doing some of the things the person loved. The experience might bring you closer to the positive memories of the person without missing them too much.
Remember that you’re not trying to forget the person or never think of him again. You want to work on remembering the person in a positive light, feel the feelings and then put everything in perspective.
 It would be unhealthy to never mention the person again or get rid of anything that reminds you of him. However, you can do this temporarily if it hurts too much, but in the long run you will be more comfortable talking about the person. You may find that laughing about the funny things the person said or did makes you feel less sadness and improves healing.Recreating fond memories of the person can make you feel more at peace with the fact that the person is gone. Though you can’t bring the person back, talking about the memories can help the healing process.
 Relationships are comprised of two components: the physical and the emotional. While your physical relationship with the person has ended, the emotional relationship continues. You will never have to stop thinking about that person completely.


You are not betraying the person by trying not to miss him. If the person loved you, then he would be happy you are trying to move forward.
It will be impossible to not miss the person completely, especially on anniversaries, holidays, or other important moments that you shared together. Rather than ignore the feelings of loss say to yourself or to others, “Today, I miss ____. He would have loved this event. Let’s raise our glasses and toast to ____. We love you.” This will acknowledge your loved one’s impact and also allow a moment of honor that will help the healing continue.
It is healthy to miss the person sometimes, but it’s also healthy to want to enjoy the present instead of longing for the past.
 Your friends and family will be there to support you and lift you up during this difficult time. They may be grieving, too, and you can lean on each other and spend more time feeling loved, cared for, and simply occupied. You need love and affection during this time and spending it with the people you love will help you miss the person less.New friends or other family members can never replace the person in your heart and make you forget the person.
If you find that some of your friends or family members seem to be “getting over” the loss more quickly, don’t be frustrated. Everyone grieves on their own time table. You may not know how the person is really feeling.
 If you want help with moving forward, then seek professional help. If you’re not sure if therapy is for you, give it a try before you decide. Talking to a trained professional about your situation can give you new insight. It takes courage and strength to seek help and work through life’s struggles. Be proud of yourself for seeking the help you need to be healthy. You shouldn’t feel ashamed or weak about wanting to engage in therapy.
 Instead of having it weigh on you during all parts of the day, it can help to process feelings on the pages of a journal. Write in it every morning or evening to check in with yourself and to decompress. Also, you can write in it when a thought enters your mind. Find what works for you.


Write a letter to the person, but do not send it. Include all the significant emotional experiences you shared. Thank him for the good times and the bad. Express the anger. Tell him, "I no longer need the pain that I am feeling so I am giving it back to you. Good-bye."Read the letter out loud to yourself or to a trusted friend or family member, then burn the letter in a safe place. Fire is a form of cleansing and can allow the energy of your turmoil to change.
 When you’ve lost someone, you may be so focused on the loss and on the person who is gone you forget to take care of yourself. In order to miss the person less, make sure that you’re in a daily routine that helps you feel better. This means getting at least 7-8 hours of sleep a night,eating three meals a day even if you don’t feel hungry, and making time for at least 30 minutes of exercise each day.


You may not think that eating and sleeping regularly can make a difference when you’re in the throes of grief, but it definitely can. A healthier you is stronger and can manage a struggle more effectively.
Avoid things that tend to increase your stress levels. That could mean traffic jams, loud concerts, extra responsibilities at work, or spending time with a dramatic friend. Although you can’t get rid of all the stress you’re feeling, you can make an effort to minimize it.
Participate in 15 minutes of meditation or yoga each day.This can make you feel more in touch with your mind and body and more calm for the rest of the day.
Focus on your health. Up to one-third of people directly affected by the loss of a significant relationship will physically and emotionally suffer.While you may feel anxious, depressed and too exhausted to take action, you cannot ignore your needs.

