 The principal is the amount borrowed. It does not include any interest charges or fees. The principal balance is reduced as the borrower makes payments on the loan., Loans can be filled with tricky language, and it may not be clear to you what an interest rate or APR is. Before meeting with a lender, learn the essential terms of a loan so that you know what to look for in your contract.


Interest rate: the annual cost of a loan to a borrower expressed as a percentage. The interest rate does not include fees. This will determine what your monthly loan payment will be.
Annual Percentage Rate (APR): similar to the interest rate, but fees are included, such as broker fees, discount points and closing costs. This will help you determine the total cost of the loan.Interest rates may also be "fixed" or "floating." Fixed rates stay constant throughout the loan's life while floating rates change according to calculations based off of government interest rates.
Interest on loans may be compound interest, meaning that interest accrues on both the principal and the current amount of interest, or simple interest, in which interest is only charged on the principal.
 Personal loans are for a fixed period of time. This means that you agree with the lender to pay it within a certain amount of time. After you understand how much you will be paying per month, compare that to how long each loan will take you.


You can pay more each month to pay off the loan sooner. Alternately, you can also pay less each month with the understanding that you will be paying for longer (and ultimately may be paying more total).
Other loans may not have fixed terms, but instead be required to be repaid on demand. This is uncommon, and typically only used for borrowers with bad credit., Loans may be either secured or unsecured. Secured loans are those loans secured with collateral, which are valuable assets like a home or car. If the borrower defaults on the loan, the collateral assets are seized by the lender. In this way, the collateral is used as "insurance" on the loan. Unsecured loans are loans made without collateral.


In general, lenders see collateral loans as less risky than unsecured loans, and so the interest rates charged on them are typically lower., A loan agreement typically contains conditions on the loan called covenants. These are promises that a borrower must make in order to secure the loan. Covenants might include keeping a certain level of insurance on collateral or maintaining a certain debt-income ratio. If covenants are broken during the loan term, the borrower may have to relinquish the loan balance., There are many different types of lenders. Each have their own benefits and drawbacks. Understanding the different places where you can find a loan can help you find the right loan.


Banks typically have higher interest rates and fees, but they may offer more room for negotiation. Banks may be willing to take on borrowers with lower credit scores, but may require collateral for doing so.
Savings and Loans Associations, also called thrift institutions, offer loans at low interest rates, but generally only for housing-related purposes like repairs, renovations, and refinancing.
Credit unions usually charge lower interest rates and fees. It is more difficult to gain approval at a credit union, however, as most only offer services to members within a certain area, industry, or organization.Online lenders have low rates and fees. They also have a quicker approval process. That said, if something goes wrong, you will not be able to call a broker. While there are many legitimate online lenders, there are also many scams., Make sure that your lender is a legitimate agent who is working legally. Banks (both state and local) and credit unions are regulated by Federal and State laws. Financial companies are regulated by State laws and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). However, some other lenders may trick you into signing contracts with extreme penalties and fees. There are ways to check if the lender is reputable or not.


You may check if they are accredited with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) and the Federal Trade Commission.In the US, lenders must register in any state in which they are doing business. Check if they have a registered address in your state for their business.
Their website should be secure. If their web address does not start with “https,” it is not secure. The “s” is what marks it as secure.If still in doubt, check the lender's status with the financial regulatory body in your state or the CFPB.
 These short-term loans can be disastrous to a family's personal finances. In payday loans, a loan company gives money on the value of a future paycheck. The lender might then charge extremely high interest rates and fees on the loan. If the borrower fails to repay the loan, the lender takes their loss from the paycheck.


Auto pawn loans are similar, but a car title is used as collateral.
These lenders also use deceptive high-pressure sales tactics., Some lenders may try to tell you that their offers are for a limited time or that you must apply immediately. Do not fall for these tactics. These lenders are trying to pressure you into a bad deal. Take your time to do research, and do not be afraid to tell a loan officer that you need time to think over their offer.
 Find a few companies and compare their advertised rates and conditions. You may also use an online comparison tool to pull up the market average. It is good to know the current rates for the type of loan you want.


Interest rates on unsecured loans tend to be higher than for secured loans due to the lender's lower risk of default.
Banks will advertise their "prime rate," a desirable interest rate that is only given to borrowers with solid payment and credit histories.
The interest rate you receive will be higher than the prime rate if you are taking out a loan with a longer loan term or if you have less-than-excellent credit (a FICO credit score under about 750)., There are many types of fees that can be added to your contract. These fees may be hidden in the fine print of your contract. Understand these terms, and consider the risk.


Origination Fee: fees for processing and activating your loan. These are often a percentage of the total loan. They can either be taken from the original payment of the loan or tacked on to your monthly payments. For example, a 2% fee for a $5000 loan is $100. They will either take it from the original loan (giving you $4900 instead) or add it to your monthly payments.
Precomputed Interest: Installment loan payments are calculated assuming payments will be level over the loan term. As a consequence, interest composes a significant part of the early payments and declines as the amount of principal declines over the term. Paying off an amortized loan early may subject you to extra interest costs called precomputed interest.
Prepayment Penalty: fees that the borrower must pay if they settle their loan early. This is also known as an exit fee., The purchase of insurance cannot be a requirement for making a loan; however, some lenders may offer you insurance as part of your loan package. This insurance is meant to help you and your family with payments should you become unemployed, sick, or dead. That being said, unless you have a serious risk of disease or unemployment in the next twelve months, you should not buy the insurance, as it can add substantial fees to your monthly payments without any return., You may find that different lenders can have different advantages. Some may have lower fees or rates. Others might offer rewards for on-time payments. Compare several offers to see what your best option is.


There are many websites where you can research and compare lenders, such as http://www.magnifymoney.com/compare/personal-loans/ or https://www.nerdwallet.com/personal-loans. These allow you to input your information (credit score and amount you wish to borrow) and see which lenders and options are available. This can save you a lot of time and give you up-to-date information.
 You can create a chart using pen and paper or use a spreadsheet program on your computer. Have columns for the name of the lender, APR, interest rate, payment amounts and frequency, origination fees, penalty fees, length of loan, and total cost over the fixed period. This will help you visualize each loan more clearly.
 When you are comparing your policies, you should be comparing the APR and interest rate. The APR includes both the interest rate plus any extra fees, such as an origination fee. The APR will give you a clearer picture of what you will paying per month and per year, but it's important to compare interest rates as well so you can see which option is the best for your situation.Under Truth in Lending Act, the APR must be prominently disclosed, so comparison is easy.
 Your lender may be able to tell you the cost of the loan per month. Several online loan calculators can also help. Factor the monthly payment into your usual expenses. You do not want to take out a loan only to refinance it a few months later.


Can you afford paying the monthly payments on top of your current expenses?
Does one loan offer more favorable payments than another?
Does one loan offer lower interest rates but higher processing fees?

, If you cannot pay your loan back on time, there will be fees or other penalties. While you may be confident that you can pay back the loan now, there may be a situation in the future where you cannot pay. Carefully weigh the risks of each contract against its benefits:

What are the fees for late payments?
What refinancing options do they offer?
Can you defer payments for a certain amount of time?

, You will need certain items before you can apply for a loan. These will help your prospective lender find your credit score, your current financial status, and your ability to pay. Have on hand:


Identification such as a driver’s license or passport
Social security number
A copy of your lease or stamped mail to prove your address
Pay stubs, tax documents, or bank statements that show your annual income amount, For long-term personal loans, lenders will want to have a clear idea of why you want the loan. The more specific you can be about your financial plans, the more confident the lender will be when loaning you the money. Common reasons for personal loans include:


Paying off credit card debt
Renovating a house
Helping with moving costs

, Your lender will do a credit check. In fact, if your lender does not do a credit check, you should be worried that it is a scam.A credit score above 700 will give an applicant more options, especially for long-term loans. While you can get a loan with lower credit, you will likely have higher interest rates and more fees.

Request a copy of your credit report, and review it for errors. If you find any mistakes, you can report them to your bank, and you may be able to improve your credit score., Some lenders may encourage you to sign up for automatic payments. These payments remove the money from your bank account every month. If money is tight, automatic payments may take money that you do not have, and you will be charged overdraft fees. Consider carefully if you are willing to risk overdraft. Inform your lender if you want to opt out of automatic payments., Read the fine print thoroughly, and research anything you do not understand. In particular, be on the lookout for:


Fees for refinancing the loan, paying the loan off early, or making late payments.
Anything that forbids the borrower from suing the lender.
Changes in interest rates after a certain amount of time.
Contracts with blank, unfilled spaces., One of the advantages of applying for a loan in person such as through a bank or credit union, is that you can negotiate the terms of the loan. While applying online is more convenient, you will not have the option to negotiate. You can meet with a loan officer at the bank or credit union and ask them about the loan. This will allow your loan officer to clarify any confusion you might have, and better understand your needs. At this point, you can ask about whether or not you want certain services, such as automatic payment. You may also be able to haggle the interest rate. If you are working with an online loan officer, call their contact phone number, which can be found on their website. Ask questions like:


What will I be paying per month, including fees and interest?
How do payments work? Do you offer automatic payments? Can I opt out of automatic payments?
What rules are there for refinancing?
Will I be punished for paying off my loan early?
When will the loan payment go up? Is the rate fixed for the entire term?
Let’s say I had an emergency, and I cannot pay back the loan during the term. How could we negotiate the loan payments?, Once everything is approved, sign the contract. Make sure to keep a copy of the contract so that you always know the terms of your debt. At this point, you just have to make sure that you are paying your loan back.

