 After warping your loom, gather your weaving materials. When weaving on a simple frame loom, you will need a small wooden dowel or a chopstick, a fork or another item with strong tines, such as an Afro pick, a shed stick, an assortment of springy wool, scissors, and a rulerWhen weaving on a cardboard loom, you will need an assortment of springy wool, a tapestry needle, masking tape, and scissors., The weft consists of the threads that go through the warp from side to side. Select a ball of wool. Measure out a 4’ piece of yarn and cut it.The weft yarn must be long enough to make several passes through the warp.
 Insert the dowel into the warp threads—it should be parallel to the top cross-bar. Position the dowel just above the point where the warp threads cross in the middle of the loom. Pull the dowel to the bottom of the loom, creating tension in the warp threads. The gap created between the front and back warp threads is called a natural shed.When weaving on a cardboard loom, you do not need to insert a dowel or create a shed.
 Pull your weft thread through shed from right to left. Leave a 4” tail of yarn on the right. Allow the weft thread to fall down towards the dowel.When weaving on a cardboard loom, insert the warp thread with a needle. Thread the needle with the precut warp thread. Begin at the top right corner. Leave a 3” tail at the start of the first row. Weave under the first warp thread, over the second, under the third, over the fourth. Continue weaving the thread under and over the warp until you reach the end of the line. Each line will begin with an under and end with an over.
 Retrieve the shed stick. Weave the shed thick through the warp threads. Go under the bottom warp threads and over the top warp threads. Grab each end of the shed stick and turn it 90° to create a new shed. When the shed stick is inserted into the the warp, the gap between the top and bottom warp threads is called a shed.
When weaving on a cardboard loom, you do not have to insert a shed stick.
 Loosely pull the weft thread through the shed from left to right. Allow it to lay across the warp threads in an arc. Do not pull the weft thread too tight—it will cause the sides to cinch towards each other! Lay the shed stick flat and remove it from the loom. Use the fork or pick to move the second row of weft thread down towards the dowel.When weaving the next line on a cardboard loom, turn the needle and go under the first warp thread and over the second. Be careful not to pull too tight! Continue to the end of the line—end the line with an over. Push the second row snug against the first row with your fingertips.The second row should be snug against the first row.
 Insert the weft thread through the natural shed from right to left. Don’t pull it too tight! Insert the shed stick and rotate it as before. Pass the weft thread from left to right through the shed. Remove the shed stick and use the fork to push the weft threads together. Repeat this process until your 4’ piece of weft thread runs out.When weaving on a cardboard loom, continue to create new lines. Turn the needle, go under the first warp, and over the last warp. Keep the lines snug., When you run out of weft thread, cut another 4’ piece. Pull a short tail of the previous weft thread out the back. Insert the new piece of weft thread and pull the end through the back, creating a second tail. Continue weaving as before.When you run out of thread while weaving on a cardboard loom, complete the current line and leave a 3” tail that will be woven back into the weave at the end. Thread the tapestry needle with a new piece of weft thread. Leave a 3” tail at the start of the next row. Pull the tapestry needle under the first warp, over the second, under the third. Continue to the end of the row.You do not need to tie the two tails together.
Use this method when changing colors or materials too!

, On a loom this size, you will be able to create a 4” piece of fabric. Continue weaving the weft thread until your piece of fabric is at most 4” long. If you build a larger loom frame, you will be able to create a larger piece of fabric.When weaving on a cardboard loom, continue creating new rows until you have reached the bottom of the cardboard loom.