 Take a telephone directory, and locate the yellow pages where businesses are listed by category. Search for veterinarians, then make a list of veterinarians who specialize in "exotics." Call a few nearby offices, have a conversation, and make an appointment for your pet with the vet you feel is most qualified.


Vets who do not work with "exotics" work mostly with cats and dogs. They are unlikely to have the specialty knowledge that would allow them to care for your guinea pig.;
, Look online for The Association of Exotic Mammal Veterinarians. They maintain a directory of veterinarians who specialize in guinea pigs and other unusual pets. Search your area code in the AEMV directory, or zoom in on their world map.Search the Small Animal Channel. If you're lucky, you can find a vet near you who not only works with exotics, but works frequently with guinea pigs., If you live in a rural or sparsely populated area, you may have trouble locating a vet who works with guinea pigs. However, veterinarians in such areas are often experienced at working with rabbits. Many guinea pig owners recommend finding a good rabbit specialist, and coming armed with information.If you find a good vet who hasn't worked with guinea pigs, research your guinea pig's health, and come in with questions and theories to share with your vet.Keep your guinea pig far from rabbits in the office, and try to confine your pet to sterilized surfaces. There are illnesses that guinea pigs and rabbits can communicate., Call the vets listed in the yellow pages who do not treat exotics. Ask them what vet they would refer you to if you were a customer who had a guinea pig. If you know a vet personally, ask him or her who the best exotics vet in the area is. If several vets tell you the same answer, call the vet they recommend., If you know anyone who owns a guinea pig, ask that person what veterinarian they have experience with. If you don't know anyone, find someone who does. You might try asking an elementary school teacher or administrator. Guinea pigs are popular classroom pets.


Teachers may also be able to put you in touch with parents of students who are guinea pig owners.
 Check listings of vets who have been recommended by other guinea pig owners. Make sure the reviews are current. Check sites that list vets by recommendation, such as the Guinea Lynx list, and CavyInfo International. Search review sites such as Vet Ratingz, Yelp, and Google Reviews.


Not every good vet is reviewed online, but the really bad ones usually are.If several customers have had disappointing experiences with a vet you're considering, they've probably posted about it.
 Ask to speak to the veterinarian between patients. If you are having trouble getting through, politely explain to the staff that you are a potential customer who has a few specific questions that only a vet can answer.
 Some excellent questions include: how many guinea pigs do you see and treat each month? What is your medical training as pertains to guinea pigs? Who would you recommend for a late night guinea pig medical emergency?Ask politely, and explain that you are looking for someone who specializes in your pet's unique needs.
 For instance, ask what antibiotic the vet recommends for adult guinea pigs with a URI (upper respiratory infection)? They should answer Baytril, Doxycycline, and Chloramphenicol, or other drugs not containing penicillin. If they recommend Amoxicillin, or other penicillin-based drugs, they don't know enough to treat your guinea pig., If you have a pregnant guinea pig, ask if the vet has dealt with pregnant guinea pigs. If she or he has, ask how he or she recommends treating a guinea pig during and after pregnancy. If your guinea pig has tooth issues, such as impacted molars, ask if he or she has dealt with guinea pig dental needs. If you have your choice of vet, opt for the most experienced.

