 These days, many restaurants use social media platforms to advertise discounts and special offers to entice more customers to frequent their establishments. It could be a set menu or an offer for certain days of the week, but you might end up paying a whole lot less for your meal, or you might get an extra course or drinks thrown in.Try social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, Scoutmob, etc.
Many people use Yelp to read reviews of businesses, but you can also find deals on there as well. The restaurant may offer a deal if you "check in" on Yelp or similar app.
When checking out the social media platforms, make sure you sign up for updates from your favorite restaurants (or any categories of restaurants you’re interested in). Once you sign up for several of these platform notifications, you should have a steady stream of deals coming in on a regular basis.
You may also find online deals on a restaurant’s individual webpage.
You can also try online discount sites like Groupon or Livingsocial.;
, Many restaurants will send out email newsletters that include offers for their valued customers who sign up. These emails often include coupons and other discounted offers that can be redeemed in the restaurant.Go to the restaurant’s webpage to see if there is an option to sign up for an emailed newsletter.
 Look through your local newspaper for coupons for your favorite restaurants. This works for fast food and even for fancier restaurants who advertise in the local paper.You can find offers like “buy one get one free” or a percentage off of your meal. All of these offers will help you save a few bucks when dining out.
Usually local newspapers are the best for finding usable coupons for eating out, rather than national newspapers.
You might consider buying several of the newspapers to stock up on coupons since newspapers are relatively inexpensive. The extra cost for the papers could be countered by the amount you’ll save with the coupons.
You could also ask your friends and neighbors to give you their newspapers after they finish reading them. Then you could get the coupons for free.

