 Giving a carnivorous reptile, such as a monitor lizard or a snake, a "treat" simply means giving them a new or different type of food. Because they are carnivores, you should only give them animal protein for food.Trying to feed your pet other ingredients will make the treats unappealing or it could make them ill.Most captive carnivorous reptiles are fed rodents. If you would like to switch up your reptile's diet, consider switching between mice and rats once in awhile; however, all of your carnivorous reptile's dietary needs are taken care of by feeding them healthy mice or rats.Carnivorous reptiles tend to eat specialized prey, meaning that they won't eat just any small animal that they come into contact with. For example, ball pythons can have a very hard time recognizing prey that they are not used to, and can starve if not tricked into eating.This makes giving a carnivorous reptile a new "treat" difficult.
One factor that limits a reptile's ability, and desire, to eat certain prey is the size of the prey. For instance, if an animal you are giving as a treat is more than two thirds the size of the reptile's head, then they are unlikely to be able to eat it.;
, If your reptile is an insectivore, there are a wide variety of insects you can give your pet that are relatively easy to find and purchase. While an insectivore's diet usually consists mainly of crickets or mealworms, giving your pet reptile a different insect every once in a while will be a great and unexpected treat. See if your reptile likes other insects that are available at your local pet store or are commonly available online, such as silkworms, waxworms, or even a cockroach.
Consider giving your insectivore a treat of an insect you catch outside. A garden pest, such as a grasshopper, can be a great treat for your reptile. Just make sure it is an insect your animal can eat.
 If you have an herbivorous pet reptile, such as a chuckwalla or desert iguana, you will need to feed them only fruits and vegetables, even when giving treats.Most of the time they should be eating leafy greens.To give your pet a treat, then, simply give it a piece of fruit or vegetable that it does not get very often, but that is safe for the reptile to eat.


For example, desert iguanas loves dark leafy greens, soft fruits, and some types of flowers. If you have never given yours a dandelion or nasturtium bloom, give your pet one and see how they like them.
Treats that are not leafy green vegetables should only account for about a tenth of your herbivore reptile's diet. That means that these other foods should really be an occasional "treat."
Try giving your herbivore some additional fiber in the form of hay. Tortoises tend to like it.
To give your herbivore reptile a little protein you can see if they will eat a small portion of hard boiled egg with the shell on or a little piece of cooked chicken. Only give them very little of this treat, as too much animal protein will injure an herbivore's kidney function.
 Many reptiles eat both plants and animals. One such reptile is the crested gecko, which likes fruits and insects alike.This type of pet is easy to feed treats to, as they will be less picky about what you give them and there are a wider variety of foods you can provide as well.


Insects that you can give an omnivore are usually available at your local pet store but can be found online as well, like those for insectivores. Just be aware that you will need to know how to store and keep the insects alive long enough so your reptile can enjoy them.
Treats for an omnivorous reptile could include a cricket or a piece of fruit. Fruits that are high in calcium, such as figs, are a good choice.Give your reptile a well-balanced diet, meaning a mix of plants and animal foods. Being a true omnivore means that it needs nutrients from both types of foods.
 Whether it is a live baby mouse, a lively cricket, or some fresh dandelion greens, the best treat for your reptile is a fresh one. Commercial foods made for reptiles can serve a nutritional purpose, especially if you are lacking access to fresh foods, but it is always best to fill as much of your pet's nutritional needs as you can with fresh options. After all, that is what it would eat out in the wild.


Most pet stores will be able to supply you with fresh food for your reptile, whether it be a carnivore, insectivore, or an omnivore. If your local pet store doesn't have what you need, or if you don't live near a pet store, then there are online businesses that can send live food for you to feed to your reptile.
 If you have the option of feeding your pet a variety of treats, and all of them would be a nutritious option, then your preference can come into play as well. Weight the cost and availability, as well as whether you like or dislike handling certain foods, when picking a treat for your pet.


For example, there are a variety of insects you can give an insectivorous reptile. Pick the one that is the simplest to get, the cheapest, or the easiest to deal with. This could mean crickets, because they are sold at most pet stores and are relatively cheap, or it could mean mealworms, because you can keep them in the fridge and they don't need food, water, and their own tank the way that crickets do.
 Every type of reptile is different and each one has different dietary needs. As a pet owner, it is your job to supply those nutrients so that your reptile can live a healthy life. So, before you bring a reptile home, do some research about what you can and can't feed them.


Doing research into what specific reptiles eat can help you decide if you can take care of a specific reptile. If one requires live prey, for instance, you need to be ready to give it to them. If that will be difficult for you, then you should probably find a different pet.
 In general, there are certain foods that are not good to feed reptile pets. These foods have chemical components that can make reptiles very ill or even kill them. Some include:Avocado
Rhubarb
Apple seeds
Daffodil
Eggplant
Cherry pits
Peach pits

, Feeding your pet a special treat can be fun but that should not be your primary focus. Animals living in captivity, including your pet reptile, rely on humans to give them all of the nutrients they need. With the fun of having a pet comes the responsibility of taking care of it well.


If you want to give your pet a treat, consider covering it in supplements or vitamins that the reptile needs. This is done regularly when giving insects to lizards, but is a good way to supplement a variety of reptile's diets.