 Nutritional imbalances are often the cause for hair loss. Poor diet can lead to macronutrient (proteins, fats, carbohydrates) and micronutrient (vitamins and minerals) deficiencies which in turn can make your body unhealthy and cause hair loss. To support the health of your hair and your overall well-being, add some or all of the foods listed below to your diet:Eat red, yellow and orange fruits and vegetables (such as carrots, sweet potatoes, peppers, and cantaloupe) that are packed with vitamin A or beta carotene. Some research suggests that vitamin A promotes the growth and health of cells, including hair follicles.Promote healthy hair by eating fatty fish (such as salmon and sardines) that are packed with omega-3 fatty acids.Eat yogurt and other vitamin B5-rich foods that may increase blood flow to your scalp and consequently, promote hair growth.Make a salad with spinach that is packed with vitamin A, iron, folate, and vitamin C. This vitamin and mineral cocktail helps support healthy scalp and hair.Make sure you get enough protein by eating lean meat (such as chicken or turkey), low-fat dairy products, and protein-rich vegetables (such as beans). Hair is made of a protein molecule called keratin and thus, proper dietary protein is needed to nourish hair.Eat foods that contain vitamin B7 (also known as biotin), which may help promote hair grow. Foods to eat include eggs, fortified cereals, milk products and chicken.Eat zinc-rich foods, such as oysters, lobster and fortified cereals. Zinc deficiency can cause hair loss which is why you should ensure you are getting enough of this mineral from your daily diet., If your body isn't hydrated, your skin and hair cells won't be able to grow and flourish. To keep your hair healthy and growing, drink plenty of water to prevent dehydration.Aim to get at least eight cups of water a day and more during exercise or hot weather.
Caffeinated drinks (such as coffee, tea, and sodas) are dehydrating and thus, drinking these can actually cause water imbalance. Try to stick to water and unsweetened teas and juices and limit your caffeine consumption to one to two drinks a day.
 Although androgenic alopecia is not reported to be stress related, stress can cause hair loss. In order to keep your hair healthy, avoid factors that trigger stress in your life. Three types of stress-related hair loss conditions are recognized:Telogen effluvium is a condition in which stress forces a large number of hair follicles to go into a resting phase and fall out within months.Trichotillomania is a stress-induced condition in which you have an irresistible urge to pull out hair and is often triggered by stress but can also result from tension, loneliness, boredom or frustration.Alopecia areata is a condition caused by the body's immune system attacking hair follicles, which results in hair loss.Unlike male pattern baldness, stress-induced hair loss is not necessarily permanent. If you control the stress, your hair might grow back., Some health conditions and diseases can cause hair loss that is not related to male pattern baldness. If you are losing hair, visit your doctor who can diagnose the cause of hair loss and rule out any underlying conditions.Hormonal imbalances and changes (such as during pregnancy, after childbirth or during menopause for women) and thyroid conditions can cause temporary hair loss.
Scalp infections, such as those caused by ringworm, can invade the hair and cause scaly patches and hair loss. Hair generally grows back when the infection is treated.
Other disorders, such as lichen planus and some types of lupus and sarcoidosis, may result in permanent loss.

