 When you walk into a bedroom, the bed is the piece of furniture that instantly draws the eye. Situating it in a central place and decorating around it is the best way to handle having a big bed in a small bedroom. Place the headboard against one wall. Treat it like the mantle in your living room, which you use as a place to display treasured items and pretty decorations.


Since you have a small room, know that whatever wall art you choose is going to dominate the room. Limit your art to just two or three pieces so that you have plenty of bare wall, which gives the impression of more space.
Save money by making your own wall art. Try creating a silhouette of your pet or painting a landscape.
Black and white prints are affordable and a good choice for small rooms, since they don't demand attention the same way colorful paintings might.;
, It sounds crazy, right? However, having a big, clunky dresser takes up a lot of space in a bedroom, and you may be able to get away without having one, or at the very least, downsizing. Take a look at what you've got and figure out how you can store it differently. Chances are, you can store most of it in the closet or in another storage container. Try some of these space-saving tricks when it comes to clothing storage:


Hang up most of your clothes. Clothes take up less space when they're on hangers than when they're folded up in a drawer. Hang up t-shirts, jeans, and other items you'd normally store in the dresser.
Store your undergarments in a small cabinet or storage container in the closet or under the bed.
Use hooks. Scarves, coats, hats, and other items can be stored on hooks instead of taking up space in a dresser.
Store out-of-season clothing when you aren't using it. Place it in air-tight storage containers that will fit under your bed or on a shelf in your closet.
Regularly donate clothes you no longer wear. You probably have more clothes and shoes than you could ever use - if this is the case, take them to a donation center and free up some space in your bedroom.
 Choose a sturdy table that can double as a desk and hold the items you'd normally place on your dresser. Place it near a window in the part of your room that gets used the least. Get a small wooden chair that you can push in under the table, so it's not sitting out in the middle of the room.


Avoid getting a big cushy office chair, unless your bedroom doubles as your office. A straight-backed chair with a small cushion will take up far less space in your bedroom.
Choose a table and chair that match your bed's frame so that your furniture choices don't look mismatched. Cherry wood, blond wood, or wrought iron are nice choices.
Use part of the table's surface as a place to put your jewelry box, reading material, and other items you use on a daily basis. Don't let it get too cluttered, though!

, You can buy small slatted wood tables that are easy to move around and fold up when they aren't in use. Place it next to your bed and top it with a reading lamp, your glasses, and whatever items you need next to you at night.

