 With the most basic setup, you will need the following materials:

Three cameras on tripods, with power cords and enough memory/tape to film the entire play PLUS the time that the house opens its doors (you don't want to be setting up when the audience is already seated).



 


Three extension cords for camera power.






Gaffers tape (for taping down power cords). This can be purchased at target or any other hardware store.






Something to record audio with. If one of the cameras has a decent microphone, this may suffice. Otherwise, you will want to record from an external source. One way is to use an external microphone; another way is to get a direct audio feed from the house sound board (if the house has a sound board).






For more information on this topic, you may want to do a search for the following key phrase: recording audio to a camera using an external source.






Proper adapters and cables to connect to your camera's audio input from your external source (microphone, sound board, etc).






Headphones. Essential for monitoring audio.






Clapboard/Slateboard. This is essential for syncing audio and video in the editing process. To purchase one, you can Google search the following terms: film slate, clapboard, slate board






You can also follow the provided link: http://bestofferbuy.com/Action-/-Clapperboard/-Clapboard/-Film-Slate-p-67644.html?currency=USD&utm_source=gbase&utm_medium=cse&utm_campaign=gbase






A way to upload your cameras' video and audio footage to a computer.






Video editing software.





;
, Decide where to place your cameras to best capture the play. Typical three-camera configuration is as follows: Camera 1 is in the back-center of the house; Camera 2 is house right or left, closer to the stage; Camera 3 is next to the back-center camera.
 Connect the power cords (and extension cords if necessary) from the camera to the outlet(s), place cords as unobtrusively as possible, then tape them down so that nobody can trip on them.
, Camera 1 should be framed to capture the entire proscenium. This camera will remain in a fixed position at all times. This will be your go-to shot; if an entrance or action is not captured by any other camera, this camera should get it (unless, of course, there is an action happening in the audience!).
 This camera provides another angle option on the stage. It should be positioned to capture as much of the stage as possible, while not getting any shots of the backstage (between the legs). You may keep this camera in a fixed position or have a second person operate it.
 Assuming you don't have another person operating Camera 2, this will be your main active camera. You can use this to capture close-ups on stage, and even some action going on in the audience if you need to.
 This should be connected to the camera that is closest to the audio source. If you are recording with a microphone, use Camera 1, as its centered placement will give you the most even audio quality.
 You can do this by either using the gain indicator on the camera (if it has one) or by plugging your headphones into the camera that is receiving the audio feed. You will need an audio source such as music playing or someone talking/clapping/generally making sound. When listening, check for level and distortion. If it's too quiet turn up the mic gain; if you get distortion, turn the mic gain down.
 These cameras should be recording from this point until the play is over, so make sure you have enough memory/tape.
 When you use the slateboard, make sure you and the slateboard are clearly visible in ALL cameras and clearly audible to the microphone. Using the slateboard gives a visual and audio cue to be able to sync to: the point at which the sound is made is the point at which the top and bottom parts of the slateboard hit. This is necessary for syncing all three cameras and the audio to the same timeline when video editing.


NOTE: Any time you stop recording on any input source (camera or audio) and start recording again, you must use the slateboard to provide another sync point.
 The actual filming of the play is actually the easiest part of the whole process. Since Cameras 1 and 2 will be in a fixed position, the only thing you need to worry about concerning them is making sure they stay on, recording, and in place the entire time. With camera 3, simply make sure you follow the center of the action.


To track your shots more easily, it helps to have a copy of the play's script. This way, you may know when and where people will be making entrances and exits.
