 The most important item to buy is either canvas or burlap measuring 2 1/2 feet by 4 1/2 feet. This can be found at most craft stores. You can choose any color of canvas or burlap you like, but remember that you will be painting designs on top of the material. Therefore, you should go for lighter colors, such as white or off-white.You will also need to pick up the following items: painter's tape, fabric paint, a paper plate, a small paintbrush, a template with your design of choice, sandpaper, an iron, fabric glue, two 7/8-inch dowels, two eye hooks, and twine to hang your tapestry.
 Measure, with a ruler, 3 inches from the bottom of the canvas and draw a straight horizontal line. Take a piece of masking tape that is 2 1/2 feet long and place it along this line (top edge of masking tape goes on the line).Measure 1 inch above the masking tape, and draw another straight, horizontal line.
Place a 2 1/2 foot long piece of masking tape along this line (bottom edge of masking tape goes along line).
 Place a small amount of fabric paint on a paper plate. Dip the paintbrush into the paint, and paint between the two pieces of tape. While you can slightly paint over the tape, make sure not to get loose paint on the rest of the canvas. It is best to dab rather than to brush in long strokes.Wipe your paintbrush off with a paper towel, and then run it under some hot water. This will get the excess paint off. Wait for the paint to dry before you safely remove the tape strips.
You can add more paint stripes above the one you made. Simply repeat the previous instructions, adjusting the height of each of your stripes (instead of a 1 inch stripe, you may want to paint a 1/2 inch stripe above the one you already painted).
Leave some space in between each stripe so that you can clearly see each one. Make sure not to make too many stripes, as you need some space to paint on your design.
 You will want to stick to something basic that can be identified simply by the outline of the object or thing. Many simple designs can be found online, such as animals, flowers, architecture, etc. Whatever picture you choose, print it out, and cut it out using scissors.You can adjust the picture size when you print it out to fit your canvas. You will want it no larger than 2 1/2 feet in vertical length, and 2 feet in horizontal width.
When you have cut out your design, center it on the canvas. Use a ruler to make sure that it is equidistant on the horizontal sides and vertical sides respectively.
Trace around the design with a light pencil mark, and remove the design.
 Spread a small amount of fabric paint onto a clean paper plate. Dip into the paint with your small paintbrush, and use dabbing motions on the fabric. You can choose to use multiple colors for your design, or just one. You can also add small amounts of black or white paint to create some shading.Try to keep the paint color true to the original design. For instance, if you do a piece of architecture, use brown paint if its wooden, or grey paint if it is stone.
Once you are done painting the design, set your canvas aside to give it time to dry. Meanwhile, you can rub off the excess paint on your paintbrush with paper towel, and then run the paintbrush under some hot water.
 Note: this is a strictly optional step. When your canvas is nearly dried, you can scrunch up with fabric in order to give your painting a more worn, and antiquated look. Fold it like an accordion, and immediately relieve the stress. You can also run sandpaper over the design gently. This will peel off some of the paint and create a weathered look.If you choose to do this step, you will need to iron the surrounding canvas. Iron the blank canvas around the design, using the low setting on your iron. Make sure to do this on an ironing board, or another safe surface.
Ironing the excess fabric will create a nice contrast between the antiquated design, and the smooth, soft canvas.
Once you are done ironing, let your canvas rest in a safe place so that it stays wrinkle-free.
 These loops will be used to hold your dowel rods. Once your design is completely dry, flip your canvas over. Take the top part of the canvas and curl it backwards, so that you have one inch of fabric on the back. You can crease it if you like in order to keep it from constantly curling back.Place a small amount of fabric glue on the edge of the pulled back fabric. Make sure to leave some space underneath for your dowel rod to slide through. Press the edge down onto the backside of the canvas and apply pressure until it is dry.
Do the same at the bottom of your canvas. Pull backwards an inch of fabric and fold it by making a crease. Place some fabric glue on the edge of the folded fabric (leaving space underneath) and apply pressure until it is dry.
If you do not have the patience for typical fabric glue, you can use hot glue for a faster drying period. However, make sure that you are using safe practices, not getting any of the hot glue on your hands.
 One dowel rod for each of the two loops you just created. Screw an eye hook onto each end of the top dowel (eye hooks are basically screws with hoops on the end). You should be able to screw them in by hand, although you may need to pre-drill a tiny hole in order to help expedite the process.Thread one strand of twine through both of the eye hooks. Leave some lagging twine in between so that you can hang your canvas.
Tie a knot on each end of the twine, near the eye hooks. Once you are done, hang the tapestry design on your wall.

