 Your children may believe that your new spouse is taking advantage of you or is wrong for you. However, you are an adult and are fully capable of making decisions for yourself. You can let them know that you appreciate their concern, but you made the right choice for you.


For instance, you could say, “I know you care about me and worry that I’ve made a mistake. However, I am able to take care of myself and trust my decision.” Hopefully what you say will put their minds at ease and allow them to begin accepting your new spouse., You might be able to move on and get a new wife or husband, but your children cannot get a new mom or dad. Keep this in mind as you try to assimilate your new spouse into the family. Don't act as if their deceased parent never existed. Pay homage to them through family traditions and continue to share fond memories.


When the other parent has died, children fear that a new spouse will try to fill the space of their other parent. Reassure them that you and your spouse will honor the parent who passed away. Let your children know that you do not expect them to love your spouse in the same way they loved their own parent.
Be especially mindful if this new relationship came quickly after the loss of their parent. If more time has gone by, you can expect and request more understanding from them.
 If you and your previous spouse divorced, they are probably still in the picture. This means that you will need to learn to navigate social interactions with them along with your new spouse. Don't try to assert your new spouse as the "parent." Respect your ex's role after a divorce and continue to let them parent.


You can try saying, “My husband is not trying to be your other parent. Instead, he just wants to be a part of your life in a different way. We respect the relationship you have with your father. We are not trying to interfere with that.”, As selfish as it may sound, older children may worry about their inheritance if you marry someone new. They may fear that your spouse will now receive what they thought was supposed to go to them. Let them know that your estate will still go to them and that is what is written in your will, if this is still what you want for them.


You may also consider talking about your prenuptial agreement, if you have one. This would prevent your new spouse from receiving a good part of what you own should you become divorced. Talking about this with your children may help them feel better about the situation., Spend some time with your children without the company of your new spouse. Part of the reason they may not be accepting of your new partner is because they don’t get to spend time with just you anymore; now they spend time with you only as a part of a couple.


By being together with them away from your spouse, you show them that they will not take a backseat because of your relationship.