 If you discover that your cat has lesions on its body, you should get them checked out by a veterinarian. However, this is typically not a life-threatening emergency, so it's appropriate to make an appointment to bring your cat in. Call your veterinary office, describe your cat's symptoms to the veterinary staff, and then make an appointment for your cat to be seen within a day or two.


Lesions are typically raised areas that are red and covered in bumps, which could be described as ulcers or abscesses. They can also be oozing, yellowish or tumor-like.Once you describe your cat's symptoms to the veterinary staff, they may tell you to bring your cat in right away. If this is the case, follow their directions and get your cat veterinary treatment immediately.;
, Once your veterinarian assesses your cat's health, they will do tests to figure out what is causing your cat's lesions. These tests usually include a fine needle aspiration or tissue biopsy in order to look at the cells in the lesions. Once they are sure that your cat has feline eosinophilic granuloma, they will then begin planning the cat's treatment.The vet will be able to differentiate between the types of feline eosinophilic granuloma by looking at the lesions. Eosinophilic plaque lesions are typically on a cat's medial thigh and abdominal regions. Eosinophilic granuloma lesions are typically on a cat's upper thighs or oral cavity. Eosinophilic ulcers are typically located on the cat's upper lip.
Thigh or abdomen sores typically look like red, angry hives, while lip sores may be more pustulent.
 Corticosteroids are used for treating feline eosinophilic granuloma because they reduce inflammation and reduce the body's immune response, which in the case of feline eosinophilic granuloma is over sensitive. However, they can cause side effects in cats, so their long-term use needs to be monitored closely by a veterinarian.Some common corticosteroids that may be prescribed to your cat include methylprednisolone acetate, oral prednisolone, or oral triamcinolone., In many cases, feline eosinophilic granuloma infections can be reduced with the use of antibiotics, in addition to corticosteroids. This type of medication can clear up any underlying infection that occurs due to open sores or additional infection.The specific antibiotics often given to help with this infection include amoxicillin-clavulanate, cephalosporins, and fluoroquinolones., In some cases of feline eosinophilic granuloma, your veterinarian may suggest surgical or cryosurgical removal of your cat's lesions. With cryosurgery, lesions are frozen with liquid nitrogen and then removed. This is typically only done as a last resort, if lesions cannot be managed in other ways or return repeatedly.Surgery and cryosurgery usually require the cat to be anesthetized. Be aware of the health risks associated with anesthesia, learn about how to help your cat recover from anesthesia, and make sure that your veterinarian is sure that your cat is healthy enough to be put under.
Some alternatives to surgery exist, such as topical medications and treatment with the amino acid lysine. Talk to your veterinarian to determine which treatment is most appropriate for your cat.