 The initial planning and administrative procedures for your new business may seem cumbersome, but they will help you avoid expensive legal and accounting pitfalls in the future by properly setting up your business.


Attend small business education courses at your local community college or economic development business center.
Learn why and how you should write a business plan, set up proper accounting procedures and what kinds of licenses you will need.;
, Many creative individuals hesitate to offer credit cards for payment because they believe that credit card systems will be too expensive or complex to maintain. This may have been true in the past, but today small businesses can choose from affordable credit card processing devices that are so simple, some can even attach to a smart phone.


Many entrepreneurs find that the fees charged for services like this are outweighed by the amount of happy customers who are more willing to pay immediately when given the choice of paying with a credit card instead of writing a check.
 Online craft businesses are a quick and relatively easy way to showcase your jewelry designs to the world. In the past, the only way to open an online jewelry store was to create a website, which required paying for the expertise of someone who knew how to create and market a successful storefront in order to make money. Today, however, there are numerous online craft communities on the Internet that provide you with an easy storefront template to show and sell your products in exchange for a small fee. Etsy.com and ArtFire.com are just 2 of many online crafters storefronts made for jewelry designers.
 Many crafters and jewelry designers make significant profits at craft fairs because these shows are an affordable way to reach out to large amounts of pre-qualified individuals who are attending the fair specifically to look at and buy homemade crafts. Many craft fairs are annual events that give artists the opportunity to establish relationship with repeat customers and steadily build up a clientele who seeks out their work.

