 You have many avenues to explore when searching for LNC positions. You can begin by looking at the employment openings at local law firms and insurance companies. Almost half of all LNCs work in one of those two positions. Another option is to become an independent consultant.Independent consultants perform essentially the same duties as LNCs who are on the permanent staff of a company. You will simply work for a wider variety of clients and your income will fluctuate a bit more.
Use job finding sites on the internet to learn about openings in your area. You can also use these to post your resume so that more employers will learn about your skills.
 Once you have found an open position that interests you, it is time to get your materials organized. Your most important job at this time is to make sure that your resume reflects your skills and the job that you are seeking. Your resume should not look as if you are applying for a traditional nursing job, but should be customized for LNC positions.Make sure that your resume highlights your LNC training and certification. You will want to put these details near the beginning of your resume, as they are the most pertinent for this job.
Have a friend or colleague review your resume. You want to make sure it looks as polished and professional as possible.
 Before and during your job application process, it is important that you are making and maintaining professional relationships. Networking is one of the most effective ways to learn about employment opportunities and trends in the field. Don't be afraid to ask friends or family members to introduce you to any LNCs that they may know. It can be very useful to have a wide circle of professional acquaintances.Because many LNCs work on the staffs of law firms or insurance company, it would be a good idea to contact anyone you know who works in those fields. They might be a potential source of information for you.
 After you have submitted your resume, you want to make sure that you are ready for the interview process. If a company contacts you to come in for a meeting, make sure that you are well-prepared. Do some research about the company and make a list of intelligent questions to ask.Look the part. Remember, you might be used to wearing scrubs to work, but the dress code will be very different at a law firm. A professional appearance is important in making a good first impression.
Be ready to discuss your strengths and skills. Have concrete examples in mind to discuss when asked how you can contribute to the company.

