 It is this: There will never be time unless you make it.;
, Shaming never works long term and can actually have very negative consequences, such as resenting the diet or stubbornly refusing to participate any further in something that causes you to feel so ashamed.
 Nobody is perfect and there will be times in any person's diet when slip-ups occur. This is normal and easily remedied––when you slip and go back towards working your goal, be kind and realize it for the tiny detour that it is on your longer journey towards well-being.
 By shifting the focus from "diets" to "healthy lifestyle approaches", you will feel more inclined to take care of yourself and take the changes gradually rather than trying to fix things instantly with a sure-to-fail diet.


Turn living a healthy lifestyle into a mantra.
 Simple but effective changes to your daily schedule can include:


Wake up 10 minutes earlier in the morning. This will give you time to do some basic stretches.
Use the stairs instead of the elevators where possible.
Make time for a short walk during lunch but do not skip your lunch!
Get off an earlier bus stop or park further away, so that you have to include a walk to get home or to your car.
Go for a short walk post dinner as well.
 These workouts can be as short as 10 minutes and they are as beneficial as spending an hour at the gym. So skip, run upstairs, running, swimming, cycle, squats, pushups etc. Think of creative ways to do a workout in your environment.
 Anything that you like. Or take up a sport instead. Not only will you get exercise but you always have the potential to make new friends at these occasions.
 Doing the same thing day after day not only gets boring, but stops having any effect. Switching it up by mixing the exercise forms is a way to keep you anticipating the workouts rather than dreading them, and will work out different parts of your body.
 Too much of anything in life is excess. It is also important to have a day set aside each week dedicated simply to rest. This gives your muscles time to recover and reduces the risk of injury.
, Consuming too many calories is as harmful as having too few.


If you really hate counting calories, learn to judge portion sizes for healthy, nutritional foods.
 This will help you to plan your meals around when you are most likely to feel the hungriest. Shifting a mealtime to suit your body's natural rhythm can be a really good way of staving off snacking and feeling bad. The important thing is to tune into that rhythm.
 A lot of processed food is loaded with sugar and salt. Try to cut down on processed foods and eat more wholefoods in your daily portions.
 Such foods are dense on calories and have nothing healthy about them.
 Just as with candies, if the healthy foods are there, you'll snack on them (just don't have those candies there).
 It is the most important meal of the day because it restores your energy after sleeping. It helps you kick start your day and helps to reduce any sugar cravings.
 This means: Breakfast, mid morning snack (fruits, nuts, milk, smoothie without sugar, etc.), lunch, afternoon/early evening snack and dinner. Smaller and frequent meals keeps you full and reduces sugar and junk cravings., Toss those dressings though, as they contain a lot of fat and sugar, empty calories. Add a dash of lime or Greek yogurt as a dressing instead.
 These are: plain/all-purpose flour (and its products like cakes, white breads, croissants, etc), white sugar and white rice. Try to replace them with healthier options like wholewheat flours, buckwheat flours, brown rice, quinoa, and honey.
 If you eat in front of a TV, you are bound to overeat or eat junk, as it's a mindless activity with your attention focused elsewhere. Make it a rule that it's only certain healthy snacks that you can have, or discrete portions––don't leave the whole package or plate of snacks out to dip into. Have plenty of green tea, de-caffeinated tea or coffee, water or water flavored with citrus slices. Often the action of drinking calorie-free drinks can be sufficient to keep you content––try it for a few nights in a row before considering it unlikely.
 Cook at least few meals and snacks in advance and keep in your fridge for the times when your are too tired to cook and are most likely to reach for junk. Cut up carrot and celery sticks, freeze half a healthy lasagna made from doubling up a recipe or keep healthy leftovers ready for reheating.
 Keeping your body hydrated is a must. Its flushes out the toxins from your body and also helps your muscles work better., If you do not sleep enough, your body does not get time to recover from the day's activities. A lack of sleep will also lead to cravings.

