 If you’re feeling stressed out from watching your own kids, one solution is to see if a loved one is willing to give you a break. Oftentimes, parents suffer in silence, not knowing that friends or family members are more than happy to pitch in.Reach out to your best pal or sibling for help. You can say, “Oh, Tori, I can’t tell you how beat I am. Since the kids have been out of school, it’s been nonstop. Do you mind taking them for a few hours on Saturday so I can catch my breath?”
If you don’t have loved ones who can help, see if you can hire professional help like a babysitter or get assistance from your children’s schools. Getting them involved in after-school programs or extracurricular activities can give you more “me-time.”

, Getting your children involved in a meaningful activity can help them channel their excess energy into something positive. Do you love to paint, bake, play basketball, or garden? Relieve your stress by doing the things you love most, and have the children participate with you.


Make it exciting by visiting the store—if it’s in your budget—and getting supplies so that the children have kid-friendly tools to work with you. Then, spend an afternoon showing them how to do your passion., Physical activity is one of the most underused anti-anxiety treatments. Moving your body through rhythmic exercise produces chemical in your body called endorphins that calm you down and improve your mood. Try swimming, running, hiking, dancing, or just walking your dog around the neighborhood.Again, this is another practice that can be done solo or as a group. Try a family activity to help the kids tired themselves out and get the advantages of exercise, too. All it takes is about 30 minutes of activity to feel the positive benefits., If you’re dealing with chronic stress and anxiety as a parent, it may be a good idea to examine your to-do list. Parents frequently fill their days doing for others, not realizing that they can’t pour out of an empty cup. Take a close look at your activities calendar and see what tasks can be automated, delegated, or crossed off completely.


For instance, if you spend a great deal of time in the grocery store, can you arrange to order online and pick them up curbside? Can you have your partner or another parent bring your kids home from practice some days of the week? Do you really need to head up all the parent-teacher meetings, or step down and spend that time doing something you love?