 Torrenting is a peer-to-peer sharing system, meaning that you can access and download the files on someone else's computer (like a game) as long as they give permission. This means you can download any game imaginable as long as you can find someone hosting it. However, torrenting for paid content, like games, is illegal without the permission of the publisher in many areas. Furthermore, there are many links that are unregulated and could contain viruses. Know that what you are doing is not strictly legal before moving on.


If you've never torrented before, familiarize yourself with the process and risks before moving on.
You still need to check your computer's specifications to make sure your computer can handle the game once downloaded.
 Torrent clients are the programs that pull torrents off the web and convert them into usable files for your computer. There are a variety of free, legal torrent clients out there, such as uTorrent and BitTorrent, that are easily downloaded with an online search.A torrent client is not a torrent -- it is just the program used to download a torrent.
 More often than not you can find these torrents by searching online for "GAME TITLE + Torrent." There are a lot of torrent sites out there, and some are more trustworthy than others.


Never give personal information, including name, phone, email, or address, to a site in return for a torrent.
Almost all torrenting sites have some pop-ups and strange advertisements. Make sure that these are not so common that you can't actually read the page.
If you don't trust a site, for any reason, leave., A seeder is another person who torrented the file and is letting others torrent from them. More seeders mean more people trust the file. It can also help to check the comments out at the bottom of the torrent to see if anyone got viruses.There is no "perfect" amount of seeders to look for, but more than five is a good start.
 Once you've found the link on a torrenting site you trust, click on "Download Magnet Link." This is the safest way to get torrents, as magnet links provide a slight buffer between you and the other person's computer. Click "Magnet Link" to open the file in your Torrent Client (like Utorrent).


This download will likely take a long time -- games are huge files and torrenting takes a while unless you have top-quality internet.
 There are going to be specific instructions to finish installing your game once you've downloaded it. The torrent is downloading the game, but not installing it, but it will come with instructions to play it. Sometimes you'll need to use a serial number generator that is attached in the game file. Sometimes you'll need to use a program called Power ISO, easily torrented, to trick your computer into believing it is playing a disc. This process changes from game to game, so you need to find the instructions given and follow them to play your game.


You'll almost always have to use a program called "Crack" to get into the game. Again, your installation file will tell you exactly how to use and find it.
If you cannot find this install file, right click on the torrent in your client and choose "Show in Folder." You'll see a folder labeled after your torrent containing the .txt file.



You may have to download updates the first time you start the game.
Allow your machine to reboot as often as it requires. It may be removing temporary files that are only needed during the installation process.

