 A healthy compost pile needs plenty of oxygen mixed in. Otherwise, aerobic bacteria (those that need oxygen to metabolize the organic materials) cannot function, and decomposition will be driven instead by anaerobic bacteria, which produce foul-smelling gasses as byproducts of their metabolism.


To begin addressing the oxygen content of your compost pile, make sure you are turning the materials regularly. To "turn" a compost pile means to occasionally shift everything around with a pitchfork or shovel. This introduces fresh oxygen into the deeper areas of the pile.
Poor aeration can also be caused by materials that are too small. For example, a compost pile composed largely of sawdust will be difficult to aerate, as the small pieces of sawdust will fit together snugly and prevent air from flowing through the pile. To prevent this problem, integrate larger or looser materials into your pile. Tree limbs and cardboard scraps are good materials for this purpose.
A third reason your compost pile could be improperly aerated is that it is too wet. If your compost pile is saturated with water, there will be little room for air to flow. Ideally, a handful of composting material should have the moisture content of a thoroughly wrung-out sponge.;
, A compost pile that has too high of a nitrogen-to-carbon ratio will emit a smell similar to ammonia. This problem can be solved quite easily by adding more carbon-rich materials.


Nitrogen-rich materials are those that are still close to their living state, and are sometimes called "green" materials. Examples include food scraps, fresh grass clippings, coffee grounds, and tea leaves. These materials should make up between 20 and 50 percent of your pile by volume.
Carbon-rich materials are sometimes called "brown" materials. Examples include dried leaves, cardboard and paper, sawdust, wood, straw, and corn cobs. These materials should make up between 50 and 80 percent of your compost pile by volume. There is no precise, correct ratio; if an ammonia smell arises, simply add more carbon.
 There are some foods that should never be added to your compost pile, as they will go rancid and emit foul odors. These foods include meats, bones, dairy, and fats and greases.


If you have already added these foods to your existing compost pile, you can mitigate the odor problem by burying the entire pile. Composting underground (often called "trench composting") eliminates odors, but the decomposition occurs far more slowly.
In addition to generating odors, meats, dairy, and fats tend to attract rodents and other unwanted pests to your compost pile.

