 Men value the feelings and thoughts of those close to them, but tend to worry less about coworkers and acquaintances. Women, however, expect openness, equality, and honesty from anyone they spend significant time with, including coworkers.In the standard hierarchical workplace, this will lead to disappointment and confusion for women.;
, Whether you’re at a departmental meeting or briefing a small team, express yourself to the group. Men tend to speak more often in large groups to preserve social standing and demonstrate verbal ability. Tell a story, a joke, or present a report to demonstrate your oratory skill and command of the facts.While women are typically thought of as great communicators, they communicate in a way that facilitates friendship. In a competitive workplace, this can be detrimental. When speaking, men take fewer pausesand are less concerned with how their listeners feel.
 Men find it easy to set feelings aside in order to make practical decisions based on facts alone. Women, by contrast, tend to make decisions based on how people will feel and their own intuition.Use charts, graphs, and hard data when making a business decision.
 From an early age, people are taught that math, science, and technology are masculine while the arts are feminine. Challenge the notion that your gender is an impediment to your STEM abilities. Read up on science news, catch an episode of Cosmos, and try out new geeky gadgets, games, and apps.If you're a student, enroll in a science or math class.
 Whether it’s a project you don’t feel comfortable taking on or a small favor a coworker asks you to do, say no if you can’t do it – or just don’t want to.Men have think nothing of turning down excessive assignments. On the other hand, if you are interested in a raise, a new position at your company, or greater responsibility, tell your supervisor explicitly that you're interested.Don’t be afraid of being seen as demanding or pushy.


Women often have a hard time saying no to additional responsibilities because they don’t want to be thought of as lazy and are genuinely more inclined to help others than men are.To think like a man, overcome these tendencies and realize that saying no is a sign of strength and self-respect, not laziness.
Men believe they deserve the salaries and raises they seek.Be assertive and believe in yourself when thinking about whether to pursue a raise or negotiate your salary. Act with a sense of entitlement.

