 Instead of turning away or thinking that it's someone else's responsibility, do your best to help people that are in need. Think of easy things that you can do during your day to help people that can't help themselves. You could help a younger family member set up their computer or help an elderly person with their groceries.


The more you help others on your accord, the happier you'll be., Friendship is a critical aspect in your happiness. Having a support system to talk to when times are bad gives us a sense of belonging. Having friends will lower your blood pressure and you'll be less prone to depression.However, friendship is built on communication and vulnerability. If you're mean or judgemental, friends will not want to come to you, and will not be as supportive when you need them.


Stay attentive and listen.
Sometimes friends don't want advice, just someone to talk to.
If you've talked to your friend about a serious issue, it'll be easier to talk to them about serious problems in your life.
 If you have the time, consider volunteering at a local community center, homeless shelter, or soup kitchen near you. Look into other projects locally, like efforts to that plant trees or work to beautify your town. The more you get to know other people who are working for a positive future, the more fulfilled you'll feel, and less prone to angry outbursts.


Volunteering with a group of people will also give you a sense of belonging to a community which will increase your happiness and make you less angry. Having a support system when times are hard can help us cope with daily stress., If you're younger, this means doing your chores without being asked and genuinely trying to help when you see that your family is overwhelmed. If you are a parent or in a relationship, do something for your partner like fixing something that's been broken, or making dinner for them. Find extra things to do around the house to alleviate your partner's stress.


Communicate with your family and ask them if there's anything else that needs to be done around the house.
A clean and organized house can actually boost your energy and make you happier.