 Conversation groups abound and are usually easily found with a simple Internet search or phone call to your local civic center or library. Train your ears to pick out what is being said. Even if you don't understand it, try to repeat what was said so you can begin to pick it apart and develop comprehension.
 Lots of Japanese people want to learn English, so you may be able to find some who are willing to help you in exchange for help in English. Simply having friends to trade notes with can help everyone improve their abilities.


Do things with your friends that involve language but aren't "study time." If your Japanese friends haven't lived in your country very long, show them around town. Go sightseeing. Remember, you have to blow off steam regularly or you'll get stressed out about all those Kanji you have to memorize. Having fun is the best way to accomplish two goals at the same time.
On the days when you don't have outings, call up a friend every day and have a half-hour conversation during which you speak only Japanese. The more practice you get, the faster you will improve.
 Whether it's the newspaper, a novel, a movie, or a show, read or watch Japanese language media every day. There is lots of TV content on the internet, from comedy to game shows to drama. Find something which fits your interests and learning will be much easier. Japanese newspapers will expose you to the most practical vocabulary and grammar. As you improve, read novels, which will give you a warmer style of writing. Mix things up by watching classic Japanese films and anime without subtitles, or with Japanese character subtitles.


Comic books (Manga) can make good reading material, but be aware that the level of sophistication varies greatly. A more mature, literary comic might be good practice (especially since the illustrations help you understand what you are reading), something intended for smaller children is likely to be full of sound effects and slang. Be careful about repeating what you've read in a comic book.
 This is simply the best way to practically apply what you have learned and learn more. It's a very exciting and unpredictable experience to immerse yourself in another culture, even for a short period. Even if you have researched exhaustively, actually experiencing a place will expose you to things you could never have imagined.


If you're enrolled in a college or university, ask about programs to study in Japan. This is one of the best ways to gain long-term exposure to Japanese language, and you may be eligible for financial aid.
Don't be discouraged if you do not understand everything that is said to you or you can't read or write as well as you expected. It takes many years to become fluent in another language. The intricacies and nuances of the Japanese language make it difficult to master, but they are also part of its beauty.

