 While your spouse’s child might be a painful reminder of the betrayal, don’t take your feelings out on them. Instead, remind yourself that they had nothing to do with the circumstances of their birth.In a way, you and the child were both affected by the affair because they were born into an illicit relationship that you were also negatively affected by. Remembering this may help you feel warmer towards the child.
Keep in mind that you will likely need some time to grieve before you can interact with the child in a positive way. Give yourself as much time as you need to grieve.
 Mentally reframe the situation by thinking of the child like you would if your spouse was married before. This can help you accept the situation and focus on the future.You might even remind yourself of this before you are in their presence. Say, "This child is from a previous relationship. They are just as much a part of my spouse's life as I am."

, All relationships take time and effort, and this one is no exception. Spend time with your spouse’s child regularly so you can get to know them. Try to let go of your expectations of what you think the relationship should be like and let it develop naturally. Find activities you can do together, and be available for them when they need love and support.If the child is a baby or toddler, playing with toys together is a simple and low-pressure way to connect with them.
Reading books or playing games together can be a good way to bond with older children.
 Make sure you and your spouse both understand how custody, child support, and other legal details work. Talk to a lawyer to make sure you understand your rights and what is expected of you.This is a precaution, as you may not need to go into the legalities. However, this is a wise step to take to protect your assets and be prepared if a custody battle occurs in the future.
 If you already have other children with your spouse, they will probably have to know about your spouse’s other child at some point. Before the new child becomes a part of your lives, talk with your spouse about how you’ll explain the situation to your kids.Explain the situation to your kids in an age-appropriate way.
If your children are very young, they will probably accept the presence of a “stepsister” or “stepbrother” without many questions.
Older children may require a more straightforward explanation. Be aware that older children may also get upset when they find out that one parent had an affair.
You might simply say, "This is your father's son from a previous relationship. He's your stepbrother." If further questions are tossed your way, decide how to answer on a case-by-case basis according to the kid's age and level of understanding.
Do not make the mistake of assuming your child will figure it out on their own as they get older. It is important for you to explain what happened.
 Don’t let your spouse shunt the responsibility of caring for their child onto you. Ask them to keep contributing as a parent as much as they can.If you end up caring for your spouse’s child more than they do, you might start resenting both of them.

