 Usually called ecstasy or Molly, this is the most popular club drug in most areas.Short-term symptoms (3–6 hours): a boost to energy, mood, empathy, and sexual arousal; increased heart rate; sometimes nausea, muscle cramping, chills, or sweating
Medium-term (up to 1 week): After coming down from ecstasy, users are often anxious, irritable, "spacey," or sad. They may have trouble sleeping and lose interest in food or sex.Long-term: It is not known how addictive MDMA is, but some users start taking it multiple times a week to prevent the medium-term symptoms above.
Additional info: User may show additional symptoms, since MDMA is often combined with other drugs.
 Also called acid, LSD is still one of the most common club drugs in use today.Short-term symptoms (up to 12 hours): Distorted perception and rapid emotional changes causes irrational behavior and makes coherent thought difficult. Can cause rapid heartbeat, sweating, tremors, enlarged pupils, or dizziness.Long-term: Some frequent users continue to experience disorganized thinking or other lingering effects even while off the drug. Some experience flashbacks, re-experiencing some aspects of the drug use., Meth is extremely addictive and dangerous, rapidly causing behavioral and physical changes:

Short-term symptoms (up to 12 hours): Increased, unpredictable activity, faster breathing and a faster, irregular heartbeat. They may experience tremors, dilated pupils, increased sweat, or many other physical symptoms.Medium-term: Binge users may stay high for 3 to 15 days at a time with little to no food or sleep. They are hyperactive throughout, but become more unpredictable and potentially violent toward the end. This is followed by up to three days of sleep.Long-term: Addicts can develop many obvious physical signs, such as sores, poor hygiene, an unhealthy pale complexion, and damaged teeth.
 Rohypnol or "roofies" are well-known as a date rape drug, but they are also taken intentionally. Since it is a sedative, its effects are significantly different from those of the stimulants and hallucinogens listed above:Short-term (a few hours): drowsiness, muscle relaxation, impaired motor function and mental abilities, confusion, aggression, or slurred speech.Amnesia and dizziness can last up to 12 hours.Long-term effects are unknown.

