 After you go shopping, grocery or apparel, you usually end up with a lot of bags. Gather them all up, stuff all of them inside one bag, and keep it under you sink, or in your closet, wherever! Then next time when you take Spot out for a walk, and he poops on the grass, just grab a couple of plastic bags to put it in!;
, Next time you write something down in a notebook, write it on the back of a used paper. Don't waste a new page. You can also place old paper (with only one side used) facing up in the printer, so you can use the back of the used paper instead of buying tons of printer paper each year. Environmentally and wallet friendly!

, Those regular bulbs you buy ARE NOT helping! The twisty bulbs called CFL's last longer, and use less energy, so you can spend a little less on light bulbs and electricity to make up for the higher price.
 Just keep a small tub somewhere in your home for used paper, at least. Then you can either drop it off at a recycling center when it gets full, or at a local school! Many schools have outside recycling dumpsters that you can use. It helps out the schools, because they get money back for all that they (and you) recycled. Helping a school and the environment? Nice.
 Buy a few ShamWows. They can be used to dry off your hands, body and even dry your hair. They also help with spills. So instead of using costly paper towels each month, or using up time, electricity, and money with a hair dryer, use a ShamWOW! (or a chamois...)

, People think just "turning off" appliances helps the light bill. Truth is, appliances still use power when they are plugged in. When you go on more than 2 day trips, try unplugging a few lamps, TVs, and other appliances. Your wallet will thank you.
 When brushing your teeth, turn the water on to wet/rinse the toothbrush, but as soon as the toothbrush leaves the water flow, turn it off! Every 3 minutes of running water = approx. a gallon. That gallon could have been used for a more needed purpose, such as for a kid in Africa who doesn't have clean drinking water! You can also try to reduce your showering time.
 If you do use bottled water, when the bottle is empty, refill it with tap water. CLEAN tap water, that is.

