 If you confront your boss in front of a room of people, this is likely to go over poorly. You do not want your boss to feel like you're intentionally embarrassing them. Always choose a private setting to talk over your concerns with your boss, such as your office or your boss's office., You want the conversation have a positive tone overall. Your boss should see this as an opportunity to improve the company rather than a personal failure. Therefore, begin with something positive.Tell your boss something you like about the situation. Note something that's working well for you and the company. No one wants to simply be told what they're doing wrong. Your boss will want to know what they're doing right as well.
For example, "You're doing an amazing job on the PR work for the after school programs this term. In fact, enrollment has increased by 25%, which is really going to increase profit this term."

, From there, you want to let your boss know you've heard their side. This way, you won't come off as ungrateful or argumentative. Acknowledge your boss's opinion in a respectful manner before moving forward.Even if you have a more in-depth knowledge of the area than your boss, never start off with something like, "This is my area of expertise, so I think I know what to do here."
Instead, say something like, "I understand you want to save some money by avoiding temps this term. I think that makes a lot of sense, as putting money towards marketing could increase enrollment even more this term."

, After acknowledging your boss's perspective, give a suggestion on a different route. Never phrase things in terms of commands, as this can seem disrespectful. Instead, present your boss with a suggestion for how to improve the company.Start off with something like, "I think there may be a better way to handle this." As you move forward, focus on the benefits of the company.
For example, "I think hiring one temp could handle the increase in enrollment. We often end up having secretaries do data entry, but that distracts them from dealing with parents. As we've had such a spike in enrollment, we're dealing with a lot more phone calls. I want to make sure our secretaries are able to leave our customers with a good impression of our company, and I worry data entry will distract them."

, You should never tell your boss, "You're wrong about this." You want to make sure your boss knows you still respect them, even though you're disagreeing. If you use the word "wrong" at all, exercise extreme caution.For example, you can say something like, "I noticed you had an estimate of how long data entry may take. I appreciate you taking the time to figure that out for us. However, I think this estimate may be incorrect based on how long data entry took on our end last term."
Remember to say "may be wrong" or "may be incorrect" instead of "is wrong" or "is incorrect."

