 Most glasses are generally 1.25 to 1.5 ounces. Use any shot glasses that you may have around the house, or pick some up at a local store where alcohol is sold. Clear glasses will best showcase the visual effect of this drink., This dark liqueur resembles the dark body of a Guinness, so it goes in first. If your shot glass is larger or smaller than 1.5 ounces, you can use a bit more or less; you'll want the coffee liqueur to make up about 2/3 of the drink.
 This lighter liqueur will resemble the foamy head of a Guinness. Holding a spoon over the top of the coffee liqueur and pouring the Irish cream over it may help it layer more evenly., Show off your pouring skills to your friends! They'll be impressed by the visual similarity to a Guinness and the shot's rich flavor.
 You'll need 1 packet of plain gelatin, 1 cup boiling water, 1/2 cup cold coffee, 1/2 cup coffee liqueur, 1 packet vanilla pudding, 1/2 cup cold milk and 1/2 cup Irish cream. You'll also need some small plastic cups for your shots.In a bowl, add one 3 oz. packet of plain gelatin and 1 cup of boiling water. Then, stir in 1/2 cup cold coffee and 1/2 cup cold coffee liqueur. This will form the dark coffee base of the jello shot.
Then, in a separate bowl, whisk together 1 packet of vanilla pudding, 1/2 cup cold milk and 1/2 cup Irish cream. This will form the cream top of the Baby Guinness.
Place cups on a tray or platter. Spoon the dark coffee mixture in first to fill 2/3 of the cup. Top carefully with the cream mixture to fill the rest of the cup.
Refrigerate for two hours, or until solid.
 The dark colored liqueur makes the shooter look like a Guinness, but a lighter colored liqueur can make your shot look more like a pint of ale or lager. Try a sweet liqueur like Amaretto or or Licor 43., A B-52 is another layered shot that also uses coffee liqueur and Irish cream. The only difference is that coffee liqueur makes up the bottom 1/3 layer, Irish cream makes up the second 1/3 layer, and a final 1/3 layer of Triple-sec is added on top.