 Your state law lays out the rules for evicting a tenant.In order to find your state law, type “your state” and “eviction” into an Internet search engine. Find your state’s law and look for the following:


How much advance notice you must give the tenant. Most states give tenants a chance to pay their rent and get caught up.
What the eviction notice must say. Usually, you must tell the tenant that he or she can stay in the apartment if back rent is paid.
How you must deliver the notice to the tenant. In most states, you can’t just slide it under the door. Instead, you will probably have to hand-deliver it or mail it to the tenant.;
, After reading your state law, you should draft your notice. This is called a “Pay Rent or Quit” Notice. Your state might tell you exactly what you have to put in the notice. Make sure to follow the requirements exactly.


Your state law might have different requirements depending on whether the tenant is a month-to-month tenant without a lease or a tenant with a lease.
In Maine, for example, a notice must include the following language: “If you pay the amount of rent due as of the date of this notice before this notice expires, then this notice as it applies to rent arrearage is void. After this notice expires, if you pay all rental arrears, all rent due as of the date of payment and any filing fees and service of process fees actually paid by the landlord before the writ of possession issues at the completion of the eviction process, then your tenancy will be reinstated.”, Your state law will also tell you how to deliver the notice. In many states you can mail the notice. However, some states will require that you personally deliver the notice to the tenant.If you don’t deliver the notice properly, then the tenant can raise this as a defense in an eviction lawsuit.
Make sure that you deliver the notice with enough advance notice. In most states, the tenant has three to five days to pay back rent.If your state requires that the tenant be given five days’ notice, don’t deliver it with only four days’ notice.
 Your state law probably requires that you accept the back rent if the tenant can scrape it together before the deadline in the notice. You shouldn’t try to avoid the tenant. Don’t refuse to open your door when the tenant comes knocking with the rent.


Realize that you can get rid of a problem tenant by not renewing their lease at the end of the lease term. However, as long as they come up with the rent before the deadline, then you are legally obligated to accept it.
 You might be tempted to change the locks on your tenant’s doors or cut off their utilities. State law prohibits you from engaging in any form of self-help. If you do, then the tenant could call the police on you and file a report.


Don’t change the locks or remove the tenant’s door.
Don’t cut off utilities.
Don’t use force or threaten to use force.
Don’t physically remove the tenant or the tenant’s property., You would probably benefit from meeting with an attorney to discuss the eviction process. An experienced landlord-tenant lawyer can look over your notice to see if it is sufficient. The lawyer can also answer any questions you have about the eviction process.


To find a landlord-tenant attorney, you can contact your state or local bar association, which should run a referral program.
Once you have a referral, call the lawyer and schedule a consultation. Most lawyers will offer half hour consultations for free or for a reduced price.
 You should be prepared to show the judge detailed financial records. You want to make sure that you don’t come across as a landlord who might have received a rent check but not have properly credited it to the tenant.


Go through your financial records and make sure that the tenant didn’t pay rent.
Print out spreadsheets which show that the tenant made payment in the past and when. You might need to go through your bank statements and find the dates.
 You should also go through all of your communications with the tenant. Look for emails or letters the tenant sent you. Also read your responses. Look to see if you gave the tenant permission to be late with the rent.


The tenant might also claim that she withheld rent because of a serious defect in the apartment, such as a broken toilet or lack of water pressure. Check to see if you received any kind of notice.
If the tenant did contact you about needing repairs, then he or she might have a valid claim for not paying rent. In some states, a tenant can withhold rent if you fail to make necessary repairs.Show your lawyer any communication you received from the tenant about necessary repairs. Depending on your state law, you might not be able to evict if you have refused to make repairs.
 Some large cities have housing courts where you can bring eviction lawsuits. In most other places, you can sue in small claims court. Small claims courts are designed so that you don’t need to have a lawyer represent you.Also, the process is more informal.


Check to see if your city or county has a housing court or a small claims court. If you are unsure, you can stop into the courthouse and ask.
If you have a lawyer and want to file in regular civil court, then you can choose to do so.
 You start the eviction lawsuit by filing a “complaint” with the court. A complaint is a legal document that identifies you and the tenant. It also explains the facts that have led to the eviction.


Most housing and small claims courts have printed “fill in the blank” forms that you can use. Ask the court clerk.
Even many regular civil courts have printed forms as well. If no form is available, then ask the court clerk if there is a sample complaint you can use as a guide.
You might have to hire a lawyer if no sample is available.
 Type neatly with dark ink, or use a typewriter. Each form will ask for slightly different information, but each should generally ask for the following:your name and address
the tenant’s name and address
the amount of rent and when it was due
the date you gave the tenant the “Pay Rent or Quit” Notice
any amount of back rent you want to sue for

, Make several copies of the complaint and take all copies, along with the original, to the court clerk. Ask to file the original. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You will have to pay a filing fee, which will vary depending on the court. Ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of payment.
 You have to give the tenant notice of the eviction lawsuit. Unfortunately, you typically can’t just hand-deliver it to the tenant yourself. Instead, your court will have specific rules for delivering service. You should ask the court clerk for acceptable methods of service.


Typically, you will need someone to hand-deliver the notice to the tenant. You can often pay the sheriff to make personal service on the tenant, or you can hire a private process server.You can find process servers in the phone book or on the Internet. They typically charge $45-75 per service.
You might also be able to have anyone 18 or older who is not a part of the lawsuit hand-deliver the notice.In some courts, you can mail the complaint to the tenant.
 Whoever makes service on the tenant needs to complete a “proof of service” or equivalent form. The purpose of this form is to show the judge that service was made on the tenant. You can get the form from the court clerk to give to your server.


After service is made, the server completes the form and returns it to you. You must then file it with the court.Keep a copy of all court documents for your own records.
 The tenant might fight the eviction. If so, he or she will file an “answer” in the court. In the answer, the tenant admits or denies the allegations in your complaint. The tenant may also state a reason why the eviction is illegal.


For example, the tenant might claim that you have engaged in illegal discrimination on the basis of race, sex, disability, sexual orientation, religion, etc. If you are accused of discrimination, then you should meet with a lawyer. A discrimination charge is serious, and you need to begin building a defense as soon as possible.
The tenant might also claim that he or she withheld rental payments because something is wrong with the apartment. Often, your state law will not allow a tenant to withhold rent. Even if the law allows it, the tenant usually has to notify you and give you a chance to make the repairs.If the tenant never gave you notice, then this is usually a weak defense.
 On the day of your hearing, you should arrive early. Give yourself enough time to find parking at the courthouse and to go through any security. Bring copies of all documents that you filed in the lawsuit.


As the landlord bringing the unlawful detainer suit, you will present your evidence first. In small claims court or housing court, the presentation may be fairly informal. Tell the judge that the tenant hasn’t paid rent. You can also ask the judge if he or she would like to see your records or the “Pay Rent or Quit” Notice.
The judge might ask you some questions. Always wait for the judge to stop talking before answering. Be sure to call the judge “Your Honor.”
Listen to the tenant’s side of the story. You can’t interrupt. If the tenant says that he withheld rent because you didn’t perform repairs, then tell the judge that you never received notice that repairs were needed (if this is the truth).
 You will get a “warrant of eviction” if you win the lawsuit. It is a court order that the tenancy has been terminated and the tenant can be evicted. It may go by a different name in your court.


You can’t evict the tenant yourself. Instead, most states will require that you contact the sheriff. Take your warrant of eviction to the sheriff and possibly pay a fee. The sheriff will then notify the tenant of the eviction date and supervise the removal of the tenant.If the tenant disappears but leaves his or her property behind, then you need to read your state’s laws to find out what steps to take next. See Handle a Tenant's Abandoned Property for more information.

