 It's unlikely that you won't notice a stye if you have one. Styes commonly cause some level of pain and discomfort. However, because other eye conditions can also be associated with eye pain, it's important to assess the affected eye for telltale stye symptoms if you're experiencing pain. If your symptoms are not consistent with those of a stye, see a doctor to determine treatment options. The following are common initial symptoms of a stye:Redness, tenderness, swelling, and pain in the eyelid.
A small, irritated bump on the eyelid or at the base of an eyelid
Irritation and/or watering of the affected eye
Sensitivity to light
Discomfort when blinking\Sore or a shooting pain when you blink
The presence of a small yellowish spot at the center of the stye (this represents pus rising to the surface of the stye);
, Styes are identified by their appearance and symptoms alone.There is no medical test for styes.This can sometimes make it difficult to tell the difference between a stye and a chalazion. Chalazia are related to styes, but they are caused when a meibomian gland -- an oil-producing gland in your eyelid -- experiences a blockage and becomes inflamed.Though they may appear superficially similar, chalazia have several qualities that differentiate them from styes. These include the following:Unlike styes, chalazia often don't hurt.
Chalazia usually occur on the inside of the eyelid, rather than along its edge.
Chalazia progress more slowly than styes. They will usually form more gradually and can last for several months before disappearing
Chalazia can grow larger than styes. If they grow large enough, they can even inhibit vision.
Though most chalazia eventually go away, persistent chalazia may require surgery to remove.
 The vast majority of styes will disappear within a day or two and don't require you to visit a doctor. However, in severe cases, styes can be particularly painful and debilitating. They may even progress into a more serious infection. See your doctor if your stye:Shows no signs of improving within 48 hours
Causes your vision to change or worsen
Has an excessive amount of discharge and/or a discharge that seems to change over time
Causes intense pain that keeps you from performing your everyday activities

