 When you skip meals, you will more likely overeat during your next meal, or be tempted to overindulge in unhealthy foods due to extreme hunger.


Eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner daily, and snack on healthy foods such as fruits, nuts, and granola in between meals.





;
, When you arrive to a holiday event with a full stomach, you will less likely overeat or over-indulge in sweets, alcohol, and other unhealthy foods.
 Vegetable platters, fruit cocktails, and mixed nuts are examples of healthy dishes you can bring to parties to avoid having to resort to eating junk food and other unhealthy snacks.


If you are not required to bring a dish to a party, bring small bags of healthy snacks with you instead to help curb your cravings. For example, bring a bag of carrot sticks or almonds.
 Using plates will help you keep track of the amount of food you eat in one sitting; especially since eating finger foods and community dishes (such as chips and dip) can cause you to lose track of the amount of food you eat.
 You can still enjoy your favorite sweets during the holidays if you eat smaller portions to avoid weight gain. For example, eat 1 cookie instead of 3 cookies, or cut a slice of cake or pie in half.


Substitute your favorite sweets or sugary snacks with low-fat alternatives when possible. For example, consume real fruit instead of sugary fruit-flavored snacks, or eat a small piece of dark chocolate instead of milk chocolate.
 Alcoholic beverages such as wine or beer are often high in calories and can cause you to gain weight when consumed excessively. For example, buy a specific brand of beer that contains a fewer amount of calories, or drink 1 glass of wine instead of 2 or 3 glasses.
 Sometimes, you may be tempted to overeat when you linger by the food table at a holiday parties, or if you become bored or restless at certain events.


Drink additional glasses of water if you feel like you want to keep eating after you are full, or eat healthy snacks such as fruit or vegetables when you want to continue snacking or eating.
 Some individuals experience weight gain during the holidays from eating their favorite meals laden with unhealthy ingredients. For example, use egg whites instead of whole eggs when baking, or use skim-milk instead of whole milk in all recipes.

