 Your upper receiver may already have this installed, if so, you may skip this step. If not, follow the instructions below on how to install the ejection port cover:


Place the upper receiver on its left side.
Prepare the hinge pin. To do this, use your needle nose pliers to install the snap ring under the cut on the hinge pin.
Install the pin where the clip is located on your lower receiver.
Next lay your ejection port cover into position on your lower receiver. Slide the hinge pin into the first cover holes. Pause when at the middle to install the spring.

To properly install the spring, you will need to twist the spring 180 degrees to insure the right tension. Places the twisted spring onto the hinge pin, and install one leg of the spring into the notch in the ejection port cover.


Slide the hinge pin the rest of the way, through the second set of holes in the ejection-port cover, and into the receiver. Your ejection port cover is now assembled. Test it, it should snap shut and spring open.
 First, clean the surface of your barrel and the threaded area of the upper receiver. You can clean them with gunscrubber or brake part cleaner. Next apply a little molybdenum-disulfide grease to the threads of the upper receiver.
 The delta ring is a collar like fastener around the barrel . Most of the time your barrel will already have the delta ring installed, as part of the barrel nut assembly. The barrel nut assembly consists of the barrel nut, delta ring, weld springs, and snap ring. If your receiver does not already have this assembly, here is how to install the barrel nut assembly:


Put the delta ring on the barrel, with the tapered end of the delta ring facing the muzzle.
Push the tapered end of the delta ring over the back end of the barrel nut.
Place the weld spring assembly over the barrel nut shank.
Install the snap ring behind the weld spring. Push the snap ring forward so that it compresses the weld springs, and use snap ring pliers to snap the ring around the barrel nut shank. Once this is done your barrel has a completed barrel nut assembly and you can continue.
 Before starting, clamp your barrel into your barrel vise block; or alternatively, wrap your barrel in a length of rope and clamp the rope-protected barrel into a bench vise.


Once in the vice, place a crush washer over the muzzle threads. Note that the tapered end of the crush washer should face the muzzle. Tighten the flash suppressor by hand as far as possible.
Next with the barrel still securely fastened within the vise, use a barrel wrench to tighten the suppressor firmly into place.

Note, if using an A2 suppressor, make sure that the bottom of the suppressor is properly timed. An A2 suppressor when properly installed will have no slots at the barrel's 6 o'clock position. However, if you are using an A1 suppressor, just tighten it so that the wrench flat lies in the horizontal position.
 Look for the locator stud or "barrel stud" on the barrel. This stud will fit into a notch on the upper receiver called the "receiver notch". Slide the barrel into the upper receiver so that the barrel stud engages the receiver notch.


Make sure that the stud and notch are aligned. If the stud and notch are aligned, the front and rear sights should also align.
If there is any play in the notch/stud alignment, do your best to line up the front sight with the rear sight.
If the alignment is not ideal, you may choose to file the notch a little to achieve optimal alignment of the front and rear sights. However, you should not cut anything to make the alignment to work.
 Be careful that you do not cross thread or strip your nut. Use your armorer's tool or fingers to snug the nut. Do not tighten all the way just yet.


Check that the spring and the snap ring are aligned. If they are not aligned, use a small screwdriver to align the weld spring and snap ring. They need to be aligned so that the gas tube can slide through.
If the alignment is good, then proceed to secure the barrel nut. Continue to tighten the barrel nut to 50–70 foot (15.2–21.3 m) pounds with a barrel nut wrench or armorer's tool until the lugs line up with the gas tube hole in the receiver.
To keep the spring/snap assembly from spinning as you tighten the nut, insert a short piece of gas tube or a 3/16" bar into the receiver.
 Make sure your gas tube is correctly orientated. The side of the gas tube that is drilled for the retaining roll pin should be nearest to the muzzle.


Slide the gas tube towards the front sight block. Then slide the gas tube through the barrel nut assembly and into the upper receiver.
Once the rear of the gas tube is inside the upper receiver. Grasp the front of the gas tube and pull it forward. Insert the front of the gas tube into the front sight block.
Make sure that the gas tube hole faces down over the gas port.
Align the gas tube so that the gas tube roll pin holes line up with the roll pin holes on the side of the front sight block. Pick up the roll pin with a toothpick and start it into the front sight roll pinhole. Use the roll pin punch and a small hammer to gently tap the pin home. The gas tube is now installed.
 Push back on the delta ring. You may need a friend to help you push down on the delta ring and install the handguards. Alternatively, you may tap the handguards in place with a rubber hammer. But be gentle if you use a hammer.
 Before you assemble your lower and upper receivers you want to check your upper receiver assembly, specifically the bolt carrier.


Take the bolt carrier and slide it back and forth inside the upper receiver. If you have done everything correctly the bolt carrier will slide back and forth effortlessly. If the bolt carrier key binds against the gas tube, then something is wrong. If there is binding, then you will need to disassemble your upper receiver and start over. If the bolt carrier slides back and forth freely, then you can continue to the final assembly.
 Your upper receiver is now complete or assembled, and ready for an assembled lower receiver.

