 Secure the ponytail with a hair tie, preferably one that matches your hair color. Make sure that the hair going into the ponytail is smooth.This style works best on longer hair.
 You want to have a top section and a bottom section. Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to divide the ponytail, if needed., Bring the bun maker all the way down to the base of the ponytail. Clip the hair in the bun maker out of the way for now.Use a large bun maker that matches your hair color.
Bun makers look like doughnuts, except that they are made out of a spongy, netted material

, Split the bottom half of the ponytail into three sections. Cross the left and right sections over the middle one until you reach the end of your hair. Secure the braid with a clear hair elastic. This part of the style is now complete.

If you have thin hair, gently tug on the outer loops forming the braid to fluff it up and give it some volume.
 Unclip the upper half of the ponytail. Use your hands to smooth the hair around the bun maker so that it is no longer visible. Slide a clear hair elastic over the bun, pinching the hair underneath it.If you can't cover the bun maker completely with your hair, switch to a smaller size.
 Your hair will be coming out from under the bun maker after the previous step. Gather all that hair, and pull it towards the back of your head. Split this hair into three sections., When you are done, you should have three mini braids coming out of the back of your bun. Secure each braid with a clear hair elastic.It might be a good idea to clip the other sections out of the way while you work on the braids.
 Take the right mini braid. Pull it upward and wrap it counterclockwise around the top part of the bun. Make sure that the center of the bun is still visible. Tuck the end of the braid down against the bun, then secure everything with bobby pins.Use bobby pins that match your hair color.
 Bring the middle mini braid upward, and wrap it counterclockwise around the bun, just below top braid. Tuck the end down, as before, and secure everything with bobby pins., Take the final mini braid. Wrap it counterclockwise around the base of the bun. Try to cover the gap between the middle braid and your head. Tuck the tail under the bun, then secure everything with bobby pins., You are now ready to attend important ceremonies and award those who helped you save the galaxy!