 You may be tempted to fill the entire space of a poster from edge to edge, but this causes the poster to be cluttered. People are more likely to pass by a poster that looks cluttered than one that has a clean, eye-catching focus.It’s okay to make your poster elaborate, but don’t fill the entire space of the poster.
 If your poster is for a club, a store, a band, or anything else that has a recognizable logo, be sure to put it on your poster. Use images to enhance the poster but don’t let them overwhelm the poster.This principle applies to slogans, characters, or symbols as well. Anything that people would recognize as being associated with the brand.
For example, Coca-Cola has used polar bears in their branding for a long time, so if you saw a red poster with a polar bear, your mind might think Coke even if it wasn’t written on the poster.
For posters that present research you’ve done, it’s good to include a picture of yourself so people can link your name and project to your face.
 The goal of your poster is to give information quickly and effectively. Don’t hide the important details of the poster in a large text block that takes someone 30 seconds to read. Separate content into smaller chunks, or reduce the total number of words.Three separate blocks that each contain a few similar pieces of information are more effective than one large block. You can even use boxes or borders to separate these blocks of text.
It’s possible that a poster with the bare minimum of information will stand out even more because it will seem mysterious but direct.
 Use a few bright colors that go well together. Stick to just a few colors unless you have a specific purpose for using more. Too many colors will be overwhelming. Use a text color that is easy to read and make sure it contrasts well with whatever is behind it.


If you think most of the other posters around your will use black ink, make a bold choice and use a sharp blue. If the color seems hard to read, adjust the font and the font size to make it more readable.
Using a bunch of colors to depict a vivid scene is fine as long as it doesn’t take away from the message you need the poster to convey.
Borders or boxes that separate content can be a great way to use color and still keep the poster neat and ordered.

