 Sometimes, you'll be owed a sum of money by the government, which doesn't try very hard to make you aware of your right to collect. As many as a billion dollars a year go unclaimed as a result of pensions, tax returns, investments, and other reasons. If you think you may be owed some money, you can learn where to look and how to collect it.Technically, this is money that is already yours. You can't claim money on the behalf of someone else who doesn't collect it, unless you're named as a beneficiary. Each type of money will be different, however, and vary state-to-state.
You can search by the state you live in, to find unclaimed money, by clicking here.
 If you were laid off, or your company went out of business, you might be owed a pension that you're unaware of. Unclaimed pensions can be searched via the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) website, by searching for the name of the employer, or the name of the business., In some cases, you may have had tax money withheld from your paychecks, but were not required to pay taxes because of your particular bracket. In this case, you're owed a tax refund that you may not be aware of. You can check the status of your return from any year, and find all the proper forms and instructions on the Forms and Publications page of the IRS website. You can also call 800-TAX-FORM (800-829-3676)., If at any point you've held a Federal Housing Authority (FHA) insured mortgage, you may be eligible for a refund from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). To find out if you're owed a refund, you can contact the department at (800) 697-6967, or email at sf_premiums@hud.gov.


It's also possible to search for your case number and name on their website directly., A common Internet-era scam is to pretend to be some kind of government agency issuing refunds or unclaimed returns, in exchange for a particular "tax" or other fee. If you're ever asked to pay feeds up front to earn your "winnings" for any type of unclaimed return, this is a scam.Federal employees and agencies never require up-front payments for owed money.


Never pay for a prize, including a "lottery" or a fake debt. Never wire money to anyone you don't know.

