 Your doctor should know before you give birth if you’ve been taking medications – both over-the-counter and prescription medications. Communicate clearly and directly about medications you are or have been taking recently. Your doctor will be able to let you know if the drug is safe, unsafe, or probably safe, and advise you how to proceed accordingly.For instance, if you’ve been taking medication before giving birth, say to your doctor, “I have been taking medication.” Your doctor will then ask you what medication you’ve been taking. Provide your doctor with an honest reply.
Most medications are safe to take while breastfeeding.For instance, most antibiotics, diabetes medications, acid-reflux medications, and sleep aids are generally safe.;
, If you have pain following your birth, you might need to use medication to manage it. Certain medical procedures related to your birth – such as C-sections, cuts or tears in the vaginal area, or related surgeries – could necessitate pain medications. In these cases, your doctor will prescribe pain medication in doses that you can take safely while breastfeeding.If you’re taking medication unrelated to pain or surgery caused by the birthing process, ask your doctor if it’s safe to take. For instance, you might show your doctor the medication bottle and ask, “Is this medication safe to take?”
Ask your doctor if there are alternatives to taking medication that you might be able to explore.For instance, you might ask, “Are there alternatives to this medication that would achieve similar results?”

, Always take medication in the amount prescribed. For instance, if your medication recommends taking two pills twice each day, do not take three pills twice each day.Additionally, take medication as frequently as prescribed.For instance, if the medicine you’ve been prescribed directs you to take it twice each day, do not take it three times each day. Doing so would not be in accordance with the medicine’s directions.
Using medicine in a way that is not prescribed could be unsafe for both you and your new baby.
 The medication levels in your body – and, therefore, in your breast milk – will typically be at their lowest right before you consume another dose. Therefore, the best time to breastfeed your baby is right before taking your medication.While this is true in most cases, it is not true in every case. Always discuss the timing of your feedings relative to your medications with your doctor., Many medications cannot be safely taken with other medicines, even if they are over-the-counter medicines like Tylenol or Motrin. Read the warning labels on your medication carefully when breastfeeding.