 Choose a car insurance broker that is registered with the British Insurance Brokers’ Association (BIBA).Car insurance brokers facilitate the match between potential customers and insurance companies. According to BIBA, “all car insurance brokers must be independent and are obliged to champion consumer interests first and foremost.”;
, If you prefer to contact each insurer individually, search for the individual companies online. According to surveys conducted by Money.co.UKand Defaqto.com,some of the top-rated car insurers are:


ASDA
As
Aviva
Admiral
Coutts & Co.
GoCompare
Liverpool Victoria
Sainbury’s Bank
John Lewis Insurance
More>Than
eCar

, The lowest price does not necessarily mean you’re getting the best deal. In fact, the lower the premium, the higher the chances are that you are getting minimal coverage, a high deductible or both. A high deductible can considerably lower your monthly cost of car insurance, but you must determine if you can afford to pay the deductible up front should you get into an accident. Look for multiple discounts that apply to you and the vehicle you drive:


Anti-theft devices, such as alarms and immobilisers
Tracking devices
Garage or car park access
Voluntary excess
Marital status
Multiple car discounts
Combining car and home insurance under the same policy

, Some companies provide additional discounts for young drivers if certain conditions are met, such as completion of a safe driving course, a good academic record and low annual mileage. Some companies have introductory offers for women who are purchasing car insurance for the first time, but who have been named drivers on another policy (as long as those were claim-free years.)

,
Don't accept your renewal quote, shop around and get a new customer deal.
If you want to pay monthly for your insurance then check if you are being charged for the privilege, an insurance that does not charge for you to pay monthly could work out slightly cheaper than one that does.
Get as many quotes as you possibly can, start with the comparison sites and then check out the companies that do not do business with the comparison sites , companies like Direct Line and Aviva.
Allow plenty of time when renewing your car insurance as insurance companies have been known to increase the premiums as you get closer to the time when you want your insurance to start. 28 days before you want your insurance to start is a good time scale.
Finding your correct job title can have a large effect on your premium costs.If your a homemaker don't put that you are unemployed, otherwise you will pay higher premiums.
If you have a driveway or garage, use it, and make sure you tell the insurance company that you are obtaining a quote from.
Don't assume that a third party (TP) only policy is cheaper. The insurance companies may think you are a higher risk if you only want third party cover, so check out prices for third party, fire and theft (TPFT) as well.
If you think that a friend or member of family may drive your car and they could be seen by insurers as a lower risk , then try adding them to your policy as a named driver and you could save a few more pounds.
Do not overestimate your annual mileage. If you don't know how many miles you travel per year then take a look at your last m.o.t. certificate.
If you have a special requirement , like a modified or very expensive car then check out specialist insurance brokers like Adrian Flux or Quotezone.
If you do finally find a good deal and it's on a comparison site, then contact the insurer directly and see if you can get an even better deal.

