 Draw a jellybean shape either on paper or using an online drawing program. If you do it on paper, use thicker paper or thin card. If you draw it online, print it out. Use this as the template for your other invitations; cut out the shape, then hold it over colored cardboard and draw around the shape. Repeat as often as you need invitations.


Inside, write the date, place and time, along with letting the guest know that this is a "Jellybean sleepover" and to bring along anything jellybean related if they'd like. Make bringing something optional, just in case this isn't easy for the guest. Also ask the guests to bring a sleeping bag, their PJs, toothbrush and a fresh change of clothes for the following day.;
, Use all the possible colors that jellybeans come in, there is not need to skimp!

, Draw or print out jellybean images. Use these to create such decorations as:


A garland or bunting made from jellybean images.
Posters with jellybeans all over them.
Hang streamers. Staple or glue the jellybean images to them.
 For example, you could have plastic jellybean figurines, money boxes or stuffed toys shaped as jellybeans as centerpieces, hanging decorations or just sitting around and adding to the theme.
 Stick pretty flowers into the jellybeans just before guests arrive. The flowers will last that night without water. Pull the flowers out the next day and put in water again.


Discard the jellybeans unless you are absolutely sure that the flower stems used are not toxic.
 This isn't essential but it's a nice way to say goodbye to your guests the next day and leave them with a cute memento and something sweet to chew on.
 Scoop out ice cream into a bowl. Stuff Jelly Belly beans into the scoops of ice cream. These make a great dessert or snack.


Good combinations include: Chocolate pudding with chocolate ice cream, tutti frutti with vanilla ice cream and cherry with chocolate ice cream.
 This can be eaten as a snack during any part of the sleepover.
 Make a cake, any kind, from round and square to stacked. Frost it, then completely cover it with jellybeans. This looks most effective when decorated in different ribbon layers of colors, like a rainbow.
 Add a spoon to each one. Arrange them across a buffet or snack table. Let the participants help themselves as they wish.
 Choose a favorite plain sugar/butter cookie recipe. Throw in 1/2 to 1 cup of jellybeans into the batter (depending on how much batter you have). Bake as per the recipe. The presence of the jellybeans inside the cookies will delight the sleepover guests.



Make a sugar cookie dough. Instead of making cookies, roll out the dough, then spread it across a standard or small pizza pan. If wished, line the pan with parchment paper to make it easy to remove the "pizza". Bake at the temperature suggested by the recipe, for about 7 to 10 minutes. Keep an eye on it; remove when it starts to brown.
Cover the top of the pizza with frosting (once the crust has cooled). A cream cheese frosting works really well.
Sprinkle with jellybeans. The color combination is entirely your choice (or ask the party girl or boy for a choice).
Place in the refrigerator. This helps the frosting to set. Cover to prevent fridge odors.
Serve whole for effect, then cut into slices. The kids will love it.



Buy lots of differently flavored types of jellybeans. The more, the merrier.
Place all of the jellybeans into a large bowl. Choose a bowl that can withstand being on the floor or being accidentally knocked by excited sleepover participants.
Blindfold each contestant.
Take turns in trying random jellybeans. The blindfolded tasters have to guess the flavor they're eating.
Have a referee keep a check on both the type of jellybean and its flavor. This person can also keep tabs on correct answers.
Tally up who gave the most correct answers. This person is the winner. Give a prize, such as a box of jellybeans.



Buy lots of different colors and/or flavors of jellybeans. Try to get both large and small ones.
Tip the jellybeans into a large bowl. Choose a bowl that can withstand being on the floor or being accidentally knocked by excited sleepover participants.
Write the colors and/or flavors of the jellybeans on lots of small pieces of paper. Toss these into a different bowl.
Have the participants choose a piece of paper. They have 5 seconds to find either the color or flavor of jellybean in the bowl. Everyone else counts down and then yells stop.
Each participant places the amount won into a candy bag or box, for keeps.
Continue until they're all gone. Participants can have fun seeing who managed to get the most.



Fill a jar or glass container with jellybeans, counting them as you go. Keep a note of the total amount of jellybeans.
Have all guests guess how many jellybeans are in the jar. Don't make this a timed game; instead, leave it out all night and the next morning for frequent observation. Let everyone know that they need to get their guesses in by a set time next morning.
Announce the amount of jellybeans the next morning. Award the entire jar to the person who got the most guesses. If that turns out to be your own child, be ready to scoop even amounts out into everyone's goodie bags, to avoid favoritism.
 For example, either the old or newer version of Charlie and The Chocolate Factory.



Measure the wrist. Participants could measure each other's wrists. Cut a length of embroidery yarn to reach this measurement with about an inch extra for tying a knot at the end.
Use a thick needle, such as a basting needle, to push a hole through the center of each jellybean. Younger children must have an adult do the needle pushing, but older children should be fine provided you've talked it through first.
The needles will need constant wiping in water to remove the sticky candy; have a bowl of water and paper towels to dry the needles as you go.
Thread the cut strand of embroidery yarn through a small needle. Push this through the hole to add the thread.
Keep adding the jellybeans until the bracelet is formed.
Tie a knot to keep the bracelet in place. The participants can eat off the jellybeans any time they like.

