 Locate the Find My iPhone application on your second iPhone or your friend’s iPhone. It is the icon of a green radar. Tap on it to launch it.


If you or your friend doesn’t have the app yet, download it for free from the App Store.;
, Find My iPhone needs your iCloud to access your lost device. Enter your iCloud ID and its password in the “Apple ID” and “Password” fields, respectively. These fields are located under the Find My iPhone logo of the app’s welcome screen. Once done, tap the arrow in the password field. It will take you to the home page of your iCloud.
 After signing in, Find My iPhone will display a list of devices connected with your iCloud account. Choose the misplaced or lost iPhone by tapping on it from the list. Find My iPhone will start locating it.
 You will see its location on your iPhone screen when the process is completed. You can view the battery status of the chosen device at the top right of the screen.
 “Play Sound” can be used when you have placed your iPhone somewhere nearby but you don’t remember where. Tapping on “Play Sound” will make your device ring at its maximum volume so that you can find it by following the sound.
 This is useful when you think you have lost your iPhone and somebody could pick it up. Selecting “Lost Mode” will ask you for a new passcode for the lost iPhone. Enter a 4-digit PIN in the field provided, and re-enter the pin to confirm it.


Afterwards, you will be asked to type in your contact number. Tap the “Next” button when you’re done.
The next screen will show you a message that will be displayed on your lost iPhone’s screen. You can edit the message by tapping on it. Once you’ve personalized the message, tap “Done.” Find My iPhone will lock your iPhone and display your message on the screen along with your contact number. The person who has your iPhone won’t be able to access it without entering the passcode, but will be able to call you on the number you have provided.
 If you think you have lost your iPhone and believe you will not get it back, you can use this function as a safety measure. “Erase iPhone” will delete all the data of your iPhone so that no one can access or misuse the personal information saved on your iPhone.