 This is located at the top of the left frame, and the icon looks like a silhouette with a “+” sign.;
, You can search by name, Skype username, or email address. The person you are searching for must be a registered Skype user.
 You may encounter more than one result, especially if you are searching by real name. If you are having difficulties locating the person you are trying to add, ask them for their Skype username or the email address they registered with.
 Once you’ve found the person that you want to add in the results list, click their name and then click the “Add to Contacts” button in the upper right corner. A window will open with a message to the person you are adding. You can personalize the message if you’d like.
 Before you can see the person’s status, they will need to accept your friend request. Once they have accepted your request, the status icon will change from a question mark.
 If you’d like to import all of your contacts from another program, you can use the Import Contacts function. You can import contacts from Facebook, Outlook, and a variety of international webmail services.


Click the Contacts menu and select Import Contacts.
Select the service that you want to import from.
Enter the username and password for that service. Skype claims to not save any passwords.
Skype will display everyone from your imported list that has a Skype account. To import them all, click the “Add contacts” button. If you’d like to omit anyone, uncheck the box next to their name.
Choose to send a message to everyone that doesn’t have Skype. Skype will offer to email everyone on your list that doesn’t have a Skype account. You can click the Skip button to bypass this step.
Your added contacts will not display a status until they accept your request.
 If you are using a computer with a mouse, move the mouse to the bottom of the screen. Tap or click the “Add contact” button in the bottom right corner.
 You can search by name, Skype username, or email address. Enter the search into the field in the upper right and click the magnifying glass button.
 Tap or click the contact that you would like to add and then tap the “Add to contacts” button.


You can add a personalized message to your contact request if you would like. Tap send to send off the invite.
 Tap “Add people”.
 You can search by the person’s name, Skype username, email address, or phone number. Tap the magnifying glass symbol or press Enter on your keyboard to search.
 Once you have found the person that you want to add, tap the search result and then tap the “+” icon to add them to your contact list.
 You have the option of customizing the contact request text. You can send the invite with the default text if you’d like.
 You will be presented with your contact lists. Select the list that you want to add the contact to.
 This is located in the top right corner of the screen and looks like a silhouette with a “+” next to it.
 You can “Search Skype Directory”, “Save a Phone Number”, or “Import from iPhone”.


”Search Skype Directory” allows you to search for users by their name, Skype username, or email address. You will be presented with a list of search results after you enter your search. Tap the result that you want to add and then click the “Add Contact” button. You will be given the opportunity to customize the invitation text.
”Save a Phone Number” allows you to enter someone’s name and phone number and then add them to your contacts list. You can then call them using your Skype credits.
”Import from iPhone” allows you to import your contacts from your iPhone and add their numbers to your Skype contacts. This will only add names and phone numbers, and will not add the person as a Skype user.