 Wellbutrin is usually very effective at controlling symptoms of depression. Generally, those taking the drug should continue it to help manage the respective depression or disorder unless directed otherwise by a care provider; however, there are a few good reasons to discontinue or change the therapy, including:


If you experience severe or continuous side effects
If your depression or disorder is not under control with Wellbutrin. For example, your depression may not be adequately controlled if you have persistent sad, anxious or empty feelings, irritability, loss of interest in pleasurable activities or hobbies, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, sleep disturbances such as insomnia or excessive sleeping, appetite changes, thoughts of suicide, or physical aches and pains.It is important to note that Wellbutrin generally takes up to eight weeks to fully work and may require dosage increases.If you have been on Wellbutrin for a while (six to 12 months) and your doctor feels that you are not at risk for (or do not have) chronic or recurrent depression;
, Some mild side effects of the medication can include: nausea, dry mouth, drowsiness, weight loss, insomnia, anxiety, changes in taste, frequent urination, and uncontrollable shaking. Let your doctor know if any of these side effects are severe or do not go away.


Serious side effects include seizures, hallucinations, irregular heartbeat, or allergic reactions. Stop taking Wellbutrin, and call your doctor right away if you experience any serious side effects.
Ideas of suicide may present in younger adults and children. Let your doctor know right away if you have thoughts related to suicide.
 Discuss your reasons for wanting to stop taking Wellbutrin with your doctor. Inform your doctor if you feel you don't need medication any longer, have trouble with side effects, or feel that your medication is not working after waiting the initial eight weeks for it to fully work. This will help your doctor make an informed decision and decide if the time is right for you to stop taking Wellbutrin.
 Antidepressants need to be slowly discontinued with gradual decrease in doses to avoid discontinuation symptoms. This is called tapering. Wellbutrin is usually tapered for approximately two weeks before stopping the medication completely. If you stop right away or go “cold turkey,” your body does not have enough time to adjust, and you may experience worse discontinuation symptoms. Note that these symptoms may be different than the SSRI discontinuation symptoms, or those of other antidepressants. Symptoms can occur within hours to three days after discontinuation and may include:Abdominal issues such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or cramps
Sleep issues such as insomnia or nightmares
Balance issues such as dizziness or lightheadedness
Sensory or movement issues such as numbness, tingling, tremors, and lack of coordination
Feelings of irritability, agitation, or anxiety
This constellation of symptoms is sometimes called "discontinuation syndrome"

, The length of time it takes to completely stop taking Wellbutrin may depend on how long you were on the medication and the dose you were prescribed. Your doctor will determine the best way to taper Wellbutrin.


The usual target dose of Wellbutrin according to the manufacturer is 300 mg per day in the form of 150 mg twice daily (with a maximum dose at 400mg per day as 200 mg twice daily);however, your specific prescription may vary. Always follow prescribed dosages.
The standard reduction schedule for patients at the target dosage of 300 mg daily is to reduce to 200 mg at the first reduction, followed by subtracting 50 mg on subsequent reductions;however, the amount of time and dosage between reductions will ultimately depend on your first initial reaction to the first reduction, which your doctor will monitor closely to help your determine the best reduction schedule for you. The process can take anywhere from weeks to months depending on the individual patient.For regular, immediate release tablets your doctor may recommend cutting the tablet to change the dose; however, it is important to note that Wellbutrin is usually prescribed as a longer-acting tablet. With extended or sustained release formulations, you cannot cut the tablets. Tapering these formulations may include having to prescribe lower dose tablets or taking the same dose at longer intervals such as every other day.
Keep track of your tapering schedule by writing down the dates and the dosage changes.
 Even if you are tapering off Wellbutrin, it is still possible to experience discontinuation symptoms, such as the ones mentioned in Part 1. Keep track and talk to your doctor if you develop any of these symptoms.


Discontinuation symptoms have a quick onset, slowly get better over one to two weeks, and include more physical complaints. In order to differentiate between relapse and discontinuation symptoms, look at when the symptoms start, how long they last, and the type of symptoms.
While discontinuation symptoms with bupropion are not common, there is a greater risk of side effects with discontinuing if the patient not starting a new antidepressant with a similar pharmacodynamic profile.
Relapse, or the recurrence of your depression, may also occur with discontinuation of your therapy. Keep you doctor informed about how you are feeling and if you have concerns about a relapse. Relapse symptoms gradually develop after two to three weeks and get worse over two to four weeks. Contact your doctor if any symptoms last more than one month., It is crucial to keep your doctor informed about your progress whether you develop any symptoms or not. In addition, inform your doctor about any relapse symptoms or concerns you may have. Your doctor will monitor you for at least a few months after discontinuation.
 If you are discontinuing Wellbutrin because of side effects or if Wellbutrin is not controlling your depression, your doctor may prescribe a different antidepressant. Choice of medication depends on many aspects such as patient preference, prior response, effectiveness, safety and tolerance, cost, side effects, and drug interactions.If you experienced side effects or inadequate control of your depression, your doctor may recommend:


Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), including Prozac (fluoxetine), Zoloft (sertraline), Paxil (paroxetine), Celexa (citalopram), or Lexapro (escitalopram)
Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), such as Effexor (venlafaxine)
Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs), such as Elavil (amitriptyline)
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) can also be used after waiting at least two weeks after discontinuation of Wellbutrin.