
It is also used as a cream for sexual problems in both men and women.Speed up wound healing: Apply L-arginine to the skin to speed wound healing and for increasing blood flow to cold hands and feet, especially in people with diabetes.Also, lessen recovery time after surgery -- "Taking L-arginine with ribonucleic acid (RNA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) before surgery or afterwards seems to help reduce the recovery time, reduce the number of infections, and improve wound healing after surgery."Peripheral arterial disease -- "Cramping, pain and weakness in the legs associated with blocked arteries (called intermittent claudication)", partial blockage, as in calves, recurrent pain, during walking, relieved by a short rest, reoccurs when exercising again.






Congestive heart failure -- "Taking L-arginine along with usual treatment seems to help eliminate extra fluids that are a problem in congestive heart failure."General health with heart failure,
Angina, improved effect of nitroglycerin pills -- "Taking L-arginine seems to decrease symptoms and improve exercise tolerance and quality of life in people with angina. But L-arginine doesn’t seem to improve the underlying heart disease itself."Immune-boosting effect,
Herpes simplex virus, with extra lysine: ask your doctor whether you should "increase the ratio of lysine to your dose of arginine to help prevent the recurrence of symptoms associated with herpes simplex virus".
Kidney inflammation. "Assists kidney function after a transplant of patients also taking cyclosporine," Bladder inflammation -- "Taking L-arginine seems to improve symptoms, but it may take up to three months of treatment to see improvement."Decrease wasting-away caused by HIV/AIDS -- "when used with hydroxymethylbutyrate (HMB) and glutamine. This combination seems to increase body weight, particularly lean body mass, and improve the immune system.";
, Arginine does not seem to help or is inconclusive in the recovery of damage to your heart after an attack, preeclampsia (traumatic high blood pressure during pregnancy), or exercise tolerance in people with heart failure, for improving dementia, cancer, male infertility, diabetes, and obesity. More research needs to be done.Caution: It seems to worsen asthma., There is no standard dose of arginine. Studies have used different amounts for different conditions.


One common supplement dosage is 500mg 6 times daily (3000mg total).A larger dosage is 2 to 3 grams (2000 to 3000mg) three times a day (6000 to 9000mg total).For organic erectile dysfunction (ED): 5 grams (5000mg) per day.For congestive heart failure: doses range from 6-20 grams (6000 grams to 20,000 grams) per day, as three divided doses.,,




For chest pain (non-cardiac): L-arginine (dose and duration unknown) has been taken by mouth.

For cognitive function, 1.6 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for three months.




For coronary artery disease (CAD), up to 9 grams of arginine has been taken by mouth daily in divided doses for three days to six months. 15 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily in addition to Cardiket™ (isosorbide dinitrate) for 10 days. A dose of 3.2 grams has been taken by mouth twice daily for six months. Three grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily for the first three days, followed by 9 grams on day #* For diabetes (type 2), 3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily. Three grams of L-arginine in 10 milliliters of saline has been infused as a single dose.
For diabetic complications (peripheral neuropathy), 3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times. A cream containing 4 milligrams of L-arginine per square centimeter has been applied to the feet in the morning and evening daily for two weeks.
For erectile dysfunction, 5 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for six weeks.

For exercise performance, a single dose of 6 grams of L-arginine in a 500-milliliter beverage has been taken by mouth. Six grams of L-arginine in Gatorade® has been taken by mouth twice daily for 28 days, as have 6 grams of L-arginine daily with meals for 14 days and 14.2 grams of L-arginine daily for six months.





For heart failure, 5.6-12.6 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for up to six weeks. Doses of 15 grams have been taken by mouth daily for five days. A dose of 2 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily for three months.




For hyperlipidemia (high cholesterol), 7 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily for four weeks.

For hypertension (cardiac and pulmonary), 12 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for four weeks. A single dose of 2 grams of L-arginine as an adjunct to 60 milligrams of isosorbide mononitrate has been taken by mouth. A dose of 0.5-1.5 grams of L-arginine per 10 kilograms of body weight has been taken by mouth for one week.




For myocardial infarction (heart attack), 3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily for up to six months. A dosage of 3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth three times daily for 30 days.
For peripheral vascular disease and claudication, 24 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for eight weeks, and 3.3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth twice daily. Eight grams of L-arginine has been given intravenously twice daily for three weeks.

For pre-eclampsia (high blood pressure in pregnancy), 3 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily, in addition to standard therapy, for three weeks. Three grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth every six hours, or intravenously (10 grams every eight hours) if the L-arginine taken by mouth was not tolerated, from diagnosis until day 10 postpartum. A dose of 4 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for 10-12 weeks. A single intravenous infusion of L-arginine (20 grams per 500 milliliters) has been used. Five consecutive single daily infusions of L-arginine (20 grams per 500 milliliters), followed by 4 grams of arginine taken by mouth daily for two weeks, have been used. A dosage of L-arginine (20 grams per 500 milliliters) has been infused over two hours for four consecutive days.




For Raynaud's phenomenon, 8 grams of L-arginine has been taken by mouth daily for 28 days.

For respiratory infections, L-arginine (dose unknown) has been taken by mouth for 60 days.




For wound healing, 30 grams of arginine aspartate, containing 17 grams of arginine, has been taken by mouth in three divided doses for two weeks. A dose of 36.2 grams of L-arginine HCl has been taken by mouth daily for five days."</ref>
Mayo-Clinic also lists less common usages administered by mouth, plus a number of intravenous dosing protocols.
 They include nuts (like walnuts, hazelnuts, pecans, peanuts, almonds, cashews, and Brazil nuts), seeds (like sesame and sunflower), oats, corn, cereals, buckwheat, brown rice, dairy products, meat, chicken, and chocolate., Start with the lower dosages, and watch for side effects. Most people taking arginine do not have any severe problem, or have a few of these:Possible allergic reactions, such as airway inflammation,

Worsening asthma symptoms,


Nausea, cramps, bloating, or some loose bowels, or gout,.
, Taking any medicines or supplements regularly, talk to your doctor before you start using arginine, as it could interact with medications: Birth control medicines, hormone therapy drugs,
Blood thinners, some painkillers,
For erectile dysfunction -- Viagra can lower blood pressure. L-arginine can also lower blood pressure. Taking Viagra and L-arginine together might cause the blood pressure to go too low, (dizziness and other side effects);Heartburn, high blood pressure and diabetes.
Supplements like ginkgo biloba, garlic, and potassium.)

,