 Slide the empty cardboard roll off the spindle that holds it in place. The spindle and roller on most packing tape dispensers are not removable.
 Take a fresh roll of tape out of the box, and align the roll so that it will unwind counter-clockwise on the roller. The end of the tape with the colored tab should face towards the metal cutting edge., Pull the loose end of the tape off the roll, and thread it through the gap between the roller and the safety shield. The sticky surface of the tape should be facing down.Some dispensers do not have a safety shield. In this case, just thread the tape around the spinner with the tape strip leading over the top of the roll; the sticky side of the tape should be on the underside of the tape strip.
 Pull the colored tab on the end of the tape roll over the sharp cutting edge of the dispenser. Slice off the colored tab.Keep your fingers away from the sharp cutting blades.
 In the center of the spindle that holds the tape, there may be a button to adjust the tension level of the tape. Adjust this as appropriate, so that the tape flows freely when rolled across a crate or box., Test that the tape is loaded correctly and the tensioner adjusted appropriately. #*Get a large box, and hold the open edges of the box closed on top.


Hold the dispenser handle, and apply the tape to the far side of a package, right at the seam where the open edges of the box join together. The sharp cutting edge should be facing away from you. It will look as if you are holding a “tape gun.”
The tape should stick itself to the surface of the box. If it doesn't, you may need to pull the tape strip out a little and stick the end of the tape to the box manually.
Press the dispenser firmly down against the surface of the box, while pulling the whole unit across the top of the box.
Pull the tape over the edge of the box that is closest to you, and tear the tape off using the sharp cutting edge on the dispenser. Adhere the edge of the tape to the box manually, if needed.

