 The salary of a coach is not great, therefore you must have another determining factor to become a basketball coach. Coaching is not a normal everyday job where you get to clock out and go home. It requires a large time of commitment. If you do not have this passion to become a basketball coach it will be very hard to be successful.;
, Reaching out to coaches at all levels can be very helpful. This is a profession where the majority of jobs come from who you know and not what you know. Reaching out to coaches and introducing yourself at clinics and camps can be instrumental for your future success.


Working summer camps can help you network and gain valuable experience as an aspiring coach. Networking isn't limited to just basketball coaches, networking with referees and athletic administration can be useful in helping your career.
 Treat everyday as another day to become a better coach no matter what the setting is. Dedicate some time of your day to read another coach's blog, or to watch a quick instructional video. Attend other games and practices and observe how their coach coaches his or her team. Many coaches at all levels of college basketball are willing to help you if you reach out to them.
 Just like anything else in life, most good things take time. Very few coaches get their dream job at a young age, it takes time to develop as a coach. You must put the time to be successful in coaching, which may require missing vacations and trips that other people your age get to enjoy. There are a lot more profitable summer jobs than coaching basketball, but if you are serious about coaching as a profession then you must work on it.
 An underrated concept that many young coaches overlook is how to find a niche in their particular coaching staff. The first part is to identify a weakness on the staff. For example, it may be technology or strength training. If you are not strong in that particular area, become strong in it, learn about it, and get help from people that are strong in that field.


Another way to find a niche if you are having trouble is to do the “dirty work.” Do things that others don’t want to do and take pride in it because you will eventually entrusted with more responsibility.
 Be ready and willing to do different things because people will take notice of that and give you more respect and responsibility if you do a good job. Take a job outside your comfort zone. Coach at a camp and use it as a learning experience, and you may find that you like that better than you thought.
 If you have passion and desire to become a basketball coach, then you need to be willing to move out of your comfort zone and go different places to further your career.
 Many young coaches at all levels of college basketball make little to no money. It’s a part of the territory that you must treat your responsibility as a coach like a job if it’s what you want to do as a profession in the future. Many young coaches don’t dress likes coaches. If you want people to take you as a professional you must dress like one and carry yourself as one.
 Developing relationships with players and coaches is another key part to being successful. Many coaches at first will be skeptical to add a young member to their staff due to various reasons. Developing a relationship with someone that is already in the coaching profession who will vouch for your abilities and work ethic is major help in getting your foot in the door. Don’t just use a coach for a reference, but help them out when possible and keep in contact with your network. Do not only contact them when you need something.
 Take bits and pieces from every coach and then develop your own basketball philosophy. Don’t try to emulate just one coach but try to learn something from everyone and let that help you develop your own coaching philosophy. Don’t be afraid to have your own personal philosophy evolve over time or differ from others, it does not mean it is wrong.
 Having a plan is important to continue moving up the coaching ladder. Reach out to other people that have become coaches to get advice on how to develop your own personal plan to achieve your goals. Have an attainable goal that you are striving for with a certain time frame.

