 Most word processing programs, such as Microsoft Word, feature a built-in spelling and grammar checker. These checkers can work passively, such as Word underlining misspelled words in red and incorrect grammar examples in green, or actively, reviewing your work and asking you whether you wish to correct highlighted incidences or leave them as they are.


All recent versions of Microsoft Office products (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Publisher, OneNote, and InfoPath) feature spell-check and grammar checking capabilities.;
, Although most word processing software includes spell- and grammar-checking capabilities, they usually miss a good many grammar errors and flag items as errors that aren't errors. Dedicated grammar-checking software, however, is designed to recognize more errors and exceptions than the grammar checkers built into word processing programs.


Grammar checking software can be purchased at software stores or online, either through an online retailer or direct from the manufacturer. Examples of grammar checking software include Correct English, Grammarly, WhiteSmoke, and Writer's Workbench.
 A number of websites allow users to cut and paste their text into an entry window on the site and have it analyzed for spelling and grammar. These sites are convenient for those writers who do a lot of writing online and have no access to other methods for checking their grammar.


Some sites are sponsored by companies who produce grammar-checking software for purchase or download, such as Grammarly, while others operate strictly as an online service. Usually, there is no cost to use the basic online checker, while more advanced features, either online or through the company's software product, require a fee.
 While the software options described above will catch many grammar errors, it's helpful to have a knowledgeable friend, classmate, or professional editor read your work over for grammatical accuracy either for a class or if you plan to publish it somewhere other than a personal blog.
 Even with the help of software or having someone else read your work, there's no substitute for learning the rules of grammar and checking what you've written yourself for spelling and grammar errors. The section "What to Look For When Checking Grammar" tells you some of the most important things to proofread for, and "Things to Do When Checking Grammar" offers advice on how to go about it.

