 Sit-ups, push-ups, and other moves can help you tone your body. However, exercise is a life-giving activity that should not be done just for the results. Do it for how it makes you feel. Of course, the feel-good chemicals (known as endorphins) produced during exercise will improve your mood. Regular physical activity also enhances your physical and mental well-being, allows you to challenge yourself, and build self-confidence.How could you possibly dislike your body after it has pulled you through an hour of power yoga or an invigorating mountain hike?


Choose several activities that you enjoy and do them often. Exercising alone delivers terrific benefits, but loving your exercise time enables you to feel productive and happy while you're doing it.
 Having good posture can work wonders on your body confidence. Posture doesn't just change the way others perceive you, it also affects the way you perceive yourself. One study shows that subjects were more likely to believe positive thoughts they wrote down about their qualification for a job when they sat up straighter. When they slumped, they were less likely to believe these positive thoughts., Just as posture can affect you when you're sitting, it can also affect you while standing and walking. If you feel bad about your body, it may show in the way you carry yourself. Demonstrate confidence by walking with your shoulders back and your chin tilted upward. Doing this will help you to feel better about yourself.


Psychologist Amy Cuddy describes 'power poses' that you can use to increase confidence. These positions include standing in a wide stance with your hands gaped at your sides. The "Wonder Woman" pose is characterized by placing your hands on your hips with your chest poked out. Taking on such a pose increases your own self-perception of being capable and in charge., Take dance classes or just groove around your living room. Dancing makes you exercise without realizing it. It tones your muscles, improves stamina, posture and coordination. It also improves mood and can help you fight depression and anxiety. Dancing may also connect you with others who share the same passion, thereby, enhancing your social health, too.