 Make sure to put in a picture or logo, and place your website in your short "bio" description. Choose a username that is your website name.;
, The key to the successful use of social media promotion is consistency. This person should be prepared to use the company objectives to tweet at least once per day, if not more, and answer tweets that are directed at the website's Twitter account.
 Spend 2 weeks to a month posting about the website, the industry, current events, comedy and professional culture. Few people follow brand new accounts, so it is important to start developing a community-friendly voice before you start looking for followers.


Follow people who you think are interesting and who have a lot of followers. A referral from a popular or interesting Twitter user will spread your website's reach.
 Follow 10 to 100 every week to slowly build up your following. Many people receive alerts from people who follow them, and then follow your account in turn.


This should not be the only way you garner followers. It is often regarded as "spamming" when done in large groups. You should only do a small number at a time, and try to build followers through consistent promotions, community posts and witty or sincere communication with your other followers.
 Twitter's community approach means that people do not like a "hard sell" on your website or your products. Focus your posts on building a culture, brand and community voice around your website content.
 Many businesses and professionals make mistakes by syncing all their social media. Twitter is a shorter format that requires you to craft minimal text that still grabs attention.


Think of your tweet as your article headline. Decide if you were reading a newspaper and you saw that headline, if you would choose to read further. How well you write your tweets will determine how many people visit your website.
 This is a Twitter-based device that tags your post and allows people to click on a keyword to find many posts about the same topic. You need to include a "#" hash symbol before your keyword to correctly use the hashtag.


For example, instead of writing "Today's deal is $5 off a Mad Men-inspired cardigan," write "Today's #deal is $5 off a Mad Men-inspired cardigan." Include your website and/or a coupon code to drive people to your site. Users will click on "#deal" and your post will come up in their list, or Twitter aggregate sites, like CheapTweet, will pull all of the hashtag deals from the day from Twitter and list them on their site.
Follow trending topics, which are popular hashtags, on Twitter. When a topic relates to your industry, or you have something to say that correlates with the topic, use the hashtag along with a comment and your URL. Some websites have started blogging about current events so that they can effectively use the hashtag to bring Twitter users to their website.
Create a short and memorable company, event or website hashtag. Use it in your own posts, so your followers know to use it every time they read something on your site or buy a product. Search your hashtag daily and respond to people who have used it, in order to encourage good conversation, or redirection to a conversation on your site.
 Search on Twitter every day for mentions of your site or your hashtag, and respond to problems or conversations. Be gracious about criticism, because the best thing you can do is provide a rational, understanding and problem-solving approach.
 Be a guest blogger on someone else's website, and let them blog on your site. Working with other businesses or professionals who have a good Twitter following will get you more followers, who will then see your profile and visit your site.
 List a code that they can input into your site to get content. People will be encouraged to recommend, or retweet, this information, and you will quickly see how much traffic you are gaining from Twitter.

