 Divorce can be hard on the ego. You may feel unwanted, unloved, or cynical and suspicious of others after getting divorced.But unless you are comfortable with who you are and can honestly confront the pain, frustration, and disappointment you feel about your past, you will continue to lack confidence.


The dissolution of your marriage may have felt like the end of the world, but those feelings don’t own you. Stay mindful of your feelings and practice emotion-focused coping. Emotion-focused coping is the strategy of acknowledging that you cannot change what happened, but you can change your reaction to it. In other words, accept that you’ve been through a divorce and feel bad about it, but remember that you still have the rest of your life ahead of you. Look forward to happier tomorrows.Try to avoid your ex. Talking to or otherwise interacting with them might reopen old wounds. If you find they’re on your mind, distract yourself by going for a jog or playing a game.
Being in a happy relationship does not define you. Become happy and confident with yourself before you attempt another relationship.
 When your marriage ends, you may feel depressed and hopeless. Combat these negative feelings by rebuilding your positive mental attitude.


Write a list of your good qualities and post it somewhere you’ll see it each day like your fridge. For instance, you might list qualities like “generous, caring, thoughtful,” and “intelligent” (among others) on your list. Share your list with a support group of friends or family to get a more objective view of yourself. Look at it when you wake each day.
Make a list of new beliefs or affirmations you want to incorporate into your thinking. Read these new concepts or beliefs aloud after reading your list of positive qualities. For instance, you might make an affirmation list which reads, in part, “I am a good person and deserve to be happy,” and “I do not need to be married to have a full life.”
When you feel negative feelings or thoughts intruding, make yourself aware of them and push them away. Tell yourself they are not your real thoughts, and are thus empty of meaning.
 Do not let your divorce ruin your life and health. Spend time with your family and friends.Engage in the hobbies you haven't had time for due to marital obligations, or develop new hobbies that you've always wanted to try. Maintain good hygiene by dressing well, showering and shaving regularly, and brushing and flossing your teeth. Eat a healthy diet centered on fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.


Keep your home tidy and clean. Feeling organized and fresh will give you a positive energy and help you attract women, too.
 Will you set a low social price and become involved with anyone willing to tolerate you? Or will you demonstrate that you value yourself and be more selective in your dating practices? While these decisions often go on at the unconscious level, becoming more aware of your dating behavior is an important step towards determining what kind of relationship you can expect when meeting women.
 For instance, your ex may have hated the rodeo, auto races, and the gun range. Being honest about what you’re interested in and what you look for in a partner will help you make positive dating choices. Look to meet women who are interested in these activities and willing to go with you.


Don’t wait too long before asking out women you’re interested in. Sometimes the mere act of going on a date -- even one which ends miserably -- can jump-start your feelings of independence and make you more comfortable with the notion of being single.