 In order to recognize warning signs, understand what's normal. Your hamster should be fairly energetic and social. Hamsters move around in their cage frequently and like to chew on wood chips and toys. Hamsters are naturally nocturnal, but tend to adapt to your schedule with time. If you've had your hamster for awhile, you can expect to see him awake when you're awake. A hamster's breathing patterns should be even and clear.If your hamster seem lethargic, sleeps a lot, or if his breathing sounds labored you should take him to a vet.
 Hamsters can develop diabetes. Increased water consumption is a common early sign. Keep an eye on how much your hamster is drinking and, if he seems to be consuming more water than usual, take him in for a check up.


Hamsters drink different levels of water depending on size and breed. However, try to keep track of how much you refill a hamster's water bowl on an average day or week. If you suddenly seem to be refilling the bowl more, you should have your hamster tested for diabetes.There is no cure for diabetes in hamsters. However, changes to a hamster's diet can help improve symptoms. If your hamster does have diabetes, you should go over a treatment plan with your veterinarian., Hamster's urine should be clear or yellow. If you notice brown or reddish urine, this could be a sign of a variety of problems. It may be something benign, like an effect of the pellets you're using. However, your hamster could also have a urinary infection or bladder stones. Red urine should be evaluated by a veterinarian as soon as possible.
 Older hamsters sometimes suffer strokes. However, strokes can happen at any age. They usually occur at night and your hamster may be still and have trouble walking and running when in the morning. Other sudden changes in movement could indicate other health problems.


If your hamster is having trouble eating or drinking, he may have suffered a stroke or have another health condition that affects his movement. Have him evaluated by a veterinarian.
In rare cases, a hamster might suffer chronic seizures. Your hamster might move his arms and legs uncontrollably while his mouth is opened. He will stare blankly with his eyes looking dull and unfocused. Seizures are a hereditary condition for which there is no cure. However, you can adjust your hamster's cage, food, and water for his safety and comfort. Hamsters who have seizures can live relatively normal life spans.

