 It should be the right size for you, and have at least one or two windows. If you're stuck with the room you currently have, that's okay too.
 Just gut the entire room until it's just walls, a ceiling, and a floor., Vacuum the floors (even if it's hardwood, you can vacuum it on a certain setting), mop the floors (hardwood only), wash the walls and ceiling, dust the whole room, and do any other necessary cleaning processes., Sort them as keep, throw away, donate, store in another room, or hand-me-down. Do the appropriate actions with each category except keep, which you'll have to attack later., It shouldn't be too bland, but don't go too crazy or you'll regret it. Pick a fun but versatile color that you'll like for a long time.

Consider painting one wall with chalkboard paint. This literally turns the entire surface into a chalkboard, and is you can get very creative with it without worrying about the decorations being permanent.
 It's your choice which one you like. If you want to keep the floor you have, clean it again. If you have hardwood, vacuum, mop, and polish it. If you have a carpet, vacuum and deep clean it. Consider replacing what you have, even if it's the same kind of flooring., This includes WiFi, electricity, heat/AC, and phone jacks. If you're going to need plumbing, have that done too., It can be a regular light or chandelier, depending on what you like. You can even get a chandelier that casts tree-like shadows and turns your room into a forest, or you can get one that has lots of transparent gems and casts a cool glow on the walls. Consider getting a dimmer installed so you have more control over the lighting.

If you want, you can get a ceiling fan, too.
 It should be attractive and comfortable. Make sure you like the mattress a lot. Consider getting a canopy to hang over the bed., Have at least one comfy chair in the room for reading, having friends over, or whatever else., This is crucial. Find a desk that fits everything you have and fits in your room. Then, find a desk chair that is comfortable and matches the room., This is where you should keep the clothes that you wear the most., It should be functional as well as pretty. This is especially important if you share a bathroom., These will add personality to the room once filled and provide storage., These should just be drawers, cabinets, or shelves for miscellaneous items., This is very important if you like music. If you don't have that many CDs, head out to a store that sells them and buy enough to at least begin to fill the rack., Choose stickers that reflect your personality. It is important that they're removable, in case you change your mind later on., They can be for movies, concerts, musicals; they can have pictures of animals on them; they can be sports related; or they can just have inspirational quotes on them., This will really personalize the space. Choose frames you love, or just put up the pictures without frames, and configure the pictures around the room., It can be your artwork, or someone else's. Choose pieces that you really love, or, if you made them yourself, are proud of., These are extremely helpful and keep you on track. You can get amazing white board calendars at Pottery Barn Teen (PBTeen), Some people choose to put up things like baptism gowns or other things from when they were a baby. You can also frame and put up poems that you like, wrote, or were given., Consider having a bedside lamp, desk lamp, fairy lights, a lava lamp, a sun jar, and clip-on lamps around the room so you have constant control over what lighting you want., Cover it in pictures, tickets, cards, and anything else you want to display., These open up the space and are useful. Get at least one full-length one, one vanity one (wide but only shows the top half of your body), and a few little ones., Put up a shade (recommended-the kind that you just pull down and push up) and add some valances and curtains (see-through work best) to make it brighter., It should be soft and make you want to sleep, but also match the room., Pick ones that match the room and are just asking for you to do a run-and-jump onto the bed, then snuggle up. It should be attractive and inviting., It can be fuzzy, leather, denim, or just regular. The possibilities are endless. Just make sure you like sitting in it.,

You can also store jewelry on the vanity.
Consider designating one cabinet or drawer as the spot for your medicines and all other pharmaceutical needs. This will be like a very large first aid like.
Don't forget to store your nail items in the vanity too.
 For an example, look at the shelf in the background of the "Mental Floss" videos on YouTube., To keep them organized, categorize the books by genre, and, within each genre, by author., Categorize the CDs by genre, and, within each genre, by artist., These are crucial for having a clean room., Make sure you organize all your things so you know where to find everything. This should be he perfect place to do homework and any other work you have to do., Make sure to save a special spot for all the subscription cards that you plan on filling out., You can even add a TV. If you like music, consider adding a sound system and/or karaoke machine. Add a basket for all your chargers, and another for any other cords you have. Make sure you have a designated spot for each electronic you own, as well as any equipment that is needed., This will give you easy access to food you don't have to share, and is perfect for when you are starving while doing homework or for when dinner isn't ready yet., Make sure the instruments won't be destroyed, but display them nicely. If the instruments involve equipment, include that, too. Also set up a music stand if needed., This includes jerseys, safety gear, and equipment., It doesn't matter whether they're metals, trophies, plaques, ribbons, or certificates. If you win an award, display it with pride., It is essential that you have a phone in your room. Cordless phones are recommended, but any landline will work.,, Make sure you label the storage so you know where everything is., You can put as many signs, pictures, posters, etc on it as you want. Make it you. If you're going to add a "do not disturb" sign (which is recommended), consider making it a sign that you can flip, and have one side say "do not disturb" and the other side say "please knock". For the times when it says "do not disturb", have a white board and markers or a chalk board and chalk set up so the other people in the house can write messages for you. Just personalize it until it's the perfect first impression of your room.,, They can be flameless or real, scented or unscented. Either way, they're an amazing touch for the room., Just add the finishing touches.,,