 If you are auditioning for a play, movie, or television show, you will need to choose a monologue that fits the character you are vying for. For example, if the role is comical, choose a funny monologue. If you are auditioning for a serious role, choose a more dramatic monologue., The piece you perform for an audition or class assignment should be active. It should not be a character telling a story or recalling a memory. For example, you can pick a piece where the character is pursuing something from another character, or discovering something for the first time.Try performing Claudio’s address to his sister in William Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure.
 You will be at your best if you are performing a piece that you are passionate about. Choose a character and a play that resonate with you. This will allow the audience or casting director to get to know you through the material.Consider performing Masha’s monologue about her future husband in Anton Chekhov’s The Seagull.
 You don’t want to show up to class or an audition and find out you will be performing the same monologue as several other actors. Trendy and popular monologues tend to be overdone, and you want to be unique. For example, you might want to stay away from performing a popular monologue from a recent movie or play.If you feel connected to a trendy or popular piece, you shouldn’t fret about it. Go ahead and perform the monologue confidently!

, If you are in doubt about what type of monologue you should perform, go for a lighter, more humorous piece. This may stand out in a sea of more dramatic, deeply emotional, or angry monologues. Being able to make the audience smile, or even laugh, can be a breath of fresh air for those experiencing your monologue.Try Trinculo’s speech in William Shakespeare’s The Tempest.
 When choosing a monologue, err on the shorter side. You might be allotted three minutes for your performance, but don’t feel pressured to fill every second of your time slot. For example, you can choose a two-minute monologue or two one-minute monologues to fill a performance space of two to three minutes., If you are auditioning for a show, a monologue is very much a job interview. Keep this in mind when deciding what monologue you will perform. Avoid pieces that contain offensive language, are overly sexual, or include violence.