 Practice the most proper etiquette you can imagine. Always say please and thank you, even when you are ordering food at a fast food restaurant. Be sure to have good dinner table etiquette as well. When meeting someone new, shake their hand and tell them what a pleasure it is to meet them. Also, for an added touch, find something you like about them, such as their hair or smile, and pay them a compliment!

, Do your best to keep a smile on your face wherever you go. Obviously, if something very sad, angering, e.t.c. has happened, you are not expected to be fake. But for the most part, just smile. It doesn't have to be big or cheesy, but pleasant. After all, Disney Princesses are well-known for their optimism, so show off your own!

, Walk as if a string is pulling your head and shoulders up. Posture says so much about a person, so make sure it is saying the right thing! Keep excellent posture and step lightly wherever you go. Nothing says princess more!

, When talking to others, look them in the eye. Listen to what they have to say. Most of the princesses have many royal subjects, and they listen to each and every one.
 Be sure that your politeness is not taken advantage of, and always stand up for what you believe in. Also, respect others, even if it is not "cool". If someone is being bullied, stand up for them!

, Although your inner and outer beauty may attract gentleman callers, remember to be smart, as Belle was when dealing with Gaston. Disney princesses will eventually find their prince, but it doesn't happen overnight! Don't settle for someone who isn't your dream guy.
 This is both for kids and those your age. All of the princesses have admirable qualities that teach young girls how to be young ladies. Although everyone makes mistakes, do your best to keep a clean image for children to look up to! Don't do anything you wouldn't want a three year old child knowing about.
 Being a Disney Princess doesn't just come from a crown. It comes from the beautiful spirit within. Now go out there and show everyone the wonderful princess you are!

