 Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, then set it aside.


If you have a different sugar cookie recipe that you like to use, you can prepare it instead. Click here to learn about cutting out the different planetary shapes.;
, You can do this in a large mixing bowl with a handheld beater, in an electric mixer, or in a food processor fitted with whisks. Beat the two together until the mixture turns pale and fluffy.
 Lightly beat the egg in a separate bowl or cup first, then add it to the creamed sugar-butter. Pour in the vanilla extract, then mix everything together until no streaks remain.
 It would be best to add in the flour in two batches. When the flour soaks up all the liquid, knead it a few times to gather everything into a ball.
 You have enough dough to make two batches of planet cookies. You can make both batches right now, or you can wrap and freeze the other batch for another time.
 Sprinkle your counter or cutting board with flour. Roll one of the batches of dough out until it is about ⅛ inch (3 millimeters) thick.


Save the other batch for later. This method will only use one batch from now on.
 The measurements do not have to be exactly like the ones below, but the proportions and amounts should be similar. The different sizes will represent the different planets. You will need the following:


One extra-large circle, about 3 inches (8 centimeters)
Two large circles, about 2¾ inches (7 centimeters)
Four medium circles, about 2½ inches (6 centimeters)
Two small circles, about 2 inches (5 centimeters)
One extra-small circle, about 1½ inches (3.5 centimeters)

, Transfer the cookies to the prepared baking sheet, then tuck them into the oven. Bake them for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they turn a light, golden color.
 Let them cool on the rack for about 5 minutes. Then, use a spatula to transfer them to a wire cooling rack. Let them finish cooling on the rack. They must be completely cool before you ice them.
 Pour the icing sugar into a mixing bowl. Pour in 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 milliliters) of warm water. Stir the two together with a whisk until you get a smooth icing. If you need to, add a little bit more water. It should be fluid enough to spread, but not runny.


If you can't find royal icing mix, beat together 1½ tablespoons of meringue powder, 2 cups (250 grams) of confectioner's sugar, and 2 to 3 tablespoons (30 to 45 milliliters) of warm water for about 10 to 12 minutes on high speed.Have lots of small bowls and cups prepared to mix your colors. You will be using this icing base in the next three parts.
 Measure out 1 teaspoon of the white icing into a small bowl. Stir in enough yellow gel food coloring to make it a bright, sunny yellow. Spread this over the 3-inch (8-centimeter) cookie using a mini cake decorating spatula. This will be the sun.
 Measure out another teaspoon of the white icing into a clean bowl. Stir in just enough red gel food coloring to make the icing a bright red. Spread this over a 2-inch (5-centimeter) cookie for Mars. Remember to clean your spatula beforehand so you don't get any yellow in it.
 Use a toothpick to add a few specks of red gel fool coloring onto Mars. Swirl these into the icing with the toothpick. Don't over mix them, or the streaks will go away.
 Pour 2 teaspoons of the white base icing into a small bowl. Stir in enough blue gel food coloring to might it a vibrant, light blue. You will be using this as your base color for the following planets: Uranus, Earth, Neptune, and Pluto.


Clean your spatula from the previous step so you don't get any red or yellow onto your planets.
 This will be Uranus. Do not use all of the blue icing for this. You need enough for the other planets in this set too.
 Stir in a few more drops of blue gel food coloring into your blue base. Spread it over another 2½-inch (6-centimeter) cookie to create Earth. Set Earth aside so that it can dry while you prepare the other planets in this set.


You will add land later, after the icing sets up a little.
 Stir in a few more drops of blue gel food coloring into your blue base. Spread it over another 2½-inch (6-centimeter) cookie.
 Working quickly, use a toothpick to add a little bit of blue gel food coloring and some of your white icing base onto Neptune. Use the toothpick to swirl everything together. Be careful not to over mix; you want it to be streaky.


Don't use the same toothpick you used for Mars.
 Add a tiny amount of black food coloring into your blue icing base. Spread it over the 1½-inch (3.5-centimeter) cookie for Pluto.
 Pour 1 teaspoon of your white icing base into another small cup or bowl. Stir in a few drops of green food coloring. Spoon the green icing onto Earth in blobs to make the continents. You may not need to use all of it.
 Pour 1 tablespoon of the white icing base into a small bowl. Add in enough caramel flavoring or tan gel food coloring to get a beige color. This will be your base for the following planets: Mercury, Venus, Jupiter, and Saturn.


Clean your spatula from the previous planetary set, otherwise your icing will turn green.
 Take a 2-inch (5-centimeter cookie), and spread enough of the icing over it to coat it. Do not use all of the icing; you need enough for the rest of the planets in the set.
 Add a few drops of caramel flavoring or tan gel food coloring onto Mercury with a clean toothpick. Use the toothpick to swirl them in. Again, do not over stir them, or the details will be lost.


Sprinkle some edible gold glitter or sugar onto Mercury for an extra touch. Do this while the icing is still wet.
 Use one of the 2¾-inch (7-centimeter) cookies for this.
 Start by adding some red gel food coloring and a little bit of your white icing base onto Jupiter. Use a toothpick to spread them into thick, swirly stripes. Next, swirl the toothpick on one of the red stripes to make a Jupiter's famous red spot. Be sure to use a new toothpick for this so the colors don't mix. Use one end for the white swirls, and the other end for the red.
 Use the remaining 2¾-inch (7-centimeter) cookie for this. This time, leave a ½-inch (1-centimeter) boarder around the icing. This will give you room to make Saturn's famous rings.
 Add a few drops of yellow gel food coloring onto Saturn. Lightly swirl them in using a toothpick. Use a new toothpick for this so you don't get any red or white from Jupiter. Be careful not to go outside the border you made.


Don't add the rings just yet. You'll put them on after the icing sets a little.
 Use the remaining 2½-inch (6-centimeter) cookie for this.
 Add a few drops of orange gel food coloring onto Venus. Use a toothpick to swirl them in. Use the other end of the Saturn toothpick or a new one so you don't get any yellow in Venus. Again, avoid over stirring, or the streaks will go away.


Sprinkle some edible gold glitter or sugar onto Venus for an extra touch. Do this while the icing is still wet.
 Fill a piping bag with the rest of the white icing. Cut off the tip, then make two stripes around the center of Saturn. Make sure that these strips go from edge-to-edge of the cookie.


Use a tiny, round decorator's tip for more precision.
 This will take about 24 hours.It would be best to set them in front of a fan, but an air conditioned room will also work. Avoid drying them in a humid setting, or the icing won't dry properly.If you see any air bubbles, pop them immediately with a pin. If you don't they will leave behind a large hole when they pop on their own.