 Haircuts depend on your face structure, how thick your hair is, the health of your hair, etc. With that said, all one length is the safest way to go if you have no idea what you want, but you are unlikely to reach your hair's full potential that way. Short layers may work well on one head of curls, while long layers may be the solution to another head! Ay ay ay! What's the solution you ask?
, A hairstylist is more likely to be experienced if: they have well maintained curls themselves, they have been cutting all types of hair curls for a long time, or they have been specially trained to cut curls. It's best to look for a combination of these traits in your curly hair stylist. Let's get started on the process., Did you know 65 percent of women in the US have curly hair? Amazing! Get out there and ask your friends, co-workers, your neighbors, etc. where they get their curls cut. If your friends have fabulous curls, you'll be able to get the skinny on their hairstylist too., Unless you want to cut your hair yourself (which isn't always a bad idea), you don't have to study the methods intensely, but you should have a general understanding so you can make educated decisions about stylists.

First, curly hair can be cut wet or dry. Proponents of dry cuts base their method on the idea that curls dry much differently than virtually, straightened out wet hair. The DevaCurl company teaches the DevaCut, which is given dry, and emphasizes the "S" shape of the curl.
Proponents of wet cuts state that the hair is easier and faster to work with. The Ouidad company teaches the Carve n' Slice cut, which involves running scissors vertically through wet hair. Some stylists use a combination of methods and dry or wet hair cutting.
 This is a fun, impersonal way to find a hair stylist. Your best bet is to go for the stylist with the most positive reviews, but remember to take everything stated with a grain of salt. Personal opinions from friends or online users can often be under-exaggerated or over-exaggerated. Some salon finder sites are suggested below under "Tips"., If you're not set on getting your hair cut by a certain stylist, you can schedule a consultation, where you just sit down and talk with the hairdresser. Or if that's too much hassle, you can spring for a cut!, Come in with your hair done the way you usually wear it curly, not thrown up into a bun, so they can assess the state of your hair. If you want something specific, come in with pictures of the cut you want, keeping in mind they won't be able to replicate it exactly if your curls and bone structure are different. Be firm throughout the haircut and mention things you want, for example: a cut you can style straight or curly, a cut that can be put up in layers, bangs or no bangs, etc., Be friendly and try to keep a conversation going., Once it's done, make sure you like how it looks and if not, ask for a few last minute alterations. You're paying for their service and it's better to fix things now rather than later., Change stylists boldly, and without hesitation., Your hair grows about 1/2 an inch a month, so getting half an inch cut off per month is the reason that your curly hair never seems to be growing., It damages your curls and you'll never seem to get enough of it. You'll keep straightening and straightening until your hair is fried.