 Make sure you have enough room to make a running start before your jump. In order to get enough speed and rotation to achieve a front flip you will want to be able to take 5-8 steps before you leap.Make sure you are practicing over a mat or into a soft landing zone such as a foam pit.;
, Bend your knees to explode into your jump and push off from the balls of the front of your feet. Spring upwards and lengthen your body as you push off from the floor.Practice simple exercises such as deep knee bends, jump squats, and calf raises to build your leg strength and increase your jump height.Place a mini trampoline in front of a landing mat or foam pit to practice getting extra height as you jump.
 Keep your hands by your side as you flip forward in the air.


Tuck your chin towards your chest as you go into the air.
Pull your legs back to promote your body to rotate forward.
 After you have rotated ⅔ of the way in the air, raise your arms to stop your rotation to prepare for landing.Keep your eyes open as you rotate.
Look for the floor while you are in the air to spot your landing.
Practice flipping into a foam pit first to get a feel for how fast you need to rotate your body to complete the flip.
Build muscle memory of how much rotation you need to fully rotate your flip by practicing over and over into a foam pit.
 Cushion your impact with the ground by bending your knees slightly as you land. Use your arms to balance and stabilize your body as you land.


Make sure to spot the ground as you are landing.
When you finish your rotation in the air, keep an eye on the ground where you will place your feet.
Knowing where the ground is will help ensure you don't over rotate the flip.
 Before attempting a barani, make sure you are fully able to perform a front flip safely.Performing a front flip on a trampoline is a good way to gain muscle memory of the required rotation.
 The beginning of a barani is the same as performing a front flip.Get a running start.
Bend your knees before take off.
Extend your body and push off from the balls of your feet.
 Your arms will provide the momentum for your twist during your flip. Extend your arms to your sides to alter your center of gravity and allow you to propel your body into a twist as you flip.Lift your left arm behind your back.
Dip your right arm forward..
Use your arms to lead your body into the twist.
If your rotation is too much or too little, adjust the position of your arms in the air to change the amount your body rotates.
 As you begin your flip, turn your head to look at your left bicep as you pull your left arm backwards. Your body will follow the rotation of your arms and head.


Small motions of the head translate to large rotations of the body.
Adjust the amount you turn your head to change the speed of your rotation.
 Because a barani only involves a half twist, you will not have to rotate very much to achieve the motion. As soon as your body begins rotating, raise your arms above your head to stop the spin and prevent over rotation.
 Similar to landing a front flip, bend your knees as you land to cushion your impact. Be prepared to take a step backwards as your momentum may carry you backwards as you land.Spot your landing zone as you stop your rotation in the air.
Bring your arms to your sides as you land.
Try to keep your arms at your side, but you can use your arms to balance as you land to prevent a fall.

