 It’s important to be genuine in your desire to have a good relationship with your students. Kindergarten students, like all young children, can detect insincerity and it will make them feel distrustful.Hopefully you’re genuinely excited about teaching kindergarten. If so, share that genuine excitement with your students when you speak with them one-on-one by telling them how excited you are to see them. For example, when a student comes through the door in the morning, say, “It’s so great to see you again!”
Don’t be afraid to tell your students you’re having a bad day. The kids will pick up on your attitude anyway, so you should clearly communicate to them why you might not seem excited on a particular day. The kids will appreciate your sincerity and it will make them feel close to you. For example, if you’ve recently lost a loved one don’t hide it from your students. Instead, share it with them in an age-appropriate way by saying, for example, “My mother recently passed so I’m feeling sad today.”;
, Whether it’s something they learn in class or an extracurricular activity they’re excited about, you should show interest in you kindergarteners’ lives by asking them questions and getting excited about their excitement.If your students know that you’re excited about and interested in their lives, they will share things will you more often, which will foster a close relationship.
Show and tell is a good opportunity to show interest in your students’ lives. You should also ask them about their weekend or summer plans. For example, you might ask, “What adventures did you have this weekend?”
Try to learn at least one thing or activity that each of your students’ is interested in. Ask them about it on a regular basis. Do some research on the topic on your own so you can share in your students’ interest. For example, if one your students likes to fish, learn a little bit about fishing so you can have a conversation about it.
 Not only do students learn better when their teachers are passionate, they also like passionate teachers more. If you’re passionate and excited about a topic you’re teaching, your kindergarteners will feel passionate and excited too.Make learning fun! Try dressing up as a character when you’re teaching a particular historical period. For example, if you’re teaching your students about the discovery of electricity, dress up like Ben Franklin and bring a kite into the classroom.
Passion is especially important with lessons that require a lot of concentration. If your students get bored with a math lesson, find a way to explain how math is what allows spaceships to go to the moon and smartphones to display all of the games kids love to play., Kindergarteners love to laugh and they will feel closer to you if you get make them laugh on a regular basis. Try to incorporate humor into every lesson.Smile often when you interact with your students. Kindergarteners will mimic the facial expressions they see, so if you’re smiling and laughing they will likely smile and laugh with you.
If the workbooks you use don’t have much humor in them, make your own handouts that incorporate cartoon characters or funny jokes that the kids will recognize.
Laughing with your students is also a good teaching opportunity. Kindergarteners will laugh at just about anything, and sometimes they laugh at things that shouldn’t laughed at. Teaching your students the boundaries of laughter will make them like you and may also help protect some of your students from being laughed at or bullied.
 If your kindergarteners don’t feel comfortable in your classroom they won’t feel comfortable around you. Set up you classroom so your students feel at home. Make it warm and inviting.Have fun, upbeat music playing when your kindergarteners arrive in the morning. This will make them feel safe and comfortable right from the get-go.
Keep a classroom pet, such as a gerbil, or at least a stuffed animal. Your kindergarteners will enjoy taking care of the pet with you. If you have a stuffed animal, your kindergarteners will appreciate being able to squeeze it when they’re having a bad day.
Trying setting up a bulletin board for your students to use to share their events and ideas. Kindergarteners love to share their experiences with others—but they need a outlet to do so. A bulletin board gives them an outlet to write about their upcoming trip or their uncle who visited from out of town over the weekend.
Create special bags for each of your students on the first day of class. Write the students’ names on the bags and fill them supplies like a journal with the student’s name on it and different colored markers.
Keep supplies organized so the kids can find them easily. Your kindergarteners will feel more secure knowing where everything is. Label plastic tubs with “markers,” “paints,” “paper,” and other supplies.
 If your kindergarteners can rely on you, they will find it easier to like you. Your kindergarteners will feel more open and willing to like you if you are reliable and provide a stable classroom environment.If you say you’re going to do something, do it. If you tell your students that tomorrow will be a special “all day art” day, don’t forget to pick up art supplies before class.
Support your students consistently. If you’re warm and supportive of a student one day but give them the cold shoulder the next day, the student will likely come to distrust you.
Have a daily schedule and stick to it as much as possible. Kindergarteners feel safe and comfortable with routines. Let them know ahead of time what the day will look like and stick with the plan.
 Kindergarteners come to school with a wide range of knowledge and skills. Make time to help students who are struggling with specific material.If a student is having a hard time with math, let them know that it’s OK to be behind other students. Listen to the students concerns, acknowledge their frustration, and be patient. For example, you might say to the student, “Everyone learns at their own pace. Is there anything I can do to help you feel better about this subject?”
If a student has mental or emotional difficulties, don’t ostracize them. Talk to the student’s parents or a school counselor to find out how best to help the student while still including them in group activities.
 Kindergarteners will thrive if you challenge them and give the opportunity to rise to the occasion. They will like and respect you if you hold them to their highest potential instead of letting them off the hook when they fall short.If you assign homework, tell your students they’re expected to get it in by a particular date. If a student misses the deadline, don’t shame them, but tell them you believe that they can do better. Don’t forget to ask them how you can help them get their homework in on time the next time.
Make sure you set attainable goals. Remember, they’re kindergarteners! You want to challenge them so they strive hard, but you don’t want to set goals that will inevitably leave them feeling disappointed. For example, if you’re teaching your students vocabulary, ask them to learn two new words each week and use them in a sentence. Don’t ask them to learn twenty new words.
 You're the adult and your students will naturally look up to you and show you respect. It’s important that you respect your students as well. Respect shows your students that they are individual people who are worthy of respect and responsible for their own behavior.If a student has a fear of talking in class, don’t force them to talk. It may be that the student is just shy and needs encouragement; or it may be that the student really doesn’t like talking in class. Talk to the student and respect their choices.
If a student acts out in class or bullies another student, hold the child responsible. Make them know that you respect them too much to let them get away with acting in harmful ways. For example, you might say, “When you bully someone you make them hurt inside. I don’t think you really want to hurt anyone, so let’s try an activity where tomorrow you tell the student you bullied something good about them.”

, As a teacher, one of your greatest responsibilities is looking after your kids and helping them. However, sometimes kids need to figure things out on their own. Letting your kindergarteners struggle to come up with their own answers sometimes can help them develop a healthy sense of self-worth and independence.If a child is struggling with a math problem, don’t jump in right away and tell them how to do it. Let their wheels turn for a while and only help them if they really get stuck.
If two students get into a verbal conflict, don’t feel the need to immediately jump in. See how they handle the situation. If they resolve it on their own, praise them for showing good judgment. Of course, if the conflict is physical you should step in right away so no one gets hurt.

