 Think about something calming and just breathe in and out slowly. Avoid thinking about presents or anything that reminds you of them because it will make you more anxious to open them.


To help you try to sleep again, focus your mind on a non-Christmas related, somewhat unusual topic, or just simply relax your body. If you are genuinely too excited to sleep, read on.





;
, Attempt to read a slightly difficult book to read. If you read a difficult or boring book, there may be a chance of going back to bed. Also, reading in bed instead of a couch will help out, because you will be in a more comfortable position to fall asleep. If you cannot fall asleep with this method, just grab an interesting book that you can get stuck into and read for a while.
 You can just sit in bed doing head rolls and even yoga positions for fun. They will relax the body and make you less anxious and tense.
 Thinking about the story line will definitely pass the time. Try not to associate anything about Christmas into the story, making you, once again, more anxious. You can also draw.


On the other hand, maybe it's a good idea to set your mind on writing a short story (or even a novel) with a Christmas theme to it. Be sure to write out the blurb, who its written by, and include the illustrations and front cover.
 If you have a laptop in your room, surf the web for a bit. You might get pre-occupied with what you're doing and may lose track of time. Just avoid looking at your computer's clock (if it's on your taskbar). Even better, you can take the clock off your taskbar so you don't have a clock to look at.
 Preferably choose something interesting. Try to avoid stations with Christmas movie marathons, because this will obviously make you think of Christmas. If you are allowed to use on-demand, rent a movie or two. Preferably something you wanted to see when it came out in theaters, or an action movie.
 Put on your headphones, turn on a game console and play on it for a lengthy amount of time.


If you're waiting for a new game that leads on from an existing game, play that game to ensure you've completed all levels and tasks on it, or just to remind yourself of how fun the game is.
 If your room is already spotless, you can dust and polish the surfaces in your room and make sure it seems spotless. Put away clothes or color coordinate them. Be sure to finish off with some heavily scented air freshener. This may seem boring, but this definitely passes time.
 Still got pages of homework to do before January? Now's the time to finish it all off!

,, It doesn't have to be a Christmas movie. You could also watch youtube videos., Get dressed, style your hair, put on make up (if you wear it) and try out different deodorants and perfumes. You want to be perfect for the camera. If you like, practice smiling in front of a mirror and what you'll say.
 Try using foods like mince pies, carrots, cookies and milk to get yourself into the wonderful Christmas spirit!

, Also, perhaps scan the room to check if he has left you a letter!

, If you have your parent's permission, open your stocking. Do this very slowly and carefully, examining every single one of the items to pass time.
 If you have no siblings, simply play a game for a while. After all this, it's bound to be time to open up those extraordinary gifts! Merry Christmas!

