 Above, we've dealt with specific, individual ways to chill out. However, this isn't telling the whole story — in order to truly live a chilled-out life, you'll want to adopt habits and behaviors that encourage a happy, relaxed state of being. One sure-fire way to do this is to make an effort to regularly spend time outdoors. It may seem clichéd, but large-scale scientific studies have proven that spending time outside — especially getting moderate exercise — noticeably elevates mood.Though the connection between time outdoors and a good mood still isn't 100% understood, sunlight seems to be a key part of the equation. In fact, studies have shown that being exposed to bright (artificial) light in the morning when it would normally be dark out can help people with Seasonal Affective Disorder feel better.For long-term benefits, try making outdoor activity a part of your weekly schedule. For example, going for a short hike every Saturday morning is a good way to get yourself feeling relaxed and energized for the rest of your weekend.
 As noted above, a single session of exercise is a proven, fast-acting cure for stress in the short term. However, regular exercise is also a great way to promote a relaxed, chill attitude in the long term. Though the biology behind the process isn't perfectly understood, scientific research has demonstrated that habitual exercise can act as a buffer against the sorts of unhealthy problems that can result from stress, especially depression.Check out our comprehensive article on exercise for all sorts of useful information on making exercise a part of your life, including sample routines for every skill level.
 The way we sleep can have a major effect on the way we feel when we're awake — just think back to the last time you pulled an all-nighter and try to remember how you felt the next day. While a single night of missed sleep can make you feel bad for a day or so, consistently getting insufficient sleep can be a major source of stress in the long run. In fact, people who consistently get poor sleep have elevated risks of suffering from stress-related disorders like heart disease, stroke, and more.For the best chance at a healthy, chill life, make an effort to get enough sleep every night (most health resources recommend about seven to nine hours per night for adults.)It's also important to recognize that the relationship between sleep and stress works the other way as well. In other words, just like a lack of sleep can lead to stress, stress can itself can make it difficult to get to sleep.

