 Find a nice well lit area where the floor is nice and stable. Don't forget to put some foam or yoga mat under the glass tank to help distribute the weight evenly., Begin filling your tank with clean, fresh water. You'll want the water be approximately 24-30 degrees Celsius (75-86 Fahrenheit). The quality of your water will determine what additive you might need (such as bio-starters, beneficial bacteria, chlorine/heavy metal removers). Alternatively, you can purchase tank water for many pet stores., While your tank is filling up, thoroughly wash your gravel and decorations with clean water, and leave them out to dry. When the tank is half full add your substrate, decorations, and plants., Affix the filter you have chosen to your tank and turn it on. Various types of filters will have different directions. Simply follow the instructions included with your fish tank filter.If you will also be using an under-gravel filter, you'll need to turn on your air stones.
 Once your tank is set up and your filter is running, you must wait and let the water cycle. It is important to let the tank cycle for about 2 weeks before adding your snails. Keep this in mind before purchasing snails., In order to keep your snails healthy, your take must have a certain a PH range and ammonia/nitrite level. You tank must also stay between certain temperatures. Test the water before adding your snails, and continue to test it each week.To test PH use a liquid pH test kit. (test strips are not as reliable.) Follow the instructions on kit to test the water. Snails like Alkaline water between 7-8. You can alter the PH of your tank by adding certain plants, or using a PH regulator.
To test ammonia/nitrate levels use a ammonia/nitrate test kit. You want ammonia/nitrate levels of 0, or as close as possible. You can bring down this level by adding clean water. Replace 25% of the water in your tank every week.
Keep your water temperature between 24-30 degrees Celsius (75-86 Fahrenheit). If you keep your home between these temperatures, your fish tank should be OK. Just be sure to monitor the temp.
 After you have allowed the water to cycle for two weeks, and once you have verified a safe PH level, ammonia/nitrite level, and temperature, you can introduce your snails to their new home. Gently add them to the tank by picking them up out of the bag (from the pet store) and placing them right side up in the aquarium.

