 Make a list of style goals you want to accomplish. Do you want a better closet? Better hair? Whatever you want, write it down. This way, you can keep it as a to-do list of sorts, and it's also a good way of seeing what's realistic and not realistic.

Remember that looking amazing is about giving yourself more confidence. Having an amazing sense of fashion won't mean much if you're extremely nervous about how you look even after people tell you that you look great.
Certain things will be easier to accomplish than others. Maybe you want a dress that you saw in this month's fashion magazine, but it's incredibly expensive. Maybe you want to dye your hair blonde, but your school or parents won't allow you to dye your hair. It may be more realistic to make the list and see what you can do, can't do, and what you can work around.;
, Go through your closet and take everything out. Make two piles; one pile of clothes that you'll donate or sell, and the other pile of things that you'll keep. Keep things that don't seem "last year" and picture yourself wearing to school happily.


If you think you'd only wear a certain piece of clothing on the weekends or it means a lot to you, it's okay to keep it.
If you want to sell your clothes, stores like Plato's Closet and Children's Orchard will take your clothes and give you either cash or store credit. It's garage sale prices, but it's still money.
 Get together the following things for school. Your wardrobe should contain:


Graphic tees. The bolder, the better. You'll want bright colors with designs that stand out.
Solid v-necks or regular t-shirts. They're basic, and classic. They're super easy to accessorize, too!
Tunics. These long shirts are great over leggings or skinny jeans. Get bright colors, and beaded tunics are great. Make sure the tunic is long enough to qualify as a tunic, but short enough not to be a dress.
A vest. Black or gray are the best colors, and pin-striped navy is popular, too.
Jackets or hoodies. Get most of them in bright colors, and the rest in darker colors.
Tank tops are a good idea, too. Get one in white, one in black, and the rest in any color that looks good on you.
Jeans of different varieties. Consider getting one pair of distressed jeans, one pair bleached, one light wash, and one dark wash.
Shorts, depending on how warm it is where you live, is normally best. A pair of denim shorts are a great bet as they're very easy to style, but be sure to get other kinds, too.
Leggings. Basic, neutral colors like black, gray, and white are the most versatile, but patterned leggings can be fun to rock your world, too. Be sure that you can match a pair of patterned leggings to at least one of your outfits, though, because you don't want to be stuck with yellow polka dot leggings and nothing to wear them with!
Skirts, if you like. You should own at least one formal skirt for formal events. They can be varying patterns, lengths, and materials.
Consider a trench coat-like jacket. It should be long and have a tie around the waist.
A few summer dresses are a good investment. Throughout the year they can be changed entirely by adding a jacket and leggings, or maybe a scarf.
A pair of cargo pants is a good idea. Sometimes the best ones come from the guys section, so keep your eyes open. Nobody will know that you actually bought them in the men's section.
 Accessories are a great way to dress up or down your usual outfit, making your wardrobe more versatile. The following accessories will be most useful:

Belts. One should be basic black, another should be one that you can wear up higher over a t-shirt dress or just a t-shirt, and the last can be any belt that you love.






Earrings, depending on how often you accessorize. Silver hoops and diamond studs are classy, and chunky, bright colored ones are common. Go with your heart and pick your favorite.






Bags are great, especially for outings.






Scarves in any color. Invest in high-quality ones if you can, but if not, pick ones that look and feel great. Cashmere is a good option, but if you can't find cashmere or can't afford it, wool will substitute just as well.






Necklaces in any shape, color, or size will work.






Bracelets are great, but don't wear them all at once.






Try some headbands! Hippie headbands are a cool trend. Other types of headbands are cool, too, and they look great on any hair type. Try to have a couple to choose from.






Hats are a must, especially for bad hair days. A common choice is a beanie, but you can wear any hat you want.
 Shoes can determine how formal or casual your outfit is; a summer dress with some canvas shoes is a totally different to the same dress with a pair of pumps with a kitten heel. The following shoes will make sure you can dress for any occasion.

Flats. Make sure you have a basic neutral pair.






Boots. They're fashionable and good for cold or rainy days. Try to get a stylish pair in a neutral color. Be wary of Ugg boots, as these may be harder to match than other boots and cannot be comfortably or sensibly worn in warm weather and they get stained in rain/mud unlike leather or patent leather boots.






Comfortable tennis shoes are a must, especially for gym.






Try Converse. These are optional, however, as not everyone likes the look of these shoes.






A pair of sandals for sunny days and by the pool. Metallic sandals are very in, but neutral colors are good too, and very versatile.
 Makeup is more appropriate for older students, such as high schoolers or college students, but many girls experiment around with it in middle school. Decide what's right for you.

If you're in elementary school, you don't need makeup! At this age you have no need to wear foundation, as you're not likely to be getting pimples before your teenage years. If your mom is okay with it, you can start experimenting at home, however.






Around middle school, you may want to start experimenting with makeup. There's no need to feel pressured to wear makeup by your friends, but if you genuinely want to, start off slow, perhaps with lip gloss, mascara, and a concealer to hide pimples. Products like blush and foundation aren't typically needed for middle school girls.






If you're in high school or college, try to go with a fairly natural look for school. Even though it's fun to look fabulous, the focus of school is supposed to be learning, not attracting guys. Enhance your natural beauty with mascara, lip gloss or lip stick, foundation and concealer. Try to find a foundation with SPF 15+. If not, use a BB cream or moisturizer with SPF, or even sunscreen. Proceed with caution if you choose to use blush, eye shadow and/or eye liner. A little goes a long way with these products.






To make lips look fuller, apply lip gloss or lipstick evenly over both lips, then take some lip shimmer or a lighter shade and apply to the center of the lips. Then rub lips together. Believe it or not, this technique gives lips volume. But they shouldn't look like the picture, it should be lighter on the inside and darker on the outside. Lips should be exfoliated. When you shower or wash your face or maybe even once a week, exfoliate your lips. Do this with a soft toothbrush wet with warm water.






Intense eye shadow is primarily intended for formal events, however, it may be used sparingly with neutral colors like brown, beige, and even gold and still be school appropriate. Decide what you are comfortable with and what your parents are comfortable with. If you curl your lashes, curl them before you apply mascara.






Foundation is helpful if you have redness, bruising, or scars on your face that you want to cover up. It may not cover up as well as concealer, but it gives a more natural finish. Blush is best applied on the apples of your cheeks or on the highest part of you cheekbones. Only use blush, though, if you need it. Some people have color in their cheeks naturally, and some people don't. Use an oil free concealer.
 Even if your sense of fashion is great, nobody will want to talk to you if your breath smells.

Brush and floss your teeth twice a day, and whiten them once a month. Use healthy whiteners or just whitening toothpaste. Whitening once a week is not recommended. It will strip your teeth of enamel. Mouthwash is great if you have bad breath.

If you have to get braces, think about what color bands you want, as you won't be able to change the color for some time, so make sure it's a color that you like! Even if you take good care of your braces, lighter colors and clear bands can be stained by food. It's unlikely anyone else besides you will be able to notice, but if you're worried, ask your orthodontist which band colors are the most stain resistant.








Wash your face twice a day if you have oily skin, and once if your skin is dry. Find a face wash/skin system that is right for you. Remember that generic brands aren't anything to be afraid of, and some generics work better than the more expensive brand name items! Also, make sure you find a moisturizer that works for your skin type. If you're oily, don't go with a really heavy one, opt for a lighter one instead. And if your skin is dry, go with something a little thicker, richer, and creamier to keep your skin hydrated. If you feel you have bushy eyebrows, and you want them gone, either pluck, thread, or wax. I prefer plucking, as it is easier, safer, and can be done more easily from home.






Showering every other day is best for your body, and taking warm short showers is much better than long hot ones. If your legs and armpits are hairy, try shaving. Only shave if you don't feel comfortable with your body hair. Another alternative is hair removal cream, which has an unpleasant smell, but works well. Always use lotion when you get out of the shower, especially if you shave. It keeps your skin from looking dry.






Wash your hair every other day when you shower. Washing it every day takes out all the natural oils that prevent frizz and add shine. If your hair is oily or dirty, wash it.
 When it comes to clothes shopping - which you'll be doing quite often as the fashions change - you'll need to find ways of getting them cheaply. After all, you don't want to spend over a hundred dollars on just a shirt!

The less expensive places are department stores like Macy's, Kohls, and JCPenny's. A few other inexpensive places are Old Navy, GAP, and Target.






Some great stores are Aeropostale, Hollister, Forever 21, American Eagle, Urban Outfitters, PacSun, VS Pink, Journeys, Vanity, Claire's, Icing, and WetSeal.






If you're big brand name obsessed, but on a budget, try TJ Maxx or Ross. They have brand names up to fifty percent off, and they have everything.






If you're looking for vintage and thrift stores, the best place to find them is on Yahoo! Local. Just enter the keyword(s), your city, state, and area code, and it will come up with every store in the city, complete with the address.






Great websites are lulus.com, shopstyle.com, shopwiki.com, and the sites of whatever brand you're looking for. Often in-store prices and online prices are different, so always check to see which is the better deal.
 Not only do you need style to get to school looking amazing, but you need the right attitude. People are going to notice a smiling girl more than a glum one.


Confidence is an important factor. Even if you're not confident, try to look the part. Raise your head high, your shoulders back, and smile. Speak your mind, and don't be afraid of what others think.







Be nice to everyone, especially your enemies. Of course be a great friend, and give and take advice. Involve yourself in at least one school activity.







