 The best way to avoid a DUI is to not drink and drive. If you are over the age of 21, you should be able to enjoy alcohol responsibly without putting yourself or others in harm's way. If you have been drinking, call a taxi or a friend for a ride and never get behind the wheel.;
, If you find yourself getting pulled over after you have been drinking, you need to immediately start thinking about your actions. Any moves you make will be observed by law enforcement and can be used to establish probable cause to charge you with a DUI. It starts as soon as the officer's lights go on in their car. When this happens, find a safe place to pull over and do so responsibly.


Leave enough room on either side of your car so the officer can safely approach. Make sure you are not sticking out into the road. If you drive erratically, pull over unsafely, or brake to abruptly, the officer may make a note of it in their report., When the officer is approaching your car, do not make any sudden or unpredictable movements. Officers are trained to protect themselves and any surprising movements may cause an officer to react unpleasantly.In addition, an officer may perceive sudden or erratic movements as a sign of intoxication. These types of movements are likely going to be documented and used against you.
 While it may seem obvious, you should always be polite and friendly to a police officer.The officer you interact with is going to be a key witness in any DUI case against you. If you treat the officer with respect, you are more likely to have a favorable report. Understand that the officer is doing their job and you are doing yours. While you may not see eye-to-eye at times, never disrespect the person.


If you are belligerent, an officer may write a particularly harsh report and may put in extra time to make sure you get in trouble. In addition, you may be arrested or charged on unrelated matters (e.g., resisting arrest) should you act out physically or emotionally. Finally, these types of actions are signs of drinking, which you want to avoid at all costs.
 As soon as the officer starts interacting with you, you want to put up a mental barrier. While you are required to give the officer your identification, registration, and proof of insurance, you are not required to do much else. If the officer asks you any factual questions, for example "where are you coming from?" or "how much have you had to drink?", you should respectfully decline to answer. You can do this by saying, "I apologize officer but I have been advised not to answer these questions." While you do not have to answer these types of questions, you should never lie.


The officer will ask thee types of questions to try and get you to incriminate yourself. For example, if the officer asks you where you are coming from and you tell them you are coming from the bar, this is an indication that you have been drinking. Any answer you give them will be put in their report and used against you during your criminal and civil proceedings. Therefore, you should avoid giving an officer any information that may help them make a case against you., In Arizona, field sobriety tests are voluntary.Therefore, if you are asked to submit to tests including walking heel to toe, standing on one leg, or touching your nose with your finger, you should respectfully refuse. These tests are effective tools for officers when they are trying to establish probable cause to arrest and charge you with a DUI. However, these tests are incredibly subjective and officers can simply choose whether you pass or fail.In addition, the tests are not particularly reliable in gauging your level of intoxication. There are multiple reasons you may "fail" one of the field sobriety tests. For example, you may be tired, have a medical condition, or you may have anxiety.
 At this point, after you have refused to answer questions and take field sobriety tests, you are likely going to be arrested for DUI. However, under some circumstances, if an officer cannot establish probable cause, you will be allowed to leave. The less information you give the officer, the more difficult it will be for them to establish probable cause. However, based on the circumstances of your traffic stop, you may be arrested and taken into custody.


If you are arrested, you will most likely be read your Miranda rights. This process requires an officer to tell you about your rights to remain silent and to talk to an attorney. Even if you are not read your Miranda rights, as soon as you are arrested, or even detained, you should cease talking with any law enforcement official until you have spoken with an attorney.
 After you are arrested, you will be taken to the police station where law enforcement will administer a blood, breath, or urine test in order to determine your blood alcohol content (BAC). In Arizona, if you are lawfully arrested under the belief you have been driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, you automatically consent to taking a blood, breath, or urine test. This test must be taken within two hours of when you were driving and the officer in charge will choose which test to administer.


If you are arrested and refuse the test, your license will automatically be suspended.
Refusing to take the test is a judgment call you will have to make. While refusing to take the test will ensure law enforcement does not have any scientific evidence of your BAC, it will also lead to the suspension of your license. In addition, you can still be found guilty of a DUI even if the prosecution does not have your BAC available., After you have been booked and processed, you will be released from custody and allowed to go home. Being processed usually includes having your mugshot and fingerprints taken. If you did not do this, you will likely receive a court order at your arraignment requiring you to do so at some time in the future. Once released, call a friend or a taxi and have them pick you up.


During your processing, the officer may ask you more questions about the traffic stop. Make sure you remain silent and do not answer any questions posed to you.
Upon your release, you will usually get a criminal citation with a court name and date on it. Keep this as it is a record of what will happen next., As soon as you get home, write down everything you can remember about the traffic stop and arrest. The more you can remember the easier it will be for your attorney to help you. When you are writing down information, try and include the following:


What you were doing and where you were before you drove;
How much you drank;
When you were arrested in relation to when you were pulled over;
What you said to the officer;
Where you were pulled over;
When and if you were read your Miranda rights; and
When you took your chemical test in relation to when you last drank., Soon after you record your memories you should call an attorney. Many criminal defense attorneys will specialize in DUIs and you should look for an attorney who does. Ask friends and family members for recommendations. If you cannot get a referral, call your local bar association and ask about their lawyer referral services.


Hire an attorney that seems knowledgeable about DUIs and that has confidence in your case. In addition, choose an attorney that seems trustworthy. Finally, be sure you understand how the attorney will bill for their time and make sure the fee arrangement is acceptable.
 The arraignment will be your first court appearance following your arrest. It is the date, time, and place written on the citation you received the night you were arrested. At the arraignment you will be informed of the charges against you and you will be asked to make a plea. You will either plead guilty or not guilty. In almost every scenario, you should plead not guilty.


After you plead not guilty, you will be given your next court date, which will most likely be a pre-trial conference., In the time between your arraignment and pre-trial conference, your attorney should be working diligently to negotiate a deal with the prosecution.The type of deal your attorney will negotiate will depend on the strength of your case. If you and your attorney believe you have a strong case, you may not negotiate at all and instead you may ask to have the charges dropped or dismissed.
 Also during the time before your pre-trial conference, you and your attorney should be gathering information about your case. This may include:


Hiring expert witnesses;
Visiting the alleged crime scene;
Requesting samples of blood for retesting;
Interviewing the arresting officer; and
Requesting video and audio tapes of your police encounter., A pre-trial conference is an opportunity for the judge to talk with your attorney and the prosecutor. At the conference, the judge will assess the case and decide whether to allow each side more time to build their case or set a trial date.
 If you feel that policies or laws were broken during your police encounter, your attorney may want to file a motion to suppress evidence or a motion to dismiss the charges against you. These motions will usually be filed right after your pre-trial conference. Common scenarios where motions may be appropriate include when an officer had no basis to pull you over in the first place, when an officer mishandles evidence, or when your right to an attorney was wrongfully denied.A motion to suppress evidence is a motion asking the judge not to allow a specific piece of evidence to be admitted at trial because of some wrongdoing.
A motion to dismiss the case is a motion asking the judge to throw out the case altogether.
 If your case continues to trial, your attorney will present your case in front of the judge or a jury. Your attorney will present all of the evidence to the court, as will the prosecution, and the court will decide whether you are guilty or not guilty of committing a DUI. If found guilty, you will be sentenced and fined. If you are found not guilty, the matter will be over., The Motor Vehicle Department (MVD) portion of DUI case is a civil hearing conducted in certain situations when you driver's license has been suspended.


If you submitted to a chemical breath test and failed, you will be given an Admin Per Se Suspension, which is a 90 day suspension of your license that begins 15 days after the date of the test.
If the officer chooses to take a blood sample, as opposed to a breath test, you will not be served with an immediate suspension. Once the officer receives your blood results, and if you failed, they will send an Admin Per Se Affidavit to MVD. MVD will then send you a notice advising you of your 90 day suspension.
If you refuse to submit to any tests, the officer will serve you with an Implied Consent Suspension. This is a one or two year suspension depending on whether it is your first or second offense. The suspension will start 15 days from when you were served., A hearing must be requested within 15 days from the date the officer served you with the suspension or when you were served by MVD. If you do not timely request a hearing, your rights will be waived and you will lose your ability to challenge the license suspension.Directions for requesting a hearing will be on the suspension notice and your attorney will know how to help you.
 At your hearing, an administrative law judge (ALJ) will hear your case and will determine whether the officer was within their rights when they suspended your license.


In an Admin Per Se Suspension, the ALJ will look to determine whether: the officer had reason to believe you were driving under the influence; you were arrested for a DUI; your tests determined your BAC was .08 or higher; and the manner of testing was valid and reliable.
In an Implied Consent Suspension, the ALJ will look to determine whether: the officer had reason to believe you were driving under the influence; you were arrested for a DUI; you refused or failed to submit to testing; and you were advised of the consequences of your refusal., The ALJ will take your case under consideration and will give you a ruling in a matter of weeks. Keep in mind that winning or losing your MVD hearing has no bearing on your criminal case.