 Your physical activity doesn’t have to wait until you’ve finished the school day. Sitting at a desk all day can make your body feel stiff. Avoid this by getting up to walk around frequently in between your class sessions. Take a stroll down the hall, even if your next class is just next door.Many schools provide a ten-minute break in the morning. Walk through the halls with your friends during these breaks, instead of just standing by your lockers.
Don’t take away from class time or even study sessions to be physically active during the day. Give balanced attention to both school and your physical health.
 This morning and afternoon commute can act as a perfect way to naturally build activity into your daily schedule. Try to avoid walking or biking more than thirty minutes to school, as this may be too much time to add to your morning schedule. Be sure it’s safe for you to do this.Make this a group activity by reaching out to other students who live in your neighborhood. You may feel more safe if several of you travel together. This can also provide fun social time in the mornings and afternoons.
 It’s especially important for teens to find time to be active. It’s best to get at least an hour of physical activity each day, thirty minutes of which should be intense enough to get your heart pumping. If you’re able to get a gym membership and enlist some friends to join with you, you’ll be much more likely to commit to daily activity., Instead of engaging in physical activity haphazardly, schedule specific times each day to be active. If you just decide to be active whenever you can, you likely won’t get enough activity over the course of your day. You probably have tons of commitments already, so it’s important to “formally” add physical activity to your plans and treat it like something you’re required to complete., It can be difficult to be excited about a jog or exercise class that you know is going to be hard and make you sweat. Focus on the benefits you’ll receive from physical activity, and keep reminding yourself how you’ll feel once it’s over. If you’re able to find even one thing you can look forward to about your physical activity, you’ll likely be able to approach it with a smile on your face., It’s often easier to commit to being active when you have a friend or family member acting as your exercise buddy. You can offer each other encouragement and challenge one another with a friendly spirit of competition. Your friends and family will benefit from adding physical activity to their lives as well, so remind them that you’re doing them a favor!, Between social media and homework, avoiding your electronics entirely just isn’t possible. Record how many hours you spend in front of different kinds of screens on a typical day. You may be surprised (and disturbed) by how high the number is. Try to cut this time down by a few or even several hours.Not only will limiting your screen time give you the ability to add more physical activity to your day, you’ll likely enjoy other health benefits. For example, if you suffer from headaches or tired, itchy eyes, your screens may be the culprit.

