 This will help you sort through your thoughts to establish just what you're going to do. It will also give you a better direction of the movie, since it requires a lot of planning and editing, rather than to just "go with it".


Create an exciting plot, with realistic characters: Make it something that you would want to see. Because this will transition into a movie, make sure that you can create the setting effectively.
Don't create too many characters. You will later have to cast these characters. For this reason, you will want to avoid any adult material because your actors will be uncomfortable with this.
Make the script similar to a story, and it will feel much easier and it will be a lot of fun.;
, You'll need a video camera, a place to shoot, and a computer with professional movie editing software. If your wish, using Windows Movie Maker or iMovie is fine too.


For your setting, consider using the woods around your house, a local park, a local graveyard, the high school when it is deserted. Be creative and look around you!
Make sure to read the manual to learn how to use your movie-making software.
 Family members are okay, but make sure to have a nice variety of personalities, get some friends or post some fliers around town advertising a position. If you wish, you can offer a salary and place a newspaper ad. Ask your friends and family, send out a mass email.


Keep the amount of actors reasonable.
 Make some edits, and fix some errors. Watch out if your script has plot holes or goofs that may not be wanted in the movie. It is recommended to have friends or family read it over to get a second opinion.
 Your movie might have conversations, or might be more of a solitary movie with a lonely vibe. At any rate, make sure that your actors learn their lines, and teach them blocking: Show them where you want them to stand and how you want them to act. Learn to give constructive criticism and give a feedback sandwich.
 Creepy movies need many effects for it to create the aura that you want. There are many good effects software out there that don't cost that much money, or you can do it manually: Create the noises yourself, be it a whispering ghost, stomping feet, or an eerie howl.
 Feel free to do over a scene if it doesn't turn out right or if someone makes an error. If you feel that it can be improved, practice, practice, and practice some more! Select the best shots for the film.


Be patient and kind with your actors and actresses. If you boss them around, they will become very irritable and unwilling to help. Learn to accept the mistakes they make, and learn to recognize your errors as well.
 Use a good editing software, try Sony Vegas Pro and Adobe Pro for good edits, or if you don't have the money, use a free software like Windows Movie Maker.
 Watch the movie when it's done; watch it once to get the overall effect. The next time, pay good attention to spot any visible equipment and/or crew members, things that don't look realistic, plot wholes, and strange emotions from the actors... some may be harder to spot than others. Stay aware.
 Chances are that they will love some parts, and criticize others. Pay attention to their comments, take notes on their opinions. You need multiple opinions, respect theirs. #* At this point you may decide to re-shoot a few scenes that you or your crew decide need work.
 This will also be a valuable opportunity to have your movie critiqued by others. Listen to and respect their opinion. They will spot things that you and your crew missed.
 You may decide to re-shoot some parts, add sound effects, or switch the order of a few scenes. Feel free to delete parts and add others. Polish the film to perfection.
 YouTube is the best way to start fresh. If it gets a lot of good comments, ratings, and views, then you should consider the step below.


If you really think that your film is gold, consider selling it to YouTube or finding a contractor to try to get your movie professionally published.
Show your creation to others, and be proud of it.

