 If you want to get to the front of the crowd for a certain band you love, you might have to see one or two of the bands in the line-up ahead of that band. You might be lucky enough to already know their music, but if you don't, it might be a good idea to research these artists and get to know their music. Hopefully, you'll enjoy it, if not, you make the decision to endure the music you may dislike. Even if you don't particularly like whichever band may be ahead, try to find a song that appeals to you by this band. This is a good idea to research the band because if not, you'll be standing in the middle of the crowd without a clue and when you may enjoy the atmosphere, you won't have as much fun as you could do if you listen to the music. It's always best to know the music.;
, Take time to find a camp suitable to you. If you love the wild nightlife and don't care about not getting much sleep, it's best to be out in the open and where everyone seems to be. If you prefer a quiet campsite, try to find a closed off field. Some campsite sections are lucky to have their own small field. If you find one, try to find a good spot in a small field. This way, it'll have less people, therefore quieter and, whether you feel safe to, you have more of an option to leave all of your belongings in your tent whilst you head off into the middle of the crowd.
 Of course, the obvious thing to bring is a tent. However, there are many things that would benefit you that you might not think to take. These are listed below in the "Things You'll Need" section.
 A lot of the time, if you take a debit card, you can take out money at the festival (there should be ATM machines there) although you will, most likely get charged. If you want to take cash with you, make sure you find a place on your person to keep it safe. The first place you would most likely think to keep it is in your bra. Don't! You'll be jumping up and down and moving around so much in the crowd it will fall out and get lost. A tip for you girls is to buy a cheap padded bra you won't intend on wearing much. Cut a line across the inside of the cup and sew a zip onto the split material. You'll have made yourself a zip pocket. If you keep your money inside, with the pocket zipped, you'll keep your money safe throughout the festival. You're not likely to take off your bra the entire time. If you're a guy, try to find an alternative piece of clothing that's either padded or with double material so you can cut through one layer.
 Music is only half of the enjoyment. If you make friends, you'll double your enjoyment. At festivals, the fun never stops but if you're on your own and don't make friends, it can be difficult to enjoy yourself. If you're shy, try to pluck up the courage to talk to people. Most of the people at festivals are often friendly, out to have a good time and you'll most likely find people talk to you at random. If you see and like the look of a few people enjoying a few beers at their camp, introduce yourself and ask if their having a good time. Before the festival, try to find someone who's also going and ask if you can camp along with them.
 If you're on your own in an overwhelming crowd, and don't feel safe, get out. You won't enjoy the artists performing, you'll be concentrating on trying to breathe and feel comfortable. It takes a lot of effort to be at the front of the crowd, particularly for a highly popular band, and it can be very overwhelming. If you feel like you can't handle it, don't panic. Just make your way out and find a spot that feels right for you.
 Festivals are one of the greatest forms of escapism. If you forget, you'll have the best time of your life. You most likely will forget instantly, there will be so much happening. Nothing matters on the outside; once you're in, that's all that matters. Enjoy yourself. Don't fuss if you haven't had a shower, don't be too bothered about having to pee outside and don't worry if you even get an ignorant hooligan deciding to throw a cup of urine in the crowd. In the end, you're messy anyway and you'll get nice and clean once you get home.

