 If you want to file your application electronically, you must create an account with the ULS, located on the FCC's website. The ULS allows you to manage your licenses and monitor your application's status.Some types of applications must be filed electronically, while for others you may mail in a paper application if you wish. If the FCC requires the application for the type of license you need to be filed electronically, you have no choice but to register with ULS.
Businesses also must register with the FCC's Commission Registration System (CORES). This registration generates an FCC Registration Number (FRN) for you to use on any applications you file with the FCC.
Your FRN also gives you access to the FCC's online license manager, which allows you to easily monitor expiration dates and file renewals or additional applications from one place.;
, The FCC has a different application for each type of license issued by the agency. Each type of license also may have a separate application depending on whether you are seeking commercial or noncommercial use.The FCC website can be a bit difficult to navigate, so it may take some time and patience to find the exact application you need. Try skimming the list of FCC databases and click on one that relates to your desired use to browse the documents available.
For example, if you're interested in getting a license for broadcast radio and television, you can click "Broadcast Radio and Television Electronic Filing System (CDBS)" to access that database and gain more information about the application process.
If you want an amateur radio application, such as to operate a ham radio, you need FCC Form 605, which is an application for authorization of all ship, aircraft, and amateur radio operators, as well as general mobile radio services.
 All application forms are available for download in PDF format on the FCC's website. Some of these forms are fillable, which allows you to type your answers directly into the application form and save your progress as you go.The FCC has a number of guides available if you're unsure from the document descriptions which applications you need to file. The FCC also recommends that you read the federal regulations that correspond to your application. The specific sections of the regulations for which you will be responsible are listed in the instructions for your application.
You also can get help by calling 1-888-CALL-FCC.
Some forms may be printed out, while others must be filed electronically. Even if you're completing and filing your forms electronically, you may want to print off a copy to reference while you read the regulations.
 Once you have the application you need, look it over so you can gather the information required before you start filling it out.Each form includes instructions on completing and filing the form. Make sure you read them thoroughly and understand the information you'll have to enter before you start filling out the form.
For forms that aren't fillable on the computer, you must print out the document and complete it by hand. Print using blue or black ink.
Some forms require documents to be filed as exhibits along with your application. Identify these documents with page and exhibit numbers, and indicate the number of pages and letter or number of the corresponding exhibit on your application.
The instructions include various codes and abbreviations that must be used for specific sections. Make sure you read and understand these so you can use the appropriate code.
Take care when entering your name, address, and telephone numbers. Once your license is granted, the FCC will use this information for all correspondence with you concerning your license, so it's important to make sure they're accurate.
 To apply for any type of license from the FCC, you must pay licensing, processing, and regulatory fees unless you are exempt. Some nonprofit entities are eligible for a fee exemption, as well as government entities.If you think you might be eligible for an exemption, you should call the FCC at 877-480-3201 or consult the most recent Fee Filing Guide, available on the FCC's website.
Form 159 must accompany any payment to the FCC, and ensures your payment will be appropriately credited to your account.
Fees for many licenses are $65 per call sign, although some licenses may be several hundred dollars. There is no application fee for an amateur radio license, including a request for an amateur station vanity call sign.
If you're registered with the ULS, your fees will be calculated for you automatically.
 To be granted most FCC licenses, particularly operator licenses, you must take a number of written tests that evaluate your knowledge and understanding of the operation of the technology you want a license to use as well as applicable FCC regulations.Tests typically are divided into a number of elements. Which elements you take and pass determines which class of license you will hold.
The exam page on the FCC website provides the required score to pass each element, as well as which elements correspond to each license class.
Most new operators start at the lowest class, and then move up as they gain greater knowledge and information through hands-on learning.
 Volunteer examiners administer tests from common question pools maintained for each exam element. These questions are available through several non-government publications and companies.Some companies also have audio and video lessons available, as well as live or online courses you can take to learn the material covered in the exam.
Keep in mind prep companies will charge fees for their courses, ranging from just under $100 to several hundred dollars. Balance that cost against the potential cost of having to take the exams more than once.
The FCC doesn't license or recommend any specific prep courses, so you'll have to research on your own to find one that works for you. Start by conducting an online search for "FCC exam prep" and see where it takes you.
You also might want to ask for recommendations from friends or colleagues you know who recently have obtained the same license for which you are applying.
If cost is an issue, consider looking for companies that give refunds for the money you spent on prep courses if your exam results are failing or below a certain percentile.
 When you're ready to take your exam, contact the Volunteer Examiner Coordinator (VEC) in the region that corresponds to your state or geographic area of residence. They will help you file your application and schedule your exam.The FCC has 14 regions that cover one or more states or geographic areas. Some VECs coordinate sessions in more than one region.
For example, if you live in South Carolina, you are in FCC Region 4, which covers Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. Although there is not a VEC in South Carolina, there are two in North Carolina from which you can choose.
You also may have the option of using a nationwide examiner group, such as the International Society of Certified Electronics Technicians, which provides testing of certain types of licenses and license classes online.
 To request a written examination, you must submit your completed application form to your team of volunteer examiners. When you've completed your exam, your application will be submitted to the FCC electronically along with your examination scores.Typically you also must include any fees for the exam and a copy of your government-issued photo identification.
Expect the fees charged by your examiners to be anywhere from $35 to $70 or more in some cases.
The examiners with whom you register to take the test will let you know exactly what documents and information are required before you are scheduled to take the test.
If you plan to take the test in person, make sure you note the date, time, and location when the exam will be held and make arrangements to be there.
 You must score the minimum score required by the FCC to pass your exam. Until you pass the required exams, you are ineligible for a license. Although the FCC won't issue a refund of any fees you've paid for your exam since these are intended to reimburse the volunteer examiners for their out-of-pocket expenses, you can retake it as many times as necessary.Some exams must be completed on paper in person, while others allow you to take an online test. An online test can save you time and money.
However, if you use an online test, make sure the exam provider is authorized by the FCC and will submit your completed application.
You should receive your exam results within a few days after you take the test. In some cases, if you complete your test online you can get your results immediately.
If you passed some, but not all, of the necessary written elements to qualify for a particular class, you may be able to operate under a lower class until you pass the required elements for the higher class.
Before you schedule another examination, study the elements you failed the first time around until you're confident you know them as well as the elements you did pass.
If you didn't take a study course initially, you may want to consider one to help you brush up on the areas where you didn't do as well.
 Provided you've paid all necessary fees and passed the required exams, the FCC will mail your license to you using the name and mailing address you provided on your application form.Assuming you registered with the FCC's online licensing system, you can check your application status online.
If you filed paper forms manually, you can call 1-877-480-3201 to check your application's status. Make sure you have the appropriate identification information ready.
Once your application is received, expect to wait at least two or three weeks before you find out whether it has been approved.
FCC licenses are good for a number of years before they must be renewed. The number of years varies based on the type of license. For example, ham radio or amateur radio licenses are good for 10 years.
If the FCC dismisses your application, you can have your application fees refunded by sending a request in writing to Federal Communications Commission, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325-7245. Include your FRN, application file number, and all other information related to the payment.
 You cannot renew your license after the expiration date, or more than 90 days before the expiration date, so make sure you have this date correct.Since your license is good for 10 years, don't trust yourself to remember the date.
Keep in mind that if you miss your license's expiration date and have to file a new application, you will not be able to continue operations under the old license while you're waiting for the new application to be approved.
If you used a particular entity or association to take your exams and file your initial license, you may get a reminder from them when it's time to renew. However, you're not obligated to use that service to renew your license.
 The renewal application typically is the same form you filled out to apply for the initial license, except that you'll code it "RO" for "Renewal Only" if you're applying to renew the same license under the same conditions.Renewals through which you are requesting changes to your existing authorization must be categorized under the renewal/modification purpose.
If you need to modify your existing application, or want to be licensed at a different operator class, the procedure is similar to how you initially applied in that you may need to take additional exams and have your application filed by your volunteer examiners.
If you are filing online, your form will include all the information you entered on your initial application. Review it for accuracy and update it as necessary before you file your application.
 If you're filing for a renewal under the same conditions, you may be able to submit your renewal application online through the FCC's license management system. However, if you're taking an exam to modify your license or operate under a higher class, your examiner will have to file it for you after you've taken your exam.You also may mail paper renewal forms to FCC, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, PA 17325-7245. Make sure you've included the applicable fees.
There is no fee for renewing an amateur radio license grant.
 Once you've filed your renewal application, you can check its status online at the FCC website just as you did for your original application. Keep in mind that if you mailed your application it may be a week to 10 days before it's received.Expect to receive your renewal license within two to three weeks of the date it's received. To be safe, you want to try to file it within 30 to 60 days before your original license is set to expire.
Keep in mind that you cannot continue operating if your old license expires while your renewal application is still pending.

