 Growing a lawn from sod is much more expensive than growing from seed, but much faster. Sod, which comes in rolls, is grass that has been grown for a little over a year. The roots hold the strips together allowing you to put long strips onto your prepared soil.Sod is typically sold on heavy wooden pallets, ranging in size from 450-700 sq. ft (42-65 sq. m). These pallets are difficult to transport, so you may wish to ask your supplier about delivery services and fees. You will probably need to pay a return deposit on your sod.
You can plant sod in almost any season, but if you plan on laying sod in the summer, make sure you give it plenty of water., Sod begins to spoil and die quickly when left on the pallet, so plan to install it on the day of purchase, and only purchase as much as you can install in a single day. Lightly water the sod, cover it with burlap, and keep it in a shaded area until you are ready to use it.

Keep the sod moist and cool while you work with it. Keep a spray bottle handy to keep it from drying out., Start laying your sod along the longest straight edge in your yard, usually by a fence line or a driveway. Don't walk on the sod while you're laying it and if you do happen to step on it, smooth out the footprints with a rake.Trim any excess sod off with a sharp knife and save it for odd corners.Make sure the sod is smooth as you lay it. You want it flat against the soil so the roots will take., As you start laying the sod, avoid any gaps between pieces. The sod should be snug near hard surfaces, such as pavement or bricks, so that the edges don't dry out.Cut off half of the second piece of sod when you lay it. In doing so, you will create staggered seams, much like brick-work. This will make the seams less noticeable and keep the edges from drying out., New sod needs to stay moist. Once you've put the first few rows down, give your sod a good watering. Take a break to check the moisture every few rows or so.Pay special attention to the edges as they can dry out fast.You can backfill with some top-dressing material or add topsoil along the edges of each row as you work to help retain moisture.
 While it's best to keep the pieces of sod tight against each other, you may still find some gaps. Rather than use small pieces of sod which will dry out too fast, fill the gaps in with potting soil or peat moss., Once you have laid out your rows of sod, go over them with a lawn roller filled at to least ¾ capacity with water or sand. This will flatten out your sod and pack it firmly into the soil base., Once you've finished laying the last of the sod, soak your lawn.Water your sod until the soil beneath is soaking wet. Not only will this allow the roots to take quicker, it will ensure the sod is too wet to walk on.However, avoid watering your sod to the point of creating puddles. This can cause the sod to separate from the soil.
Avoid heavy traffic for the first two weeks as it could disturb the sod and prevent solid roots from forming. After about two weeks, it will be safe to mow.