 On your favorite browser, type www.skype.com/go/skype.manager.setup, and hit Enter. You will land on the Skype Manager page where you can register for a Personal or Business Skype Manager.


You can set up your Skype Manager using your existing personal account by choosing the “Yes, I have a Skype account” option. Type your Skype username and password in the fields provided, and hit the “Sign me in” button to log into your account.
For business purposes, it is recommended that you create a new Skype account using your business or company name to make it easier to recognize, which in turn makes it easier for you to delegate tasks throughout your business.
To create a new account, click the “No, I don’t have a Skype account” tab on the right. Type your name, business email address, your company’s name as your Skype name, password, country, language and the Verification Captcha text in the required fields. Click on the “I agree” and “Continue” buttons at bottom of the page when you’re done.;
, Once you’re signed in to your existing or newly created Skype account, fill up the registration form.


Type your legally registered business name in the “Company name” field. Select your position or role in the company, the number of its employees, the category of your company and the country it is in using the drop-down menu. Enter your company’s legally registered postal address, city name, postal code and the name of the state (if applicable) in the required fields.
Remember that companies based within the European Union (except Luxembourg) must pay VAT or submit a valid EU VAT code to purchase Skype Credits on behalf of their business.
After completing the required fields, check the Agreement box, and click on the “Set up Skype Manager” button at the bottom of the registration page.
Upon the successful submission of the online registration form, check your email inbox for the activation link email. Click on that link to activate your Skype Manager, and to launch its dashboard.
 Once you activate Skype Manager, you’re now ready to assign business tasks through its features. Use the setup links on your dashboard to add members, buy credits, verify your company, and set up Subscriptions, Skype Numbers, Call Forwarding, Voicemail and Skype Connect. Doing so will prompt Skype Manager to activate its full features.
 Create business accounts for your company members or send them invitation emails to add them to your Skype Manager


Click on the Members tab at the top left side of your dashboard to open the member list screen. Afterwards, click the “Add members” tab on the left sidebar to open the options for adding members.
Click the “Create managed accounts” tab on the left, and under the “Add members” tab to create business accounts for your members. Put the email address of a member in the field provided, and click on “Next.” Click on the “Complete account creation” tab under the added email address to create a managed account.
You can also create more than one managed accounts by uploading a CSV file containing the email addresses of all your members.
Under the “Add member” tab, click the “Invite personal members by email address” tab to add members by sending invitation emails to their personal email addresses. Click on the “Invite personal members by Skype Name” tab to send invitation messages to their Skype ID. After typing email addresses or Skype IDs in the required fields, click on the “Send invites” button.
You can also create a business group by clicking on the “Create a group” link on the sidebar on the upper left section of the page. Type the group name in the pop-up box, and click the “Create group” button.
 There is a credit purchase amount limit for personal accounts. However, you can increase this limit by verifying your company. Just fill up and submit the verification form with the required information.


Go to your Skype Manager’s Dashboard page, and click on the “Get your company verified” link on the right to launch the verification form.
Enter your company details in the required fields, and choose a purchase range from the drop-down menu below. Click on the “Submit” button at the bottom of the form. Generally, the verification process takes between three days to two weeks.
 You can buy Skype credits using your credit card, PayPal, or Moneybookers account. You can then allocate these credits to your company members.


Click on the “Buy Skype credit” button on the top toolbar to open the available payment methods. Click on the radio button next to your chosen payment method, and click on “Next” button at the bottom.
Choose the Skype Credit amount you want by clicking on its corresponding radio button. The limit for purchasing credits varies depending on the payment method. After choosing a payment method, you will see whether you are eligible to buy the selected amount of credit or not.
Hit the “Buy now” button to confirm your credit purchase. If you want to buy more than $1,000 credit, contact Skype support by clicking on the “Contact us” link.
Click on the Features tab on the toolbar at the top to allocate planned credits to selected members of your company.
Click on the “Allocate Skype Credit” button to open the list of added members, and allocate credits to them. Check the box next to each member’s name to open the settings box.
Type the planned amount of credit in the box under the “Add credits” label on the left, and click on the “Add credits” button to activate the allocation. You can also enable or disable the “Auto credit recharge” option for the selected member by choosing the “Yes” or “No” radio button.
 You can assign different features to your selected members such as Subscriptions, Voicemail, Call Forwarding, Online Numbers and Caller ID.


Click on the Features tab on the toolbar at the top to set up the managing and assigning of features to company members. The features are listed as tabs on the left sidebar on the Features page of your Skype Manager account.
Click on the selected feature’s tab you would like to assign to a particular member. Check the box next to the member ID to select the member for the feature, and then hit the “Allocate feature” button at the bottom to activate it. You are allowed to edit or cancel this allocation from here as well.

