 If you are wearing your faux fur coat to a special event or just want to look nice, remember that simplicity is the key to elegance. Because faux fur is such a lush and eye-catching material, make the your faux fur coat the statement piece of your outfit.Try not to wear especially bright clothing, or anything that catches the eye too much. Also don’t wear any other bold textures like snakeskin or pleather.;
, In general, mid length or long length faux fur coats tend to be more formal, whereas short coats tend to be more casual. Try to wear a longer coat if you are trying for a more formal look.If you have a short faux fur coat that you want to wear in a formal context, pair the short coat with a mid length or short dress along with heels to dress up the coat. A long dress or skirt can look mismatched when paired with a short coat.
 If you are trying to dress up your faux fur coat, pay attention to its color. In general, more traditional colors like tan, brown, black or white faux fur coats tend to work better in elegant outfits. Compliment the color of your coat by wearing other neutral colors.You can still wear non-neutral colors and still look formal and elegant, just try to wear dark or muted tones like deep blue or dusty rose as opposed to brights or neons.
 Even the most chic faux fur coat can be somewhat chunky, so to stay looking formal it’s important to keep the other pieces in your outfit somewhat fitted.Wearing a pencil dress or gown with a straight silhouette underneath your faux fur coat keeps your outfit looking formal.
You can still look formal and stylish wearing pants with your faux fur jacket. Wear dark or neutral-colored skinny or straight leg pants with your fur coat.
 Because your faux fur coat is your statement piece, cut back on the amount of accessories that you normally wear. Instead of wearing multiple large and chunky accessories, try to wear either a few thin and minimal accessories, or one bold accessory.For example, you could wear a couple of thin bangles, a ring and stud earrings. Alternatively, you could wear a pair of diamond drop earrings or silver chandelier earrings and no other accessories.
Try to wear good quality, formal looking accessories if you are trying to dress up your coat. Wearing plastic or low-quality accessories will detract from the classiness of your coat.
 Even if the rest of your outfit is perfect, wearing the wrong pair of shoes can completely change your outfit. If you are going for a chic look, wear a pair of heels or heeled boots with your fur coat. If you don’t want to wear high heels, wear a pair of low-heeled shoes that still look dressy.Try to wear neutral colored shoes or shoes in muted or dark tones.
If you are going for a formal look, don’t wear shoes that look clunky or are overly bright,

