 It might sound strange, but the first thing you need to do is relax a little bit. If you've just remembered this assignment, you're understandably pretty stressed out. But that's not a good state to be in when you're trying to write a paper. So take some deep breaths, and make a plan.Deep breathing can help lower your blood pressure and and your heart rate. This can physically help you feel more confident about tackling your problems.Try doing a few basic yoga stretches or turning on some soothing music for a few minutes. These methods can help you feel more calm and in control.;
, If you have decided that it is best to try to complete the paper in a short amount of time, your first step is to make sure you have a clear understanding of the assignment. Make sure that you have a clear understanding of what you are supposed to write about, and how many sources you will need.Look for keywords that will let you know the goal of the paper. For example, if you see the word "compare," you will know that you need to compare two ideas, texts, etc. Writing a paper about just one isn't an option in this case. However, if you see the word "analyze," you may be able to write about just one topic or text.It may be tempting, but it's generally not a good idea to email your professor with questions about an essay due the next day. This lets your professor know that you didn't start well in advance and will make a bad impression. In addition, your professor may not check her email outside of business hours, so that email at 10:45PM is likely to go unanswered.
 Once you know how many and what types of sources you need, you can begin researching. Since your time is limited, you'll need to search efficiently for the sources that will be most helpful to you. Try using your university library as your first step in researching. If possible, head to the library. If it is closed, use the webpage., For a college paper, scholarly resources are your best bet. Use the online database to search for books relating to your topic. If possible, look for ones that have electronic versions available. You can also use the library webpage to find scholarly journals that will contain articles about your topic.


Read efficiently. As you read your sources, don't try to absorb every single word. You will get bogged down. Instead, try reading for specific information that will help you write your paper. Scan, and take notes when you find something that is useful.The introductions of books and abstracts of journal articles contain useful information that summarizes the overall argument of the text. Start with these.
 Because you're working on a tight deadline, your research will not be as complete as it would be if you had started working earlier. Pick a few key pieces of evidence that you will use to support your argument.A good rule of thumb is to have at least one piece of evidence per "claim" in your paper. Generally, each body paragraph will put forward a claim that works to support your overall thesis. Thus, in a five-paragraph essay you would need at least three pieces of evidence, since you are likely to have three claims (one for each body paragraph).


Look for quotations that are meaningful or impactful. Find a key fact or data point. Make sure that your evidence helps you answer your guiding question (the one that your thesis addresses).
Make sure that your evidence fulfills the requirements. Some teachers may require a certain number of sources, a certain type (e.g., a scholarly journal or a recent book), or a certain balance of primary and secondary sources. Read the assignment carefully.