 It’s great to tell your girlfriend she’s beautiful or gush about how gorgeous she is. However, instead of bragging about her looks alone, try to focus on her personality, achievements, and other qualities that make her a wonderful person.Brag about her professional accomplishments, like a laudable project she managed.Talk about an impressive test score, how she made honor roll or dean’s list, or how great of a mentor she is to her younger siblings.
 Bragging about your love life isn’t the most respectful way to convey what a great human being your girlfriend is. Further, when you keep intimate details about your relationship between the two of you, those details become more special and profound.It’s one thing to confide in your best friend about your love life. However, if you brag to all of your friends about how great your girlfriend is at intimate stuff, she might feel like nothing more than a conquest., Bragging about how great your girlfriend is at things like cooking and cleaning could come across as old fashioned and stereotypical. Instead of reducing her to an outdated gender role, try drawing attention to more complex personality traits.

For example, you could say, “Sophie is a great cook. She likes to glance at recipes, then add her own unique twists. Her creativity, intelligence, and quick-thinking never cease to amaze me!”
Try saying something like, “Her apartment is always spotless, and she loves to keep things in order. Among her many great qualities, she’s so responsible and has such attention to detail. She really makes me a better person.”   

, When in doubt, talk to your girlfriend about whether or not she likes it when you gush about her. Set clear boundaries about what’s up for discussion, when bragging is appropriate, and how much you should share about your relationship.Ask her, “Does my bragging ever make you uncomfortable? I love telling everyone how amazing you are, but I’d never want to put you on the spot or make you feel embarrassed.”

