 Determine how you will get around in Bora Bora. Look into public transportation options near the airport or car rental rates before you leave. Bike rentals are especially popular in Bora Bora because the island is small enough to circumnavigate in an afternoon.


Many resorts or hotels offer deals on bike rentals or even offer complimentary ones for the duration of their stay.
Bora Bora's local bus system, Le Truck, is known for being unreliable. It is, however, very economical if you don't want to rent a car., Cuisine in Bora Bora can be expensive, so planning now can save your pocketbook from spontaneous expenses. Hotels often offer continental breakfasts: call ahead to know for sure.


To save money, eat only one meal a day from a restaurant, if possible. For the other two, shop at a convenience store or market for quick, easy meals. If you spend less on food, you can afford to see more while you're out.
 Many people, especially those who interact often with tourists, will have a good grasp of the English language. If you take the initiative to learn basic French and Tahitian, you will be able to interact more with locals and cultivate an authentic experience.


Don't worry about becoming fluent in either within a few months. Just set aside a little time each day to learn key phrases and conversation words in both of the languages. Locals will appreciate you taking initiative to learn their language.
 Take lightweight clothing made of breathable fabric so you don't feel hot or sweaty outside. Bright clothes will absorb the least amount of sun, so avoid darker fabrics. Although temperatures are generally warm, bring a light jacket and long pants for the nights (which can reach colder temperatures).


Bring at least two swimsuits. Much of Bora Bora's activities involve swimming or getting wet. You'll want two swimsuits so one can dry off while you wear the other.
Take comfortable walking shoes or sandals with you. If possible, bring shoes with non-slip or gripping soles. Your feet will thank you for your preparation after you've spent so much time in Bora Bora outdoors.
For sun protection, bring SPF 50+ sunscreen and a wide-brimmed hat.If you're going during Bora Bora's rainy season, take a raincoat and umbrella as well.
 You'll want to have time for last-minute wedding planning and devote your attention to your guests once the reception and open house begin. Plan to finish packing and planning at least two weeks in advance so you can set it aside and leave for your vacation after your wedding is over.

