 Oftentimes older equipment will not cooperate well with newer printer-networking setups. Connecting via the printer's IP address has the most compatibility, but also means you won't have access to any of the printers extra features. Some typical cases include:


If you're trying to connect an older printer to your network, it may not support being added automatically by your operating system.
If your printer is connected to a print server, you'll need to connect to that server instead of the printer.
If you're using an older version of Windows or OS X, such as XP or Snow Leopard, you may not be able to automatically add new printers.
If you're connecting to your school's printers, you will likely need to use the IP address.
 You can plug it directly into your network switch using an Ethernet cable, connect it to a print server connected to your network, or connect it to your network using the printer's built-in wireless adapter.
 There are a couple of different ways you can get the IP address of your printer.


If your printer has a display, you may be able to see the IP address in the printer's Networking or Settings menu.
Most printers will print the IP address on the configuration page. You can print this from the printer's Settings menu.
If you're using an older printer, you may have to access your router to determine the IP address of the printer.
If you're connecting to a print server, you'll need the server's IP address. If your connecting to a school's printer, the IT department will be able to provide you with the IP addresses.
 If you are using a Mac, skip down to the next step.Open the Control Panel and select "Devices and Printers" or "View devices and printers".
Click the Add a printer button and then select "Add a local printer".
Select "Create a new port" and then select "Standard TCP/IP Port" from the menu. Click Next.
Enter the printer's IP address into the "Hostname or IP address" field. Click Next.
Select your printer make and model. If its not listed, click Windows Update to check online or Have Disk if you have the printer's software.
If prompted to use the current driver or replace it, choose to use the driver that is currently installed.

Click the "Print & Scan" option.
Click the "+" button at the bottom of the printer list.
Click the "IP" tab at the top of the Add Printer window.
Enter the printer's IP address into the "Address" field.
Select the correct Protocol. Many systems will use the default "Line Printer Daemon", but check with your network administrator if you're unsure.
Click Add. If you are prompted to install software, follow the prompts to download it or install it from a disk.
 Once you've added the printer to your operating system, you'll be able to select it from any Print dialog.

