 Laws vary from state to state on how long you can wait to report a crime after the crime was committed.Therefore, it is best to report the sex crime as soon as possible.


Check the laws in your state if some time has passed since the sex crime was committed.
 Keep in mind that you will have to provide a detailed report of the sex crime. This can be difficult, but providing as many details as you can remember is important. You might consider writing down everything you remember before you go to the police.


If you were assaulted and the person who assaulted you was a stranger, then you might want to write down as many details as possible about that person’s appearance, including hair color, eye color, height, weight, clothing, distinguishing marks, etc.
If you can’t remember something or if you don’t know how to answer a question, keep in mind that it is okay to say “I can’t remember” or “I don’t know.”If you are helping someone who was assaulted or flashed, then you can try asking the person what he or she remembers about the criminal. What did the person look like? What did he or she say? How did you respond?

, Do not let being afraid of getting into trouble stop you from reporting a sex crime. It is common for young people to worry about getting into trouble for drinking or using drugs and even think that this will put them in the wrong for a crime committed against them. However, these circumstances do not change the fact that you were the victim of a sex crime, so it is important to make a report in spite of your fears.Try repeating to yourself, “I did nothing to cause this to happen and I deserve to be heard.”
If you are helping someone who was the victim of a sex crime, then try to reassure him or her. Remind the person that it was not his or her fault.
 It is common for victims of sexual assault and abuse to know their attackers, but you should still make a report. Even if you had a sexual relationship with the person prior to the attack, that does not give the person the right to have a sexual relationship with you at any time.If you are helping someone who was the victim of a sex crime, explain to him or her that having a relationship with the person does not excuse that person if a crime was committed.

