 Your body doesn't like to be jolted out of sleep, and you may feel more groggy if you have a loud, obnoxious alarm clock. Try one that has a more gradual alarm, such as one that slowly gets louder.Try using an alarm app that will wake you up slowly., As soon as you can in the morning, try to get some sunlight. Either step outside or let sunlight into your bedroom Sunlight tells your body to wake up, so you'll be awake to start the day.Your body's natural rhythms are set by the sun and night. Basically, the sunlight tells your body it's morning, and it's time to start the day., You lose water during the night from sweating and through breathing. Make it one of your top priorities to drink a glass of water early in the morning, prepping you for the rest of the day., Though you want to skip the caffeine later in the day, you can use some in the morning to get you going. Just don't go overboard; 1 to 2 cups is sufficient. Try programming your coffeepot to start brewing just before your alarm. The smell will help you wake up, plus you'll have coffee ready to go., Just like your car needs gas to go, your body needs food to go. Give it what it needs by having a breakfast complete with protein and a complex carbohydrate, such as peanut butter on whole wheat toast. Skip overly sugary breakfasts, such as sugary cereals or waffles with syrup.However, keep in mind that sugar can hide in all kinds of foods. For example, some studies have shown that bread, including whole wheat bread, may increase your blood sugar as much as eating two tablespoons of sugar.Check the ingredients list on anything you eat to be sure.


Try oatmeal, which is packed with fiber and is a complex carbohydrate. Use fruit to sweeten it, and add some protein, such as a few almonds or peanuts.Eat Greek yogurt. Greek yogurt has more protein than other yogurts, so it's a great choice for the mornings. Try it plain with some fruit to add sweetness., Nothing wakes you up like a morning workout, so try jogging or an aerobic routine in the morning to get your day going. As an added bonus, people who exercise tend to sleep better at night, so you'll have a more restful night later.Avoid doing anything too strenuous in the evening hours because this may keep you up at night.