 While it can be difficult to stay calm during times of hardship and worry, the stress impedes your ability to remain resilient. Managing stress will allow you to tackle the difficulties with greater serenity and focused thinking instead of burying yourself down deeper and trying to hide. Make stress management a priority, no matter how busy you are.


If you are overbooked and under slept, see if there are any commitments you can cut back on.
Indulge in activities that let you completely unwind. Give yourself that space and peace to relax regularly, thereby giving your resilience a chance to increase.
Engage in positive activities to reduce stress and increase your positive mood.Think of stress as a challenge or opportunity.If you are stressed, this means you care deeply about something that you are doing. You are worried about it. Use your stress as a way to inform you about your priorities and obligations. Change your thinking from stress-related thoughts such as, "I don't have enough time," to, "I know that I can do this. I just have to organize my responsibilities.";
, Meditating can help you clear your mind, lower stress, and feel more ready to face the day and any challenges ahead of you. Studies also show that just 10 minutes of meditation can make you feel as rested as getting another hour of sleep, as well as making you feel more relaxed and able to cope with your problems.If you feel overwhelmed or burnt out, meditating can help you slow down and feel in control of your situation.


Just find a comfortable seat and close your eyes, focusing on the breath rising in and out of your body. Work on relaxing your body one part at a time. Block out any noise or distractions.
 A study from Harvard Medical School showed that people who do yoga as opposed to other forms of physical fitness were less prone to angry outbursts and more capable of dealing with challenges.When you do yoga, you will strike challenging poses and will learn to build strength and endurance in holding the poses even when your body is begging you to stop; this builds up your ability to "stick with" challenging situations and to find the resources to stay calm and determined.
 Hard times call for looking at the lighter side. Humor helps you to gain perspective during hard times. It also improves your sense of well-being through an increase in dopamine levels in your brain, and can ultimately increase your overall health.Watch a comedy, read a funny book, and spend time around people who are genuinely funny. When going through hardships, be sure to balance your sorrowful movies, books, and thoughts, with funny, humorous ones, to prevent you from hitting the bottom of the pit of despair.
Learn to laugh at yourself. The ability to not take yourself so seriously will make it much easier to face challenges with a smile on your face.
 Lack of social support can lead to decreased resilience.While it's easy to let go of important relationships in our frenetic lives, it is important to make room for them. Good relationships are a pillar of rock for resilience and are a source of support when the times get tough. Maintain your family and friend relationships and you'll have an instant, trustworthy and reliable support network around you at all times.One study of 3,000 nurses with breast cancer showed that the nurses with 10 or more close friends were four times more likely to survive than those without., Since lack of social support can lead to less resilience, finding a mentor can help you deal with life when it gets tough.You may feel that your life is hopeless and that life is caving in all around you, and having an older and wiser person who has been there can help you feel like you're not alone and like you're equipped to deal with life's challenges.


This can be a person who is succeeding in your field, a grandparent, an older friend, or really anyone who can help you achieve your goals and face adversity with a level head.
If you are school-aged (elementary through college), a school counselor or coach can serve as a useful mentor and support for you.
 It might be important to talk through the problems you're facing with someone who is in a position to help you make sound decisions about seeking therapy, using medicinal options, and finding any other sources of support that you may need. While you can face difficulties yourself, it's important to talk to a doctor to make sure you're doing so the best way possible.


Seeing a doctor is not a sign of weakness; admitting that you may need some help actually takes a lot of strength.

