 This might be a weeknight or a weekend, depending on your work schedule or preferences. The weekend may have the added benefit of being able to sleep in the next day, depending on your lifestyle.


Set the date aside so that it takes on significance for both of you. Ring it on the calendar. This will signify that the date is all systems go.;
, Decide what you'll have for dinner, whether you'll watch a movie together, play a game or perhaps go skinny-dipping in your pool. Choose something fun that brings you together. You can also plan for romance in the bedroom later, with satin sheets, rose petals and champagne.


Consider whether or not it's worth getting a babysitter. This will depend on the size of your home, your budget and how you feel about having another person around on date night, but it might be a solution if you're concerned about interruptions during the date. Explain to the babysitter that you're having a date night at home and that it isn't to be interrupted apart from emergencies.
Do you have a special area in the garden, such as a gazebo, a studio or similar, where you could go for a special evening outside? If the weather is good, spending the date night outside can be a great way to escape the kids and you can use apps on your cellphone to act as monitors on the kids, if you're worried.
 This includes the groceries, scented candles, rose petals, a DVD/new game, new clothes/lingerie and so forth. This is part of the build-up for the evening, so indulge.


Make a list together and divide off who gets what and by when.
 Try to choose recipes that can be baked or made ahead and simply heated up. It's not a lot of fun cooking intensely on date night, unless that's the very activity both of you love.


Another alternative is to order in your favorite take-out, no expenses spared. If your favorite restaurant delivers, order ahead of time (including any special requests), to ensure that a three-course meal will be dropped off at your door, ready to enjoy.
 This will help you to feel less inclined to spend the day before your date night cleaning and wearing yourself out. Of course, there will still be kid's messes to clear up but they can help in many cases, or you can ask them to play in rooms where you can just shut the door.
 On the day of date night, set up all the things in readiness for the date that can be set up, such as setting a romantic table, strewing cushions and throw rugs in the gazebo, placing candles out, and so forth. If your children are curious, tell them it's something special for mom and dad later. If they're likely to mess it up because they're too young to know any better, hold off until later.


Consider making the most of what the kids leave behind. For example, if they've built a fort, crawl inside and watch a DVD in there together.
 Get feeding, bathing and bedtime stories sorted nice and early. This is where a babysitter may come in handy, even if she or he does this part, then leaves, as it gives you the space and time to set up your date night. (If your children tend to go to bed late, a babysitter may well be a very good investment.)

, Dress up and discard your at-home clothes. You can keep it comfortable by opting for formal casual rather than opulent evening wear but that's entirely up to you.
 Turn on monitors if needed, otherwise, simply begin the date as if you were really doing something special. Have a lovely meal together, by candlelight or moonlight. Snuggle up somewhere and watch a movie, stargaze, simply talk or make out under the stars. Take a dip in the pool or hot tub. Have some nice wine or champagne, accompanied by delicious chocolate truffles. Dance to your favorite songs. Look for night birds. Have a wine, cheese or chocolate tasting session. Give each other a massage. Tell one another what you mean to each other. And so forth.


Play some romantic music in the background. Select the playlist well in advance and let it play uninterrupted.
 Keep the dream going just a little longer, until little people are jumping up and down on your bed, demanding full attention again.

