 Visit https://im.chikka.com/ using any browser on your computer.;
, Use your Chikka account to sign in. The username is your mobile number you used to register.


Select your country code from the drop-down list and type in your complete mobile number. After that, type in your password.
Click the “Sign in” button when done.
 After signing in, look for the Profile menu on the left panel. It’s the one with the ID icon. Click on it to go to the Profile menu.
 If you want to put up your profile picture, click the pencil icon on the photo box and choose “Upload”.


Browse through your computer for the picture you want to use and upload it. Your picture will be updated after it has uploaded.
 Right under the photo box is your username. If you want to edit it, just click on the pencil icon beside it.


Type in your new username and click the “Save” button.
Chikka doesn’t check for duplicated usernames since its primary identifier for its users are the mobile numbers.
 The next item you can edit under your Profile is your current status message. If you’d like to set it, click the pencil icon under the “Status Message” section.


Type in your status message and click the “Save” button. You can put up to a maximum of 250 characters on your status message.
 If you need to link or associate another mobile number with your Chikka account, you can add it under the next section for Mobile Number.


Click the pencil icon beside your current mobile number and type in the mobile number you’d like to add. Click the “Link” button to proceed with the linkage.
 You can also link your other social network accounts with Chikka. One benefit of doing so is easier signing in process as you don’t need to remember your Chikka username and password anymore.


Social network accounts you can integrate with Chikka include Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and LinkedIn. Just click on the appropriate icons and the corresponding integration process owned by the social networks will be triggered. Simply follow the usual protocols to proceed with the linkages.
 Go back to the main page and look for the Contacts menu on the left panel; it’s the one with the people icon. Click on it to bring out your contacts.
 Your list of contacts will be displayed as an additional panel on the left. Scroll up and down to browse through your existing contacts.


The contacts are displayed with their names and mobile numbers.
 At the top of the contacts list, there’s a search field. Beside that, there’s a plus icon. Click on this icon for adding a new contact.


An “Add Contact” box will appear where you need to put a name and a mobile number. Click the “Save” button to store the new contact in your address book.
 Select the contact you’d like to modify. Click on it from your contacts list.


Another panel from the left will appear with the contact’s photo, name, mobile number, and status message. At the top of this panel is a pencil icon; click on this icon to proceed with editing the contact’s details.
An Edit Contact box will appear where you can edit the name and the mobile number. Click the “Save” button to update the contact in your address book.
 At the top of the contacts list, there’s a search field. Beside that, there’s a plus icon then an icon with three dots in vertical.


Click on the dots icon to bring out a submenu then select “Delete.” The contacts list will have tick boxes in front of the names. Tick the ones you’d like to delete. Once done, click the “Delete Selected” button found at the bottom of the panel.
After confirmation, the selected contacts will be removed from your address book.
 At the top of the contacts list, there’s a search field. Use this field to type in the name or the mobile number of the contact you’re searching for.


The contacts list will automatically be filtered to match your search criteria. Select the contact you need.
 Go back to the main page and look for “Messages” on the left panel. It’s the one with the text balloon icon. Click on it to go to your inbox and messages.
 On the left side panel, you’ll see your inbox with all the messages you’ve received. Clicking on one will open it for you to read. This is very similar to the message inbox on your phones.
 At the top of the inbox, there’s a search field. Use this field to type in the name or the mobile number of the contact whose message you’re looking for.


The messages will automatically be filtered to match your search criteria. Select the message you need.
, On the right side panel, at the bottom part, you’ll see an area where you can compose your message. Type in your message on this text field; it can go as much as 450 characters.
 At the top of the “Compose Message” section, you’ll find the area where you can input your recipients.


Type in the name or the mobile number of the contacts you’d like to send the message to, and then select them to add to the recipients list. You can only send messages to people on your contacts list.
 Once you’re done, click on the “Send” button found below the “Compose Message” section. Your message will be sent to your recipients.


This won’t cost you a thing. The recipients might get charged for receiving the message though, depending on their service providers.

