 Think about your personal values and needs when considering your future career. Carefully examining your own needs and wants when it comes to your career can help you choose one that is a great fit for your personality and skills.Writing down your wants and needs can help you organize your thoughts and see them clearly.
Think about where you would like to work. For example, do you prefer an office, a restaurant, or the outdoors?
Ask yourself if you prefer to work alone or with a team.
Examine your preferences when it comes to deadlines. Do you like a busy and tight schedule or do you prefer to have things more open ended?
Try to think of positions that don't have a college education as a requirement. Some examples are gas plant operators, subway operators, electrical power line repairers and installers, and farmers., Aptitude tests help you evaluate your skills and abilities, scoring you on specific criteria. Knowing which areas you are already proficient with can help you narrow down your choices when looking for a future career.Many aptitude tests are available online and are free.
Some of the areas tested will be logic, numerical and verbal reasoning, spelling, math and computer skills.
 There are many on-line quizzes that you can take that will help you to better understand which careers might be the best for you. Many of these quizzes are created and offered by both professional services or governmental services and can give you an accurate idea of which careers you might enjoy. Try some of the following quizzes to learn more about your career preferences:


http://careers.state.gov/work/foreign-service/officer/career-track-quiz
http://joboutlook.gov.au/careerquiz.aspx
http://www.careerbridge.wa.gov/survey_cluster.aspx
http://www.rasmussen.edu/resources/aptitude-test/

, A benefit of college is that it has very rigid requirements and schedules when it comes to learning new information and skills. Since you may have to learn these skills on your own, you will have to set definite goals for your personal development and strive to meet them. Try reviewing the details of the S.M.A.R.T goal-setting method to get started:S – Specific : Goals should answer the questions of “how,” “what,” and “why”.
M – Measurable: Goals should have components that you can measure and use to track your progress.
A – Achievable: Goals should be realistic and obtainable while still presenting a challenge.
R – Results: Goals should focus on outcomes instead of the steps that will achieve the goal.
T – Time: Goals should have a specific length of time they must be achieved by, adding pressure and incentive to meet them.

