 Although it's not something that can be accomplished in one sitting, learning a language is something that can fill up all your future boredom spells with study time. There are several good, free sites that teach languages, here are a few:


Memrise (memrise.com). This site adapts its teaching method to your learning style.
Duolingo (duolingo.com). This site incorporates games into your language learning.
Livemocha (livemocha.com). This site lets you chat with real native speakers as you learn!

, There are a lot of websites that offer free lectures, courses, and information on a wide array of subjects. Remember that thing you always wanted to read about? Well, you've got time now. Here are few website suggestions:


Open Culture (openculture.com). This site contains a lot of educational and cultural tools, from online courses, to movies and videos, and more!
Khan Academy (khanacademy.org). You have to sign up, but once you do you'll be on your way to learning new skills and subjects.
iTunes U. If you have iTunes, then you already have this, and it offers scores of lectures in all different subjects from top-tier universities.
None of these strike your fancy? Search for more educational sites online, where you can learn music theory and even coding!

, You always said you wanted to, and now's the chance. Your blog could chronicle your daily life, offer your advice or opinions, or just discuss a favorite hobby or topic. There's a lot of options to choose from as far as which blogging site to use, but here are a few free ones:


Blogger (blogger.com). Backed by Google, Blogger is trustworthy and reliable.
Tumblr (tumblr.com). The most popular blogging site available.
WordPress (wordpress.com). Next to Tumblr, the most popular blogging site.
 Don't panic! These are meant to tell you something about yourself, so you can't fail them (probably).


There are a lot of "fake" personality/psychology tests out there, so look for ones that are backed by scientific research.
Always see those people writing INTJ and ENTP and all those other acronyms? Well, those relate to personalities and they're determined by one of the most popular personality tests out there, the Meyers-Briggs Type Indicator.
 Now might be a good time to catch up on local/world events. You probably already have a favorite news source, but here are some suggestions:


Vice (vice.com). A very hip and independent news source for a new generation of informed citizens.
The Drudge Report (drudgereport.com). More of a news resource, this site links you to other news sources' articles.
The Huffington Post (huffingtonpost.com). This site offers a wide array of news from different "voices."

, There are many online communities that support causes and you can find your own by searching for a cause you believe in. Your support doesn't have to be financial, you could write or contribute in some other way, too.
 Many political campaigns take on volunteers to either write or market online. Find a candidate you believe in, look up their campaign site, and contact them.
 This can be a lot of fun: you get to learn about a certain task or concept and help others to understand it by writing an article (like this one!) to explain how it is done well.


Follow this link if you'd like to write an article and already have an idea on what you'd like to write about: Write.
Follow this link if you'd like suggestions on what to write about or if you'd like to write an article based upon a request made by another community member: Requests/Suggestions for Your Writing.
Follow this link if you don't want to write but you have a request/suggestion for an article someone else should write: Request/Suggest an Article.
 If you are getting bored often, maybe it's time for a change of scenery. There are lots of tools available online to help you prepare your trip. Here are but a few:


Google Flights (google.com/flights). One of the best flight searches out there is hosted by the best search engines out there. Go figure.
Airbnb (airbnb.com). You can find some remarkably beautiful apartments/houses to stay in at your destination -- and it's not that expensive!
CouchSurfing (couchsurfing.com). An alternative to paying for a room is to couchsurf: it's free and your host may be willing to show you around the area!
Lonely Planet (lonelyplanet.com). This is an incredible resource for traveling. Whether you're trying to decide on where to go or you're trying to decide on what to do, this site has it all.
 Craving some human contact to soothe your boredom? All you have to do is search "Chat Online" and a score of websites will appear.


You will be able to video or text chat anonymously, but you never know when you might meet someone cool.
Warning: such websites may be inappropriate for children.
 This is probably not your best option, particularly if you're trying to save money and you have an itchy shopper finger. Nevertheless, you can always just browse: browsing can be fun, too!

