 It may seem obvious to you that you want to talk to him, but it may not be obvious to him. There are three easy signals you can use to demonstrate that you want to talk to him. Make sure to use these non-verbals in combination with your glittering personality. The eyebrow flash is a non-verbal signal that says that you are friendly and approachable. Tilting your head to one side is another way to show interest while he is talking.
Finally, smile! When you smile at someone they will usually smile back at you. Smiling will make him feel good, because it releases endorphins! ;
, If you are at a club or bar and like a guy, you can send them signals that you are interested in interacting. Look his way and make eye contact with him then flash your eyebrows, tilt your head or smile. This will communicate to him that you would like to talk.


At first he may not be sure that you were making eye contact with him, and you can make eye contact with him one or two more times to communicate that you were looking at him.
If he is giving you signals that he is interested in you, approach him and ask to buy him a drink. And if you are really bold you can ask him to buy you a drink.
 Dominating the conversation is a common mistake that lots of people make when they are nervous. You can volunteer information when, and if, he asks, but first you should get to know him. When you are in conversation, direct your focus onto what he is saying, and don't worry about showing him how cool you are.
 Be engaged in what he is saying and pay attention to the things he is interested in and what he likes to talk about.


Use your body language to show your interest. Nod your head, and be expressive with your facial expressions so that he can see what you are thinking about what he is saying.
Be empathetic to what he is talking about, if he is expressing anything that is difficult show him concern or sympathy.
Remember what he says so that you can be more specific when you ask him how things are going. Showing him that you remember what is going on in his life isn’t creepy, everyone wants to be listened to and acknowledged.
 Most relationships are founded on common interests. If you have intersecting interests, talk up the things you have in common. You both love Montana and snowboarding? Awesome.


Don’t feel like you have to prove that you have the same interests as him or that you have something great in common. You can always start by enjoying hearing about the things he is interested in and talking about your experiences with those things, even if your experience is limited.
 Having a sense of humor is attractive! Find out what kind of sense of humor he has, and start interacting with him playfully. You could even start a playful argument with him. You can feign being mad at him, before laughing it off.


Humor is great tool to use when you are getting to know someone, because it will help you get through any awkwardness you encounter on your dates.
 Even from even the “getting to know” you stage, you should not be afraid to be honest. Be respectful when you disagree, but tell him if you think differently about something he is saying.


People respect people who stick up for their views. Explain why you disagree, or ask him to explain more about why he thinks the way he thinks about a topic.
Sometimes people become more attracted to people who disagree with them. 