 Your local community center might serve as a good central location for area residents to gather and learn about the challenges of older adults. Many libraries also have meeting rooms that may be accessible for such gatherings.Invite the elderly to speak about their concerns. Hearing the details of an older adult's health concerns, transportation issues or financial difficulties might inspire compassion and solutions in the minds and hearts of local residents.
Advertise the event to local senior care, health care, and other community activists and organization groups. Present it to them as a chance to meet with seniors in their community and get to understand their needs.
Arrange for transportation for the elderly. Increase attendance at your community events by providing transportation for older adults who might not be able to attend otherwise.
 Use an online blogging or microblogging platform to develop content dedicated to the needs of the elderly. Older adults who are uncomfortable expressing their problems in person might be willing to submit them anonymously online.Provide useful information for senior citizens. Inform the elderly about elder rights, local services and community activities that will help them to overcome loneliness, boredom and feelings of helplessness.
Encourage elderly readers to share concerns and challenges that may be going unheard.
Also work on content dedicated to individuals trying to help the elderly. Provide useful links to resources such as local advocacy groups, pages about what to do in cases of elder abuse, and volunteer organizations.
 Join an organization dedicated to improving the lives of the elderly. Such organizations typically distribute information and articles about the legislative issues that affect the lives of older people. They may also work with elderly people directly to address the issues that matter to them.Find community groups by contacting local senior communities or AARP to get recommendations.
Make the most of your time with the organization by volunteering not only to come to meetings, but to distribute information in your neighborhood and around your community. Make time to participate in local events, as well.

