 Therabands or resistance bands provide similar levels of resistance to the straps and pulleys of a Pilates reformer at a fraction of the cost. Many reformer moves can be adapted for mat practice using resistance bands.Resistance bands are especially beneficial when doing footwork exercises such as leg extensions and bends. For example, you can use a resistance band to intensify a leg extend and bend, bird feet, and point and flex exercises.To do bird feet with resistance bands, lie on your back, lift your legs up, and bend your knees so that your legs are at 90 degree angles. Loop the resistance bands around the bottoms of your feet and hold the other ends of the bands in your hands. Then, slowly lift your up your head as if you are going to do a crunch. Arch your feet slightly around the resistance bands and extend your legs straight up and out at a roughly 45 degree angle from your torso. Inhale as you do this. Then, slowly pull your legs back in and exhale. Repeat this exercise three more times.You can use resistance bands to intensify Pilates exercises that require you to extend or separate your arms or legs. For example, you could do a plie while holding a resistance band and you will get some extra resistance when you spread your arms out for the plie.To make this a Pilates exercise, contract your muscles from your feet all the way up through your legs, glutes, and vertical back. Hold the band in tension to draw the muscle contraction higher up into your upper back. Extend your head and neck straight reaching up through your crown.
Bands typically cost between $5 and $15 (USD), depending on their length and strength. You can find sets at sporting goods stores and many discount stores.
You also may want to buy handles, which will help you get a better grip on the band and enable you to do other exercises.
One benefit of resistance bands is that they are small and easily transportable, so you can take your Pilates workout with you when you travel.
 Many Pilates exercises can be done with the magic circle, an exercise implement created by Joseph Pilates, the founder of the practice. A magic circle is a flexible metal or rubber ring approximately 13 inches in diameter.The magic circle provides moderate resistance. If you're a stronger, more muscular person, make sure to choose one of the heavier models that will provide the appropriate level of resistance to give you a strength challenge.
Keep in mind that these can be expensive. You typically can purchase a magic ring for between $20 and $60 (USD) from sporting goods stores or Pilates specialty shops. The price will vary depending on the brand and the materials from which the magic circle is made.The standing leg press is a good beginning move to do with a Pilates magic circle. Stand with good posture, your shoulders and neck relaxed. Place the padded sides of your Pilates magic circle just above your ankle bones. Shift your weight to one foot, pulling up through the middle and engaging your inner thighs. Squeeze the ring in, then slowly release. Do this three times, standing tall and moving with control. Then return to standing and repeat the press three times on the other leg.You can also do side-lying leg presses using the Pilates magic circle. The movement is much the same as the standing leg press, only you are lying on your side. You may want to try this first if you have difficulty balancing properly while standing.
To intensify the 100 exercise, hold the magic circle between your knees or ankles.
 Although they're not necessarily convenient for travel, dumbbells or hand and ankle weights also can add resistance to the Pilates movements you do without a reformer. The extra weight will increase the strength-building aspects of Pilates, as well as increasing your stability and control.Dumbbells aren't as useful as ankle weights that strap onto your legs. Since most Pilates movements focus on your core and lower body, there are few movements for which holding dumb bells would make any difference.
You typically can buy adjustable ankle weights for between $10 and $50 (USD) at sporting goods stores. Look for weights that you can strap around your wrists or your ankles. Some of the cheaper ones have removable sand bags so you can adjust the amount of weight, but the higher end ones have little pockets which fit removable lead bars.
A medicine ball is also a good option. For example, you could try holding a medicine ball while doing the swan pose or while doing roll ups.Avoid using more than six or seven pounds of weight.
 You can find a balance ball, also known as an exercise ball or stability ball, at nearly any discount or sporting goods store for around $20 (USD). Many of the movements using a reformer in Pilates can also be performed on a balance ball.For example, you can do Pilates roll ups with a balance ball, side planks, or bridge exercises.


Doing exercises on the balance ball puts your body in an altered position, which will increase your balance and agility. The ball also raises you off the floor to allow greater extension and flexion of your spine. This enables core exercises to be more challenging.
A balance ball will take up some floor space in your home (unless you plan on deflating it after every session), but it's lightweight enough to easily roll it into a closet and out of the way when not in use.
Many balance balls also come with videos that you can use to become more familiar with this apparatus and start using it for regular workouts.

