 Fix rusted area and coat with top grade primer or lead-based primer and paint, or coat with fiberglass resin. Mud is usually trapped under the fender wells on the upper light domes, fender ends, and on the Super Beetle, the top area of the front coil shock springs.;
, Clean and coat rusted area of floor pan with top grade primer or lead-base paint. This is very important especially the rear floors and battery area. Replace tar paper rug with rubber mats (spike side of mat down.) Note: 72 VW Beetles and later models had no tar paper rugs.
 Coat body attachment area and metal part of running boards with fiberglass resin, and use a thin layer of fiberglass with resin at rust damaged areas. File and sand smooth all resin/fiberglass work.
 Use new original VW hoses or 3/16 diameter braided fuel hoses for replacement.
,,,,, Disassemble and pack all four c v joints with molybdenum disulphide lithium grease. Rotate the c v joints by installing the previous wheel c v joint to the inside transmission flanges, and installing the previous transmission c v joints to the outside wheel flanges.
 Coat brake line in this area with Rustoleum or lead-base primer and paint.
 Apply the brakes and have an assistant outside try to rotate the front left and right wheels. If one (or both) front wheel still rotates when the brakes are applied, check for faulty brake hose, brake cylinder or caliper, master cylinder, rubber grommet on Master cylinder where brake fluid enters for cracking or leakage, or brake shoes and linings. Apply (with force) and release brake and then check again for free rotation of front wheels. If one (or both) front wheels do not rotate freely, check for faulty brake hose, brake cylinder of caliper. NOTE: brake hose deteriorates from the inside and may look perfectly good on the outside.
, It assures the engine is not overstressed (lugged down,) and will not overheat due to faulty brakes. The engine will last longer and the car will get better gas mileage.
 Therefore, the brake procedure should also be performed when: the gas mileage drops; the car does not roll freely (coast) on the road, especially after releasing brakes; a wheel drum overheats, or smelling of burning brake shoes.

