 Each institution, community, and country will have different policies that dictate how sex education can be taught. These policies might come from the community or they could come from larger bodies of governance. In some cases, a conservative community will have certain views on how sex should be talked about and taught. However, that does not necessarily mean that is how sex education should be taught. And instead, the education system may have differing views and policies on how to teach certain sexual health topics.


Discuss with community leaders, educators, and organizations on what sex education looks like in a conservative community. They may have advice or provide you with guidelines on how to communicate with learners and their families, and even how to manage controversy and criticism about sex education.
Remember, the goal of sex education is promote sexual health to learners. Do what is best for your learners but practice judgement.
 People who oppose to sex education are not limited to conservative communities. The first thing to do if you come across someone who opposes sex education is to listen to their point of view and their reasoning. Do not belittle them or antagonize them by telling them they are misinformed or lack knowledge. Instead, respond to their concerns calmly and be as helpful as you can. There are many reasons why someone might oppose to sex education:


They lack knowledge about your program and don't know how you will implement sex education. Give them information about your program, the lessons you will be teaching, and your goals while teaching. If a whole community is opposed to sex education because of this reason, bring written material about your program to community meetings, to community members, and discuss your program with them.
They fear they sex education will distress or corrupt young people. Let them know that sex education advocates for responsible sexual health and does not always primarily focus on sexual activities or behaviours.
They believe talking about sex leads to sexual activity. There are many reputable and authoritative studies that show sex education does not increase sexual experimentation. Instead, sex education only changes the way sex is performed, usually meaning people who have had sex education are more likely to use contraceptives and get tested for STIs.
Sex education opposes their moral, religious, or cultural beliefs. Let them know that it is perfectly okay to opt out of sex education. Or let them know when certain topics will be discussed and allow the option to opt out of classes that go against a certain belief.

