 In fact, the core grammar rules are very limited.


If you want to learn all those grammatical phenomena one by one in the sea of textbooks, yes, you will never finish learning. But never forget that your aim of learning grammar is to understand the sentence and article, not grammar itself.
Remember that native speakers usually know little about grammar.
Then why should learn grammar? Because native speakers learn the language by being immersed into the environment from Childhood, and by forming the "language sense" in so strong a language environment. But for non native speakers who have no that environment, grammar is the quick way, because grammar is the summary and essence of a language, it is the formula with which you can make unlimited sentence with limited words.
Notice that the formula is not so hard, and the core part of grammar is really a small part. What is hard is those "phrase", "idioms", "slang" and other conventional expressions.;
, No matter what noun or pronoun you use, the form of the verb remains the same. With simply adding characters for indication of tense, there's no need to learn about conjugating verbs, let alone irregular ones. (For details about tense, see "Chinese syntax" part below) For example: I go to school - 我去学校；I went to school yesterday - 我昨天去了学校






No plural form for nouns and pronouns——To form a plural, just add certain characters (e.g. 们, mén) . For example, I learn Chinese - 我学中文；We learn Chinese - 我们学中文






No comparative or superlative form for adjectives——There's also no worry about adjective changes for comparative or superlative. Additional characters will be used to express those concepts. For example: small - 小的；smaller - 较小的







, For example, the character 天 means day or sky; the symbol 空 means empty in English.Combination of two or more characters brings a new word. For example, 天空 means sky in English. Because the Chinese characters usually don't have space between each other except when there is punctuation, you must firstly be able to identify and understand those "multi-character words" when reading in order to understand the whole sentence and article.
Phrases and sense group (important!)——Combination of two or more words can form a phase, an idiom or a “sense group” which is a difficult but important point in learning Chinese. Because the Chinese characters usually don't have space between each other except when there is punctuation, you must firstly be able to identify and understand those "phases", "idioms" and “sense groups" when reading in order to understand the whole sentence and article.
 Like English, word order in Chinese syntax is subject-verb-object. For example, 我学英文 ( I study English ) follows exactly the same order as in English.
A sentence can be divided into several different parts. Sentence elements are the parts that play different grammatical roles in a sentence. The core sentence elements are Subject, Predicate, Object (Just like those in English!); Other elements accompanying noun, verb and sentence: Attributive, Adverbial, Complement.
Subject (Noun)，Predicate (Verb)，Object (Noun)——Most subjects are at the beginning of a sentence followed by the predicate part; it is the theme of a statement. For example: 我爱读书 ( I love reading books ) - 我 is the subject in this sentence. The predicate part is the part that states the subject. In the following sentences, the underlined part is predicate.
Attributive (The sign is “的") ——Attributive is used to modify a noun or a nounal phrase that is usually acting as the subject or object in a sentence. In Chinese, "的" is the sign of Attributive. For example: 南京是一座美丽的城市( Nanjing is a beautiful city ) - 美丽的 is an Attributive to describe object 城市 (city).
Adverbial (The sign is “地") ——Adverbial is the modifying element prior to a verb (Usually the predicate), or in some cases, at the beginning of a sentence. In Chinese, "地" is the sign of Attributive. For example: 他迅速地离开了( he left quickly ) - 迅速地(quickly) is the Adverbial in this sentence to modify predicate 离开(left).
Complement (The sign is “得") ——Complement is the complementary description element following a verbal or adjective phrase. For example: 她的英文说得好( She speaks English well ) - 好( well ) is the complement element to describe verb 说( speak ).



The particle " 着 " is suffixed to a verb to indicate the continuous aspect of an action. For example:足球赛进行着 ( The soccer game is carrying on )
The particle " 已 " is suffixed to a verb to emphasize a completed past action. For example: 我已读完书 ( I finished reading a book.), 她已走了( She left )
The particle " 了 " is added after a verb to emphasize a completed past action. For example: 我读完了书 ( I finished reading a book.), 她走了( She left )
The particle " 过 " is suffixed to a verb for things that have happened some time in the unspecified past. For example:我去过北京 ( I have been to Beijing ), 我读过这本书 ( I've read this book ).
Verb 要 or 想 ( want ) can be used to indicate the future. For example,她想学中文 ( She wants to learn Chinese )

