 Simply switching your dog to a lower-calorie dog food might seem like an easy fix, but if your dog does not feel satisfied with their meal, this may result in begging or behavioral issues. Your vet can instead recommend a food that will keep your dog feeling full and satiated, but on fewer calories — such as a food that is high in fiber, or one that increases your dog's metabolism. Your dog's needs will vary depending on their activity level, size, and age, so speak with your vet to ensure you choose a food that meets all their dietary needs.


Talk to your vet about how much your dog needs to eat to attain a healthy weight.
Once your dog attains a healthy weight, your vet will advise you as to what its new daily caloric intake should be. Feed your dog the proper amount and no more.;
, Instead of leaving a bowl full of dog food out all day and allowing your dog to help themselves when they feel hungry, carefully portion and distribute food to your dog. Start every morning by measuring out the amount of food your dog can eat for the entire day and put it in a sealed container. Portion out the food from this container into two or three meals so you can ensure the dog is not being overfed. Use your knowledge of how many calories your dog should be eating each day to measure out an appropriate amount of dog food.In order to determine how much dog food your dog needs, you need to know its activity level, its ideal weight, and the calories per serving size of your dog food.
With this information in hand, use the dog food calculator — online at http://www.dogfoodadvisor.com/dog-feeding-tips/dog-food-calculator/ — to serve your dog two or three appropriately-sized servings of food each day. Usually, you can serve your dog some food in the morning, some in the early afternoon, and some in the evening.
Make sure everyone in the household understands the system, and that when the container is empty, the dog has had their food for the day. This will remove any confusion about whether or not the dog has been fed and someone mistakenly giving them two meals, etc.
Check back in with your vet regularly to ensure that your pet is on track to lose weight. Your vet will let you know when your dog can increase or stabilize its caloric intake.
Always measure your dog's food carefully and accurately.
 Your dog’s caloric intake needs to be carefully managed if it is older and obese. Reduce treats or little snacks throughout the day (talk to your vet about how many are appropriate). Don’t allow your dog to beg at the table while you or your family sit down to eat. These extra calories add up quickly and can prolong your dog’s obesity.Instead of giving treats and snacks for being a good dog or performing a trick, give your dog hugs, pats to the head, and other physical affection. You should also give your dog verbal praise. For instance, say, "Good dog!" when they perform a trick or does something good.
 Obesity in dogs, like obesity in people, is best managed not only by a decrease in caloric intake, but also by an increase in physical activity. You will first need to check with your vet to make sure it is safe to increase your dog's activity level and discuss which activities are appropriate for your dog. For instance, you could:Go for a walk at the park or around the block with your older, obese dog.
Talk to your vet before engaging in a new or more intense exercise regimen with your dog.Older dogs might have creaky bones and stiffness, but these problems, too, can be managed by moderate levels of regular exercise.
Slow down if your dog is lagging, drooling or panting excessively, or coughing frequently.
 Consider trying a food puzzle to encourage natural foraging behaviors, can increase their energy, and can slow down their eating if they tend to gobble down their food. Try a puzzle feeder or even just spread your dog's kibble in the grass so they must hunt for it using their sense of smell.