 This shot is ideal for low post players who are positioned inside the paint, close to the basket. When perfected the jump shot is notoriously difficult to stop as it gives players a key height advantage over their opponents. However, this shot should rarely be attempted outside of the paint as it is difficult to execute from a significant distance. , Pivot your lead foot so it is parallel to the defender and the hoop. If you shoot with your right, your left foot and hip should both be parallel with the defender. Your body should be positioned sideways to the hoop with the non-shooting shoulder pointing toward the hoop. It’s crucial to make sure your body is acting as a barrier between the basketball and the defender. 







, Make sure your shoulders are even and firm so they can act as blockage against the defender. They should be across from the defender’s chest so your non-shooting arm can block the defender while the other arm makes the shot.
 Keep your knees bent to maintain maximum flexibility in case the defender tries to knock you off balance. This low center of gravity is also crucial when your shooting leg lifts up to give you enough air to shoot the ball over your opponent’s body.
 You need to make the basket your main center of focus so you are able to accurately make the shot. Ideally, you should be making the jump shot from inside the paint, so there will likely be a mass of defenders attempting to block your shot. Pay attention to your surroundings using your peripheral vision, but don’t get distracted from the basket as this could alter the trajectory of your shot away from the basket.
 Your shooting leg should be rising at the same time with the shooting arm. While leaning on your non-shooting foot, bring the other leg up to give you enough lift so you can shoot the basket over the defendant. If you decide to jump off with one foot (left foot for a right-handed shot or vice versa), then try to bring your free leg up, knee bent and towards you to protect yourself from advancing defenders.
 The hook shot is one-handed, so you will have one arm making the shot with the other defending your stance against the opponent. Before making the shot, your shooting elbow should be firmly locked in position while your shooting arm raises up to create a 45 degree angle in relation to your elbow. Thrust your shooting arm upwards and over your head while flicking your wrist and letting the ball release from your fingertips. 







, This arm serves an equally crucial purpose as you keep the defender at a distance in order to give your shooting arm the stability it needs to make the shot. However, make sure you do not foul and push the defender out of the way or onto the ground. Your non-shooting arm should serve the dual purpose of giving you balance and momentary safety from any opponents. Fully flex it at the elbow while keeping it in firmly in front of your body.
 Don’t stop this arm from moving, and don't bring it back too soon as the arm won’t have the lift it needs to ensure the ball reaches the basket. Bring the shooting arm to its highest point of elevation when shooting the ball, and use this arm to lead the ball into the basket. 







, When coming back to the ground, turn your body so you land facing the basket with a firm stance so your chest is parallel to the basket. Ensure your knees are flexed so they can help mitigate the shock from landing and keep you from falling over or losing your balance. Don’t leave your hands by your side, keeping them in front of your body so you can immediately re-enter the action as you land. 







, After you land, keep your eyes on the ball to see if it rebounded from the backboard. Never let your guard down after your shot in case the shot misses and you need to get the ball back in your hands. Your role should immediately switch from a shooter to a rebounder, and your landing posture should be flexed and ready to recapture the ball.








