 In the event of an emergency, such as from a sinking vessel, a disabled vessel, an on-board fire, sudden mass illness or pirate or hijacking activity, it's important to remain as calm as possible so that you can act with a level head. If there is help close by, the help will be able to help you. You won't be able to guess at the proximity of help, so it's best to stop worrying and start acting, while waiting for assistance to reach you.
Evaluate the situation. Understand that you are to make a Mayday call only if you are in a serious distress situation where there is an immediate or imminent threat to life or loss of property. This includes fire, injury, the vessel taking on water, or people fallen overboard, etc.

If your vessel is sinking, if you're in a life-threatening situation such as a fire or explosion, if pirates are seeking to board your boat, or if everyone on the boat suddenly succumbs to a strange illness that prevents crewing of the vessel, the Mayday call is appropriate.
If your mast or other rigging breaks, or if one person falls ill but it's not life-threatening, send a Pan-Pan call instead.
 Tune your radio to marine VHF radio channel one-six (16) or Frequency 161.400 or 156.800 MHz; marine MF/SSB on 2182 kHz. These channels are constantly monitored by Coast Guard and other sea rescue authorities (as well as nearby boaters) so are more likely to be responded to. When on a boat, the radio should be on, and tuned to channel 16, even if there is no emergency. (Most newer radios have the option of multiple channel monitoring. Ensure 16 is one of them) If you cannot communicate on 16, use any channel with traffic on it; once you do so, protocol will expect all traffic on that channel to cease unless it relates to the Mayday call, so as to assist you.Push the red "DSC" button, if there is one. Newer radios have a button labeled "DSC" (Digital Select Calling), which transmits the GPS coordinates to the coastguard along with a Mayday beacon. Older radios do not have this, also, if the radio is not connected to a GPS unit, it will have no coordinates to transmit (although the Mayday beacon will still go through). Remember though, that even if the radio has a DSC button, don't let the digital mayday transmission do all the work. You have some needed information that the transmitter doesn't, such as the urgency of the situation, and a description of what is happening.

Listen to the channel. Ensure there are no other emergency transmissions, or other chatter that will cut you off. Although it is absolutely OK to cut off non-emergency chatter when you are in a Distress Situation, they may come back and cut you off afterward. If you don't have time to consider this, just get on with sending out your distress signal.
 Remain calm. Keep in mind:


Mayday is always stated three times in a row, to ensure that it is heard accurately, and to distinguish it from radio talk about receipt of a Mayday call.
It is essential to speak clearly, slowly, and split numbers. For example, say One-Five instead of Fifteen.
If you know the phonetic alphabet - Use it! (i.e. Alpha, Bravo, Charlie etc.)
Hold the microphone a few inches away from your mouth.
Stay calm, rushing through the transmission is not going to help you get help any faster.
 Press and hold the talk button (usually labeled "PTT" ("Push To Talk")) and say something along the lines of:


Mayday, Mayday, Mayday. This is on the . Callsign . (If you’re using a VHF-DSC radio, provide your Maritime Mobile Service Identity (MMSI)). BREAK.
Release the microphone button momentarily to ensure the channel is clear. Press again.
Mayday. The vessel is located . (For example, Position 54 25 North 016 33 West, drifting at one knot with a bearing of 228 degrees). We are a experiencing and are in need of immediate assistance.

There are with . Length, color, rig of boat can be helpful, as well as any intention to deploy life boats, etc.
This is , . Over.
If you don't have all of this information, it's okay. Give the information that you DO have.
 Let go of the Talk button (unkey). Wait for a response. If you do not hear one after 15 seconds, repeat the call again.


While waiting, prepare flares, life rafts, life jackets, gather emergency supplies, call orders to others to prepare, etc. Stay calm and set an example for everyone else to follow.
If you still have no reply and don't have to leave your boat yet, listen on another channel and break in with your distress call. It may be that your transmitter is too weak or not responding well, so ask other vessels to transmit your distress call to shore.
 You may be asked to switch to a Coast Guard 'working channel'. You may be told, for example, to switch to another channel. If so, confirm by saying something like, "Confirmed, Switching to ."


In the event that you need to leave immediately after making a Mayday call, inform authorities of what you're doing as part of the additional information in the Mayday message, for example, "We are taking to lifeboat/deploying a life raft".
If you're able to maintain radio contact, follow all the radio operator's instructions. They are trained professionals and it is their job to help you

, Keep one person stand-by on the radio for as long as possible.

