 Most remote disabling methods require your phone to be linked to your Google account. If you change your Google account password due to security risks, you will have much less control over your device remotely.Changing the password after the phone is disabled is a good idea, since the thief could have access to your account.
 Visit google.com/android/devicemanager and log in to your Google account to access these settings. Any Android device that has been linked to your Google account should be listed, as long as it has been updated since August 2013.


Any visible device that is turned on and has location tracking enabled should be marked on the map.
Select "Lock," "Disable," or "Erase all Data" if they are available. These will only work if they were enabled in advance, using Settings → Security → Device Administrators → Android Device Manager., If your Samsung smartphone was stolen, and you registered it with a Samsung account, visit findmymobile.samsung.com/ and log in to that account. Select your device on the left to track the phone's location, lock it with a new password, or wipe all its data permanently.
 Android Lost is one of the few tracking apps that can be installed and registered remotely, after your phone has been stolen. Unfortunately, this remote installation feature is only available for the "Froyo" and "Gingerbread" builds of Android, from May 2010 through January 2011. On later versions of Android, the app will not start running until it is opened on the phone itself.The device must also be online, and linked to your Google account.


If you are lucky enough to use this version of Android, install the app from your computer through the app store online, selecting your stolen phone. After installation, register the app by texting your phone androidlost register from any phone.To access Android Lost controls, whether you registered remotely or in advance, visit androidlost.com/#controls and click the "Sign in" button on the top right. Log in to your Google account, and you will be able to track the location of the phone on a map, lock the phone, erase your SD card, and more.