 Do independent research on lighting, instruments, and sound and stage production. Find a niche that interests you the most and expand your knowledge around it. You can work on a variety of aspects of the performance including things like wardrobe, makeup, stylist, rigger, security, manager, lighting technician, or sound mixer.Take your current interests or hobbies and try to translate that into a job that you can do on tour.
Think about experiences in the past that could help you work on a tour. For instance, if you worked as a stagehand for a school play then you already have a basic understanding of lighting and sound.
If you're good at negotiating with people and keep on a strict and organized schedule, you may want to become a band manager.
Read up on the most commonly used equipment and learn how to operate it because it will give you an advantage over your competitors.;
, While a bachelor's degree isn't a requirement to becoming a band roadie, getting a formal education may be beneficial and could give you the skills that would make you desirable to have on the road. Look for colleges that have music, sound, or stage production majors and consider pursuing a bachelor's degree.


Many crew members now have their formal education in a field that relates to touring with a band, such as a degree in sound-production or music.Some of the best colleges for sound and music production include, Academy of Art University, the Peabody Institute, and Full Sail University.Concentrate on electives that will give you the skills you'll need on the road, like lighting or rigging.
 Try to become friends with as many people as you can who are interested in music. Search for show dates and times near you and attend your local venues regularly. Seek out those that are actively in a band or who work as a band roadie themselves. Ask them questions about their experiences on the road and how they got into touring.


Make it a point to be outgoing and introduce yourself to everyone.
You can say something like, "Hey, so I heard Death Rattle toured a couple months ago? What was that like? I always wanted to tour the country."

, Get a better understanding what it takes to tour and the music industry in general.Read autobiographies or watch interviews of people who have toured and internalize their experiences. Understand the good and bad about touring and realize that it's not always a fantasy. Often while you tour you must endure crowded buses, long trips, and get very little sleep. You may find out through your research that living the band roadie life is not for you.


Popular books that deal with touring include, "A Journey Through America with the "Rolling Stones"," "Diary of a Rock ‘n’ Roll Star," and "Billion dollar baby: A provocative young journalist chronicles his adventures on tour as a performing member of The Alice Cooper Rock-and-Roll Band."Make sure that you read industry reports to see what's trending to help you make your decision.