 A practical way to prevent affairs and affirm your commitment to your partner is by publicizing your relationship. When a relationship is kept secret, insecurities flourish. Show your partner you are committed to being faithful by telling your friends, family, coworkers, and acquaintances that you’re “taken.”


You can do this by updating your relationship status on social networks like Facebook or by simply introducing your partner at parties and events., There’s a popular saying when it comes to social groups that you’re the sum of the five people closest to you. That means if you’re surrounding yourself with cheaters, you’re more likely to become one. Clean up your social circle by forging connections with people who share the same values as you.


If your friends and family members don’t have the same values as you and your partner, your relationship may suffer. Boost your chances of remaining faithful by being around people who are doing the same., Healthy and happy couples maximize on quality time. There’s no better way to connect with your partner than by sharing hobbies or interests. Doing so increases your relationship satisfaction and strengthens your bond.At the same time, it’s also healthy to have some individual interests. Find a passion to pursue on your own, too. For example, you and your partner might enjoy traveling together, but on trips you have a separate interest of visiting art galleries.
 Sharing the ups and downs of a relationship may be par for the course in many circles. Both women and men do it. However, whining about your partner’s shortcomings could open the door for someone else.Avoid venting to other potential suitors about your mate. Find a healthier way to relieve tension and work through problems, like talking to your partner or journaling. Or, you might lean on a supportive friend or family member. However, keep in mind that some friends or family members might not be supportive and might just be looking for an opportunity to complain about them.
 If you’re already straying emotionally from your partner, substance use may offer the final push that bumps you across the line. Skip the drinks and drugs and you might avoid feeling regret later.If you are turning to drugs and/or alcohol to cope with the relationship, then it might be best to separate from the person because this is an indication that the relationship has progressed to a very negative point.

