 This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms., This will help to establish trust and cooperation., These materials include:


A rabies vaccine vial.
1 or 3 ml syringe with a ½ inch needle.
Cotton balls soaked in alcohol.
Sterile gloves.
Puncture proof container.
Access to a trash can.
 The gloves will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms by creating a physical barrier between your hands and the surface it touches.If necessary, replace the syringe needle with a new needle, preferably a gauge 23-25 needle that is ½ inch long., There should be information on the vial’s package insert that will help you to determine the appropriate amount of sterile water to be mixed with the rabies vaccine powder in the vial.


Once you determine this information, lift the top of the vial to open it.
 Do this in a circular manner, starting from the inner to the outer part to eliminate harmful microorganisms.Allow it to dry.
 To do this, hold the sterile water bottle upside down using your non-dominant hand. Pull back the plunger to aspirate or obtain the proper amount of sterile water to be mixed with the vaccine.


Make sure that the black line or marker in the plunger is lining with the numbered scale on the syringe to obtain the correct amount of sterile water.Once this is completed, roll the rabies vaccine vial between your palms until it looks clear.This will prevent the vaccine from foaming.
 To do this, hold the vial upside down with your non-dominant hand and inject the 1 ml syringe into the rubber on top of the vial using your dominant hand. Draw back the plunger of the syringe until its black line or marker reaches or lines with 1 ml on the numbered scale. Remove the syringe., If bubbles are present, tap the syringe with your fingers. The bubbles should just float to the top and disappear.


Bubbles in the syringe can make the injection process more painful because it adds to the volume of the content of the syringe. The more volume injected into the muscle, the more painful it is., This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms., This will help to establish trust and cooperation., These materials include:


A rabies vaccine ampule.
1 or 3 ml syringe with a ½ inch needle.
Cotton balls soaked in alcohol.
Sterile gloves.
A small, clean cloth.
Puncture proof container.
Access to a trash can.
 The gloves will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms by creating a physical barrier between your hands and the surface it touches.If necessary, replace the syringe needle with a new needle, preferably a gauge 23-25 needle that is ½ inch long., Get a small clean cloth and wrap it around the neck of the ampule so that you don’t get pricked when you break it.
 Do this by pushing your dominant hand in a downward motion against the ampule.


Make sure you discard the broken neck in a puncture proof container.
 To do this, hold the ampule upside down with your non-dominant hand and inject the 1 ml syringe into the hole using your dominant hand.Draw back the plunger of the syringe until its black line or marker reaches or lines with 1 ml on the numbered scale.
Remove the syringe.
 If you find any, tap the syringe with your fingers to make the bubbles to float and disappear.
 Make sure the person has told you or been tested for any allergies to food, dyes, preservatives, or animals. This is an important step, as the rabies vaccine is made up of killed rabies virus which may cause an allergic reaction.
 The ideal injection site depends on if you are giving the vaccine to an adult or to a child.


For adults, intramuscular injection is on the deltoid muscle or the rounded muscle on the upper arm near the shoulder.
If the child is 3 years or older, the deltoid muscle can be used.
For younger children, the vastus lateralis muscle which is located on the middle, outer sides of the thighs is used.Before you inject the vaccine, always assess the site for any scars, bruises or swelling. If these are present, use the other arm for adults and use the other thigh for children., Do this by moving from the inner to the outer part of the injection site to eliminate harmful microorganisms.Let the area dry.



Always pull back the plunger to check if blood appears. This is to make sure that you do not hit a nerve or vein. If blood appears, remove the needle and dispose of it properly. Then, prepare a new injection. If there is no backflow of blood, continue to inject the medication slowly.Pull the syringe out in the same angle you injected it to prevent injury to the muscles.After all of the vaccine is injected and the syringe has been removed, release the pinched skin.
 This will prevent any blood from leaking.Do not rub the area as this may irritate the injection site.
 You do not want to prick yourself or put others at risk of being pricked by accident.Throw the cotton balls in the trash can.
 Do this with antibacterial soap and clean water.


To avoid infections and transmission of diseases, never reuse needles and syringes. Always use a new one for each vaccination., The rabies vaccine comes from killed rabies virus and is an active immunizing agent that is used to prevent infection caused by rhabdovirus. So, it works by letting the person’s body to create its own protection or antibodies against the virus.
 The two commonly used rabies vaccines are: Human diploid cell vaccine (HDCV), or Rabies Vaccine BP Pasteur Mérieux and Purified chick embryo cell (PCEC) rabies vaccine, or Rabipur.


They should be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F) and must be discarded if they are not used one hour after they have been reconstituted or prepared., Receiving a rabies vaccine once you have been exposed to a rabid animal (e.g., by a bite, scratch or lick in an open wound) is called post-exposure prophylaxis. But the vaccine can also be taken ahead of time by high risk persons such as animal handlers, veterinarians and travellers who will go in places that have a high rate of rabies infection, which is called pre-exposure prophylaxis.


For pre-exposure prophylaxis or vaccinations given ahead of time to high risk persons, 1 ml of rabies vaccine is injected in three doses – at days 0 (first dose and the day the vaccine is given), 7 and 21 or 28.For post-exposure prophylaxis or vaccinations given when the person is bitten or scratched by a rabid animal, 1 ml of Human rabies immunoglobulin (HRIG) is given intramuscularly on days 0, 3, 7, and 14.For persons previously immunized, which means they have received three doses of pre-exposure prophylaxis or a complete post-exposure prophylaxis, only human rabies vaccines such as Human diploid cell vaccine (HDCV) or Purified chick embryo cell (PCEC) should be given on days 0 and 3 and no Human rabies immunoglobulin (HRIG)., In the U.S., rabid animals like raccoons, foxes, skunks and bats account for the highest number of cases of rabies passed on to humans.In Canada, rabid animals like foxes, dogs, skunks, bats, cats, cattle, swine and horses have been known to become infected with the rabies virus.
In Africa, Latin America and Asia, dogs account for the highest number of cases of rabies passed on to humans.
 This is a normal reaction after a vaccination due to the penetration of the needle or the concentration of the drug at the injection site.Side effects like a fever and a headache are also normal reactions to the vaccine due to the introduction of the killed virus. These symptoms can last for about 24 to 48 hours.
 If you experience any itchiness at the injection site or other parts of the body and a stomach ache, these may be signs of an allergic reaction to the vaccine. Seek medical attention if these reactions occur to prevent a severe allergic reaction. Let your doctor know if you experience any other reactions such as:Burning, crawling or itching sensation on the injection site
Confusion
Diarrhea
Dizziness, nausea, chills, fever, and/or headache
Irregular heartbeats
Joint inflammation, muscle pain, stiffness and weakness,
Rashes
Seizures, shortness of breath, tightness in the chest
Swelling of the eyelids or around the person’s eyes
Vomiting

, If your pet is bitten by a rabid animal carrying the rabies virus, the virus is then transmitted to your pet and will increase your risk of getting the virus if you are bitten by your pet.Rabies vaccine for dogs and cats are effective for three years.
For ferrets, the vaccine is given annually.
If you have livestock like sheep, cattle, goats or horses, get them vaccinated; depending on the vaccine used, the effect can last from 1 to 3 years.
 Instead, provide adequate housing and tall fences so they can roam within a restricted area on your property. This will prevent the likelihood of them getting bitten by other animals carrying the rabies virus., Do not attempt to catch or remove the wild animal on your own as this increases your chances of getting bitten.