 Locate the app on your mobile device. Tap on it to launch it.;
, Tap the gear icon on the bottom toolbar to go to Settings then swipe up until you see “Cloud Services.” Tap on it.
 Cloud Services allow your various cloud accounts to be linked with AirDisk Pro so that you can transfer files between them. This is an add-on functionality that requires an additional purchase. Tap on “Unlock Cloud Services” to purchase it.


iTunes will process your purchase. A pop-up message will appear to confirm your in-app purchase. Tap on the “Buy” button to continue.
The Cloud Services add-on costs $0.99.
 The cloud accounts currently supported by AirDisk Pro are iCloud, Dropbox, and Google Drive. They will appear with toggle buttons next to them on the screen after you’ve unlocked the Cloud Services add-on. Tap on the appropriate toggle button to enable a cloud account.
 After enabling a cloud account, the app will request permission to access the files and folders from that cloud account.


Enter your account username, or email, and password in the appropriate fields, then tap the “Sign in” button. You need to do this to authenticate your access.
A message will indicate that AirDisk Pro is requesting access to your files. Tap the “Allow” button.
 Repeat Steps 1 and 2 for all your other cloud accounts you’d want to connect to AirDisk Pro. All the cloud accounts you connect will appear under the Root folder of AirDisk Pro., Tap the “Done” button on the Settings window to exit it and go back to the root or main folder. You should see the cloud accounts you’ve connected and enabled under the Root folder.
 From the list of connected cloud accounts, tap on the folder for the cloud storage you want to open.
 AirDisk Pro will connect to the selected cloud account and retrieve the files and folders from there. View your files and folders by swiping up and down through the list.


You can also go inside folders by tapping on them.
 Tap on the “Edit” button on the upper right corner of the page. Checkboxes will appear in front of the files and folders currently in view. Select files and folders by tapping on them.
 Once you have selected files, you can now move, copy, or delete them.


Moving files—Tap on the box icon on the bottom toolbar to bring out the “Move” and the “Copy” options. Tap on the “Move” button, and a window will appear where you can set the destination folder where the selected files and folders will be moved to. All the folders in AirDisk Pro, including the cloud storages you’ve unlocked, will appear as destination folder options in the window. Once you’ve selected the destination folder, tap on the “Move” button on the bottom. The selected files and folders will be moved to their new location.
Copying files—Tap on the box icon on the bottom toolbar to bring out the “Move” and the “Copy” options. Tap on the “Copy” button, and a window will appear where you can set the destination folder where the selected files and folders will be copied to. All the folders in AirDisk Pro, including the cloud storages you’ve unlocked, will appear as destination folder options in the window. Once you’ve selected a destination folder, tap on the “Paste” button on the bottom. The selected files and folders will be copied to the new location. You now have two copies of the selected files and folders.
Deleting files—If you’d like to delete some files and folders instead of moving or copying them, tap on the trash bin icon (delete) on the bottom toolbar. The selected files and folders will be removed. Whatever you delete in AirDisk Pro will also be deleted from the main cloud account.

