 A further way to seek support for social anxiety is by participating in a support group or workshop. These groups can be a great way for you to meet other people who suffer from social anxiety. They will help you see that you are not alone and encourage you to build relationships with people as you help and support each other.


Research indicates that taking an active role and seeking to help others, can have a beneficial effect for people suffering from social anxiety.
A support group or some other group activity can give you a chance to step outside yourself and do things that benefits other people, which in turn may help you., Social anxiety is a spectrum with a lot of variety within it. Some people may have specific problems with public speaking and others may have particular problems talking to people they are interested in romantically for fear of rejection. There are a range of support groups run across the country, and you can search online to find ones run near you.Some examples of different groups are:Social anxiety and self-help.
Social anxiety and public speaking.
Social anxiety and panic attacks.
Teen social anxiety.
 Once you have decided what kind of support group you would like to attend, you can search through some useful online databases to find groups that meet near you. You can search by location and by the group name or support topic.Keep in mind that there may not be an exact match and some groups will cover a broader range of topics.


If you are working with a therapist or counsellor you should ask them for recommendations or referrals for groups meeting locally.
Your therapist will have a good knowledge of what groups there are and how they are run, so she will be able to make a personalised recommendation to you.
You can also look through message boards and support group websites to get an idea of what particular groups are like.There are also databases for groups outside the USA, available to search through online., When you have decided on a group to try out, contact whoever is running the group to let them know you would like to attend. You can normally just go along to one session to see what you think with no obligation to return if you didn’t like it. When you do go, try to go with an open mind and a positive approach.


You don’t have to say anything straightaway. It might be heartening just to hear other people describing their social anxiety and recognising your experiences in somebody else.
Bear in mind that social support groups are more about supporting you and helping you understand that you are not alone.
Support groups are not necessarily an effective treatment on their own. But they can be a helpful element of a larger treatment programme.