 To make gravy, the first step is to save the drippings and scraps from the pan that you used to cook your meat, whether it was chicken, turkey, beef, or duck. This will give a great flavor to your gravy that can’t be replicated through a mix or broth.

Put them into a wide-brimmed bowl. You’ll need to separate it later, so the wider the brim, the better.
 Let the drippings sit for a minute or two, until the fat has separated on the top. Then, use a spoon to skim the fat from the top and transfer the fat to a measuring cup. Don't be tempted to throw it away! While it may not look appetizing, it's what will give your gravy that delectable edge.

Make sure that you keep track of how much fat you have, because you will need an equal amount of flour. You should end up with about ¼ cup (however, if you don't have that, don't worry).
Keep the rest of the drippings, too (the non-fat part) – you will need these later as well.
 Pour the fat from the measuring cup into a large pot or pan over medium to medium-high heat. Then add an equivalent amount of flour – that is, if you have 1/4 cup of fat, use 1/4 cup of flour.

If you want to make a large serving of gravy and do not have enough fat from the drippings, you can use butter to make up the difference. Simply add the butter to the pan with whatever fat you have, and then let the butter melt before adding the flour (you’ll need more flour, too).
Don't have flour? You can easily substitute cornmeal.
 Stir the fat and flour with a wooden spoon until the mixture thickens and turns a medium shade of brown, like peanut butter. This should take a couple of minutes. Be careful not to let it burn!


If it is scorching on the bottom, it is burning. The best way to avoid this is to stir evenly and to turn down the heat just a bit if you suspect it is too hot.
 This is where you add the rest of the drippings from the cooking of the meat. Pour the drippings into the pan and whisk them together with the fat/flour mixture. Stir until the whole mixture has the smooth, viscous consistency like gravy.


If you do not have enough drippings to make the amount of gravy that you desire, you can use canned broth. Try to use broth that matches the type of meat you are serving, i.e. beef broth with beef, chicken broth with poultry.
 With pan drippings, it's likely your gravy will already taste good on its own. However, plenty of people add a dash of salt or pepper, and some even add cream (sour or regular) or even ketchup, soy sauce, or coffee (with beef gravy, of course). What taste would you like to see in your gravy?

,