 One way to transport your fish is to put them in plastic bags. You can get plastic fish bags from a pet store. Fill the bag a third of the way full with water from the aquarium. Then, place one fish into each plastic bag. Don’t put multiple fish in the same bag.Place a second bag over the first bag so that it is extra protected. This helps in case the bag leaks.
Use a rubber band to secure the bags so the fish and water cannot get out.
If you are going to have the fish in bags for longer than an hour, get some pure oxygen from your local pet store to place in the bags with them.
 A five-gallon bucket can be an easy way to transport multiple fish in the same container. Make sure you buy a new bucket and don’t use one that has had chemicals inside them. The bucket may have residual chemicals, which may kill or harm your fish. Make sure to cover the bucket with a water tight lid.Fill the bucket with water from your tank.
 Another way you can transport your fish is in a sturdy container that has a lid. Fill the container with water from the tank. Make sure the lid is secure so your fish doesn’t fall out and water doesn’t leak out.This may be good for fish with sharp fins or who may get out of a plastic bag.
 Small tanks can be moved with the fish and water in it. Large tanks should never be moved as a unit. If you move the aquarium with water and fish, make sure to remove all other objects. Take out all rocks, decorations, and filters. These may come loose and hurt your fish. You should also remove some of the water. This helps reduce the risk of spillage, along with giving your fish less room to be bounced around.However, even small tanks can be difficult to move. They are very heavy, but also fragile. If you drop the tank and it breaks, you may lose all of your fish.
Tanks that are moved with water in them are more likely to get chipped or cracked.
 If you have placed your fish in a bag or small containers, you should pack them in a secure carrier. Place bubble wrap between the fish bag and the container or other fish bags. Make sure they are sturdy so they don’t roll around. This can cause damage to your fish.If you have an insulated container, consider transporting your fish in it. A picnic cooler or styrofoam cooler will be great for this.
 No matter which container you choose for your fish, you should choose one large enough for them to swim around in. They don’t need a ton of room, but they should be comfortable. You should also make sure the container is large enough that the water has enough oxygen for the fish.You should only fill the container around a third of the way full. The rest of the container should be open for oxygen.
 If you have live plants in your aquarium, you should put them in plastic bags filled with water from the tank. This will keep the conditions close to what they are in the tank, and help keep good, essential bacteria alive on the plants.