 Pour some cold water on the stain and immediately vacuum it up with a wet/dry vacuum. Repeat at least twice, or as many times as is necessary to remove the discoloration. Do not let the water sit; suck it up immediately (within seconds) of each application.


For tough stains, add a bit of salt to the water, but never add soap. The residue left over in the carpet will attract dirt.
 Spray the area with vinegar, then sprinkle on enough baking soda to thinly coat the area of the stain. Cover the stain with a towel for 24 hours, then wash the area thoroughly with cold water. This mixture should absorb the stain and cleanse the area thoroughly, and cheaply.
 Start by dusting the stain with a thin coat of baking soda, then mix up about a cup of hydrogen peroxide with a tablespoon of dish soap in a spray bottle. Mix gently to combine. Then, saturate the baking soda and the stain thoroughly. Use an old toothbrush or your fingers to massage the mixture gently into the carpet, then let the mixture sit until it dries. Vacuum up the mess and clean it again with cool water.Hydrogen peroxide can damage some kinds of carpet, making it important that you spot test this mixture in an out-of-the-way area of the carpet to make sure that it won't stain the carpet irreparably.
 High in alkaline, ammonia should never be used to clean pet stains. It will leave a sticky residue in the carpet and damage the carpet fibers, attracting dirt and other debris. It will also attract pets back to the same area, because ammonia contains the same uric acids and salts that are present in urine, making it all too tempting for your pet to remark the area. Never use ammonia on pet stains. , For stubborn stains that you suspect may have soaked through the carpet into the padding, replacing the padding itself will help a lot. Pull up the carpet, cut a sample of the padding and bring it to a home improvement store to find padding of equal thickness. Cut out the stained padding and replace it with a piece of the new padding.

