

Add the seed number. You can either leave the random one given or put in one of your own.
Add the world name. You can either leave the 'My World 1' given or put in one of your own.
Touch/click next.;
,

Add the name.
Touch/click next.
 It may take a while, so take it gradually and be patient. When you do find him, talk to him and take his quest.,

Go to the nearest tree.
Touch/click and hold on the trunk until a block falls
Walk over the block that fell to pick it up.
Repeat as often as required.


Put all of the wood you collected into the crafting grid in your inventory.
Touch/click and hold onto the planks it will show under the crafting grid until there is nothing left.
, If you did the introduction correctly, you should know how to make them., Find an oak tree and see if it has wax on it. If it does, then collect the wax. If it doesn't, then find another oak tree., Search a cave, look under a low floating island, look in a river, or look on a cliff., You can find the crafting recipe in the crafting book (located in the inventory!). It will be in the items section of the crafting book., The candle recipe will be located under 'blocks' in the crafting book.,, If it's not, then continue., If you chose a cliff, then get all the ore from it and start a little mine. If you chose a cave, then get some stone from it and start a little mine.,)., Keep going until you run into a monster.,, They will not be in your crafting book yet. You make them in the same way as stone swords except with gold instead of stone.,

First destroy the spawner.
Then attack it with your gold swords until it dies.
,, You will have to get 10 gold ore and 20 gold ore to do this quest., If you don't already have the gold and coal, then get it., Before you go to Paula. Make some flippers (the recipe is in the crafting book under 'armor') and do Ted's next 2 quests. Then, get your stuff and search for a spot with both Paula and Shadow hunter in the area. When you do find a spot then put down your stuff and get her first quest.,, The recipe is found under tools in the crafting book.,, When you make it to the mountain, look for a spawner that's not spawning anything. Then set up a monster proof base near the spawner, but not close enough for the monster spawner to spawn something in your base., When nightfall comes, watch the spawner closely until something spawns. When it does spawn:

Grab some of your strongest weapons (such as hunting knifes, or gold swords).
Kill it.
Repeat until you have killed it 20 times.
 Now you're free to do all the quests you want, fight all the battles you want, and do whatever you want.