 It's even better if you have more than two, but you need a lot of money and time to take care of them. They will show affection to each other when they groom each other with their teeth, etc.
 Zebras are fast eaters so you'll need a lot of grass. Provide them with fresh grass because some zebras only will eat the best grass. If you don't enough good condition grass, provide them with other things such as hay, alfalfa, shrubs, herbs, twigs, leaves, bark or carrots. When you buy a zebra, they should give you tips on how much you should feed them.
 Zebras really want to get out of small places, so the larger the better. You'll really need a 8-foot fence and be sure to check regularly if it needs repairs.
 Zebras are very prone to infectious diseases such as rabies and tetanus so vaccinate them before buying them. If they are infected, be sure to bring them to a vet for treatment.
 Some countries have very cold climates so it is recommended to have zebra pets there. Zebras are known to die in very cold climates so let them stay inside a shed or barn, paddock or house where there is enough heat. Check constantly if they are in danger of hypothermia because they are accustomed to the climate of Africa.
 If you annoy them or if they are angry at you, they can attack you. They usually attack you with their teeth or kick you with their hooves. When owning a zebra and looking after one, it's always better to have more than 4 people so they could help you out during a fight. Never look at a zebra alone.


If you do get attacked, it best to run or flee from the scene so you aren't seriously injured.
 Check it's weight, height etc. Bring it to a vet often. Males zebras are usually bigger than females. Don't forget to solve the problem!


Its average body length should be 6–8.5 feet (2.6 m).

50–52 inches (132.1 cm) at the shoulder.
A 18-inch tail.


It should weigh about 770 pounds (350 kg).
 This is the most significant step. If you don't show affection then what's the point of owning a zebra? You can groom it, hug it etc. to show simple affection. Just provide them with everything they need an great quality food.

