 The provisional application is associated with relatively inexpensive filing fees but serves merely to "hold your place in line" at the patent office for up to one year. If you do not file a non-provisional application within that year, all your rights to your provisional application will be abandoned.


Provisional applications do not require claims or an oath or declaration. They simply allow the title "patent pending" to be associated with your invention. Provisional applications cannot be filed for design patent applications, however.
Provisional applications do require a cover sheet and a filing fee. After a provisional application is filed, the inventor is allowed 12 months to file a non-provisional application. If the non-provisional application is approved, the invention is entitled to the filing date of the provisional application.
 If you choose to hire someone to help prepare your patent application, make sure that s/he is USPTO registered. A patent attorney has thorough knowledge of patent law and can ensure that you complete the patent application successfully.
 The patent application process is rather extensive and expensive. You can file your application by mail or online to the Director of the USPTO. As of November 15, 2011, you can save almost $300 by applying online. Applications require six parts:


Application transmittal form.
Fee transmittal form. Visit http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/qs/ope/fee031913.htm to find out what the current patent fees are. Issue and maintenance fees will also be applied if your patent application is approved.
Application data sheet.
Specification. A written document that outlines the invention description and claims. This document must claim the subject matter which the applicant regards as the invention. You may make several claims in this document as long as they are different from or build upon a previous claim. Include the names of all inventors associated with the specific invention and their addresses and the official name of the invention. The specification should include the following sections in the following order:

Title of the invention provided on a cover sheet.
List of cross references to related patented inventions (if applicable).
Disclosure of federally sponsored research and development (if applicable).
Names of other inventors or members of a joint research agreement.
Reference to a ”Sequence Listing,” a table, or a computer program listing appendix submitted on an external CD.
Background of the invention, including the origin of the idea.
Short abstract of the invention.
Short description of any drawings or diagrams provided.
Detailed description of the invention.
Abstract of the disclosure.
Sequence listing (if applicable).


Drawings.
Executed oath or declaration. This is an oath or declaration that the product was your original invention. It must be certified before a notary public or other officer authorized to administer oaths.
 You can use any standard word processing program such as Microsoft Word, and the documents can be in .doc or PDF form. If you need to scan drawings or diagrams, they must be in PDF form. Make sure your documents contain at least a one-inch left margin and a 3/4-inch right, top, and bottom margin. All documents must be one and a half or double spaced.
 You will receive an application number and a filing date after you submit your materials. The filing date will be the date that the USPTO receives your application, not necessarily the day that you file the application.