 Obstacle course gyms are more common in some regions than in others. Depending on where you live, you may have your choice of several different gyms so you can choose the one best suited to your goals.Unless you already have one in mind, the easiest way to start looking for obstacle course gyms in your area is to do a simple internet search for "obstacle course gyms" coupled with the name of your city or state.
One of your primary concerns may be whether the obstacle course is indoors or outdoors. Indoor obstacle courses can be great for year-round training and general exercise. However, if you're planning on participating in an outdoor race you may get better results training on an outdoor course.
If you're already a member of a regular gym, you may not need an obstacle course gym that has weight training and conditioning facilities. However, if you want to work with a personal trainer at the obstacle course gym (or if you don't have an existing gym membership), those facilities may be a benefit for you.;
, While you may be able to look at photos on the gym's website, you won't get a real feel for whether the facility will work for you until you have the opportunity to visit the gym in person and evaluate the obstacle course itself and other training equipment.It may be beneficial to seek out reviews of the facility and talk to people who are currently members or have attended classes there to find out what they think about it.
If you plan to work with personal trainers at the obstacle course gym, try to speak with them before you sign up for anything. That way, you can get a better understanding of their training or coaching style, their experience, and their reputation in the field.
Try to schedule your tour for the time of day when you plan to visit the obstacle course gym, so you can get a better idea of how crowded it is. If you're planning on going to open gym sessions on your own, ask a staff member about the best times of day to visit.
 You don't necessarily need any specialized clothing or equipment to use an obstacle course gym, but you do need to make sure you're wearing close-fitting attire and shoes with good grip.Especially if the obstacle course is outside, you don't want to invest in a brand-new pair of running shoes – you'll destroy them. Instead, go for a decent pair of trail running or cross-training shoes that has enough tread to maintain traction.
Keep weather conditions in mind as well, particularly if the obstacle course is outside. Choose pieces made of a moisture-wicking fabric. Compression clothing also works well for obstacle courses. Avoid loose or baggy clothes that might get snagged or caught in obstacles or constrict your movement.
If you have longer hair, make sure you have a thick headband or bandanna to control your hair and keep it from getting in your face or getting tangled up in an obstacle.
You also may want to invest in a pair of fingerless gloves, if there are any rope obstacles.
 Some obstacle course gyms host open gym sessions and make the obstacle course available for anyone who wants to train or play on it. Others are more structured, and require a fitness test before you can begin.The fitness assessment test gives the gym and the trainers or coaches who work there a better understanding of where you are right now in your fitness and conditioning, so they can recommend the right classes or training for you.
Some gyms may only allow people who score above a certain level on this test to take more advanced classes.
Even if you're relatively fit, this assessment can help you identify weak areas for you to focus on in your training.
 Many obstacle course gyms offer boot-camp style classes that can help with your training, or just give your regular exercise regimen a little variety and challenge you mentally and physically.A class can be a way to better identify your weaknesses as well as get more familiar with the obstacles and the demands of obstacle-course training.
Taking a group class may be more affordable than getting private training. However, if you're trying to train for a specific event, a group class may not offer everything you need to prepare for your race.
If you just want to use an obstacle course gym to add some variety to your normal workout routine, a weekly class may be the best option for you.
 If you're just going for a new fitness challenge, your conditioning needs will be different than if you're trying to train for a specific obstacle course race, or for some other goal such as joining the military.If you've registered for a race, or plan to register, mark the date of the race on your calendar and figure out how long you have to train. This will help you figure out your schedule and the intensity of your sessions.
Generally, you should sign up for a race far enough out that you have at least six weeks to train – especially if you've never done an obstacle course race before. If you've done an obstacle course race before, you still need at least three weeks of training in preparation for the race.Your goals may be more general if you only want to use an obstacle course gym as part of your overall fitness routine, and have no specific event for which you're training. However, it's still a good idea to identify specific reasons you've decided to use an obstacle course, such as "improve agility" or "develop more explosive power."

, Intervals best replicate the conditions of a race, so short intervals are the best way to train your body for the kind of explosive power, strength, and endurance you need to run an obstacle course.For example, you might do a strength-training exercise for 30 seconds, then sprint for 30 seconds, then climb or do pull-ups for 30 seconds, then do Burpees for 30 seconds.
Allowing as little rest as possible between your intervals will best simulate the conditions of an obstacle course race.
Look at high-intensity interval training (HIIT) routines to get an idea of the types of exercises that will best condition your body for an obstacle course.
 Obstacle course events typically include intense running, and races can be several miles long. If you've signed up for a specific race, consider the distance when you design your training plan.You should be comfortable running a longer distance than the overall distance of the race without difficulty, since overcoming the obstacles will require additional energy and take a toll on your body.
When running, set your schedule in intervals of sprinting and jogging to best condition your body for the varying speeds you'll need to complete the obstacle course.
Avoid running on a treadmill or on a paved track. Instead, look for a cross-country course or a hiking trail where you can run on varied terrain. Obstacle course races are typically on varied terrain, so while this sort of running will give you a good cardio workout, it won't adequately train you for the type of running involved in an obstacle course race.
 Plyometrics helps build your fast-twitch muscle fibers to increase your explosive power. Since many obstacle courses require a lot of jumping, plyometrics can better condition your body and help with your reaction time.Burpees and jump lunges or jump squats are very basic plyometric exercises that you can incorporate into your training regimen without needing any additional equipment.
Box jumps also are very basic plyometric exercises that specifically train the muscles you'll need for a lot of obstacles on the course. You'll need a sturdy exercise step or box for this exercise.
Even with basic plyometric training, make sure you have at least one rest day between similar workouts to avoid excessive stress on your joints.
 If you've ever watched Ninja Warrior, you know that grip strength plays an outsized role in any obstacle course race compared to other physical activities. You'll need to be able to grab, hold, and navigate many different obstacles of odd shapes and sizes.Pull-ups are the easiest way to build your grip strength. Use a variety of grips, and switch up over-handed and under-handed grips so you can move from one to another easily.
If you have access to a good set of monkey bars (look in public parks and playgrounds), use them as part of your training to practice control and build your grip strength moving from bar to bar.
You also want to practice hanging, both with one hand and with two fingers.Being able to do these will greatly increase your performance on obstacle courses because your grip will be more versatile.
Tie a rope or rolled towel around a pull-up bar and practice hanging from that. This will increase your grip strength as well as simulating to some extent the obstacles you'll encounter, especially if you know ropes will be involved., An obstacle course tests many different aspects of physical fitness, and almost everybody is stronger in some areas than in others. When training and conditioning, spend more time on your weak areas than you do on things that are easier for you.For example, if you are a runner with a strong cardiovascular system and endurance, but you're lacking in strength, you might want to add more strength-training elements to your regimen to build more muscle.
Strength alone doesn't guarantee you'll do well on obstacle courses. The obstacles challenge your body in many ways, and may require movements that aren't easily replicated in normal strength-training exercises. This is one of the reasons people enjoy obstacle course gyms, but it also means that if you've been strength training extensively, you may need to work on your flexibility and agility.
Adding yoga to your regimen can help improve your balance and coordination, as well as your flexibility. Breathing practice and meditation also can help your mental focus, which can be a key factor in obstacle course races.
Practice walking or running along a curb or long beam to improve your balance. Maintain a point of focus ahead of you and engage your core to help your body find its center., Obstacle courses provide an intense whole-body workout, making rest days just as important as training days if you want to effectively build strength and muscle and avoid strain and possible injury.If you've been training intensely for months or even years, you may not need the same amount of rest as beginners. However, when training for an obstacle course race or conditioning to use an obstacle course gym, you still need to make sure you give yourself at least one or two full days of rest each week.
Beginners should probably limit intense training to three days a week. You can engage in walking or light jogging on your rest days, but keep your intensity light to moderate to give your body a chance to adapt and repair itself.
Not scheduling regular race days can mean decreases in performance because muscles are overworked and will fatigue more quickly, which puts you at higher risk for injury.
 The maxim that you have to walk before you can run is no less true when using an obstacle course gym. Attend an open gym session or schedule a private walk-through so you can prepare for the course.Take note of the terrain and the order of the obstacles. This can help you mentally prepare as well as allow you to pinpoint areas where you might have difficulty.
Based on your assessment of your strengths and weaknesses, determine where you need to conserve energy and which obstacles or sections of the course will require more effort for you.
If you have any questions about any of the obstacles, ask a staff member to demonstrate them for you or explain what is necessary to complete that section of the course.
 Even when you're running an obstacle course for general exercise or for training in preparation for an event, adequate hydration is essential for this grueling whole-body workout. You also need to make sure you're eating food rich in carbohydrates, protein, and healthy fat to fuel your body before you hit the course.Drink a lot of water and supplement it with sports drinks to help reduce the risk of cramping. Have a large glass of water within 20 or 30 minutes before you hit the course, and bring water with you so you can stay hydrated while using the obstacle course gym. Within 20 to 30 minutes after you complete the course, have another large glass of water.
Sweet potatoes, squash, and wild rice provide the carbohydrates you need. Stay away from refined foods such as pasta and white rice. A bowl of oatmeal with sliced bananas also is a good pre-course meal. Eat something an hour or two before you plan to hit the obstacle course, so you'll be well-fueled for your workout.For your fuel and hydration needs, think in terms of fueling up for a marathon, half-marathon, or other endurance event – even if you're only going to be at the obstacle course gym for an hour or so.
 If you intend to fully run the obstacle course at an obstacle course gym (and not just play around), a thorough warm-up followed by full-body stretching is essential to get your body ready for an intense workout.A light jog or dynamic exercises such as squats and lunges are a good way to warm up your cardiovascular system.
Include a four- or five-minute yoga routine that incorporates all muscle groups to get loose and limbered up for the obstacle course and get the blood flowing to your muscles.

Try sun salutations, which provide a whole-body series of yoga poses that will warm up and energize your entire body. While there are many variations, the sun salutation generally is a series of seven poses, completed in fluid succession in time with your breathing.A yoga warm-up also can help you integrate your mind and body so you are more focused for the upcoming obstacles.
 Regardless of your reasons for using an obstacle course gym, approach the obstacles the same way you would if you were competing in a race, or if something significant was at stake.Particularly if you're training for an upcoming race, your practices won't be as beneficial if you walk through them or jog lightly from one obstacle to another and complete them only halfway.
Not putting full effort into your actions actually can put you at greater risk of injury – especially if you're not using proper form.
Your drive and focus will propel you to accomplish more than you thought you could do otherwise. Approach each obstacle with optimism and determination.

