


Bush pickle cucumbers and Carolina cucumbers are common pickling cucumber varieties. Bush pickle plants are appropriate for planting in containers. Carolina cucumbers are medium-sized plants that should be planted in the ground.;
,


Grow pickling cucumbers in full sun and warm, moist soil. Traditional cucumber plants need lots of space. Hybrid cucumbers may be planted in a smaller space outside or in a large container.



Cucumbers planted outdoors must be planted in warm soil after the last frost. You can plant second crop of cucumbers in mid to late summer. Plants prefer a nutrient-rich soil, so work compost into the soil before planting cucumbers.
Seeds should be planted on their edges 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) deep. Sowing seeds on their edges prevents rot. Space seeds 6 inches (15 cm) apart in rows 5 to 6 feet (1.5 to 1.8 m) apart. Alternatively, you can plant 3 to 4 plants close together in hills 36 inches (.9 m) apart. Planting cucumbers in hills increases pollination and can lead to more productive plants.
If you start your pickling cucumbers inside, plant 2 to 3 seeds at 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25 to 2.5 cm) deep in each peat pot or small container 3 to 4 weeks before planting outside. Thin the seedling to 1 seedling per pot after they sprout.
To transplant cucumbers, plant seedlings 1 to 2 feet (30 to 60 cm) apart after the last frost. Cucumbers must be transplanted early. Plants that have more than 4 leaves will not transplant well. Make sure to water the plants well before transplanting.



Water pickling cucumber plants frequently and keep their soil moist, particularly when once the fruit forms.






In early spring, cover the roots with black plastic or use polyester row covers over the plants to help the plants yield earlier. Use of polyester row covers will also help prevent infestation by cucumber beetles.






Fertilize with a nitrogen fertilizer when the vines start to form on the plants. Continue to fertilize regularly throughout the growing season.






Support vines with a trellis or fence if you are trying to reduce the space they use. Be aware that cucumbers should not be supported in very windy environments.



Harvest cucumbers in the early morning and store them in the refrigerator in loose or perforated plastic bags until you are ready to use them. Pick cucumbers every day to keep them from growing too large for pickling.
Pick pickling cucumbers when they are 3 to 5 inches (7 to 12 cm) long. Cucumbers should be firm and green. Discard any cucumbers that are turning yellow.

