 When you do get in for an interview, you will want to stand out as the employee who knows about the company. Research their primary products and the services they provide. If you get asked, “Tell us what you know about our business,” you should have a ready answer.For example, if you are applying to a law firm, you should know the primary fields of law they practice. If you are applying to a manufacturer, you should know the products they make and the uses for those products. If possible, you should even have some ideas for opening new markets.
 Research the company’s hiring practices, either on its own website or through job employments sites online. Track the job openings that they list and make note of recent changes in staffing. Even if you see postings for specific jobs that may not interest you, you should watch the hiring trends of the company. This will give you information about the firm’s hiring practices which can make you a more stand-out applicant., In addition to researching the company itself, you should learn what you can about its competition. You should know what you can about other businesses in the same industry. Be prepared to use that information in an interview, to show the employer that you are fully informed. Prepare some analysis before your interview, to demonstrate that you understand the market and will be an ideal employee., Whether your dream employer is in manufacturing, sales, provides professional services or does something else, you should understand its client base. Know who uses this company’s services or products. If possible, you might even reach out to one of the client’s, in advance of any interview you can get, and learn first-hand about their perceptions of the company. If you discuss this kind of feedback in an interview, your prospective employer is going to take note of your knowledge and initiative., Nearly every interview reaches the point where the employer asks, “Do you have any questions about us?” This is your opportunity to demonstrate your knowledge of the company, more than it is about actually getting information. You should ask the type of question that shows that you know a lot about the company.


For example, you might ask something like, “I recently read that your market share has increased over the last quarter. How do you see this job opening factoring into continued growth in the future?”
Although you may have some very direct questions about salary or benefits, the first interview is not the time for asking those. A question like, “How much vacation time is included?” will only make you look like your focus is not on the good of the company but rather on your own interest in vacation time.

