 The coat hanger should be in good condition, with the hanging part is intact and not rusty, although it's fine if it's a little rough as that can be fixed.


If the coat hanger chosen needs any rough edges removed, sandpaper until smooth.
If the coat hanger is varnished, sand it to remove the varnish, to allow the paint to adhere without a problem.;
, You have the choice of painting the entire wooden part of the coat hanger or just the front section (and not the rod). It's up to your preference, but it's easiest to only paint the front section.


Choose a color that you like. For example, pastel pink or bright orange. It really doesn't matter as long as the color pleases you.
Use artist's acrylics as they're long wearing, come in a good range of colors and will not become sticky on the hanger (you don't want paint transferring to your clothes).
 For example, you could paint a word, such as "Chanel" or "Yves Saint Laurent" or "My Clothes" or "Coat Hanger". It's entirely up to you.


Use a font style that matches your decor, such as cursive for a French flair or stark print for a modern look.
 Lay down newspaper or other covering to protect the work surface. Set out the paint and paintbrush, water cleaning jar and the coat hanger.
 Allow to dry for the length recommended by the manufacturer. Paint another layer if needed, although bear in mind that for the "shabby chic" or kitsch look, some of the wood showing through might form part of the hanger's charm.


Consider whether or not to add a sealant layer. This is optional but it might be something you'd like to add to protect both paint and clothing. Use a standard craft varnish suitable for wood or perhaps Mod Podge for this.
 Tie a small satin ribbon bow around the wire hanger element of the coat hanger. Glue in place to prevent it from moving up and down during use. Allow to completely dry.


The ribbon can be any width, style or color as preferred. You may like to match it to the hanger or even to denote the color of clothing to be hung on that hanger.
 The coat hanger is now ready for your clothing.

