 When you're in class, an after-school club, or an organization you or your family belongs to, try looking for people you haven't met before. Sometimes, you may get in a rut and hang out with just the same people all the time. Being open to new people can help you make new friends.Try not to judge other kids by what they look like. You may think someone's not like you just because they look a little different, but that person could easily have a lot in common with you.
 The best way to get a conversation started is to just say "Hello." You should also include your name and ask what the other person's is.For instance, you could say, "Hello, my name is Dorothy. What's yours?"
You can also use whatever you're doing to help the conversation along. As an example, you could say, "Are you new to pep club?" or "How's lunch today?"

, That is, if you're at lunch or in a club, ask the person if you can sit with them. Spending time with the person is a good way to get to know them.For example, you could say, "Hi, I noticed you over here, and I realized I've never said hello to you. Do you mind if I sit with you today?"

, Once you've sat with the person a few times, try meeting up at other times. Maybe you can work on homework with each other in the library, or maybe your parents would be okay with you having the person over some time so you can get to know them better.When you have someone over, that means you're the host. In other words, you need to make sure your guest is having a good time. Ask the person what he or she wants to do. You can have a few things prepared to do, as well.You can tell if the person is having a good time by watching to see if she or he laughs and smiles., One way to get to know another person is to ask that person questions. You could ask her what her favorite movie or book is. You can also ask about her family and what other things she likes to do.As you get to know her more, you can make the questions a bit more serious. For example, you could ask him or her what makes him afraid or why he likes certain things., Like water helps plants grow, kindness helps friendship grow. Do nice things for your friend, like letting her borrow your calculus notes, bringing her a drink when you get one, or writing her a note to say you enjoy her friendship are all small things you can do to show you like her for a friend., Friends are good listeners. You like to tell people what's going on in your day and so do other people. That means that while you should be able to tell a friend what you're thinking, you also need to be able to hear what a friend is saying and respond.For example, if your friend says, "I had a hard night last night," don't immediately say "Me, too," and go off and what happened. Ask her what happened first.If you're not used to having this type of conversation, ask one of your parents if they can help you practice. Not everyone finds it easy to hold conversations with other people., That is, you may find things in the person that you don't like or you wish to change. Everyone has little flaws or things that don't jive with other people. Try to accept the person as he or she is. After all, you probably have parts that the other person doesn't quite get, either.