 Sometimes it can be a good idea to ask someone else what they would choose if they were in your situation. You should keep in mind, however, that everyone has a different perspective based on their personal experiences. What is a good choice for someone else may not be a good choice for you. So, be careful when taking advice from others when you are trying to make a choice you won’t regret.When you do ask for advice, ask people that you trust. You’ll feel more confident if you are turning to someone who generally makes good choices.
Try to ask someone with experience in the area. For instance, if you’re deciding on the plants for your home, you might ask your uncle, the landscaper, for advice.
Ask why they would make that decision. For example, you could ask your uncle, “Why would you choose that plant over the other one for this spot?”

, It’s generally not a good idea to make a major decision, especially one that could have long-term consequences, in a hurry.So, slow down, give yourself time to think through your choices and their consequences before you make a decision.


If it is a major decision that could affect you for a long time afterwards, you should take at least 24 hours to think about your choices, if not more.
For example, choices about sex, parenting, your health, and finances are decisions should be made slowly with a lot of thought about possible consequences.
Don’t allow anyone to pressure you into making a quick decision, especially about things that can impact you in the long-term.
 Now that you have explored all of your options, as well as their possible consequences, you can decide what choice you should make. Think about which choice is consistent with your values and has the greatest benefits and the least negative consequences.


For example, you might think about whether getting suspended for skipping is worth an hour at the mall spending money that you need to save anyway.
One of your top values may be academic achievement, and skipping class and possibly hurting your grade does not support that value.
Then, you might decide that staying in school will be the best choice because you won’t get in trouble, your grades won't suffer, and you’ll save money like you need to.

