 Growing eyelashes starts with hygiene. You want to remove grease, dust, or makeup that clogs your eye-lash follicles. Makeup, more than anything else, tends to cause eyelash loss and reduce your eyelid’s ability to regrow lashes.









Remove eye makeup gently and thoroughly before you go to sleep. Letting makeup sit on your eyelashes for extended periods of time isn't good for your eyelashes and will make it more difficult to follow the above steps over time.
 Especially during allergy season, be sure not to rub your eye lids. Use Visine or another allergy medicine to ease irritation and redness. Periodic rubbing can loosen your lashes and cause them to fall out at a higher rate. In addition, this will add more dust, dirt, and other follicle clogging matter to your eye lids necessitating additional cleaning. If you want to massage your eyelids, this is ok, but be sure your hands are clean first and then try not to rub too vigorously.
 Apply a thin coat of olive oil, caster oil, coconut oil, or vaseline (petroleum jelly) to your lashes before you go to bed at night.Oils and commercial products such as DiorShow Maximizer will measurably increase the volume, length, and curvature of your lashes with regular use.









Dip a clean, mascara-free wand (or a Q-tip) in the oil and gently brush your eyelashes from the base to the tip. If you like, try warming up the oil before use. Make sure that it is slightly above room temperature and not excessively hot. If the oil is too hot, you could scald yourself.
After you apply the oil to your lashes, lightly pat them with a tissue or cloth to remove excess oil. Leave on for a couple of hours or overnight depending on how dry your lashes are. Do this every couple of weeks. If you do it too frequently, you may clog your follicles with oil., If you decide that oils are not your cup of tea, then why not try putting green tea on your lashes before bed. Take a cotton swab, dip it in some green tea, and then cover your lashes with it. In the morning, wash thoroughly. Do this for 2 weeks, every night, for noticeable results.
 Vaseline Jelly has been a mainstay of the home beauty toolbox for decades. Apply the petroleum jelly just before bed and wash it off in the morning. If you aren’t a fan of the petroleum variety, Vaseline also makes a non-petroleum jelly mix — found at Whole Foods.
 A healthy diet is key. Focus on eating foods rich in protein and vitamins. Foods like fish, eggs, beans, soy protein, and yogurt will help your eyelashes grow.Salmon is a great source of omega 3 fatty acids, which helps to grow strong nails, shiny hair, and long eyelashes. A lot of women also take a vitamin B complex known as Biotin for longer and healthier eyelashes and hair.
 They may prescribe Latisse, the only FDA approved eyelash growth medication.The only reported side effects are eye irritation, general redness, and itchiness. Most of the time, a dermatologist will only prescribe Latisse for those whose short or non-existent eyelashes are considered a health hazard. Remember that your eyelashes' primary purpose is to keep dirt and other foreign materials out of your eyes.


Over the counter solutions are available and might be prescribed by a dermatologist. Many of these over the counter solutions actually work just as well as Latisse for a fraction of the price. These include products such as Rapidlash, Revitalize, and Prolash.
 This is the most extreme method used to get longer eyelashes.Plastic surgeons can transplant hair follicles from your scalp to your eye lids. While this will give you longer eyelashes, recovery is incredibly painful and can impair your vision for several weeks. Since the hair follicle is different than normal eyelash follicle, some patients report needing to trim their eyelashes after their surgery. 