 Don’t spend time with anyone who is negative all the time. This will make you feel bad about yourself and the world around you. You don’t want that in your life! Instead, spend time with people who understand that sometimes life is hard or sometimes people make mistakes but that things are largely good and should be appreciated for what they are, rather than held up to a standard they can never reach.


If you have a close friend who acts like this, try to help them change. If they continue to act this way, try to spend less time with them. It’s hard but being around negative people is very unhealthy and will not help you build a good image of yourself or your life.
If you find yourself acting this way: stop. You don’t want to be that person. If there are bad things in your life, things you feel negative about, change them. Don’t complain and focus on all the bad things...make those bad things into better things!

, Don’t spend your time thinking about regrets and all of the times you did something wrong or failed in some way. Learn from those mistakes and move on. Instead of focusing on things you didn’t do right, remember all the things you excel at. Remember all the good things you’ve done. This will help you remember that you do good work and can accomplish great things when you try.


Make a list of the things you are most proud of. Post it on your bedroom wall and look at it every day. This will motivate you to keep doing good things to make that list longer and longer. See if you can get it to reach down to the floor or be taller than you are!

, There is a saying that nobody is perfect and it is absolutely true. Nobody is perfect. Nothing is perfect. Perfection isn’t a real thing. This means that you need to stop trying to be perfect. In trying to be perfect you will only constantly disappoint yourself. It’s good to strive for something but this is the wrong way to do it. Instead, think about where you are and try to take it to the next step. Strive for getting a B on that next test before trying to get an A. Sometimes you’ll surprise yourself and do better than you thought you would!

, Tell yourself every single day that you’re a good person. You have something to offer the world. You can do things that no one else can do. You can handle all the challenges that life throws at you. You can be better and happier. You will love others and you will love yourself. You will always do your best. All of these things are true if you let them be true. You just have to be willing to put in the work. Remind yourself that these things are true every day and you will feel better about yourself and your abilities.


Sometimes it may not feel like these things are true or possible but they are. If you feel like you don’t have anything unique to offer to the world, then you just haven’t found out what it is yet. If you don’t feel like you’re a good person, give yourself the opportunity to be. Sometimes it takes work to change the things we don’t like about ourselves, but if you try you will find that with time you can make yourself into a person that makes you happy.

