 If this is the first time you've connected it to your computer, you will need to wait a few minutes while Windows installs the necessary drivers.
 If the Autoplay window appears, select "Import pictures and videos". If the Autoplay window does not appear, open the Computer/My Computer/This PC window, right-click on the iPod Touch, and select Import pictures and videos.
 Windows will scan the iPod Touch for any pictures. You will then be shown a window displaying the number of pictures found and a few options. To select which pictures you want, ensure that "review, organize, and group items to import" is selected and click Next.


The images will be sorted by the date they were taken. By default, all the images will be selected. You can uncheck the boxes next to any image that you don't want to keep, or uncheck the "Select all" box at the top of the list to deselect all the images.
You can change the way the images are grouped by sliding the scale in the bottom right-corner.
 You can add tags to the images that you transfer over by clicking the "Add tags" button, allowing you to search for them easier. You can also give each grouping of images a custom folder name by clicking the "Enter a name" button with the folder icon.
 Click the "More options" link in the bottom-left corner of the window. This will allow you to set the folder that your new images will be placed in, and how you want the files to be named. Click OK when finished


Check the "Delete files from device after importing" if you want to free up space on your iPod after the transfer.
 Click Import to begin the importing process. When the process is complete, you will be taken to the "Imported Pictures and Videos" library. Your pictures can also be found in the folder you set, which is the "Pictures" folder by default., When you connect your iPod, the iPhoto program should open automatically. If iPhoto doesn't start automatically, open it from the "Applications" folder.
 You can import all the photos on the iPod by clicking "Import # Photos". If you want to only import certain photos, click each photo that you want to transfer to select it. Click the "Import Selected Photos" button to copy the selected images.


If iPhoto is not displaying the contents of your iPod, make sure that it is selected from the "Devices" section of the left frame.
 After choosing your import option, you will be asked if you would like to keep the photos that you import on your iPod, or delete them to save space. If you are planning on importing the photos again on another computer, keep them on the iPod.