 Place fresh, cold cucumber slices over your eyes to reduce swelling, puffiness, and to lighten dark circles. Cucumbers have natural astringent and anti-inflammatory properties. You can also put used, cold black tea bags over your eyes to reduce discoloration and puffiness.Another great option is to apply a cold spoon to your under-eye bags. This costs nothing and works wonders to reduce puffiness as well.
Make sure you keep your eyes closed when you place anything over them.
If you experience discomfort, such as with the cold spoon, remove the object from your skin right away.;
, Honey is full of antimicrobial agents and is robust with anti-inflammatory properties, making it a gentle, perfect skin smoother. Honey is best used at night so that it can fully soak into your skin overnight. Apply a thin layer of honey below your eyes in the evenings to reduce puffiness and dark circles.You can also make a paste of milk and honey and rub that into all of your skin. You’ll need to wash afterward, but allow at least an hour for the milk and honey to soak in.
You’ll be able to find honey and milk at most dollar stores, making this extra budget friendly.
 These oils are all high in good fats which will soften your skin beautifully. You can find any of these oils at your local health-food store, and olive and coconut oil at most supermarkets. When possible, opt for organic oils which are free of chemicals. Rub any of these oils directly on to your skin, just as you would with lotion.Quality oils can be expensive, but you can usually get them for a great price from a local farmer’s market or online retailer.
You can add a few drops of essential oils, such as lavender, peppermint, or eucalyptus to any of these oils.
Coconut oil is the only one of these four oils that is solid at room temperature, making it a convenient and mess-free option.
Use as needed, but minimally once per day.
 Exfoliating removes dead skins cells, which cultivates new growth. It also stimulates blood flow to the exfoliated area, which helps rejuvenate the skin. You can certainly purchase an exfoliant from your local drugstore, but you don’t need to, since you likely have excellent exfoliants right there in your pantry. Use as needed, but no more than three times per week.Oatmeal is a wonderful exfoliant that also protects and soothes your skin. Mix some oatmeal with a bit of honey or milk (or both) and apply to your skin. Let it sit for a few minutes before rinsing it off.
Baking soda is an excellent general-purpose cleaning product and makes a fantastic exfoliant. Rub a tablespoon of baking soda on your skin, massaging in a circular motion, and then wash regularly.
Baking soda and oatmeal are both readily available at most dollar stores, and you can also find them for great prices at your local grocer.
 You can purchase pumice as a block, on a handle, or even as an active ingredient in some specially-made foot moisturizers. Pumice is a light, volcanic rock that is just abrasive enough to smooth the rough skin on your feet, especially your heels. After you’ve bathed and the skin on your feet has softened up a bit, rub the pumice across calloused areas for instant, low-cost smoothing.If you have an Amazon Prime account, you’ll probably find the least expensive pumice deals through the Amazon Marketplace.
You can check your local dollar store or discount beauty supply store for a good pumice stone also.

