 You’ll need to present U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) with certain documents. Collect the following ahead of time:A copy of your spouse or parent’s H-1B Approval Notice (Form I-797). You can’t apply until the employer’s I-129 petition has been approved by USCIS.
A copy of the I-129 petition or the petition’s receipt number.Your marriage certificate or birth certificate, which shows your relationship to the person getting the H-1B visa.
A copy of H-1B holder’s passport.
Your passport, which should be valid for at least six months past your application date.;
, You’ll need to upload a digital, passport-sized photograph along with your application. The picture must have been taken in the past six months and must meet the following requirements:You must show your full face. Although religious head coverings are allowed, your face cannot be hidden.
The picture must be two inches by two inches, and your face must be between 1 inch and 1 3/8 inches in height.
You must be facing the camera and have a neutral expression. Your eyes must be open
The picture must be in color in front of a white (or off-white) background.
You can’t wear glasses or headphones, though you can wear a hearing device.
You should wear your normal daily clothing.
The digital picture must be in JPEG format and have a minimum of 600 x 600 pixels (1200 x 1200 maximum).
 This form is available online here: https://ceac.state.gov/genniv/. You need to select the closest city from the location list. This is the city where you will be applying from. To complete the application, do the following:Write down the application ID displayed in the upper right-hand corner.
Answer all questions fully in English using the English alphabet.
Sign the application electronically.
Upload your digital picture when prompted. If uploading fails, you can take a picture with you to the consulate.
Remember to print out a copy of your application, which you’ll need to show at the consulate or embassy.
 You probably will need to pay your application fee before you can schedule an appointment. Contact your nearest embassy or consulate for requirements. Make sure to keep the receipt for your payment, which you should take with you to your interview., Assemble all of your required documents and go to the nearest consulate or embassy in your home country. State that you are applying for an H-4 visa.A consular official will review your documents.


If approved, you should coordinate how your visa will be sent to you.

