 Whether that involves assignments from your book, readings, presentations, or anything else, it is important to do your homework every day. This not only shows your teacher that you are dedicated and paying attention, it also helps you learn the material and do better in class.If there is ever a legitimate reason that you cannot complete your homework, such as a medical emergency, contact your teacher as soon as is reasonably possible to let them know and ask for an extension.
If there is anything in the homework that you don’t understand or want to review, ask your teacher the next day during or right after class.
 Don’t limit yourself to what you are assigned in class. If you find a subject interesting, take some free time to research it on your own. Read additional materials both online and in print, and explore the subject interactively through activities such as experiments, going to museums, or visiting other sites related to the subject. This shows your teacher you are willing to take initiative and that you are an active learner. Ask your teacher for a bibliography of readings regarding the portions of the subject that interest you. This is a great way to get new sources and show your teacher your interest.
Avoid interrupting class with your new information. Demonstrate your knowledge in papers or assignments, but understand that your teacher developed the lesson to cover specific matters and respect their efforts in class.
 When you are working on projects at home, take the time to not only make sure they’re done, but make sure they’re done well. Proofread your assignments and check your work when applicable. Your teacher will take you far less seriously as a student if you frequently turn in sloppy or unedited work.If possible, have a peer review your paper or assignment to ensure that it is done correctly and makes sense.
Use guidelines offered by your teacher or written in your syllabus to make sure your assignments are formatted and edited correctly.

