 Varnish is a type of resin-based clear coat that can protect painted works from dust, dirt, moisture and other factors that can cause deterioration. Brush or spray a thin coating of varnish over the unprotected surface of the painting, then let it dry overnight. Afterwards, the painting will be more resistant to dust, making it easier and safer to keep clean.Make sure you select a varnish that has been specially formulated for use on acrylic paints. If you choose the wrong kind, it may severely degrade the paint.Brush off the surface of the painting before you apply a varnish to keep dust from becoming trapped in the clear coat.
 Because acrylic paints are slightly tacky, they can easily trap dust particles floating around in the environment. For this reason, it’s best to keep prized artwork somewhere with a minimal amount of dust. Make an effort to vacuum and dust high traffic areas on a consistent basis to cut down on the amount of dust in the air that might find its way onto nearby paintings.Paintings are more likely to gather dust when they’re mounted higher up on the wall.If you’re forced to store your paintings in an attic, basement or garage, wrap them in bubble wrap then cover them with brown paper or plastic garbage bags to keep dust from settling on them., Prolonged exposure to UV light causes almost all types of paint to fade over time. To delay natural deterioration, display paintings in the interior of your home, business or gallery away from windows and other openings. Whenever possible, avoid positioning paintings in direct sunlight.When using a separate light source to illuminate a painting, make sure it’s not intense enough to cause fading to occur.Always cover paintings while transporting them to minimize the amount of time they spend in bright natural light.
 Acrylic paints can soften up in elevated temperatures, making them more vulnerable to damage. It’s a good idea to keep the surrounding temperature moderate (between 68-80°F, or 20-27°C) so that the paint doesn't overheat. You should also make it a point to hang your paintings a safe distance away from kitchens, restrooms and other places where there's likely to be more moisture in the air.Run a dehumidifier periodically in the room where you store or display your paintings to keep environmental conditions optimal.
High humidity can also result in the growth of mold and mildew., Aside from a brush or cleaning cloth, try not to let anything come into contact with the surface of a finished acrylic painting. Doing so can lead to smears and smudges, along with more serious destruction like chipping and cracking. This can ruin both the appearance of a painting and its monetary value.Always grip the painting by the edge of the frame when mounting or moving it.