 When you are single, you may want to date around to meet a lot of different people. However, you should date people who you find interesting and attractive. You should have characteristics that you like in someone that causes you to date them instead of dating just anyone you meet.For example, you may want to date people who are attractive, career-oriented, and interested in certain hobbies. Though you may find it difficult to meet people with these qualities, don’t lower your standards just so you can have a date.;
, Figuring out what you want in another person can help you choose potential partners with some forethought. If you don’t know what you are looking for, you may just date anyone. Having no standards may lead to you to act desperate because you aren’t putting any thought into your dates at all.You may need to make a list to help you determine what you are looking for. This list should go beyond physical traits. Think about shared interests, values, characteristics, qualities, and other things you are looking for in another person. It might be that you want a dog person or someone who has a higher degree.
 You may want an instant connection when you go out somewhere to meet people. Often, it takes awhile for you to become comfortable and known in a place. If you have tried a new dating site, started a new class or hobby, or started going to a new place, give it enough time for people to notice you or get to know you.Don’t get discouraged on the first day if nothing happens. Don’t get discouraged after the first week. Keep going back.
 One thing desperate singles sometimes do is act like they are something they are not. You may pretend to like something you don’t or go to an event or meetup you’re not interested in to meet people. This only causes more stress for you since you aren’t interested in the topic and may meet someone who you do not share interests with.Instead, be honest about your likes, dislikes, and preferences. This includes when you meet someone and on an online dating profile.
This doesn’t mean you can’t date someone who is different than you or with different interests, but don’t pretend to like something just to impress someone.
 If you are single, you may not always feel the best about yourself. This means you may seek validation from others. You might try to get others to compliment your looks, outfits, or personality to help boost your self-confidence. This may make you seem desperate.Many people may directly ask things like, “How do you like my dress?” or “What do you think of my new hair style?”
Some people manipulate people into compliments or use self-deprecation to get compliments. This may include saying something like, “I feel ugly today.”

, You may mention that you are single in a casual conversation, but you shouldn’t tell everyone that you meet that you are single. It’s one thing to mention it to a friend in case they know someone who is single, but telling everyone may make you seem desperate.While you shouldn’t hide the fact that you are single, you may want to share your interest in actively looking for someone with a few chosen friends.

