

Draw a square.
Draw the shape of a baby’s head in the center.
Add eyes, nose, mouth and a curl of hair to the baby’s head and face.
Write “It’s a” over the top of the picture.
Write “girl!” or “boy!” beneath the picture to complete the design.;
,

Use a 3” (7.5 cm) cutter that is shaped like a square to cut out the cookies.
You can also use a square-shaped cookie cutter with a decorative edge, such as a scalloped edge.
 (See details below on how to decorate cookies with royal icing.), Each bowl will hold a different color of icing. The quantities suggested are guesses and will vary slightly according to a number of factors.,

Dye the icing pastel blue for a baby boy by mixing a small amount of blue food coloring into your background icing.
Dye the icing pastel pink for a baby girl by mixing a small amount of red food coloring into the background icing.


For a baby who will have pale skin, mix 12 parts orange with 4 parts rose and 1 part royal blue.
For a baby who will have olive skin, mix 5 parts yellow with 3 parts brown.
For a baby who will have dark skin, use chocolate brown food coloring, adding it to the icing gradually until you have the appropriate color.
 You can dye the lettering any color you choose or you can use the icing without dyeing it., Dye the icing black, brown, reddish-orange or yellow.,,,,, Allow the icing to set. This will only take a few minutes., When you have enough water, the icing will have the texture of cold honey.,

Squirt some icing from the bottle tip to fill in the background of the cookies. You can leave gaps in the icing and simply smooth them with a toothpick to create a smooth surface.
Allow the surface to dry completely.


Outline the face using the flesh toned icing by squeezing the icing through the tip of a pastry bag.
Allow the outline to dry.
Fill in the baby’s face with icing, spreading the icing with a toothpick to fill in any gaps. Allow the flesh-colored icing to dry.
Add the eyes, nose, mouth and hair curl using separate pastry bags and tips for each color of icing. Allow the picture to dry.
 Squeeze the icing through the tip to write “It’s a boy!” or “It’s a girl!” onto the cookies.