 Pay attention to the size differences if a pattern provides them. Instructions will generally be listed with the smallest size first and the others in parentheses in this format: S (M, L, XL).


For example, if a pattern tells you to cast on 10 (12, 14, 16) stitches to begin and you want to make a size Large, you would choose 14 stitches to cast on.Note the dimensions that the pattern provides for the completed size. The right size for you will likely differ from the typical size you would buy in a store.
It is useful to use a highlighter to mark the corresponding numbers for the size you choose to knit throughout the entire pattern before you begin. This makes it much easier to follow the instructions according to your size.
The size of the finished item is sometimes stated as the size "after blocking." Blocking is a technique of shaping fabric, usually after washing. For instance, many sweaters are blocked by laying them out and patting them into place while they are still damp, then leaving them to dry.
 Follow the meanings for these phrases when they appear:



As established: Continue to knit the center part of a pattern that you have already set up (the pattern may call for adding or subtracting stitches at either end of the center pattern).

BO: Bind off (aka cast off) to finish your knitted piece.

CO: Cast on to begin knitting the pattern with a certain number of stitches.

Dec: Decrease, or eliminate one or more stitches by working two stitches together as one, or another method that your pattern will specify.

Inc: Increase, or add one or more stitches by working the front and then the back of the same stitch, or another method that your pattern will specify.

K: Knit a knit stitch.

P: Knit a purl stitch.

Rep: Repeat the preceding instruction the given number of times.

RS: Right side, meaning the outside or side that people will see when the item is worn.

Sl: Slip one or more stitches from one needle to the other.

Sts: Stitches.

Tog: Work two or more stitches together.

Work even: Continue knitting as you have been, without increasing or decreasing stitches.

WS: Wrong side, meaning the inside or side that people will not see when the item is worn.

YO: Yarn over, meaning take the yarn over the needle., Follow the meanings of the following symbols, which will appear between other terms and abbreviations to indicate actions:



An asterisk (*): Placed before an instruction that should be repeated (rep).

A comma (,): Separates two different steps in the knitting pattern.

Brackets / Parentheses ( ): Indicate a section of the instruction to be repeated (rep) a certain number of times., Use the given written instructions and symbols together to knit each row of the pattern. For example, the pattern could read:



CO 14 sts. Begin your pattern by making a slip knot on one needle, then casting on 13 more stitches. Note that a slip knot always counts as a stitch in knitting, unlike crocheting.

Row 1 (RS): *K2, P2; rep from * across, end K2. Begin the first row (which will be on the right side of the garment) by knitting two stitches, then purling two stitches, and repeating this sequence until the final two stitches of the row, which you will knit.

Row 2 (WS): *P2, K2; rep from * across, end P2. Begin the second row (which will be on the wrong side of the garment) by purling two stitches, then knitting two stitches, and repeating this sequence until the final two stitches of the row, which you will purl.