 The way that you respond to your parents demonstrates how much you truly respect them. It’s important that you speak to them in a respectful manner. It helps to use phrases like “yes, ma’am,” “no, sir,” “lease,” and “may I” when addressing your parents, as well as using a respectful tone.


Avoid screaming and yelling at your parents, even if you feel like they don’t hear you.
Don’t make demands to your parents. Remember they are not obligated to do what you want them to do.
The slang that you use when you address your friends is not the same language you should use when you address your parents. So, terms like “dude” or “chick” and “girlie” should not be used with your parents.
Whenever you’re ending a phone call with your parents, make sure that you say “goodbye.” Never just hang up without saying anything.
 Being able to communicate effectively and authentically with your parents shows that you respect them. Whether you need help or advice, need permission to do something, or you need to share some bad news that may disappoint your parents, it’s important to start the conversation.


Determining what you want to achieve from the conversation can help you stay focused on what’s important.Maybe you are unclear about your parents expectations of you. Don’t be afraid to ask them, and be willing to listen without interrupting.
If you simply need to tell them about something that’s bothering you, and you don’t necessarily want their advice, make sure that you communicate that in the beginning.
When your parents notice that something is bothering and they ask you, be honest and tell them exactly what’s wrong. Don’t deny it; it will only fester inside of you.
 Whenever your parents enter a room or you’re seeing them for the first time that day, be sure to greet them.


You should never give your parents the silent treatment, even when you’re upset.
When you are entertaining friends at your house, you will need to make sure that your friends also acknowledge your parents by formally greeting them.
If you’re out with your parents in public, don’t pretend like you’re not with them because you find them embarrassing.
 No matter how old you are, your parents have a strong track record of taking care of you and providing for you. Make sure that you show gratitude for what they have done and what they continue to do for you.


You’ll want to avoid taking your parents for granted.
Always say “thank you” whenever your parents give you something, share something with you, or do something for you.Let your parents know that you appreciate any sacrifices that they have made for you.
From time to time, you should let your parents know that you deeply value the lessons they’ve taught you.
 You will not get everything you want when you want it. Your parents are entitled to say “no,” especially if it’s for your own good.


You should not question their decisions or underestimate their ability to decide what’s best for you.
Don’t challenge their authority.
Never try to manipulate them into giving you what you want.

