 This is the most fundamental property in all languages. You have many names to choose from. You can even use a made up word from your made up language like 'Victory' or 'Great Language'. The choice is all yours.


Start off with the highly frequently used words such as 'and' or 'I' or 'one' or 'the'. It is recommend that you use short words since they are commonly used. An example would be 'ant', 'es', or even 'loo' for the word 'and'.
 For example, if the word bird is 'Vogelaviatiolap', why not make the word birds 'Vogelaviatiolaps'? The "s" added at the end makes a word plural in many languages. If you want to add complication, you can add genders like most European languages, like French and German. For example, if you want the word 'horse' to be a boy, you may want 'the horse' to be 'Mat Fereder', but a 'cat' to be a girl, you may want, 'the cat' to be 'Fet Kamaow'.


Note that some languages don't have plural words at all. In Japanese, for instance, "cat" and "cats" are both ネコ (neko). Languages can work very differently, especially when they're from two very distant places. Experiment with potential grammar rules.
 For instance, in your language, 'Vogelaviatiolap' means Bird. It could come from the following:


'Vogel' comes from German, which means bird
'aviatio' comes from English. It's uncompleted though, because the word is part of the term 'aviation'
'lap' comes from Onomatopoeia. It's a completed term, but it is supposed to come from 'Flap!'

, For example, if you invented the word 'China' as 'Khinssa', 'Drink' as 'Bever', and the word 'Accident' as 'Casnondelibreaten', why not make the word 'tea' as 'Khincasnonbever' or 'Bevernondelibreatekin' or even 'Khinssacasnondelibreatenibever'!

,


Why not add some non Latin Characters such as ß? You can even make the whole language not based on the Latin Alphabet at all like Chinese!
You can even take some words of languages, altering them or not. You can make the word 'pen' as 'penn' or even 'pen'. Using the dictionary can ensure you not missing a single word.
, Get used to using it yourself, and spread it to others. Once you feel confident about your language, experiment and expand:


Grab a book / novel and translate it to your own language.
Teach your friends this new language.
As soon as your friends understand your language, communicate to them with it.
Be fluent in your own made up language and start spreading this to your friends, family and strangers!
Write your own poem / novel / story with your own made up language.
If you're really ambitious, set a goal of helping others become fluent in the language. One day, maybe you can make it the official language of a country!

