 Wealthy people tend to enjoy expensive, gourmet food. If you want people to think you are rich, you need to have a pretty good knowledge of these foods. You need to know how to pronounce the names, have a sense of what various foods taste like, and know how to consume them properly. Visit some high-end restaurants in your area, and take a photo of the menu. When you get home, do some internet research to familiarize yourself with several of the dishes., Along the same lines, most wealthy people have a good understanding of wine. Begin to expand your knowledge of fine wines by visiting wineries near you and participating in wine tasting. You can learn a great deal from the sommelier leading the tasting. Visit several different wineries, and begin drinking wine at home., Visiting art galleries and collecting art is a common hobby for the wealthy. You will not need to purchase expensive artworks, but you will need to know how to talk about them. Pick up a beginners guide to art history, as well as a beginners guide to art theory at your local library. Spend some time reading each book. Pick out 3-4 favorite artists, and 2-3 favorite art concepts to memorize. You can use these tidbits to speak about art in an educated way., Although there are exceptions, most wealthy people are well-educated, and they come from well-educated families. This means they can effortlessly converse on a wide range of topics, from history to economics to popular culture. If you want to fit it with the rich kids, you’ve got to be able to keep up in conversation. Purchase or borrow the game “Trivial Pursuit” and begin memorizing factual tidbits. If you find a subject area that appeals to you, do further research to bolster what you know., Dropping little hints in conversation is a perfect, nonchalant way to come off as wealthy. Sprinkle the names of rich and famous people you've come into contact with (celebrities, athletes, or well-known financiers) into conversation. Or mention the names of fancy places (Paris, Dubai, Tokyo). Do you best to sound natural, and be sure to have enough background information on the person/place to answer questions, if asked.
 Wealthy people must hire others to help manage their affairs. These people may be accountants, lawyers, personal assistants, or other types of hired help. Casually mentioning that you are "waiting to hear back from your accountant," or that your "assistant is picking that up" lends an air of class and wealth to your personality.

