 No matter your size, referring to any part of your body as “fat” simply isn’t healthy. This term is often used in society with a negative connotation. Therefore, when you label yourself or a specific body part as “fat” you only reinforce a negative body image cycle.Catch yourself when you think of another person as "fat" as well. Start to redefine how you describe them, or better yet, don't think or talk about their size at all.
Drop this word from your vocabulary or replace it with medical or scientific terms for what you’re describing. For example, after enjoying an indulgent meal, don’t say “Oh, my stomach is so fat.” Say, “My stomach is bloated,” which is actually the proper description.;
, Self-compassion should be at the core of your relationship with your body. However, you probably talk negatively about your own body, while being encouraging to friends. Treat yourself with the same gentle support.You wouldn’t bash a friend for not having a thigh gap, so don’t demean yourself over it either.
In fact, you can build a healthier body image by acknowledging and appreciating your body for what it can do. For instance, you might say, “My thighs are strong and solid. I can do squats because of my thighs.”

, If you have been trained by society and the media to view your own and other bodies negatively, it will take some time to fully change your language. However, you can make a major impact by speaking more positively about yourself on a daily basis.Try writing down body-positive affirmations regularly, then reading them back to yourself or posting them somewhere you'll see them often.


Each morning as you brush your teeth or dress, repeat a positive mantra. Try ”I am my own version of sexy” or “Happiness isn’t size-specific.”, Magazines, reality TV shows, and social media are at the foundation of young women and men’s body image issues.These media sources often feature unrealistic, overly thin (in the case of women) and extra-muscular (for men) models and actors.


Frequently, these images have been altered, removing all flaws. As a result, you come to believe people actually look so perfect—and you beat yourself up for not meeting the standard.An important step towards changing your language about your body is learning that these media images aren’t real. They have been Photoshopped to spread ideals of attractiveness and to persuade you to buy their products or services.
Limit how much negative media you are exposed to. Instead follow media sources that emphasize being body-positive like Weightless, PsychCentral’s body image blog.