 Although it can be embarrassing to admit to using prescription drugs illegally, you should talk to your doctor about the best approach for safely getting off of a prescription drug that was not prescribed to you. Keep in mind that doctors hear about all sorts of problems and bodily concerns every day; this is routine for them, it is just a part of their job, so you should not feel embarrassed.


If you are worried about bringing it up because you are taking the prescription drug illegally, try speaking in hypotheticals.
For example, you could start the conversation by asking "if I were on a prescription drug illegally, would you be able to help me get off of it safely? Or would you be able to point me into the direction of some helpful resources?"

, Look into checking yourself into a drug rehabilitation facility as a way to get yourself off of a psychiatric drug. Do your research to find the right facility for you. Some rehab centers specialize in treating people addicted to certain drugs, so you should find a facility that suits your needs. In addition, there are both inpatient and outpatient rehab facilities. It is also very important to talk to your doctor about what type of rehab you would benefit the most from.


Inpatient (i.e., residential) programs last at least 28 days.They are a good choice if you have tried, on your own or through outpatient care, to get off drugs before but failed. They are a good choice if you are in need of detoxification (the safe, supervised withdrawal from using a drug).
Outpatient programs provide more freedom to patients. This is a good choice if you are unable to get time off of work or need to be around consistently for commitments to family. This option is less ideal for you if you are really struggling with self-control, however, given that you will be left to your own devices and could return to using the drug you are trying to stop taking.Both types of programs will involve treatment options that include therapy, which may involve a group therapy component; however, inpatient programs are often more tailored to the individual since they involve living in the facility., Keep in mind that if you are addicted to a psychiatric drug, you may be biased in your assessment of whether inpatient or outpatient care would best suit your needs. Ask your doctor, and consult with a trusted family member, friend, or loved one to help you make this decision, as they will most likely have less biased views than you.To help yourself be honest, try asking yourself what kind of treatment you need when you are at your calmest and least stressed, and, if applicable to you, when you are least feeling pangs of withdrawal from the psychiatric drug you are addicted to.
 Keep in mind that your decision to try a specific kind of rehab program should be based on your doctor's recommendation (most importantly) and family's suggestions for the kind of help they think you need and would benefit the most from.


Take your rehabilitation very seriously; give it your best attempt. If you feel that you are wavering in your resolve to stay the course, keep in mind that, like a rough sea eventually calms, it is often the case that so, too, do the negative symptoms associated with discontinuation from psychiatric drug use.

