 If you have an iPod, iPhone, I Pad, or Mac, you probably already have it. If not, get it from http://www.apple.com/itunes/download/.;
, If you're on a PC, the icon will probably be on the Desktop. If you're on a Mac, the icon will probably be on the Dock (usually at the bottom of the screen).
 Go to Edit; Preferences; General; Import Settings. Write down your current import settings, then change the Import Using setting to MP3 Encoder and change the Setting setting to Custom. Another pop-up window will appear.
 If you are encoding in mono (e.g. for ringtones), set the Stereo Bit Rate to double the bitrate you want to encode at. Otherwise, set it to the exact bitrate you want to encode at. (See the Tips section for the correct bitrate for your purpose.)

, If you require sample rate conversion or mix-down to mono (reducing to one channel), change the Sample Rate or Channels setting respectively. Stereo Mode should be Joint Stereo. Make sure that Use Variable Bit Rate Encoding (VBR) is unchecked; some older players have problems with these files. Then click OK three times to leave the Preferences window.
 Drag a file or files into the iTunes window to add them to your library. (It might take a few seconds.) Then locate the file(s) in your iTunes library: choose View; as List and click on the Date Added heading to sort by date if you have many files already in the library (if the heading isn't already selected). (If the Date Added heading isn't there, go to View; View Options to turn it on.)

, Click on the file(s) once, and then choose Advanced; Create MP3 Version. Depending on the length of the file(s) and the speed of your computer, the encoding can happen instantaneously or it can take minutes. Once the encoding process finishes, iTunes will chime and the progress bar will disappear.
 First, immediately delete your original, unencoded file(s) from the iTunes library by choosing Edit; Delete, Remove, and then Move to Recycle Bin or Move to Trash. Now the top file(s) in your iTunes library (if you sorted by date) should be your encoded file(s). Drag the encoded file(s) out of your iTunes library and then delete the library's copy.
 If you use iTunes to store CDs on your computer or synchronize with an iPod or iPhone, this is very important. Otherwise, you could suffer from reduced sound quality (on any newly imported CDs) that is uncorrectable except if you import again with the correct settings. Also click on the Artist heading of the iTunes library if you sorted by date. This restores the iTunes behavior of playing songs alphabetically.





