 When you are falling, you can reduce the chance of injury by tucking yourself into a ball and rolling.Not only will this tuck in your fragile body parts, but it will also reduce the impact your body will take when it hits the ground. There are various techniques to rolling successfully.


For a gymnastic roll, you want to place your hands in front of your body and tuck your chin down. Use your falling momentum to roll. You want to make sure you keep your body symmetrical as to avoid injury. This type of roll, when done correctly, may even carry you into a standing position.A second type of roll is a parkour or asymmetric roll. The trick to this roll is to try and take the brunt of your fall with your shoulder before you begin the roll. Your goal is roll along your back in a diagonal fashion. This type of roll is preferable by martial arts and parkour experts as it protects your hands and vertebra.;
, If you are falling and you see dangerous items like broken glass or sharp objects, try and propel yourself away as you fall by pushing yourself or rolling.If you can not avoid these dangerous objects, protect your face by covering it with your arms.
 You can visit a gym or a martial arts studio to practice falling on soft mats and padded floors. Just like anything in life, falling without hurting yourself will take practice! Minimize damage to yourself by practicing in a safe environment first.
 If you are falling straight down, called a vertical fall, it is best if you look below and calculate your landing. You can look for a safer place to fall, or warn people if they are below you.There are also a number of techniques parachutists use in vertical falls to aid in safer landings.Land on the ball of your feet and twist your body away from the direction of momentum. Try and press your knees together.
Once you hit the ground, bend and twist so that your calf and your thigh muscles will hit the ground before your head and shoulders.
Ensure that your head remains as tucked into your chest as tightly as possible. You want to avoid head and neck injuries at all cost.
 Humans have an innate fear of falling. However, it is best if you try and relax your limbs, especially your legs, when you fall. Tensing your muscles can cause more of an impact, increase resistance and torsion and therefore, cause more injuries.If you are falling backward, attempt to bend your knees and curve your back. This will help you relax before impact, minimizing jarring movements. If you are falling to the side, curve upward to avoid slamming your head into the ground. Keep your body relaxed and breathe to avoid tensing muscles before impact.
 Never try to break your fall! To protect your head from impact, keep your chin up and protect yourself with your arms.A common source of injury during falls is a laceration on the tongue from biting into it. Throughout the fall, try to keep your tongue planted on the floor of your mouth, tucked up behind your lower teeth, so that the impact does not cause your jaws to close on it and injure it.
 To avoid smashing your face or groin into the ground, try a triangle pose. This is a front fall designed by police officers. You want to maximise the surface area when you hit the ground by falling with your hands above your head in a triangle shape. Place your feet equi-distant apart and try and land on your toes (kind of like a push up position). 