 While anyone can use disclosing tablets to improve their brushing habits, their use is particularly necessary for people with certain dental conditions.Braces and other orthodontic appliances can make brushing and plaque removal very difficult around the wires. Disclosing tablets will help identify these areas for spot cleaning.
If you have any form of gum disease like periodontitis or gingivitis, disclosing tablets are excellent idea for determining the level of plaque around your gum line. Even a small amount of plaque left over can aggravate your condition.
If you are at a high risk of tooth decay, then your dentist may also instruct you to use them to ensure that you are properly brushing in the colored areas.
Implants, bridges and dentures can make plaque removal more difficult and cause serious oral health problems if not cleaned properly. Use disclosing tablets to find your problem areas.
Children are excellent candidates for disclosing tablets both because it will help them develop better brushing habits and may make brushing more fun for them. The dye is made of vegetable concentrates so it’s perfectly safe for kids of all ages.;
, Although many people use disclosing tablets at their dentist’s recommendation, they do not require a prescription. The tablets are available at any major retailer or drug store. The packages vary in size and the smaller packages typically cost as little as $5., While the tablets are very effective, there are other disclosing products that will serve a similar purpose.


Disclosing swabs can be used to wipe the surface of your teeth.
Disclosing solution can be swished around like mouth wash.
Disclosing floss can be used like regular string floss. It is the best way to disclose plaque between teeth.
 The dye from disclosing tablets will not fade very quickly and can last for several hours, even after brushing and rinsing repeatedly. Because of this, you’ll want to wait until you’re able to stay home for the remainder of the day before using them. Otherwise, you’ll look quite strange in public with brightly colored dye on your teeth.Beware of staining clothing or bath linen. The dye can leave lasting stains so move any towels out of the way before you start. You may want to take off your shirt as well and clean the sink immediately after you rinse to prevent stains.
 Brush and floss as you normally would before using the tablets.
 Chew up the tablet so that it’s completely dissolved. You can use your finger to spread it around on your teeth.


If you don’t color all of your teeth with the first tablet, chew another one with the teeth that aren’t colored.
 Take a moment to examine your teeth and identify the areas that you aren’t adequately cleaning with your normal regimen.You may want to purchase a dental mirror so you can get a good view of the rear side of your teeth. They can be purchased at any major retailer or drug store and typically cost less than $5.
 Take particular care to brush the problem areas identified by the dye. You should be able to remove the largest chunks of plaque and dye by concentrating your brushing in those areas.


You may want to invest in a waterpik that can provide water pressure and precision cleaning for your problem areas. It can also provide a good gum massage, which is helpful against inflammation and preventing bleeding.
 Rinse off your toothbrush and use it to brush a third time. This will remove most of the remaining dye. Then rinse your mouth out with water and/or mouthwash. Try to swish around a lot.As mentioned above, you won’t be able to completely remove the stains right away. After brushing and rinsing a few times, the dye will disappear on its own after a few hours.

