 Wash your hands and then use a clean bandage or cloth to press firmly on the wound. Washing your hands will prevent you from transferring bacteria from your hands to the wound. The pressure will help slow the bleeding and promote clotting.If the wound is on an arm, hand, leg, or foot, you can also slow the bleeding by raising it above your heart. For an arm or hand, you can hold it in the air. For a leg or foot, you will need to lie in bed and prop your leg up on a pile of pillows.;
, Rinse it with clean water. This will help to remove dirt and other particles that might cause an infection. Wash the skin around the wound with soap and a clean washcloth. Gently pat the wound and surrounding tissues dry.If running water is not able to remove all of the debris from the wound, you may need to remove it with tweezers. Wash and then sterilize the tweezers with rubbing alcohol before touching them to the wound. Then gently remove any foreign particles embedded in the wound. If you cannot remove them all, go to the emergency room and have a doctor help you.
If the wound has an object embedded in it, do not remove it. Instead, go to the doctor so that it can be removed safely without causing additional damage.
Do not wipe the wound with a cotton ball that might leave pieces of material stuck in the wound. This increases the risk of infection and may complicate healing.
 After you have stopped the bleeding and cleaned the wound, apply an antibiotic cream to protect it from infection. You can purchase antibiotic creams and ointments such as Neosporin or Polysporin over-the-counter at your local pharmacy.Use these ointments for one to two days.


Always read and follow the instructions on the packaging. If you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child, consult your doctor before using any medications.
Do not apply an antiseptic disinfectant like alcohol or hydrogen peroxide. This can harm the tissues and make it take longer to heal.
 This will prevent bacteria and dirt from entering the wound. Depending upon where the wound is located, a simple adhesive bandage may be sufficient. If the wound is larger or located near a joint, you may need to wrap it so that the covering will stay in place.Do not wrap so tightly that you cut off the circulation.
Change the bandage daily to prevent infection. If it becomes wet or dirty, change it promptly.
Use waterproof bandages or wrap plastic wrap over your bandages when you shower to keep them dry.
 If it shows signs of infection, go to the emergency room. Signs to watch for include:Increasing pain over time
Warmth
Swelling
Redness
Pus leaking from the wound
Fever

