 Usually electric conductance is the result of the motion of electrons in a material such as in metal wires.


Solid state materials are different in their structure than materials that exist in other phases of matter such as liquids and gases.
In both liquids and gases, the structure of the material is determined based on the orbitals of the molecule that are in the valence electronic shell of the individual molecule.
In the gas and liquid phases the most important electrons in a given molecule are those that occupy the valence electronic shell.
In both of these phases, this is determined based on the electronic structure of the individual molecule.;
, The entropy of a gas or a liquid is much higher than the entropy of the solid state. As is well known, the entropy increases with increasing the disorder of the material. Solid material can have two basic structures. These are: crystalline and amorphous structures of the atoms.


In the amorphous state of a solid material, the organization of the atoms is much less than that of the crystalline state. Therefore, also the entropy of an amorphous material is higher than that of a crystalline state for the difference in order between them.
 In gases and liquids, the valence electrons that are located in few numbers of orbitals (called HOMO and LUMO) are the dominant of the chemical properties of the compound. In this case, individual molecules govern the chemical behavior of the compound. In the solid state, the picture is completely different by virtue of the difference in the state of the material involved. The valence orbitals that are typical for a gas or a liquid forms which are organized individually are changed to whole bands which each contain all orbitals of the same energy level. Thus the HOMO orbital of a compound in the gas or liquid phase is changed into a whole band that is called the valence band. Analogously, the LUMO orbital of a compound in the gas or liquid forms is changed in solids into a band that is called the conductance band.


The valence bands of a solid material will analogously to the behavior of the HOMO and LUMO of compounds in the gas or liquid forms govern the chemical and physical properties of the compound. Mostly the level of fullness of the valence band with electrons and the value of the energy gap between the valence and the conductance bands will determine the type of conduction in this solid material.
A partly filled valence band with an energy gap between the valence and the conductance bands that is not very high will dictate this material to be a normal conductor such as occurs in metals that we encounter every day. In this case, the electronic conduction will initially increase with increasing temperature but later the conductance will be diminished with increasing the temperature further due to the increased collision between the electrons.
 In the case that the valence band is completely full with electrons, and the energy gap between the valence and conductance bands is low, the type of electronic conductance in this case will be of a semiconductor type. The difference between the conduction in a normal conductor and a semiconductor is that in a semi conductor, the conductance increases proportionally with increasing the temperature while in a normal conductor the extent of conduction will initially increase with temperature but increasing the temperature further leads to a decrease in the electronic conduction.


Semiconductors can be produced from incompletely filled valence bands of many materials by the process of doping. This process involves the addition of certain foreign atoms to a given material so that it converts into a complete semiconductor.
Incompletely filled valence bands can be converted to a full band with electrons by adding atoms to the solid material that have one or two additional electrons in their valence shell than the original material.
Also, material that has extra electrons in its conductance band can be converted into a semiconductor by doping with atoms that have one or two less electrons in their valence electronic shell.
 This is often found and is the type of material is characterized by an energy gap between the valence and the conduction bands that is too high to allow for electronic promotions from the valence band to the conduction band. This type of material finds use in the case that insulation from electricity is desired such as electric buttons which are mostly made of plastic material due to its good insulating power.

