 There are slight differences in body type and size between males and females. First consider your bird's general body type to get a gauge of whether your bird is more likely male or female. From there, you can look at more subtle physical characteristics.Males are usually 12-14 inches (30-35.5 cm) in height. Hens are generally somewhat shorter than this.The body of a male African Grey is somewhat round, while females tend to be more slender.
Males heads tend to be small and flat, and their necks are shorter. Females tend to have longer necks, with larger, rounder heads.;
, Males typically have a darker and more uniform color than hens. Females, on the other hand, have a gradual light-to-dark coloration from their neck to their belly.This technique should only be considered in birds older than 18 months. A chick's feathers are still growing, so the color will change with age.
 Traditionally, male Greys have darker tail feather colors than hens. You need to check what are called the "ventral feathers." These are a set of about 10 feathers found directly under the bird's tail. You can pick up your African Grey and gently flip him or her over to examine the feathers.Females will have ventral feathers that are edged in a shade of gray. Males will have ventral feathers that are solid red. There may be a small white hairline on male feathers.
Keep in mind, this test is not accurate for young parrots. You cannot rely on tail feathers to determine gender unless your grey is 18 months of age or older.
 Observe your parrot when it is flapping its wings. You should be able to see three bands of gray on the underside of the wings. The colors of these bands are slightly different in males and females.In females, the bands are usually gray, white, and dark gray. In males, the bands are usually gray, gray, and dark gray.
As this difference is very slight, it can be hard to spot. You should look into other physical characteristics of an African Grey, in addition to wing color, in order to determine gender.

