 Having low self-esteem may mean that you don’t prioritize your needs or prioritize the wants and needs of others far above your own. Try to remember that your needs are just as important as the needs of others. If you have a need, speak up. Be assertive in making your needs known by being direct and honest.Assertively speak your mind. Share your thoughts, feelings, opinions, wants, and needs when you want to express them.
Asking for something you need does not mean you’re being rude, pushy, or ‘needy.’ Others will not know what you need from them until you ask.
If you don’t understand something in class, raise your hand and say, “Can you repeat that, please?” or, “Can we go over that one more time?” If that seems like too big of a step, then see your professor after class or during office hours.;
, You may be fearful to reach out to others out of embarrassment. You may fear judgment or reactions from other people or stigma.For you to raise your self-esteem, learn to see past these fears. Tell yourself to do it anyway.


If you notice embarrassment or fears of judgment or stigma, tell yourself, “It’s okay to reach out to others and it’s not my responsibility how they react to me. I just have to do my best.”
If you struggle with low self-esteem, it is likely that you are harder on yourself than others will be. If you find yourself thinking judgmental thoughts, gently remind yourself that you do not know what others are thinking and that their reactions may, in fact, be positive.
 You may let people treat you badly or walk all over you. Maybe you feel like you need to “earn” friendships or romantic relationships. You may even feel unlovable.Your views of yourself can greatly impact your relationships. If people treat you badly, disengage from these relationships.They are not contributing to improving your self-esteem.


Seek relationships with people who treat you kindly and with respect. Avoid relationships that are not positive or that bring you down.If someone treats you with disrespect, stand up for yourself by saying, “I find that comment off-putting and don’t like being talked to that way. Please don’t say things like that to me again.”
If you feel uncomfortable about the way that some people treat you, then it might be because there are not good boundaries between you.Set healthy boundaries in your relationships or distance yourself from people who do not respect your boundaries.
 There will always be someone with different skills than you. Recognize that each being has worth and value, and this does not exclude you!There may be other people who are smarter, richer, or more attractive than you, but there is no one else entirely like you. If you find that you’re comparing yourself with other people, think of at least one thing in that moment that you like about yourself or that makes you feel unique.


Comparing yourself to others can be destructive and decrease your quality of life.Compliment other people for their talents and be happy for them while being happy about being yourself.
 Don’t let your negative thoughts or low self-esteem get in the way of you doing something you want to do. Set a goal, like being assertive in one situation each week or going to a group activity each month. Keep the activities social so that you can connect with others. It can feel good to accomplish your goals and to move forward in experiencing healthy self-esteem.Reward yourself when you meet your goals. It can be simple, like having a piece of chocolate or watching a favorite tv show.
Each time you accomplish a goal, you will feel more empowered to reach the next goal.
 Clue your close family and friends into your problems and ask for their support and advice. They may have similar problems as you and it can be helpful to talk about them together. You may even choose to support and challenge one another.If you want to tell someone about your low self-esteem, say something like, “It’s hard to talk about things like this, but I want to open up to you. Sometimes I have trouble with appreciating who I am and valuing myself. Do you ever feel this way? What do you do to feel better?”

, Go out and make an effort to make new friends.Especially if you don’t have much social support, isolation can make you feel worse.Go out and make friends in your community. Perhaps you want to start volunteering, exercising, or begin a new hobby. These are great ways to do something enjoyable while meeting and getting to know other people.


You can also practice your social skills and begin feeling more comfortable in group settings, which can raise your self-esteem.
 You may need an extra “boost” from another friend to motivate you to confront these fears. Perhaps you want to go to an exercise class at your gym but fear feeling stupid or being out of shape compared to others in the class. Ask a friend to go with you, or contact the teacher ahead of time so that you can prepare.


Taking small steps can help you achieve things that you were previously fearful of or avoiding. If you want to try something new, ask someone to go with you for the first time.
 If you seek help from others, don’t hesitate to be helpful. Offer help to a friend in need. One way to help others is to volunteer. You can work with kids, older adults, or help out at an animal shelter. See what sparks your interest and go do it! It can feel good to give back and help others who are in need.


Volunteering helps others, but has many benefits for you, too. It can help you build social skills, make friends, reduce stress, increase self-confidence, and give you a sense of purpose.For more information, check out How to Volunteer.
 If you always ask for reassurance from people, other may start to get annoyed with you. You may have fears about your friends not really liking you, which can make you feel insecure in your relationships. This behavior is tied to low self-esteem and can create a vicious cycle, meaning your friends may get annoyed and not want to hang out with you when you continue to do this. Ask your friends to call you out if you constantly want reassurance.Say, “I know it annoys you when I’m always checking with you and asking for reassurance. Can you let me know when I do this? This is something I’m trying to change so that I can be a better friend.”

, You may have low self-esteem because you struggle in social situations. If you’re timid about your social skills, you can perpetuate a cycle of not socially engaging because of fear or embarrassment, avoiding, then not allowing yourself to grow. A social skills class can help you learn skills to engage with people and gives you an opportunity to practice these skills.You can also meet people in this class and become friends.


A social skills class can help you learn how to open a conversation, engage in friendly interactions, improve your body language, and feel more confident around other people.
Ask your physician or therapist about local social skills classes in your community.
 If you are fearful of people or groups of people, you may want to look into a diagnosis of social anxiety. You may fear meeting people, talking in groups, or fear being criticised or judged.If the thought of interacting with new people or groups of people feels overwhelming, you may want to see a professional psychologist or therapist for a proper diagnosis. That way, you can start to work in overcoming your social anxiety.


You may consider a diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) if your anxiety extends to persistent worry about everyday things and situations.For more information, check out How to Recognize Social Anxiety Disorder and How to Treat Symptoms of Anxiety.
 A therapist can help you work on issues related to self-esteem.You may feel ashamed or embarrassed about yourself or certain aspects of your life. It can be helpful to talk about these things and work through them with a supportive and helpful person, such as a therapist. Low self-esteem can result from many factors, such as being bullied at school, enduring abuse at home, and constantly comparing yourself to others. Work with a therapist to help you overcome your low self-esteem.

