
Where will I mount the cameras?
Where will the central recording device be set up?
Will the cameras be monitored live, or only played back if there's been a problem?
What is the lighting like in your target areas?
Do you need physical protection for the cameras?
How long do you need to save your recordings for?;
, One of the most basic specifications of CCTV systems is the format of the camera and lens. 1/4" and 1/3" cameras are by far the most popular for security work, and they should do the job for you, too. Make sure the lens you get match the format of the camera.
 380 is low-end, 420 is good for security work, 480 and 540 is very high quality. If you're going to see detail, upgrading to a higher resolution is a good choice.


Do make sure that all of your equipment can handle the resolution your cameras put out, though. It's no good having a 540 TVL camera while your monitor only displays 420.



Older CCTV security systems were often black and white to save money, color cameras were more expensive. These days, there's hardly any price difference, and color video is far more effective for identifying suspects and pinpointing problems. The one remaining advantage of black and white cameras is that they work better in low-light situations. But now, color cameras always switch to a black and white mode in low light to improve results.



Most video surveillance cameras are installed in one location permanently. For this case, fixed-focus lens are the most cost-effective. If you want to be able to move your camera, vari-focal lens are adjustable, letting you change your field of view when you reset the camera.
 If you want to be able to control the camera remotely, you'll need a pan/tilt/zoom (PTZ) camera. They can cost 10 times as much as a standard fixed camera, though, so make sure you really need one before spending the money.



There are two main reasons to get housings for your cameras: protection from vandalism, and protection from the elements. The placement of the camera will determine what you need: if your cameras will be mounted indoors and far out of reach, you may not need any housing at all, while outdoor cameras may need impact-resistant coverings and heaters.
 Digital video recorders (DVRs) have replaced VCRs as the workhorses of the video surveillance industry. While they are still somewhat more expensive than VCRs, their advantages are immense.


One of the most significant is their ability to adjust to what they see: if they're recording a static image, such as the inside of a warehouse at night, they may only record 1 frame every 5 or 10 seconds. But when they detect movement, they can instantly switch to full video to capture any suspicious activity.
Because they record to hard drives, you can instantly watch any specific time – with no lengthy fast-forwarding and searching for the right moment. They also let you jump to 'events' – situations where the picture changed. And don't overlook the fact that they don't have tapes; you won't have to worry about storage or tapes deteriorating.

