 There are a variety of seeds that qualify as "organic." For many gardeners, the main characteristic of an "organic seed" is that it is grown in organic soil and not treated with any pesticides, synthetic fertilizers or herbicides. Identification labels for organic seeds will signify whether a seed is originally propagated from an organic plant. Look for labels on seed packets, in catalogs or online.


Look for untreated seeds. A "U" will identify seeds that are untreated, meaning they have had no chemical or synthetic fertilizers, pesticides or herbicides.
Check for an "O," which identifies organic seeds, or those that have been taken from organically grown plants.
Look for open-pollinated seeds. Open pollination refers to seeds that have been pollinated by natural means, either by birds, bees, wind or through self-pollination (seeds that are naturally capable of reproducing themselves). These seeds will be labeled with an "OP."
Look for an "H." This stands for heritage (or heirloom) seeds, which carry qualities of a particular plant that has been cultivated. Heritage seeds are those that have been carried down from a particular seed that the grower felt created a healthy, desirable plant. Heritage seeds are usually the result of cross-pollination from 2 types of seeds that created the new cultivar.;
, Choosing locally grown organic seed will allow for better adaptation to your soil and garden environment.


Shop at local nurseries or choose from local seed catalogs. Look in the phone book or online for nurseries or landscapers in your area. They will be able to tell you if they sell organic seeds, and they often will recommend seeds based on local growing conditions. Most nurseries, and even garden departments at home improvement stores, carry seed catalogs from top seed distributors.
Ask fellow gardeners what they have enjoyed growing from organic seed, or ask your local farmers and vendors at the farmer's markets. Farmers and gardeners in your area will have the expertise to recommend what type of seeds have grown best for them, as well as information on special heritage or heirloom seeds. Many farmers who grow organically have created their own heirloom seeds, and may even sell or trade them along with their produce.
 The Internet allows for many seed distributors, co-ops and other organic plant producers to provide consumers with purely organic seeds that they have certified. You also will have the benefit of browsing through many varieties of seeds online. Recently seeds are also sold in general marketplaces like eBay or garden marketplaces like MySeedz.


Start a search. Begin by browsing keywords, such as "organic seeds" or "certified organic."
Look for certified organic seeds. A website that is selling seeds should provide certification for organic requirements. Although requirements vary, a reputable seed distributor will have the certification listed. In the United States, for example, there will be a certification number provided. This ensures that you are purchasing seeds that are organic and untreated.
Search for online vendors that have been established. Signs of longtime vendors include their age of operation, whether they are licensed with the Better Business Bureau, and if they are a common name in gardening or organic food production. Many organic food websites will have links to vendors who are reputable. Established vendors in the seed business also usually offer a variety of plants for sale.

