 Classification of a building class is based on two factors: building elements and fire-resistance rating. These factors may not be included in the submission/documentation, in which case additional information will need to be requested.



Building elements: The building materials used in the construction of the following elements are the foundation for classification, be they wood, steel, or masonry.

Structural frame
Exterior bearing walls
Interior bearing walls
Exterior nonbearing walls and partitions
Interior non-bearing walls and partitions
Floor construction, including supporting beams and joists
Roof construction, including supporting beams and joists, are comprised of



Fire-resistance rating: This is the other factor in determining construction class. The building materials used in the construction of the building elements above will have a fire-resistance rating. Fire-resistance rating typically means the duration for which a passive fire protection system can withstand a standard fire resistance test. This can be quantified simply as a measure of time (ex. 0 hours, 1 hour, or 2 hours), or it may entail a host of other criteria involving other evidence of functionality or fitness for purpose.


“Minimum” rule: It is important to remember when selecting the construction class that the building is only as strong as its weakest element. For example, a masonry building may have an unprotected wood roof. The wood roof is the weakest member such that it has no fire-resistance. Thus, the construction class would be Joisted Masonry (see below). Now imagine this same building with a metal deck roof. So long as the supporting members of the building do not contain wood then this building would be Masonry Noncombustible (see below).

;
,,, ISO is traditionally what insurance companies use to denote type, whereas IBC is what architects and builders use. While one company may use ISO classifications, many submission documents may reference IBC classifications and it is important to be able to convert this to an ISO classification. (There have been situations where a frame building has been incorrectly classified as fire resistive because the submittal was read incorrectly!) The following explains what is expected under both:



International Building Code (IBC): This is a model building code developed by the International Code Council (ICC). It has been adopted throughout most of the United States. A large portion of the International Building Code deals with fire prevention. It differs from the related International Fire Code in that the IBC handles fire prevention in regards to construction and design and the fire code handles fire prevention in an ongoing basis. Parts of the code reference other codes including the International Plumbing Code, the International Mechanical Code, the National Electric Code, and various National Fire Protection Association Standards. IBC is more descriptive and also includes A or B types of construction for each class.


A is protected, meaning that all structural members of a building or structure have an additional fire rated coating or cover by means of sheetrock, spray on, or other approved method. The additional fire rated coating or cover extends the fire resistance of the structural members by at least 1 hour.

B is unprotected, meaning that all structural members of a building or structure have no additional fire rated coating or cover. Exposed members are only fire resistant according to their natural ability, characteristics, and fire rating.



Insurance Services Office (ISO): This is a provider of data, underwriting, risk management, and legal/regulatory services to property-casualty insurers and other clients.

