 Most newer cars have an easily replaceable air filter that you can access from inside the cabin. You should consult your vehicle’s manual for specific instructions about how to remove and replace it.In many newer models, including Hondas and Toyotas, you’ll start by lowering the glove compartment by unfixing the tabs that keep it in place.You might have to remove screws that hold a panel in place just below the glove compartment.On GM sedans, the filter is located in a casing beneath the dashboard on the driver's side.After lowering the glove compartment or removing the panel just beneath it, locate the clip that secures the air filter cover. Pinch the clip to release and remove the cover.Pull the old filter straight out of its housing and replace it with a new one.You should change your car's cabin air filter once a year.Consider changing it more frequently if you live in a dense urban area or in an environment with lots of dust., The air intakes are on the exterior of the car around the windshield cowling.Brush away dead leaves or any other accumulated debris using a broom or handheld dust brush. Spray inside the vents with a sanitizing enzymatic cleaner.Enzymatic disinfectants will help kill mold or fungi growing in your vent system, while air fresheners will just act as a perfume. Go for a cleaner labeled “mold and mildew fighting,” “disinfectant” or “antibacterial,” as these sprays will contain an enzyme.
 Close your car doors and windows. Make sure the car is off and keys are out of the ignition. Spray liberally inside all of your car’s interior vents with the enzymatic cleaner.Consult your car’s manual to make sure you’ve located all of the A/C vents.
 After you’ve sprayed all of your vents, start your car’s engine. Set both the air conditioner and fan blower to max. After about ten minutes, turn your A/C off, open all the car doors, and let the fan blow for another five minutes., If the smell persists, you might need to have your A/C serviced. For persistent moldy smell, consult your mechanic or dealership about replacing your evaporator core.Other smells, like gas or antifreeze, could indicate system leaks.Depending on if any parts need to be flushed or replaced, the cost could be between $300 and $2000 (US).

