 Loosen the 9 bolts around the edge of the cover that connect it to the block (one is on the very end). Two of those 10mm bolts are on the cover (one of these is about 3 times longer and was previously covered by the power steering hose removed earlier). The one in the center is about 4 times longer than the ones around the edges. Only when all are loosened should you finish removing all 11. If you do more than just break each of them free first, it can cause much difficulty in removal of all (and potentially damage the screw taps or worse).



WARNING: Do not turn the engine using the cam timing sprockets, or by their retaining bolts, or by pulling on the timing belt. The engine should be easy to turn with a socket wrench on the crankshaft bolt since the spark plugs are out and no cylinder compression resists your effort.
 (Caution: be sure the negative terminal of the battery is disconnected - if you used the bump technique earlier, you may have forgotten to detach it again). With a wrench on the retaining bolt of the harmonic pulley aligned with the top of the engine head - at the same time line up the timing mark on the crankshaft harmonic pulley pointing straight up at the same time as the cams are aligned (or use the crankshaft key and slot later in the process when the harmonic pulley is off).



Caution: the TDC marks can be 180 degrees off even though the crankshaft mark or crankshaft key is pointing straight up (when it's at the top of the exhaust stroke).
Caution: check that timing is at TDC of the compression stroke - find the marks on the back of the sprockets and align them with the edge of the engine head. Older models have a distributor - remove the distributor cap to see if it is pointing at terminal number one when the mark on crankshaft pulley shows it is at TDC. If it points to the opposite side of the distributor, turn the crankshaft slowly 360 degrees to bring it to TDC (at the top of the compression stroke of cylinder 1).
Newer engines are 'distributorless', still the correct TDC can be found while the harmonic pulley timing mark is approaching TDC. This is done using the compression stroke air pressure measured in the "number one spark plug hole" by a "compression gauge" to know when the piston is on the compression stroke and then turning slowly and carefully to exactly the TDC as shown by the crankshaft and the cam sprockets timing marks. Compression pressure means that the piston in cylinder one was on the compression stroke not the exhaust stroke (which also comes to TDC, in all 4 stroke engines).
 Place the stop-block before releasing the tensioner pulley, or else when the timing belt is removed the cams will turn in opposite directions about two notches off TDC -- pushed by the valve springs pressure on the cam lobes.
, Do not depend on the jack to support your vehicle. You will only be removing the wheel adjacent/next to the pulleys.
, Watch your head.
 The best place to support is the massive air conditioner bracket on older models. The engine support is necessary to remove the motor mount between the halves of the timing-cover which prevents access to the accessory belts, timing belt and water pump. This removal will happen in a later step, block it up now.
 The two toward the firewall of the auto are difficult to reach and see. Use a short, small ratchet drive extension.
 You can wiggle the pulley while gently prying and pull it off the crankshaft. If it will not remove, you may need to use a steering wheel puller or gear puller.
 This is necessary to remove the lower timing cover.
 One is difficult to see in the middle of the cover, just below the motor mount.
 You cannot see it until the cover is off.

