 Look for brands that are American Dental Association (ADA) approved, because they contain fluoride: a mineral essential for dental health.Whitening toothpastes contain special abrasives such as baking soda and peroxide to remove surface stains from teeth.
However, these products will only remove surface stains. They will not change the color of your enamel entirely.
Whitening toothpastes won't cause any problems for people with braces. The abrasives in the toothpaste won't cause any breakdown of cement or wear on your wires.;
, Start by putting a pea-sized amount of whitening toothpaste on your brush. You don't need a huge amount of toothpaste to clean your teeth! Dentists recommend a round-ended toothbrush with soft bristles.
Electric or sonic toothbrushes are preferable since they do a more thorough job; however, you may still need an interdental toothbrush to clean around your brackets.
Place your toothbrush at a 45 degree angle to the gums.
Gently brush in side to side strokes.
Be sure to brush the front, back, biting surfaces of all of your teeth.
Brushing your teeth should take at least two to three minutes.
If you have any stubborn areas around your brackets and wires, you can use a cone-shaped (interdental) toothbrush. Most orthodontists and dentists will be able to supply you with these. These brushes are small and are designed to fit under the wires of braces.
If your braces are shiny and all parts of the brackets are visible, you have done a good job.
Brush your teeth this way after each meal.
 This can be difficult when you have braces.Thread the floss under the wires of your braces. Then floss as you normally would, making sure you get deep into the spaces between your teeth.
It may take some time for you to get used to flossing with braces, but it's important that you continue to take this step.
Keeping your teeth flossed is essential for having white teeth. Food and other debris caught between your teeth can cause decay and discoloration. In addition, you can develop gingivitis or other gum disease.
If you have any difficulty getting the floss underneath your wires, you can use a floss threader. These are very inexpensive and are available at most pharmacies.
 When you eat food, your mouth temporarily becomes acidic. This softens the enamel on your teeth, so if you brush immediately after eating you can damage the enamel. Wait at least 30 minutes after eating to brush your teeth and, in the meantime, rinse with water to prevent stains. Whitening toothpastes can remove stains, but they won't prevent them.Coffee, tea, wine, and even blueberries can stain your teeth.
Smoking can also yellow your teeth.
Rather than avoiding healthy foods that might stain, you should rinse your mouth after eating.
Floss regularly to remove particles of foods from between your teeth and under your braces.

