 Group classes at a pet store, doggy day care, or community center that take place over a four to eight week period usually range from $40 to $125. The price of private classes with a trainer usually ranges from $30 to $100 per hour, or $240 to $600 for six sessions.The most expensive option is sending your dog to a dog obedience boarding school. The dog lives at a boarding kennel or at the trainer’s home for two to four weeks of training. The cost of boarding school ranges from $950 to $2,500 or more.
Puppy classes typically cost less than adult classes.
Additionally, the trainer might require you to buy training aids, such as dog treats, clickers, noisemakers, and leashes. Combined, training aids usually cost $50 or less.
 Contact your veterinarian and ask for a referral. Let your veterinarian know that you are looking for affordable programs. You can also ask your vet what kind of training your dog’s breed needs.


You can say, “Hi Jan. I am on a budget right now, and I am looking into affordable training programs for my dog. Do you recommend any programs or centers that provide training resources? Also, what kind of training do you recommend for my dog’s breed?”
You can also ask friends and family members who are dog owners for recommendations on good dog training programs.
 Local animal shelters offer affordable training programs, particularly if you adopted your dog from the shelter. If you adopted your dog from the shelter, they will either offer discounted rates or training programs for free., Your local humane society website probably offers a search feature for local trainers. Additionally, the American Kennel Club provides a state-by-state search for clubs that offer dog training classes, as well as resources.Local pet supply stores also offer affordable training classes.
Drop-in classes are cheap classes that allow you to ask skilled instructors questions pertaining to training. These classes will provide guided instruction on developing your dog’s skills., One of the cheapest options is to train your dog yourself. However, it will take time and effort. You can buy dog-training books for $30 and under online or at your local bookstore. These books will teach you how to train your dog.You can also look up dog-training videos on YouTube to supplement the training provided by the books.

