 Because the Shihpoo is a cross between a poodle and a Shih Tzu, know they may have problems of both breeds. The problems associated with the Shih Tzu include patellar luxation, juvenile renal dysplasia, dry eye, hip dysplasia, progressive retinal atrophy, umbilical hernia, allergies, and portosystemic shunts.The genetic diseases linked to poodles include dilated cardiomyopathy, sebaceous adenitis, retinal atrophy, anal sac disease, underactive thyroid glands, Cushing's disease, Addison's disease, and luxating patellas.
 Your puppy will need to be vaccinated against various canine infectious diseases. Exactly which diseases depends on which infections are prevalent in your area, and so your veterinary surgeon is best placed to advise on the best protocol for each individual. The breeder should have already taken your puppy to the vet and started his vaccinations. Find out when he started so you can give this information to the vet so they can schedule follow-up vaccinations.


The diseases against which vaccination may be given include distemper, parvovirus, canine adenovirus, leptospirosis, infectious canine hepatitis, parainfluenza virus, and Lyme disease.
A vaccination against rabies is obligatory in many states and you will be breaking the law not to comply. The first dose is given after 12 weeks of age.
 Your Shihpoo will need deworming. These medications come in a wide variety of forms, including tablets, oral liquids or granules, and spot products. Talk to your vet about which medication is right for you.Flea and tick prevention is also pivotal. Talk to your vet about which medicine is appropriate for your dog.
You should check your dog every day for ticks and remove them with a tick hook.
 Desexing your puppy should be discussed with your veterinarian. It is usual to operate on females from four to six months of age, and males around six to 10 months of age.This age varies depending on the individual vet clinic.
Neutering and spaying prevents unscheduled breeding. Spaying protects the female dog against mammary cancer, if surgery if performed before the second heat.

