 The biggest difference between breaking into a vehicle with manual locks is that you have to pull up on the locking pin once you get in if you want to do it manually. Follow the same directions, wedging and poking through the space you create, but then you'll have to carefully pull up to unlock the car.


Pushing a button is one thing, but lassoing the pin is much more difficult. You'll have to slip the loop over the head of the lock nub like a noose an pull up to unlock the car. It may take a few tries to get it.
 A slim jim, otherwise called a lockout tool, is a car tool commonly issued to police officers to help open doors with manual locks. It's used by wedding into the door mechanism itself, between the window and the weather stripping, hooking the locking pin, and pulling it from the inside. If you've got access to a slim jim, it can be a quick fix.


Create your own by straightening out a coat hanger, leaving only the curved (hook) end in its original shape. You may need to use needle nose pliers to unwind the coat hanger to straighten it out, and double it over to reinforce it.
Note that this method is not recommended for cars with automatic windows and locks. Those cars have a lot of wiring in their doors, which might get damaged in this breaking in process.
 There is usually less wiring on the passenger side than on the driver's side door, making it somewhat easier to break in.
 Identify the black rubber weather stripping along the lower edge of your car window. The locking mechanism is generally lined up with the lock itself, usually toward the back of the door itself.


With your fingers, peel back this rubber strip back from the window slightly to expose the gap between the window and the outer part of the car door. Gently insert your straightened coat hanger, curved end first, into the gap between the window and the weather stripping., You should be able to lower the coat hanger into this gap a few inches without resistance, then start feeling for the pin.


If you can look at the vehicle's shop manual, you'll be able to have a great sense of where the locking pin will be and how to access it. If you blindly dig around in the door, you do risk messing up the wiring and causing damage. Try to find out where the locking pin is before you insert the slim jim.
 Move the coat hanger around in the gap until you feel a small pin. This pin can be pulled to disengage the door lock. It will usually be located about 2 inches (5 cm) below the bottom of the window, near the interior door handle.
 When you find the pin, hook it and gently pull. If successful, you will feel the pin move and hear the door unlock. After successfully unlocking the door, gently pull the coat hanger out and open the door to get your keys back.

