 Be confident, keep your head up, and look her into her eyes. If you are confident you can make the first move.;
, Typically, people love to talk about themselves. Ask her questions and get to know her. If she doesn't know you or doesn't seem interested in sharing, back off. You don't want to come off as creepy.
 "May I sit?" If she doesn't reply quickly, it means that she wants you to stick around longer because she likes you. If she likes you she'll want to talk to you more than any other person...unless she's playing hard to get. Also, if she smiles while she's talking, or says not yes not no answers, that means she is nervous of how you will judge her.
 If she likes you, especially if you don't talk with her too much, she will attempt to talk to you and start very small conversations. If she has a question, take note if she goes out of her way to ask you instead of anyone else.
 Call out her name and say, "Hi." She will probably just smile because she is nervous.
 When she talks to you, does she say your name a lot? If so, it means that she wants you to notice that she likes you.
 Blurt it at her and keep doing so until she notices. Chances are, if she has even a trace amount of feelings for you, she'll smile and try to stretch the conversation. If she just gives you a dirty look and turns away, it's okay, just go to the next step.
 Make sure that you do not make her think you dislike her at all! Be polite and gentleman-like.
 Don't worry if her friends don't act different around you, she may not have told them.
 Or if you sit across from her, she will be angled in towards you. This means she likes you and wants to get closer to you.
,,, Get it out of the way! If she likes you, it will save a lot of running around after her.
 "I'm always thinking of her," and if she asks you, "Who do you like?" tell her that it's her, or you can say that her name starts with a (the letter her name starts with) and get her to think a little before you tell her. This is a really good flirting method, but only do this to a point, because most girls like guys to come straight out with it.
 If she logs off, then that is a big hint that she likes you.
 If she is playing with her bangs, tugging on her hair, playing with her hair, or adjusting her clothes when she is talking to you, she probably likes you. Girls seem to get nervous around the guy they like. If she can't look you in the eye, it may be a sign of something good. She could really like you and want to look good for you, or she's very nervous around you.
 This is a definite sign.
 When you're talking to her (beforehand) have your friend walk up and say, "Hi." If she says, "Hi," and turns back to you, she either wants your attention or wants him to leave so she can continue.
 If she has a hard time thinking of a comeback she probably likes you but doesn't want to go any further so that she doesn't offend you.
 Girls can get jealous.
 If she likes you, she'll walk faster to catch up with you. On the other hand, if she's walking in front of you, and she's walking really slowly, it's because she wants you to speed up and walk next to her. If she slows down behind you, don't take this as a sign she doesn't like you! She's probably just nervous.
, If she tries to act funny around you, then there might definitely be something there.
 See if she follows in your direction. If she does, don't do this very many times. Otherwise, she may notice what you are doing.
 If she does the same back, she probably likes you.
 It means that she is watching the chat list and waiting for you to come online. However, if she doesn't do this every time, don't worry; she is probably worried about bugging you or appearing pushy.
 She may become a 'better' person, or start copying some things that you do as an attempt to impress you. This is also a good way of finding out roughly how long she has liked you.
 Take up those problems, and try to help her solve them. Similarly, if you go to her for your problems, and she shows an obsessive 'mother-hen' concern, and genuinely tries to fix every problem, she either likes you or you are very good friends.
 This may or may not mean that she likes you.


If you sit near her but not very near to her in a free session, talk a tiny bit louder than usual. She may appear to be reading a book, but if she is not turning the pages and if her head is turned slightly towards you, she may be trying to listen to what you are saying. Say something funny, and if she smiles slightly or chuckles, it is almost 100 percent sure that she is listening to you, and therefore likes you, or at least is interested in you. Similarly, if she has a textbook open and is 'writing' but she doesn't seem to be aware of what she is writing, she may be listening to you (this is quite difficult to spot).
, She may be trying to sneak peeks at you.
 Or if one of your friends are also friends with her, and you walk by to talk to him/her she might look at you and smile or she will look at him/her with an angry look.
 Does she touch or play with your hair? If you're sitting next to her, is her knee touching yours? Does she smile at you a lot? Does she laugh all the time? Do you catch her looking at you? These are some pretty obvious flirts.
 If a girl has liked you for a long time, she may not do these things anymore. She will probably still look at you from time, but they will be more discreet. They will become better at concealing their feelings, and liking you will be an accepted part of their lives. So if she does not openly declare her love for you, that does NOT mean that she is not interested. Dig deeper!

, Also, if you know her favorite animal, then say something about it and then smile at her.
 because you will freak her out.
 If she says "I really want to see that movie!" say "Hey, Me too maybe we can go see it!" Sometimes this will work only do it if you've known her for a while and she is comfortable with you.
 That is a clue. Also, if she always talks about you with her friends she's probably crushing on you. If you really want to know, you should just ask her or her friends! If you're afraid, ask one of your friends to ask her friends.
 If they say that she likes you, then ask her out!

