 A good self-care regimen can boost your mood and help you relax. Take at least one day a week to do something just to make your body feel relaxed and nourished.Self-care can include anything that helps you nurture your mind, body, or spirit, such as eating healthy meals, exercising, getting enough sleep, or spending time in nature.
You might also do pampering activities like getting a massage, doing a facial, polishing your nails, or getting a new haircut.
 Be good to yourself and treat yourself with a lot of respect and kindness. It's easy to be negative towards yourself when you have no one around you. However, it's very important that you don't develop overly negative feelings towards yourself or low self-esteem.Make a list of what makes you a great friend, such as always being there when people need you. Reread this list often when you start to feel unworthy. Try to naturally be a great friend to yourself and you just might attract others.
 It might be hard at first, but there's always good around you. It's easy to see all the bad things in the world, and to always be negative. Be thankful for something in the moment like the sunshine or your health.


Start a gratitude journal in which you jot down three things that went well at the end of each day. After doing this for a while, you may start to notice that things aren’t as bad as you thought they were., Keeping a journal is a fantastic way to get in touch with your thoughts and to see how they affect your feelings and behavior. Keeping a daily journal also gives you some much-needed time to slow down and to reflect on your life and values. A journal is also a great place for you to write your goals for the future and to figure out a way to achieve them.Try rereading your journal every six months to get a sense of how you've grown and changed.
 Staying physically active can help boost your mood and make you feel better about yourself. Being healthy will not only improve your mood and outlook, but it will make you more fit. Go outside, take a walk or just enjoy the sun and fresh air for a few minutes every day.You might also sign up for a class at your local gym or recreational center. Getting fit this way may put you in a position to make new friends.

