 Like dogs, cats communicate with the positioning and movement of their tails.Knowing the signals of tail position in conjunction with vocalizations can help you understand the needs and wants of your cat. Some common tail positions include:


Tail straight up with a curl at the end: This indicates happiness.
Tail twitching: Your cat is excited or anxious.
Fur on tail sticking up or bushy: Your cat is excited or feels threatened.
Tail vibrating: The cat is very excited and happy to see you.
Tail fur sticks straight up while the tail curls in the shape of an N: This is a sign of extreme aggression and may be present during fighting or self-defense.
Tail fur sticks straight up but the tail is held low: Your cat feels aggressive or frightened.
Tail held low and tucked under the rear: Your cat feels frightened.;
, Gazing into your cat’s eyes can help you bond with him/her and read his feelings. Be aware, however, that direct staring without blinking may be interpreted as a position of aggression that makes your cat uncomfortable.


If your cat’s pupils are dilated, he/she is feeling either very playful or excited or quite fearful or aggressive; use other behavior cues to determine which it is.A cat staring into your eyes indicates that he/she trusts you and is comfortable around you.
A cat slowly blinking his/her eyes may be showing affection, indicating the cat is comfortable with whoever might be around him/her.
 Since cats are more "fluent" than humans in body language, certain gestures will accompany vocalizations to reinforce their message.


A cat lifting her nose and tilting his/her head back slightly is saying "I acknowledge you." Cats sitting in windows may greet you in this manner as you walk by.
A cat may lay his/her ears back if he/she feels fear, anxiety, or playfulness. This may also be seen when cautiously sniffing something he/she wants to know more about.
A cat who flicks his/her tongue out slightly and licks his/her lower lip is showing that he/she is worried or apprehensive.
 Some of a cat’s communication with you is based on how he/she behaves when he/she is around you. Certain behaviors have consistent meaning among most cats.A cat rubbing against you is marking you as his/her property.
A wet nose "kiss" is an affectionate feline gesture in which the cat taps his/her wet nose to you. This means that he/she likes and feels comfortable around you.
A cat rubbing his/her head, flank and tail against a person or animal is showing an act of greeting.
Playful head-butting is a show of friendliness and affection.
Cats will sniff a person’s face to confirm his/her identity based on the familiarity of the smell.
A cat will rhythmically knead with his/her paws, alternating between the right and left feet, as a sign of happiness, contentment, or playfulness. Kneading is an indication that your cat knows and trusts you.
A cat licking you is showing the ultimate sign of trust. Your cat may consider you to be a part of his/her family, like a mother cleaning her kittens.
If your cat tries to eat your hair, he/she may be trying to "groom" you. This means your cat really loves you and trusts you.
Some cats will show they really love you by copying what you do. You can test this by playing “dead” on the floor. The cat may sniff or nudge you, then play dead too.
If your cat bites you with little force, it is a warning for you to leave him/her alone.

