 LREC contracts with a company called PSI to administer real estate exams. To schedule, submit your registration materials and fee ($85 for a salesperson, broker, or instructor exam) to PSI. PSI will then send you a confirmation notice stating that you can schedule your exam. You can then call PSI to make an appointment to take the exam.The exams are offered at test sites throughout the state (Metairie, Baton Rouge, Lafayette, Lake Charles, and Shreveport) on Tuesdays through Saturdays.
Walk-in registration for the day of the test is not available.
If you must reschedule your exam once you’ve made your appointment, you must give PSI notice at least two full business days prior to the scheduled testing date to receive a fee refund.
 The salesperson exam is comprised of 135 questions, 80 for the national portion and 55 for the state portion. The national portion includes topics ranging from eminent domain and property taxes to different types of liens and mineral rights. Meanwhile, the state portion of the exam features questions on specific statutory requirements, conflicts of interest, and the Louisiana civil law system.The PSI website contains an exhaustive outline of each section of the exam.
The outline is a great study tool because it helps ensure you are studying everything that the exam will cover.
 Preparing for the exam is key, since you must obtain a grade of at least 70 percent on the national portion of the exam and at least 73 percent on the state part of the exam to pass.


Plan for several study sessions of 45 to 60 minutes, instead of cramming for hours in the days before your exam. You will learn the material better if you study it over time.
As you progress through the test outline, mark each section as you master the material. When all items have been marked, schedule your exam.
Taking notes while studying or highlighting materials are good ways to mark items to review in the days before the exam.
 One excellent way to prepare for the exam is to talk to people you know. For instance, the broker that is sponsoring you will likely have some experts who can sit down with you and offer some tips about studying for the exam. Be sure to use that as a resource.


Additionally, try setting up study groups with people who are/were in the same classes as you. Studying in a group can help you all retain the information better, as long as you stay focused. Plus, someone else may understand a concept better than you do, just as you may understand something they don't.
 On the day of your scheduled exam, make sure to arrive at least 30 minutes early and have the proper credentials with you. You will need two forms of identification with your signature on them, one of which must contain a photograph. You will also need the original copy of your Examination Authorization Form.If you arrive after the exam has started, you may not be allowed to enter the testing site.
Upon completion of the exam, you will see your score appear immediately on the computer screen. If you do not pass, you will receive a diagnostic report alerting you to topics that you should review for the next time.
 Once you pass the exam, you'll need to have errors and omissions insurance before your broker will sponsor you. Basically, this insurance is focused type of liability insurance that covers you (and the company) when you make a costly error. You can apply for this type of insurance with most major insurance companies, though you're broker may have a preferred company., Now that you've passed, you can officially be sponsored by your broker company. Your sponsoring broker should be notified of your scores on the exam. You'll also need to provide proof of your insurance to your company. After that, your broker should be willing to accept you on.