 Many women douche in order to clean themselves after a period, rinse out vaginal discharge, or to clean out semen after sex. The great thing about the human body though, is that it is built to do these things on its own. The vagina cleans itself without douching, meaning that you don’t have to refer to man-made soaps and rinses in order to keep your vagina in healthy, working condition.;
, The last few years of studies have offered up important research that shows that douching can be more harmful than beneficial to your body. The vagina naturally cleans itself with its high acidity and natural mucous, which douching removes. As a result of douching, you are more likely to suffer from a yeast infection or other bacterial infection. Talk to your doctor before you decide to douche, and do so at their discretion.
 Some women feel like they need to douche in order to get rid of itching or burning they feel near or inside their vagina. These are symptoms of an infection though, and douching simply covers them up. Rather than trying to wash away these symptoms, meet with your doctor and explain what you’re experiencing.
 Although the vagina may have a very mild, constant odor, if you are experiencing a strong odor (outside of your menstrual cycle), it is likely a symptom of a possible infection. Instead of trying to rinse out the odor, talk to your doctor and ask for their advice. They may or may not support the idea of douching, but it is best to go to them first rather than possibly making things worse.
 Douching is not an alternative to a condom or other contraceptive; its primary goal is to ‘clean’ the inside of the vagina. Therefore, don’t douche in attempts to prevent an STD/STI or pregnancy after sex, as it will be ineffective.
 If you are concerned about keeping your vagina clean and odor-free in general, stick to washing the outside of your vagina instead. Use a mild soap and warm water in the shower or bath to remove any sweat or grime that might have built up on the exterior of your vagina, while your body does the work of cleaning the inside on its own., Look through the available douching products at your local drugstore to choose an option that looks best for you. Avoid any solution that contains scents or dyes, as these are much more likely to cause an infection. If you prefer, you can create your own douching solution at home using vinegar and only buy a squeeze bottle at the store for application., If you bought a kit at the store, follow the box directions to prepare the douching solution it came with. Typically you will need to use a quart of water to prepare it. If you are making your own at home, mix one part vinegar with three parts water, in an amount equal to at least two cups.
 Follow the directions on the box to do this, or simply pour the solution into the squeeze bottle. If all the solution doesn’t fit, fill it as high as you are able and then add the rest later.
 Douching isn’t the messiest thing in the world, but it could be under certain circumstances. To prevent spilling any of the solution, get into the shower or bathtub for the entire process. You’ll likely want to shower or bath afterwards anyway.
 Insert the tip of the squeeze bottle or douche pouch into the vagina, and squeeze it to release the fluid. Continue rinsing the inside of the vagina until you have used all the available fluid.
 Use a mild soap and warm water to wash the outside of the vagina as you would normally during a shower or bath. Your goal now is to wash off any of the douching solution left on the exterior of your vagina. The douching solution is relatively harmless on any other part of your body, so rinse it off if it came into contact with anything else but don’t worry about it too much., Follow up with any post-douching cleaning activities you deem necessary. Clean out the douching pouch/squeeze bottle and store it for later use, and clean up anything else you might have made a mess with while concocting your solution.

