 You might want to divide your potential donations according to type, making piles for things like:


Books
Clothing
Electronics
Houseware
Shoes;
, Donating a broken item won't help anyone out, so you should give all items you're considering for donation a brief inspection to make sure each has all of its parts, pieces, and is undamaged.Test out electronics and appliances to see if these are in working order. This way you can be sure your donation makes a difference.
 Goodwill accepts most new, like new, and gently used household items, including furniture and electronics.Some common items that Goodwill does not accept:


Carpet/carpet padding
Chemical products
Cribs
CRT, DLP, or rear-projection TVs
Large appliances (refrigerators, washers/dryers, etc.)
Mattresses/box springs
Weapons, Try to keep items that belong together from being separated, as a single shoe or dish will be far less useful than a complete set. You might consider using a rubber band to prevent shoes or other sets from losing a mate.When loading up your items, dropping off your donation will be much easier if you bag or box up similar items together.
 This can be particularly useful if you are planning on using these donations as a write off for tax purposes. Write down all the items you are planning to donate, and then use the Goodwill Valuation Guide to estimate the worth of your donation.
 Plastic totes or containers are often more durable than plastic bags or cardboard boxes, which can be especially helpful when moving heavy or cumbersome donations. Additionally, by transporting your things to a donation center in a reusable container, you are helping protect the environment by reducing waste., If you are donating something that has delicate parts or could potentially break, you may want to hand this to a Goodwill attendant as soon as you arrive at your donation center. If you are donating several fragile items or handing off your fragile item is not an option, package each carefully and clearly label each box with the word, "Fragile."Not only will a broken item lose much, if not all, of its value, but these can also be a safety hazard for Goodwill employees. Be sure your fragile items are safely packaged.
 Goodwill aims to make a positive difference in the lives of those who are needy or less fortunate. In 2014 alone, Goodwill helped 318,000 people with employment finding services and 26.4 million people with professional development and financial planning services.By making a monetary donation to Goodwill, you can be a part of these positive changes at a local or national level.Donate your money by check or in cash at your local Goodwill.
Make an online donation through the Goodwill website at: http://givenow.goodwill.org/site/PageNavigator/gii/GII_Landing_Page.html

Checks sent by mail should be made out to "Goodwill Industries International, Inc." at the address:
Goodwill Industries
International, Inc.
15810 Indianola Drive
Rockville, MD 20855


, Goodwill is a large charitable organization with facilities throughout America, Canada, and other countries as well.You can do a general Internet search for "Goodwill Donation centers near me," or you can visit the Goodwill homepage and use the store locator feature at the top of the page. You can reach the Goodwill homepage at:


http://www.goodwill.org/

, When using a car to transport your donation(s), you should see signs at your donation center directing you to a drop off location. Follow these and, after you park, a donation attendant should come and help you unload your donations.If you are arriving with a donation on foot, you can bring your donation through the front door and ask for help from an attendant at the front counter.
 Charitable donations are tax deductible in the USA and can save you some money during tax season. When you are dropping off your items for donation, you should ask the attendant helping you for a receipt for your contribution.Keep your donation receipt until it is time for you to file taxes, then file the information in the appropriate section for charitable deductions.
 It's easy for an item to be overlooked when you bring in a major haul for donation, so you should verify that all donated items are included and properly valued on your receipt. By checking the donation receipt against your list of items to donate, you can rest assured that you are not only helping people, but also getting the highest possible tax deduction.

