 Study up on these through travel guides or the internet:


What countries to visit. This is determined by your interests, time, finances, willingness to rough it, etc.
How far to range in the time you have. Unlimited time means you can go anywhere, but most people have limited agendas. For a week, don't expect to get to more than one or two countries or two or three separate destinations (city, monument, beach, etc.)
The most common transport in your destination countries. Some countries have only limited train service to anywhere but major cities or the capital. That means using the bus system instead. Some countries use ferries, which have different schedules (such as Scotland, Greece, or Norway).
The must-see places. Be careful if they are all out of the way, not in a major city. These are always harder to reach and take a whole day or more to get to and away from.;
, Decide exactly your schedule (being flexible is good but aim for a definite plan to be efficient): what you will do every day, which are travel days, where you will aim to sleep every night, which are lay-over/exploration days.
 How far away are each of the destinations? How long will it take to get to each one? Don't think of driving times, but bus, train or ferry times. Are there mountains, a lake to cross, an ocean crossing, a footpath in the mountains? What terrain must you negotiate?

, This is the most important and difficult step from afar. Check in books or online for national rail services first. Rail is the easiest, fastest and most comfortable. also more expensive. But it seldom gets you to out of the way areas. Find all the major routes and lines, and schedules. Check the website of the national rail carrier or Eurail. How often do the trains run? day or overnight? print out the schedules.


Book train tickets as much in advance as possible. For e.g., the German rail (www.bahn.de) provides a few tickets at Euro 29 regardless of the distance but these are only available for a few days from the time the booking is opened (currently two months). This is quite cost effective if you are travelling long distance intercity within Germany.
Consider a Eurail/Interail pass. There are several options available on http://www.eurail.com. But, If you're not traveling everyday,consider buying your tickets in advance, or failing that, at points of sale within the train station. It will probably be much cheaper to buy intercity tickets in advance.
Plan ahead. Most countries require a train reservation even if you are using a Eurail/Interail pass. It's about 7 euros per reservation and you must have one, especially in France.
Check out bus services. This is harder to find but possible. Search the major national or private carriers in your country. There is always at least one. If necessary, find a way to translate web pages or figure out how to read the cities and scheduled times at least.
If necessary, check ferry services, especially in Greece. Be aware that summer and winter schedules vary, and that not all islands are served daily (some only once a week). Note that ports may not be in the same place as the city you want to visit.
 Offer to pay your share. Most Europeans, specially in the south will offer you a free ride but you must be brave enough to ask for a lift.
 You may have to carry your gear, so travel light. You may walk on city streets or down a country road. Have the best map of the area you can find and carry. Ask people the way- at least say the name of the place with a questioning look. Note how to get back to the road where you will catch the next bus.
 Since buses can go anywhere, drivers have more knowledge of the immediate area. Ask them where to get off to walk someplace, and what time to come back to the road. Make sure you find out exactly where to stand on the road. Recognize what the local bus stop looks like, how it's marked.
 Notice where you are, how far it is to the next point, other places that may be possible to explore.
 For each travel leg, decide the method. Remember if you mix many different services, tickets are more expensive. Buying a rail pass is the best way if it serves your needs; some let you mix bus service with it (in Switzerland, for example). Some bus companies offer multi-ticket discounts. Check out Eurail passes for sure; they can be the best deal.


Factor in the connection and walk times for each journey. You must get from your lodging to the station, to the train or bus, find the right one, load luggage, and get off and get to the next lodging, maybe using a city bus or subway system, or even walking.
 For Eurail/Interail train passes, you must buy them in your country of origin. You can also buy major ferry line tickets on the internet to be sent to you or pick up at the counter upon arrival. Some bus systems also allow internet reservations (such as in Scotland); check the web sites and be sure of the cancellation or no-show policy.
 As much as possible. This includes:


exact schedules from the airport, hotel/hostel, train station, tourist office.
Look for posters or flyers of excursions to various spots, special tours, hostel buses, ride shares.
Brochures for various places with tips on how to get there.
 Some tickets can be bought at the airport, at the local transportation desk near the arrival lounge. Or at the first train station you get to in the country, it's possible to buy onward tickets for all the trips you will take there. Inquire at the ticket counter, and check the printed schedules and route maps.


For bus tickets, start at the largest city (or capital city) station and buy tickets for the major legs of your journey. For smaller local service, inquire from the driver or the station (ticket counter or sales point). You may be able to buy directly from the driver; just tell him where you will get off.
 Local tips may be better.

