 Think about the skills and resources you have. These include a work permit (where applicable), transportation, computer, software, tools, equipment, and mental and physical abilities (or limitations).


If you were thinking about delivering pizza you would likely need a dependable car or truck to make deliveries.;
, Your employer will need to know when you are available for work. Start identifying periods of uninterrupted time to work each week.


If your schedule changes erratically, you will need to find ways to either create a stable schedule or find work that offers a lot of flexibility.
If you worked a retail job your boss would need to know when you'd be available for work one to two weeks or more in advance.
 You may find part-time work by asking family and friends about opportunities. Often, the best jobs never make it to the newspaper. Sometimes they will clue you in on jobs you be good at but didn't consider.Being a gofer is the type of job you may never find in newspaper. Fetching supplies and performing errands for a small business might be perfect for your schedule.
 Employers cast a broad net when seeking new hires. Employment agencies are another method of finding a part-time job. Sites such as www.monster.com and www.indeed.com are great places to find jobs online.
 If you do not have a resume, write one now. Revise any resume you currently have. You will need to provide your resume or reference its contents for each job. , You will never get a job you haven't applied for. The application process is often lengthy but worth it. You may need to fill out a series of forms that ask more detail than your resume includes. Be prepared for an interview as well.


Restaurants routinely need more waiters and waitresses. If you're interested in being a waiter or waitress you'll want to apply to many different restaurants in the area.
 If you apply for a job, it is acceptable to follow up on pending applications. This shows your potential employer you are motivated. Identify the person hiring for the position and send them an email., Once you acquire a job, you will have to protect your time. Since this is only part time, you likely have other obligations or preferences. Make sure your employer is aware of the times you are unavailable to work.

