 Look for one which is healthy, alert, and does not display signs of fearing strange humans.


Clear eyes and smooth, clean feathers are a sign of good health. Also check the feet (they should be scaly but dry and smooth), and the vent (should be free of fecal material).
A bird should hold its crest in a relaxed position, about halfway raised. A flattened crest indicates fear or hostility. A fully upright crest indicates surprise or defensiveness.
Purrs, low-pitched squawks, and clicks usually indicate curiosity or friendly intent. Hisses and high-pitched screams indicate aggression or fear.
The bird should show interest in normal activities, such as playing with toys, eating, and interacting with other birds or people.;
, While a cockatoo can spend time riding around on shoulders or sitting on a perch outside its cage, you need to "bird proof" any room where the bird will be loose.


Hazards which should be removed or hidden include: wiring (birds will chew on power cords), bare bulbs, flames, toxic plants, small hard objects (easily swallowed), standing water (deeper than 4cm), hot plates.
Make sure to cover holes, such as those behind appliances. Cockatoos love to explore what they perceive as "tree cavities".
Unless you are positive a room is 100% bird-proof, and is closed to prevent escape, don't allow your bird to be loose unsupervised.
 The cage should include perches, a toy or two, fresh water, and a removable tray for droppings. You'll also want a cloth to cover the cage at night.
 Besides bird food pellets, offer fresh fruits and vegetables.


Carrots, apples, celery, spinach, and pear are good choices.
 Cockatoos are highly intelligent, and easily bored.


Present toys one or two at a time, and replace the toy with a novel one when the bird tires of it. Keep old toys around to cycle back in.
Good toys include teething rings/teething toys, large bells, rope dog toys, balls (too large to swallow), and rattles.
Introduce entertainment. Besides playtime with humans, many birds enjoy listening to music or watching movies over your shoulder.
 Cockatoos are very social, and love companionship.


Talk to your bird as much as you can.
"Socially groom" your bird by gently scratching the back of its head.
Play with your bird by allowing it to climb on you, stroking it, and offering toys from your hand.
Offer food treats, such as small pieces of fruit, directly from your hand.
Introduce your bird to new people.
Allow your bird to accompany you around the house. A trained cockatoo can ride on your head or shoulder while you do chores, talk on the phone, or watch TV.
Teach your bird tricks. Cockatoos enjoy the mental stimulation of learning new tasks, especially when they get a tasty fruit morsel as a reward! As well as being good talkers, they are agile and can be taught to do some amusing gymnastics.
 Birds have an acute sense of time and enjoy predictable interactions. For example, you can start a ritual of playing with the bird every day at a certain time, or of an activity you do together.



Some birds prefer to bathe themselves in a shallow dish (less than 5cm of water).
Mix 7 parts water to 1 part Listerine in your spray bottle if your bird's feathers need extra attention.

