 Participation and interaction go a long way. If you want to get your Etsy shop noticed on a particular blog, get to know the blog. Follow the author, post authentic comments on their site and in their community, and get involved. Mingle on their social media: their Twitter, their Facebook, Google+, etc. This is not a prescription to stalk. This is what the web, and especially the handmade crafting community, is all about! It’s about supporting and getting support. It’s symbiotic. Love the blogs and they will notice.;
, Having a marketing budget, even if small, is important. You need to spend money to make money. There are some effective platforms out there. For example, the popular and low-cost subscription-based platform Fish Indie allows users to get their Etsy products on their favorite blogs with ease, which leaves them time to do what they do best – produce their craft. There are other paid solutions available that won’t necessarily get you on blogs, such as paid Google, Facebook and Twitter text ads, but they will help broaden your exposure outside of Etsy. Getting outside of Etsy means broadening your circle and potentially your client base.
 Everyone loves free. Providing giveaways which the bloggers can pass on to their reader base creates loyalty and appreciation – both for the blog and for your brand. Bloggers, especially those of the artisan community, love their audience and love to keep them happy. Gifts do wonders. Besides all the feel-goodness, it brings your brand to the forefront, creating incredible brand recognition and perpetuating a good brand image. This is really a win-win situation. Plus, giving away a handcrafted good is typically less costly than advertising and the word-of-mouth potential (think of the winner of the giveaway) is great!

, Decide on which niche blogs have the most relevant targeted audiences for your craft and naturally work those blogs into your own posts – be it by referencing one of their DIY projects, discussing their latest post, or the like. This is about sincerity and, hopefully, cross-promotion. Bloggers typically setup Google Alerts -- emails that Google sends to you when Google finds a new result that matches your search inquiry. For example, if you set up a Google Alert for the word “Etsian” Google will notify you by email whenever there is a new result with the word “Etsian” on web pages, newspaper articles, or blogs. Bloggers will be notified that you have referenced them and hopefully share the love by linking back to your entry. At the very least, you should garner some of their attention and curiosity.

