 It's easiest to learn where the front and back of your car is if you have a friend on hand. They can provide you with a visual cue for you to guesstimate how far the back or front of your car is., Park the car in the driveway or somewhere off the road. You want space for a person to walk around your car without worrying about being hit by another car. Turn the car off.
 Ask her to go to the front. Now, have her move until you think she's at the front bumper. Tell her to mark the space with a piece of tape. Ask her to go to the back. Have her move until you think she's at the back bumper. Have her mark it with a piece of tape.
 Go look, and see how close you were when you had her move. If you were off, get back in the car. Have her stand at the front and back exactly at the bumper, so you get an idea of the length of your car.
 Another way to learn how long your car is to use glassed store fronts when you're trying to parallel park. The next time you try to parallel park, look at your car in the store window. Compare what you see in the window to where you think your car actually ends.
 If you're just learning a 3-point turn, pick an area that's free from traffic. Try an empty parking lot or an abandoned road.
 Look in both directions to make sure you have enough time to make a turn without a car running into you.In addition, pick a point in the road where drivers can clearly see you from a distance. That means you shouldn't make a three-point turn near a curve or a hill, as it can block you from other drivers' view., Usually, a two-way road is enough room to make a three-point turn. In addition, you shouldn't have enough room to make u-turn; if you do, you should use a u-turn, as it is quicker and therefore, safer., Switch on your right turn signal. Look in your mirrors to make sure no one is speeding up behind you. Also, tap your brakes to alert anyone behind you. Once it's safe to do so, pull over to the side of the road. Stop about half a foot from the curb.
 Since you will be going across the road, you need to turn on your left turn signal. Also, check again to make sure no one is coming on the road.You'll need at least 20 seconds to complete your turn, so make sure no one is coming too quickly.
 Move your car like you're making a left turn on to a road. However, instead of continuing on like you normally would, stop about half a foot from the side the road. Right now, you should be facing the side of the road. Your car should be perpendicular to how the road is running.
 Put on your right turn signal. Put the car in reverse, and check for traffic. Make sure you have the space and time to continue with the maneuver. Turn the steering wheel all the way to the right.Maneuver the car backwards slowly. Keep going until your about half a foot from the other side of the road. Your car should now be angled in the direction you are wanting to go.
 Look for traffic again. When it's clear, drive your car onto the correct side of the road, now fully turned around.
 That is, sometimes you need to turn a three-point turn into a multi-point turn. If the road is especially narrow, you may need to back up and move forward more than once, as you run out of room to angle your car. Take as many points as you need, as long as the road is clear. If it's not, try to find a better place to turn around.







