 Before you do your hair and makeup, remember that the essential look of Gothic Lolita is that of a porcelain doll, with flawless skin and perfect hair. These are surprisingly easy to come by. One day of the week (weekends are recommended since you can run around with goop on your head and not get funny looks every thirteen seconds) set up a 'spa' day.;
,,, Rinse, and rub on an exfoliating scrub.
, Stay like that for about 10 minutes, five if you have sensitive skin. (Do not remain so long that the steam hurts you.) Lift up the towel to let air in until the steam thins a little. If you have blackheads, take a tissue and gently rub them after you are done.
 Two good homemade kinds are 2 egg yolks with one tablespoon of olive oil (for dry skin) and one egg white whipped fluffy with one tablespoon of lemon juice (for acne prone skin). Let these sit for twenty minutes, then rinse with cool water. Follow the directions on the bottle if it is store bought.
 Let dry, then splash your face with water, and massage your face with the facial lotion of your choice. Let it sit for 5 minutes, then press tissues to your face to remove the excess. On a daily basis, wash your face twice daily using a clean washcloth (hang it up to dry after you use it, and replace it every two days).
, Split ends do not belong on a porcelain doll. The most popular style is long hair, with soft layers and fringe bangs. You could also leave out the layers, especially if you have straight hair. Wear your hair in a classic way that complements your face shape. Ask the person who cuts your hair if you have absolutely no idea about that.
 It's easier to apply makeup with your hair completely back and out of your face, which means a ponytail and headband. After you wash your face, rub facial lotion into your wet skin, and let dry. After five minutes, blot off the excess with tissues.
 You want a very natural look. You can forgo the wet-face-lotion bit, and add some foundation into your lotion. One tip that is really good if you don't need foundation is to take a powder based foundation in one shade lighter than your skin tone (anything else will look chalky) and apply it to your nose and the immediate area around it, forehead, and chin. Blend it outward with very clean fingers.
 After the foundation (or lotion), powder your skin with loose powder.
 You're looking to get doll eyes, so precision counts big time. Take an angled brush, and dip it into black eyeshadow, or brown if you prefer. You could really do this with any color, but darker colors are best.
 Put it just behind your upper lashes, getting wider towards the outside corner, and thinner to the inside.
 Re-dip, and extend the corner of the eyeshadow a few millimeters past the corner of your eye, no more than 5 if you want a natural look.
 Don't bother stretching out your lid when doing this, because not stretching will produce little lines that mimic eyelashes. Next, curl your eyelashes with an eyelash curler. If you're of Asian ethnicity, try a heated curler, since you tend to have very straight lashes.
 A tip for blondes - very dark brown or charcoal will make your eyes stand out more, not black. For everyone else, black will make your eyes stand out more.
 If you want a little color, go for a matte baby pink or rose if you have warm skin, or lilac or blue if you have cool skin. To tell which you have, hold something gold and something silver next to your skin. If gold looks better, you have warm skin. If it's silver, you have cool. Just apply a thin layer before you apply eyeliner, in about the same areas, but past it a little on your lower lids, and further up everywhere.
 Blend.
 Apply either no blush, or a pink that looks good next to your skin. If you aren't sure, go to a beauty shop.
 You're trying for a childish effect.
 Get a soft pink that looks good on your skin, and a lip liner that matches it. Brace your arm, and follow the line of your lips.
 Matte lipstick is recommended, and no gloss because the focus of your face should be your beautiful eyes. If you want a pouty look, take a light shade of shimmery eyeshadow that was recommended for your skin tone, and apply just a tiny bit to the middle of your lower lip. Voila!

, There are many different styles that you can have your hair for Lolita, the most popular being:


Ringlet curls. A great option if you have hair that is long, or at least shoulder length. Easily created using a curling rod, you can have small, tight curls (best for shoulder length) or larger, looser curls (best for hair longer than shoulder length). This style looks brilliant with any type of headpiece as well.
Straight hair. This should only be done if you have the right cut. Healthy hair, with a fringe that comes above the eyes (your eyes should not be hidden whatsoever. You spent all that time making them big and doll-like, why would you hide them?) and chin length-or longer. If your hair is not naturally straight, use flat irons.
Plaits. A simple, yet adorable style which is great if you are really going for a childlike effect. Can be done as either one plait (pulled back, so it falls down your back), or two plaits (one at either side). Looks great on all hair lengths.
Pigtails. Appropriate for short hair to shoulder-length hair, as it looks cutest this way. This hairstyle looks great with hair-accessories rather than headpieces, such as bows and cute girly clips (but keep it to a minimum. This is Lolita, not Decora!)

,, Get a spritz bottle full of water, and evenly mist your hair. Comb it through, and add either a little bit of mousse or leave-in conditioner, mousse if you want volume, conditioner if you want sleekness. If you have curls, use a diffuser at this stage. A diffuser is a hair dryer attachment that flares at the outside edge, and has a little flat place inside. Again, ask a beauty store if you aren't sure.
 Every ten seconds or so, scrunch your hair in your hands. Dry the rest of your hair like this.
 For straight hair, either just brush when dry, or straighten with velvet covered plates. When you use rubber bands, get the fabric coated kind with no metal connection parts.
 Choose a perfume that is flowery, playful and light. Heavier scents are better suited to Aristocratic types.

