 Before you begin, you'll want to download a couple tools to help you in your removal process. Download these first so that you can close your browser during the removal. You will need a few free programs to quickly remove qvo6.



Rkill - This program will force close any malware that is currently running. It does not delete files, but keeps the malware from running during uninstallation and reinstalling itself. Download the iExplorer.exe file.

AdwCleaner - This program targets and removes infections, and does a thorough job of cleaning them out. It can be a little overzealous and remove your browser preferences, so be aware. If you are signed into your Google account in Chrome, you can quickly restore your settings by signing back in after the scan.

Shortcut Cleaner - This program will look at your program shortcuts and remove any links to malware. This is especially important for qvo6, as it will add a link to qvo6 in your browser shortcuts on the desktop and in the Start menu.;
, After you have downloaded all of your tools, close your browser windows. Print out these instructions if necessary.
 Rkill will terminate all running processes that may be malware when you run the iExplorer.exe file. It may take several minutes to scan for programs and end them.


Do not reboot after running Rkill, or the programs will restart.
 This program does not need to be installed. When you start it, click the Scan button and wait for the scan to finish. This may also take several minutes. The results of the scan will be shown in the Results tabs.


Click the Clean button when the the scan is finished. The selected results will be removed from your system. You will be prompted to reboot your computer after the Cleaning process. When the computer reboots, you will be shown a log of everything that was removed.
 After your computer finishes rebooting, run the Shortcut Cleaner program. Allow the program to scan your system. It will revert your shortcuts automatically.


If you prefer, you can manually change your shortcuts instead of using Shortcut Cleaner. To do so, right-click on the shortcut you want to edit and select Properties. Open the Shortcut tab and look at the Target field. Remove anything after the path to the program.
 qvo6 most likely wiped out your default search engine and home page settings. To restore these, follow the steps for the browser you use:



Google Chrome - Click the Menu button in the upper right corner and select Settings. Click the "Set pages" link in the "On startup" section and add the website(s) you want as your homepage(s). Click the "Manage search engines..." button in the "Search" section. Set your default search engine to the search engine of your choice by hovering over it and clicking the "Make default" button.

Mozilla Firefox - Click the Firefox button and select Options. Select the General tab, and then enter the homepage you want in the "Home Page" field. Close the Options menu and then click the small down arrow next to the icon in your Search box. Select "Manage Search Engines". Move your desired default search engine to the top of the list.

Internet Explorer - Click the Tools menu or the Gear icon and select Internet Options. Click the Advanced tab. Click the "Reset" button to restore Internet Explorer to its default settings. Your bookmarks will be left untouched.