 Let's face it—turning a guy on is easy, and it doesn't take us to tell you that! But if you're in the mood, and you want him to really please you, there are things you can do to really drive him crazy.
 He'll be giving you candy and compliments, and opening doors for you, buying you dinners and movies, and that's all part of what guys do. If you want him to keep doing that after you've been dating for a year or two, let it be know that you appreciate that sort of thing—or that you don't! Pretending is a sure way to kill any romance, if not in the short term, certainly in the long term. But for the sake of this article, let's assume you do. If he knows you like it, and you reward him with a kiss or a squeeze in the right place now and then, he'll keep it going.
 A little cleavage goes a long way. A lot of cleavage goes even further. Dressing provocatively will challenge him to keep his eyes raised up and looking into yours, will really help keep him in the zone, and can provide for some teasing fun as well.
 Be suggestive, maybe in the way you lick your spoon, maybe by simply saying you think he's hot. Again, guys are fairly primal, and it doesn't take a lot to arouse them. Just remember: he wants to be in control, but you get to say how much control he has.
 It's not a turn on at all to start kissing somebody who's insecure or not sure they are doing the "right thing." If turning him on is the goal, then show that. Don't hide your desires behind a wall of political or social correctness.
 Once he makes the first move, kiss him back exactly how you want him to kiss you. If you want hard, passionate kisses, kiss him hungrily. If you want little love pecks—at least to start—give them to him, and gently rebuff any attempts at harder kissing until you're ready for that.
 He likes to know that he's not the only one who is going for the gold. You don't need to knock him down and tear his clothes off—yet—but take the lead in the kissing department, and start exploring his body. If he works out, appreciate his physique. He'll like that, cause he's worked hard to be cut.
 When you're ready for more intimate touches from him, let your body language show it. Sometimes you may have to actually put his hand where you want it, but usually he'll get the picture.
 If you like what he's doing, you don't have to say "I like what you're doing." Simply say "MMMmmmmm." If you really like what he's doing, you can say a whole lot more. If you want him to talk dirty, initiate it so he knows it's ok.
 Instead, do it yourself. Purposefully, and seductively. When he goes to touch (and he will), deny him. Where he wants to touch you—you do it. Keep this up until neither of you can stand it anymore, then proceed with protection.
