 No one is "too cool" for schoolwork. Your grades start counting towards college now so it's important to stay on task. Doing homework is one of the most time consuming things existing on planet earth, but your work will pay off when you get the satisfaction of good grades. (failing is not a good feeling, at all!)


Try doing homework right after school so then you can have the rest of the night to relax.






Doing your homework while listening to music can help make it more fun and music can actually relax you a little.





;
, Drama just causes unnecessary stress, and who wants that Don't try to start drama either, that's never appreciated.
 The workload and drastic change from middle school to high school can be kind of scary, but don't let it bring you down. If your grades drop from, say, the 90's to the 80's, don't sweat it. Freshmen year is a transitional year, it's expected.


Keep smiling, no matter what. Even a forced smile can usually help you feel better!







, Try joining or trying out for a sport, or join a club! There are a billion in every school, so find one that bests suits you!


It's okay if you and your friends don't all do the same thing. You can always make some more friends anyway.






Clubs and extracurricular activities look great on a college application, especially if you started getting involved your freshmen year and continued throughout senior year.






Drama plays/musicals are also a great option because not only it's loads of fun, but you also become so close with everybody, even the upperclassmen.
 Don't try to change just to "fit in" or "be popular". You'll find plenty of people who just like you for who you truly are.


Don't do anything you don't wan to do.






Don't let anyone pressure you into smoking, alcohol, having sex, drugs, etc. Doing all that stuff doesn't make you "cool", it just gives you a reputation and you'll probably lose the respect of not only the freshmen class, but the upperclassmen will also talk.
 Stick to your morals though. Do what you feel is right, but remember, once you do something, you can never take it back.



It sounds "nerdy", but your grades and how you do in school is extremely important, so don't slack off too much. You'll regret it.






Study for tests and quizzes because it honestly makes things so much easier.






Stay after if you have questions, or if you need extra help. Don't be too shy to ask for extra help either, because teachers are more than happy to help! They want to see you succeed and thrive!






Teachers are usually happy to share your grade with you, so if you're ever curious, just ask them what your average for the class is and they will usually let you see. This is a great way to keep track of things!







, It sounds hard to have fun, but freshman year will fly by in the blink of an eye!

, Laugh, make jokes, meet new people, get involved, try new clubs and activities, etc. You'll look back on these years and laugh, so don't overstress (but don't necessarily "under stress" either).

