 You can make anything from a choker necklace to another type of necklace that lies further from the neckline. The length of the wire you cut will depend on what type of necklace you want and on the neck circumference of the person it's for.Typically, non-choker necklaces are 17 to 35 inches in length. Around 35 inches of wire will make a very low hanging necklace, and 17 to 19 inches of wire will make a small, Princess style necklace.
Chokers are typically 12 to 16 inches in length, but it depends on the neck measurement.;
, If you're making a choker necklace, use a measuring tape to measure your neck around where you want the choker to be. Take note of this measurement and allow for an extra 3 extra inches on each side when cutting the wire.If this necklace is a choker for someone else, you'll need to measure their neck instead.
 Use the tape measure to measure out a length of the jewelry wire. Depending on what kind of necklace you want, this will be anywhere from the neck circumference you measured plus 6 inches to 41 inches. Cut the wire with the side cutters.


Always use side cutters, not scissors, when cutting wire.
 Depending on the size of your knot, you may have to tie a knot twice to make it big enough so the crimping bead will not slide through it.


You don't need any kind of special knot for this. Just a simple overhand knot will do.
 Grab a crimp bead and slide it down the length of the jewelry wire until you reach the knot, which is about 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the end. Take a jump ring and slide it down the entire length of the necklace until you reach the crimp bead., Take the end of the wire and pass over the top of the jump ring, and thread the wire through the crimp bead. Pull it taut so that the crimp bead and the jump ring are close together., Hold the crimp bead and the jump ring in place with one hand. Use the crimping pliers to flatten the crimping bead. The crimping bead works as a jewelry stopper, so the jump ring will not slide off the jewelry., This gives your necklace a professional and streamlined look.
 Thread the beads along the string until you reach the end of the necklace. Continue beading the beads along the necklace until all the beads are strung on the wire. Stop beading the necklace once you're down to around 3 inches of wire left on the unfinished end., First, tie another knot near where the beads end on the unfinished side of the necklace. String the crimp bead and the clasp. As with the other side, you may need to tie two knots to keep the crimp bead from sliding past it.
 Take the wire over the top of the clasp and thread the wire through the crimp bead. Pull it tight so that the crimp and the clasp are close together., Hold the clasp against the crimp bead with one hand. Take the crimping pliers and flatten the crimp bead. Cut the excess wire with the scissors.