 There are multiple different types of journaling that you can do. The type of journaling you choose to do will be based on personal preference, your recovery process, and where you are in your recovery. These different types include:A stream of consciousness journal, where you just write whatever comes into your head without worrying about grammar, punctuation, or format.
A diary journal, where you discuss all the important things that happen in your day.
A gratitude journal, where you focus on the positive things in life apart from any negative feelings you go through.
A spiritual journal, where you document your ongoing spiritual development.
A health or exercise journal, where you discuss how you are working towards a healthy lifestyle as part of your recovery.
 Journaling now and then can be helpful, but journaling every may be even more helpful. Try your best to write in your journal every day. This will help you keep track of your thoughts and your recovery progress on a daily basis., You don't have to journal for long periods of time every day. This could get overwhelming and make you quit before it has a chance to help you with your addiction. Try to aim for 20 to 30 minutes a day of journaling.If 20 to 30 minutes is too much, start smaller. Start by writing for five minutes a day and then work up to the longer time period.
 It may be hard to find time to journal during your day. However, instead of putting it off or not doing it at all, cut out a slot of time before bed to write in your journal. This is a good time of day to reflect on everything that happened and for you to analyze all of your thoughts.


Keep a journal by your bed or in your favorite chair in your bedroom where you can write your entry at night., When you write, it can be easy to get distracted if you are in a busy area. This will make it easier to focus on your emotions and feelings as you journal every day. However, if you cannot find a quiet spot, then writing while you are on the go is fine too.


If you are out and about, try to find a private, tucked away place such as a quiet corner of a coffee shop or your local library.
If you are at home, find a quiet spot in your house where you won't be bothered by family or roommates., If you don't like writing or can't for some reason, try talking instead of writing your journal. This can help if you aren't a fan of writing things down or if you find it difficult to do so.


Find a voice recorder or use a voice recording app on your phone to record your journal entries.
You can make video journals if you like that form better as well.If you do verbal or video journaling, review your recordings every so often to reflect on your journaling.

