 Having a negative thinking style has various detrimental effects on health.The first step towards overcoming negative thinking is making yourself aware of when you're doing it. Negative thoughts tend to fall in the following categories: being fearful of the future, criticizing yourself, doubting your abilities, putting yourself down, and expecting failure.People who think negatively usually have a certain style of negative self-talk.Do any of these sound familiar?


Polarizing. Seeing things in only one of two categories with no middle ground. (i.e. If it is not good, it must be bad.)
Filtering. Exaggerating the negatives while minimizing the positives. (i.e. You got a good evaluation at work, but you spend your time dwelling on the areas your boss said need improving.)
Catastrophizing. Always expecting the worst to happen. (i.e. One tiny fight with your partner means she hates you and wants to break up.)
Personalizing. Blaming yourself for everything bad that happens. (i.e. Everyone leaves the party early. You assume it's because you were there.)

, Once you become aware of your tendency to think negatively, you must work to attack these thoughts. Use four methods to challenge negative thinking.Test the reality - Is there evidence for or against my claim (negative self-talk)? Am I jumping to a negative conclusion without assessing the facts?
Look for alternate explanations - If I was in a positive mindset, how would I view this situation differently? Is there any other way of looking at this?
Put your thoughts into perspective - Will this matter in 6 months (or 1 year)? What's the worst that can really happen?
Be goal-oriented - Are these thoughts moving me closer to accomplishing my goals? How can I problem-solve this?

, Becoming a more positive thinker won't happen overnight. But, if you actively practice positive self-talk each day, you can develop a healthier, more positive mindset over time. Whenever you catch yourself thinking negatively, put your thoughts to the test. Then, find more realistic and positive ways to transform your self-talk.For example, "My girlfriend thinks I'm a loser" is a negative thought that can be challenged and transformed to "My girlfriend clearly sees something likable and worthwhile about me because she chose to date me".
 Measuring yourself up against others is a sure route to always feeling negative and doubting your own abilities. As there will always be someone in the world who is better at any given skill than you, by comparing, you set yourself up for failure every time.


Instead focus on your successes and celebrate them. Pay less attention to other people's business and put more energy into your own self-improvement. Look to others who symbolize where or who you want to be without comparing. And, constantly take out time to appreciate your personal growth and the wonderful things happening in your life.