 You may be able to skip hemming altogether in some cases. However, keep in mind that this does not work for all knit fabrics, and some people simply dislike the look of an unhemmed garment. For example, if you are making a jersey knit dress or skirt, then you can often get away with skipping the hem.To see if your fabric will hold up against a hem-free finish, try gently stretching the raw edge of the fabric to see if it frays or unravels when you do so. If it does, then skipping the hem may not be a great idea for your fabric. If it holds up, then you can probably skip the hem.;
, The straight stitch is a common one for hemming fabrics. If you just want a simple, non-decorative stitch, then this is perfect. Set your machine to the straight stitch setting and sew along the folded hem about ¼” (0.6 cm) from the raw edge., The zig zag stitch is a functional and decorative stitch that can add some flair to your knit fabric hem. If you want the hem to be a little interesting looking, then try using the zig zag setting on your sewing machine when you sew the hem.Sew the hem about ¼” (0.6 cm) from the raw edge of the folded fabric.
 A rolled hem is also popular for hemming knits and other delicate fabrics. To do a rolled hem, you will need to use a serger. Your serger should have a rolled hem setting that you can switch on and then sew along the raw edge of your knit fabric to create the rolled hem.If you do not have a serger, then you can also try sewing a rolled hem by hand. However, keep in mind that this can take a long time if the hem is long.
 You can also try a lettuce hem, which is a variation of the rolled hem. The lettuce hem is a ruffled hem along the raw edge of the fabric and it looks nice as a hem for skirts and other items that you want to have a frilly finish. You can do a lettuce hem the same way you do a rolled hem, but you will need to stretch the fabric slightly as you sew.Gently stretch the edges of the fabric as you sew. Do not stretch to the point of extreme tension, just stretch the fabric slightly to create the ruffling effect.
You will need a serger to do a lettuce hem as well.

