 There are a number of "alternative" or "natural" remedies promoted as cures for clammy hands online. Though some practitioners swear by these solutions, there is very little scientific evidence (if any) supporting these cures' effectiveness. For one easy alternative cure, try soaking your hands in cool or lukewarm tea. For best results, soak your hands in tea (or hold onto wet teabags) for 30 minutes each day for a week.


According to some (dubious) sources, the tannic acid in the tea can help gradually dry out your hands, reducing moistness throughout the day., Another easy alternative remedy for sweaty hands involves apple cider vinegar. For this method, try soaking the hands directly in a bowl of apple cider vinegar for five minutes each, then washing with soap and water. Note that washing with soap and water is known to sometimes have a skin-drying effect on its own (see above).


Alternatively, you may want to try running a bath and adding a cup or two of vinegar to the water before you get in.
 Some alternative medicine sources purport that consuming certain "detoxifying" herbs like turmeric, shatavari, and patola can help alleviate sweaty hands and/or feet. While some of these herbs may be used in traditional or non-Western medicinal cures (for instance, turmeric is known for its traditional use as an indigestion cure and anti-inflammatory), there is very little scientific evidence to support claims that they are reliable cures for clammy hands or any other condition.While most "detox" schemes provide little measurable or quantifiable benefit, note that some have even been found to cause harmful (though rarely dangerous) side effects., A simple search engine query can reveal dozens of so-called homeopathic or "natural" cures for sweaty hands. These cures are often in the form of herbs, vitamins, pills, supplements, or some combination of these elements. Though they are often advertised with bold claims about their effectiveness, in reality, very few (if any) homeopathic treatments have been scientifically proven to work.


In addition, because homeopathic supplements aren't regulated by agencies like the FDA, there's no guarantee that they are held to the high quality standards that "normal" drugs are. For this reason, most doctors will advise against investing too heavily in homeopathic cures.

