 If you're out at a party or event and a guy is talking to you, you should be on the lookout for signs of attraction. Things like persistent eye contact, compliments, and assertive body language may indicate that a guy has his eyes set on you. If you want to reject someone, it helps to identify the early warning signs, and then pull the boyfriend card early on.Leading someone on makes things worse for the both of you. Your best bet is to tell a guy you have a boyfriend as soon as you think he's coming on to you. If you welcome the attention at first and turn it away later, telling him you have a boyfriend might not work as a proper rejection, as he may assume you want to cheat with him.
Say your boyfriend's just coming back from the bathroom if someone's coming on too fast.;
, If a guy makes an overt advance on you, you should say "I have a boyfriend" without trying to dress it up with any detail. If you're having a conversation and want to be less confrontational, you can work your would-be boyfriend into the conversation.


For example, if you're talking about music, you might say "My boyfriend's favourite band is..." This method is a good way of letting someone know you're taken without making it seem like you're rejecting him.
Be straightforward. Don't beat around the bush if you're trying to get someone to think you have a boyfriend. Even if you're trying to save someone's feelings, being straightforward about your rejection will minimize the risk of dragging it out longer than it needs to last.
 Mixed messages are a big problem if you're trying to reject someone. In fact, just being polite can indicate to some guys that you're at least somewhat interested in him. If he's into you, he may take any indication as a sign to keep going. If you're intent on saying "No" to a guy, make sure you're expressing it on all levels.


You should also be aware of your body language. While you don't need to be completely standoffish, you should keep your hands to yourself, even if you usually like to express yourself with touch.
 In other words, if the guy knows your name, he may have enough information to look you up online. If he can look you up, he can find your relationship status on social media. He can figure out you're lying if you have it set to "single."If someone does figure out you're lying, you could use an excuse like you just started seeing someone, and you haven't made it "Facebook official" yet.
If you use this technique often, you may want to keep your relationship status hidden.
 This tactic is also overused, often to the point where guys may suspect you're lying. Simply saying "I'm not interested in dating anyone" will leave no room for interpretation, as well as demonstrate to others that you're confident in your own decisions.

