 If the candle wax is on the tips of your hair, this is the simplest and easiest method. Get in front of the sink, and bend your head forward. Let your hair drop down and fall in front of you. Turn on water in the sink to warm/hot.Let sink fill up with warm water. Make sure that the stopper had been pushed down, and allow the sink to fill up.
Dip your head down slowly, and allow the hair ends to enter the bath of warm water. Let your hair follicles bathe in the water for a few minutes. Pull your head up after the time is up, but do not bend your head back in the normal position yet.
Use a paper towel or a clean wash cloth and dry the ends of your hair. Apply pressure, and try to pull off the wax as you are drying. If this does not get all of the wax off at once, repeat, repeat, and repeat.
 The ice will chill and harden the wax until it will break apart. You can do this with either loose ice cubes, or ice in a small plastic bag. Simply place the ice on the wax, and let it sit for a few minutes. Pull the ice away, and then break up the hardened wax. Repeat if all the wax is not removed. Finish this by washing your hair with shampoo and conditioner., If the wax is closer to the roots, this is the easiest, and cheapest, home remedy available. Choose either olive, baby, jojoba, or mineral oil to put in your hair (all four work the same way). First dampen your hair with warm water. Then, apply a healthy amount of oil to your hands and/or small cotton balls.Rub the oil between your hands or blot it on small cotton balls. Then run it through your hair, starting at the roots and moving outwards.
Let the oil sit there for a few minutes to soften and dissolve the wax. Use clean cotton balls or towels to wipe away the oil and dissolved wax.
Rinse your hair out with warm water. Repeat if the wax has not completely gone away.
 The petroleum jelly acts very much in the same way as oil does, in that it helps to dissolve the wax. Feel through your hair to find where the wax has settled and apply a healthy helping of petroleum jelly with your hands.


Let the petroleum jelly sit there for a few minutes and dissolve the wax.
Because petroleum jelly is hard to remove, apply a few drops of dish detergent to a damp washcloth or towel. Dap the washcloth on the spots of your hair where you have applied the jelly.
Rinse your hair out with warm water. Repeat the measure if the wax still has not come out. If the wax has come out, finish this method by shampooing and conditioning your hair. The dish detergent can dry your hair follicles out, and so it is necessary to moisturize them., These products are designed to remove wax residue. They also have the added benefit of softening your scalp and hair follicles. These can usually be found at your nearest hair professional, or store specializing in hair products. Make sure to follow the instructions on the bottle clearly.
 If you have tried all the options, or want a second opinion, try your nearest hair stylist. They will have had experience with things of this nature before, and may have chemicals/agents that will be able to remove the wax professionally.

