 Released in 2006, The Secret DVD is a documentary style self-help video that claims to reveal the secret to happy, fulfilled life.


The big secret is, essentially, that thinking something will turn it into reality.
The film claims that many of the great thinkers throughout history have practiced this secret truth including Plato, Beethoven, William Shakespeare, and Albert Einstein.
According to the film's website, "Rhonda Byrne's discovery of The Secret began with a glimpse of the truth of life within a 100-year old book. She went back through the centuries, tracing and uncovering The Secret that lay at the core of the most powerful philosophies, teachings and religions in the world." This theory shrouds the film's premise in historical mystery, beginning with the Emerald Tablet which supposedly contained the information of The Secret, and later with the secret order of the Rosicrucians who were rumored to be the protectors of The Secret.;
, The Secret book was written by Rhonda Byrne and was intended to accompany the film.


The book explains The Law of Attraction and how visualizing something and acting as if it is already present in your life can make the Universe provide that thing to you.
According to the book's website, "Everything is possible, nothing is impossible. There are no limits. Whatever you can dream of can be yours, when you use The Secret." , The Secret claims that all energy is relative and reciprocal. Thus, if you send out positive energy, positive energy will be sent back to you. To this end, there are two keys to creating positive change in your life:


Gratitude. Being grateful reinforces to the Universe that you believe you will receive the thing that you desire. It also creates more positive energy so that you can receive more positive energy.
Visualization. Visualizing your desires allows the message to be relayed more clearly to the Universe.
 Basically, this is the idea that people and their thoughts are made of energy that is received and reciprocated by the Universe.


Thus, if you emit positive energy, you will receive positive energy. If you emit negative energy, you will receive negative energy.
For example, if you are waiting to hear back about a promotion at work and you have a positive outlook and are expecting the best outcome, then you will be informed that you did, in fact, get the promotion. If, however, you are harboring a negative outlook, you will hear that you did not get the promotion.
 The idea that "like attracts like" does not mean that just thinking about something will cause it to be mirrored in the person's life. You have to become a person who is able to actually manifest these things.


Philosophical writer James Allen wrote that a man becomes what he thinks about. However, this notion is only accurate if the man acts on those thoughts.
 Encouraging yourself to focus on positive thoughts will inevitably cause existing positive energy (thoughts) to renew itself and turn negative energy/thoughts into more positive energy, thereby enacting a very real change in your life.


Thoughts are powerful and have an incredible effect on how you respond to everything in life. But to truly use and understand The Law of Attraction, know that you will attract into your life what you want only after you start reflecting these desires in your own life. In other words, act like the kind of person who already has the thing you want.
If you desire more money, don't just think about receiving more money, but "act as if" you are the type of person who makes the amount of money you desire. This simple mental change will bring about real change in your life.
 So much of our time is spent thinking about the past or imagining the future, but the Universe only knows "now." The Universe is always in the present, so you need to be active and thinking in the present in order to manifest the things you desire.


Thinking about your desires as something you will attain at some point in the future sends the message to yourself and the Universe that you will always be someone who will be receiving "in the future." Acceptance of this future receiving allows you to be identified as someone who does not receive in the present. But the future never happens; the present is happening right now. Only the Now is real. Think and act as if you are in the "now."

, Remember, there is only "now." So, saying that you want something to materialize in your life at some point in the future (two months from now, two years from now, etc.) is like telling the Universe that you do not truly desire that thing. Because "now" is the only thing that truly exists, any postponement of desire fulfillment is actually a rejection of that desire.


For example, saying that you want to manifest a new love within the next month is like telling the Universe that you don't want a new love now.
 Nothing can drain your energy faster than listening to a complainer or a person steeped in their own negativity. Sooner or later, their negative outlook will affect you and cause you to begin acting and thinking like a person you do not desire to be. Again, you need to focus on exchanging positive energy for positive energy. Surrounding yourself with negative people will prohibit this from happening.
 Think happiness. Talk happiness. Give people compliments. Do favors. Be generous and kind. Everything you do to others, you will receive. What you focus on and do to others, you are brining into your own life. Be happy! There are many things you can do to heighten your frequency.


Spend more times doing the things that you like.
Think about good memories you've had with friends and family. Spend time with the ones you love!
Experience things you've always wanted to do!
Listen to happy and joyful music that you really like!
Watch funny videos and movies!

, Your reality is created by the images you have in your mind - the Universe doesn't understand words. It is often easier to conjure up images that move. When you want to visualize, think of your five senses; sight, hearing, taste, smell, touch. Keeping these things in mind while wishing is important. The visualization should feel so real that you feel completely surrounded by it.


When you visualize, concentrate - really concentrate - on the things that you want. Then, when you're done, you must act and think like you have received it. It's yours. All you have to do is to wait for the opportunity for it to arrive. Don't get too caught up, though - if you dwell too much on it, you might begin to think and feel negativity around it.
 Do you want money? Feel like you've just won 1,000,000 dollars! Do you want to find your soulmate? Then allow the feeling of love towards this person - this person that's about to come into your life - fill you up! Shape your own life, do the thing you would've done if you had already received your wish! If you do it right, it's already on it's way - all you have to do is to believe it already is yours.
 The secret to success using the Law is believing. Believing is your job. The Universe will take care of everything else. If you feel doubtful, start with something small. In your mind, create a picture of one particular kind of leaf, rock, feather, etc. - something small. Make this thing unique, so unique that when you first see it, it's unmistakable. Read the fantastic stories written by people that have used the Law. Maybe you'll be writing one too.
 The importance of this step is beyond explanation. What you feel and think on the inside will soon be the parallel of your reality. Learn how to make yourself feel happy. Always remember that our emotions and our bodies are the reflection of what is going on in our minds. It can be changed at any time, but you must begin from within.
 It will make you feel more rested and give you a sense of peace. , GAP meditation was originally developed by popular spiritual teacher Wayne Dyer. This form of meditation focuses on spending time in the silence that exists in between your thoughts.


GAP meditation is fundamentally based in Christianity in that it involves repeating the beginning of the Lord's Prayer to quiet one's mind and then moves into a Hindu form of chanting called Japa which works to produce a type of bodily vibration that ties into the vibrations of the world around you.
Doing a GAP style meditation for 15 minutes each day can often help you control your thinking better. It also is a wonderful way to re-energize yourself by allowing you to focus on the inner-workings of your soul without the distractions of the world around you.
If you feel stressed out and you're in a situation where you can't meditate, just empty your head and breathe deeply for a while.
 If you are religious, try incorporating prayer into your meditation time. Allowing yourself to quietly commune with your god can help you create more positive energy in your life.

