 When referring to a graph in your writing, use either "figure X" or "fig.X" in parentheses. Use the Arabic numeral, and don't capitalize either "figure" or the abbreviation "fig."For example, you might refer to a graph showing tomato consumption patterns this way: "Due to the increasing popularity of salsa and ketchup, tomato consumption in the US has risen sharply in recent years (see fig. 1).";
, A graph or chart from another source is first labeled as “Figure X,” though you may opt to abbreviate "Figure" to "Fig." You should capitalize "Figure" or "Fig." in the caption.


Figures should be numbered in the order they appear; your first graph or other illustration is "Fig. 1," your second "Fig. 2," and so on.
Do not italicize the word “Figure” or “Fig.” or the numeral.
 This description should provide a clear and concise explanation of what's shown in the graph.


For example, “Fig. 1. Rise in tomato consumption in the US, 1970-2000...”

, Note that in contrast to MLA bibliographic citations, you will begin with the author's first name: "John Green" instead of "Green, John." If the author is an institution, such as USDA, give the institution’s name instead. You need to add the words “Graph from” if the graph is not your original material.


“Fig. 1. Rise in tomato consumption in the US, 1970-2000. Graph from John Green...”

, The title should be formatted in italic text. Give the title directly after the comma following the author’s name: "John Green, Growing Vegetables in Your Backyard,..."


You also italicize the title of a website, such as this: Graph from State Fact Sheets.
 Follow the model of location: publisher, year): for example, (Hot Springs: Lake Publishers, 2002). After the closing parenthesis, type another comma.


“Fig. 1. Rise in tomato consumption in the US, 1970-2000. Graph from John Green, Growing Vegetables in Your Backyard', (Hot Springs: Lake Publishers, 2002).

If the graph came from an online source, follow the MLA guidelines for citing an online source: give the website name, publisher, date of publication, media, date of access, and pagination (if any -- if not, type “n. pag.”).
For example, if your graph came from the USDA website, your citation would look like this: “Fig. 1. Rise in tomato consumption in the US, 1970-2000. Graph from State Fact Sheets. USDA. 1 Jan 2015. Web. 4 Feb. 2015. n. pag.”

, Type a period following the page number, then indicate this book's format (i.e. "Print," "eBook," etc.) Now you're done! Your complete citation should appear as follows:


Fig. 1. Rise in tomato consumption in the US, 1970-2000. Graph from John Green, Growing Vegetables in Your Garden, (Hot Springs: Lake Publishers, 2002), 43. Print."If you give the complete citation information in the caption, you do not need to also include it in your Works Cited page.

