 Third-degree burns, which are far more serious, require immediate emergency medical treatment. The symptoms of second-degree burns are as follows:


Deep redness
Swollen skin
Blisters that may break open and look wet and shiny
Skin that is painful to the touch
Red, splotchy skin color
Burned area is white or discolored in an irregular pattern
Severe pain;
, Cool water helps lower the temperature of your skin and prevents the burn from becoming more serious. Alternately, you can place the burned area of your skin in a tub or basin of cool water, or apply cool compresses to the affected area.


Avoid using ice or freezing water to treat your burn, since this can lead to tissue damage.
 This will prevent jewelry or clothing from becoming too tight and difficult to remove if the burned area becomes swollen., This helps prevent bacteria from infecting your burn, especially if open blisters have formed.
 Keep in mind that some pieces of burned skin may come off at the time you wash your skin.
 This helps reduce pain and prevents the burned area from becoming irritated further.
 Burned skin or closed blisters may not require bandaging; however, broken blisters or burned skin at risk for becoming dirty or irritated by clothing may require a bandage.
 Purchase creams and ointments for burns from your local drugstore, or apply aloe vera, honey, or a mixture of turmeric powder and all-natural yogurt to the burn., This prevents extra pressure from being applied to the burned area.


Avoid taping bandages in a circle around a limb, as this can increase swelling.
 This will help reduce and stop bleeding., This lowers your risk for bacterial infection.


If the bandage becomes stuck to your burn, soak the affected area in warm water so the bandage can be more easily removed.
 Your doctor can recommend over-the-counter medicines or prescription medications that can help decrease pain and accelerate the healing of your burn.
 Surgery can help prevent infection, decrease inflammation, and remove damaged tissue. Surgery can also replace lost skin, improve blood flow to the burned area, and reduce scarring.

