 With such a varying audience, there are several different control types that are optimal for different situations. The most common, other than default is "tactical" this switches the crouch and knife buttons, allowing you to knife enemies easier. There are a variety of options, so test them out for a few games before deciding.


Sensitivity is another factor. A high sensitivity allows you to change targets faster, however a low sensitivity allows you to be more accurate when shooting. A higher sensitivity is best, but if you cannot get the feel for a high sensitivity, sticking to a lower one is better than trying to push it.;
, Every game has guns that are notably better than other guns in the game, for example the ACR and MP7 from Modern Warfare 3. In the same way, there are some attachments that are best for different play styles. If you like to hang back and pick off people, picking a long range rifle or machine gun may be best, along with perks that suit not moving much and attachments to increase range and lower recoil. It would be silly to have extreme conditioning if you don't move during the match. Similarly, it wouldn't be productive to put a grenade launcher if you are a run and gun type of person.
 Especially important in games like Domination and Team Deathmatch, knowing where and when the enemy is going to spawn allows you to kill them almost instantly off spawn in some maps. Take a few games and spectate where people are going, learn the common paths people take and choke points you can use to your advantage. In games like Search and Destroy, knowing where the enemy spawns isn't very relevant, as they won't respawn, but knowing popular routes to the bomb and vantage points to see if someone's planting can be a tide turner.
 Talk to your teammates about what you are going to do, where enemies are, what flags they are taking/bomb they are planting. You can use this to push your advances together in teams, instead of getting picked off in 1 on 1 fights.
 If you get a few kills then die, it wouldn't make sense to pick streaks such as a Tactical Nuke or Swarm. Similarly, it wouldn't be smart to pick UAV's if you can go on long killstreaks almost every game.Select scorestreaks that you know you can get, and will help your overall goal.


If playing in a team, have designated scorestreaks for people to use. For example, have one or two people run "support" streaks like UAV, Counter-UAV, and Blackbird/Orbital VSAT/HATR. Have a person run mid-tier streaks that are good at clearing many people at once. Examples include the Hellstorm Missile, Mortar Strike or Harrier Airstrikes. Finally, have one person run big streaks like dogs or tactical nukes, as this allows for many people to help the team overall.
 If you know who you are playing with and how they play, you can adjust how you play to compliment them. If you know someone always rushes in right away, you can watch their back, both protecting each other. With a team, you also are able to communicate better, since you know each other and aren't afraid to talk to them.
 HUD is a heads-up display, that displays things like ammo, score, and a mini-map. If you know you are low on ammo, maybe it's not the best idea to charge into a building full of enemies. With the radar, you can see un-suppressed fire, which shows you the positions of enemies.
 Jump shots and drop shots are done to make it harder for your enemies to hit you. A jump shot is simply where you jump up while being shot at, and a drop shot is quickly going to prone and back up again, which makes it harder to lock on aim to you.

