 Exercise is an excellent way to control high blood pressure. It will help you lose weight, reduce stress, and feel good. Talk to your doctor before beginning a new exercise routine to make sure you are healthy enough. If your doctor gives you the ok, these are common recommendations:75—150 minutes of endurance activity per week. You will enjoy it more if you chose activities that like to do. Many people join community sports teams, take classes at a local gym, or simply go outside and walk, run, or bike. Don't jump right into intense exercise if you've been sedentary. Rather, ease into a new routine.
Exercise routines are most effective when they are also paired with strength training like weight lifting. This will help you to keep your bones strong and your muscles sculpted.;
, Stress increases your blood pressure; if you are experiencing a temporary elevation in blood pressure because of stress, this is one instance in which you might be able to decrease it almost "overnight." Relaxation techniques may help you to keep things in perspective and reduce the physical toll stress takes on your body. Things to try include:Deep breathing
Meditation
Yoga
Tai Chi

, Tobacco hardens and narrows your arteries, which increases your blood pressure. This is true for both smokers and people who are exposed to secondhand smoke. Quitting will improve your health immediately. If you need help quitting you can:Get support from friends, family, a counselor, a support group, or hotlines
Talk to your doctor about trying medications or nicotine replacement therapy
There are state programs that help people with smoking cessation. Look into state resources to see what is available in your state

, Alcohol is high in calories, making you vulnerable to obesity and increasing your risk of high blood pressure. If you do drink, stay within the recommended limits.Men should drink no more than one to two drinks per day. Women should have at most one drink per day.
A glass of wine, beer or shot of hard alcohol is a drink.
 This includes both street drugs and medications. Street drugs can also increase your blood pressure. Some medications can also contribute to hypertension. If you think this might be the case for you, don’t stop taking your medications. Instead contact your doctor to discuss the problem. Your doctor may be able to recommend a different medication that will work better for you. Some substances and medications that can contribute to high blood pressure include:Amphetamines, cocaine, and crystal methamphetamine
Some decongestants and cold medications
Some nonprescription painkillers (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs, like ibuprofen, Celebrex, Naproxen sodium, etc.)
Some birth control pills

