 The first consideration you should keep in mind when selecting a parrot is that particular bird's health. The last thing you want is to take home a bird and find out it has extensive (and costly) health problems or a short life ahead. Check out how the bird behaves at the pet store and pay close attention to whether the bird looks healthy overall.Tight feathers close to the body are a sign of good health. Avoid birds with ruffled, unkempt, or missing feathers.
Look for bright eyes and a lively appearance. Birds that sleep a lot and/or never leave their perch are usually in poor health.
Avoid any birds that have no appetite or exhibit any discharge from the nose or mouth, as these are signs of illness in birds.;
, Remember that the size of your bird will dictate the cage and environment it will need at home.A larger parrot will need a bigger cage, more room to move around, and more food than a smaller bird. Larger parrots may also be more vocal than some of their smaller counterparts, which may be a factor worth considering.


Think about whether you have shared walls and noise-intolerant neighbors. A very vocal parrot could potentially cause problems in such a housing situation.
Assess whether you have room for a bigger cage in your home. If not, a smaller bird in a smaller cage might be better suited to your house or apartment.
 Parrots are generally very long-lived birds. Some parrots can live up to 80 years.Even shorter-lived parrot species tend to live for up to 20 years.Owning a parrot can be a life-long commitment, and you may even have to consider whether any friends or relatives would be able to care for your bird if it outlives you.
 Smaller parrots may still be vocal, but they tend to be less noisy than larger parrots.If you want a very vocal bird, you may want to consider a medium- or large-sized parrot. However, if you have concerns about noise, or if you live in a smaller home and can't house a large bird, a small parrot might be a better fit.


Meyers' parrots are affectionate, quiet, and generally easy-going. They're very social birds and they generally form bonds with all members of the family.Poicephalus parrots are small but stocky. They're known for being quiet birds, but they can still be somewhat playful and affectionate.Senegal parrots are very calm, good-natured, and very affectionate towards people. They can be somewhat active and will need a lot of toys and play time., Medium-sized parrots tend to be smart and very affectionate towards people. They may be slightly vocal, though they will not have the vocal capabilities of a larger parrot. However, medium-sized parrots can generally learn to mimic a few words if you spend enough time teaching them.African grey parrots tend to be very sensitive, intelligent, and destructive. Many bird experts agree that experienced parrot caretakers make the best owners for African greys.Amazon parrots are very playful and entertaining. They will try to sing along to music, though they can be very noisy at times.Double yellow-headed Amazon parrots are very popular birds known for their big personalities and long lives, with some parrots living up to 80 years. They can learn to talk (and tend to be very vocal) and have a lot of energy.Orange-winged Amazon parrots are very colorful and tend to be tamer than other Amazon parrots. These parrots tend to be energetic and full of personality.Yellow-naped Amazon parrots are rare and very expensive, with some birds selling for up to $30,000. They're very playful as young birds but often get aggressive as they age.Pionus parrots are generally quiet, affectionate, and easy-going. Some owners report that Pionus parrots occasionally have a musky, somewhat sweet smell to them.Vasa parrots are very active, and as a result they tend to have large appetites. Adequate cage space and plenty of toys are necessary for these playful parrots., Larger parrots will need a larger cage to live in. Large parrots also tend to be very vocal. This may be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on your living situation. Remember, though, that large parrots also have larger beaks, and if a large parrot bites you it could be very painful.Cape parrots are extremely vocal and very long-lived, with many pet Cape parrots living up to 30 years.Large macaws like the Scarlet macaw are very good pets at a young age, but may be prone to more aggressive behavior as they age.
 Parrots need to be fed at least one meal each day. They should also be given treats periodically throughout the day. You can buy parrot food at a pet store, but the best diet for birds includes fresh vegetables, fruits, and peanuts. Some parrot owners even give their birds small bits of cooked fish and beef, cheese, and other human foods.Two foods that should never be given to parrots are chocolate and avocado. Both foods are poisonous to birds and will result in illness or even death.
 In addition to having the right sized cage for your bird, you should also be aware of where you place your parrot's cage. Exposure to windy drafts or direct sunlight could negatively affect your bird's quality of life, resulting in discomfort or even death.Never place a parrot's cage near windows or door ways.
Keep your parrot's cage out of direct sunlight, as birds can easily overheat.
 Some parrot species are known for being more playful than others, but in general, all parrots love to play. Make sure your bird has plenty of things to chew up, shred, and destroy.Toys made of natural materials, such as wood and rope, are the best options for birds.
Some household items like cardboard can be given to parrots. The cardboard tube inside of toilet paper and paper towels make excellent toys that can be easily torn and shredded.
 Parrots are naturally suited to flying long distances. While you'll need to keep your parrot in its cage for much of the day to prevent the bird from injuring itself or destroying your home, you should still give your bird plenty of free-flying time outside the cage.Try to let your bird out of its cage at least once every day.
Always supervise your bird when it's out of the cage. Birds love to chew on things around the house, including wall paper and furniture.
If you have other pets in the house, consider isolating either the parrot or the other pets in a separate room to avoid conflict.

