 What most people call a rip tide is technically a "rip current": a narrow channel of water rushing from the beach to the sea (or sometimes along the beach). Stay aware of your surroundings and learn the warning signs:


Avoid channels of water that look different from the surroundings. A rip current can be choppier and foamier, or it can be a quiet gap in the line of breaking waves. It may be a slightly different color than the surrounding water.
Use special caution close to low tide and in high surf conditions, but be aware rip currents can happen at any time.;
, If you feel a strong pull in shallow water, get out. A rip current is difficult to fight once you are chest-deep.If the water is waist-deep or shallower, you can likely walk to shore (or sideways out of the current) if you keep your footing.
 If you get caught in a rip current, don't panic: it takes a clear head to escape. Understand that a rip current does not drag you underwater, even if it feels that way when a wave hits you. Rip currents only pull you straight out to sea. Good swimmers are not in immediate danger of drowning unless they exhaust themselves by trying to fight the current., Rip currents are especially dangerous to people who cannot swim well. If you do not think you will be able to reach the shore, get the attention of a lifeguard or of other beachgoers by waving your arms and yelling for help.


Trying to rescue someone by swimming into a rip current is very dangerous. People on shore should throw you a floating object to hang onto instead., Most rip currents are less than 30 feet (9.1 m) wide, though they can reach 100–200 feet (30.5–61.0 m).Instead of trying to swim against the current — which is much stronger than you are — swim parallel to the shore to get out of its path. The rip current will carry you further away from shore as you swim, but don't panic. This is not a foolproof method, but it is a good option for a strong swimmer. If possible, look for these signs before choosing a direction:


The longshore current, a normal current moving parallel to the beach, is often strong enough to push you back into the rip current if you try to swim against it. Check the direction of the longshore current in advance by asking the lifeguard or observing the angle of waves on the beach.Rip currents often form around jetties and other structures perpendicular to the beach. If you are near one of these structures, swim away from it.
Swim in the direction of the nearest breaking waves. These mark the edge of the rip current.
 If you are not making any progress by swimming, or if you are getting tired, conserve your energy. Float on your back or tread water instead of fighting the current. Once you are past the breaking waves, the rip current will slow down and fan out into multiple branches, becoming much weaker.If you do not have the energy to make it back to shore, stay afloat and relax until you are ready to begin. Continue to signal for help if there are people present.


Most rip currents subside or become weak enough to escape soon after the breaking waves. In extreme cases, a rip current can extend up to 1,000 feet (304.8 m) offshore.Recent research suggests that many rip currents eventually circulate back to shore if you can stay afloat for a few minutes. This is still controversial, but it may be your best chance of survival if you are a weak swimmer., Once you are out of the current, either because you have swum out the side or the current has carried you to its end, make your way back to shore. Swimming diagonally away from the rip current minimizes the chance that you will enter it again. You may be some distance from shore at this point, so stop and float periodically if you need to rest.

