 You can write down anything that comes to mind, though many critics like to have small sections for the key subjects like "writing," "acting," and "directing." No matter your style, taking notes as you watch will make it infinitely easier to write and talk about the movie later on.


Don't worry about what to take notes on at first. Simply write out everything that comes to mind now, then work on shaping the review or writing later on., Form is how a movie is shot -- the lighting, scenery, sound effects, etc. Function is the story being told -- what information is the form trying to convey. The best movies merge these seamlessly. Think about Citizen Kane, whose message on the endless march of time and memory is bolstered by watery cuts, low, dramatic/weird angles, and flashbacks. Every aspect of the movie helps tell the story.


If you hit pause, what does this "photograph" tell you? What is the mood? How is the shot designed to be interesting (or not) even when the movie is paused?
What do you think is the theme or point of the movie? What evidence do you have to back it up?
Are there any original or weird artistic choices throughout the movie? Why do you think the director chose to use something unique or different in the movie?, Movies are enormous, collaborative efforts. Each department, even the small ones, must work together to make the entire movie a reality. As such, good critics and movie watchers take time to point out all of the parts of a movie, not just the obvious ones like acting and directing. When watching, take a few notes on:



Production Design: What do the sets look like? How were props and scenery chosen, and how do they add or subtract from the movie?

Sound and Music: This is easy to see when movies get it wrong, but ask yourself how the best movies get it right. Amazing sound effects and music pull you seamlessly into the picture.

Editing: When are long takes used? What about short, choppy editing, where the image changes 2-3 times a second? Each time an editor cuts, it is to give you new information -- are they succeeding?, How you feel about a movie may be the most important, but most neglected, part of any early review. Your opinions are important -- you just need to find ways to back them up with facts. Whenever you have a gut feeling about something -- "that actor ruined his lines," "the cinematography was incredible," "the movie was 30 minutes too long" -- don't just dismiss it as a personal preference. Find a way to support your opinion with fact:



"That actor ruined his lines." Maybe he made too much of a joke out of serious lines. Perhaps he didn't change his facial expressions, he seemed uncomfortable or out of place, etc.

"The cinematography was incredible." Talk about the lighting in certain scene. Find unique camera angles, or how several key shots commanded your attention.

"The movie was 30 minutes too long." Think about the scenes or sections you would cut. Consider the part of the movie that should have been highlighted instead, or why you wanted a certain ending instead of the one presented., Movies are not made in a vacuum. They are based on true stories, have complicated creation tales, and interact with current events. While reviews should focus on the films themselves, good critics tap into the real-life context of a movie.


Is this movie making some sort of commentary on current or historical events?
Look up the director's, writer's, and cinematographer's other movies. How does this one relate to the other?