 Many puppies like to den by wedging themselves behind or under furniture. Making temporary blockades around bedroom furniture such as beds and dressers can keep your puppy from hiding in a space it shouldn’t.Fashion blockades out of a wooden board, cardboard, or other objects such as large pillows and even wadded fabric. Placing other pieces of furniture in front of access points can also blockade open spaces.
Put a blockade between a box spring or mattress and the floor. This can keep your puppy from getting under your bed and not coming out. Close any small spaces exposed by dressers or side tables.;
, In addition to bedding, many people keep electronics such as TVs, stereos, or devices in their bedrooms. Hiding any potentially dangerous cords and wires can minimize the risk of injury or even death.Check for wires hanging from electronics including TVs, DVD players, stereos, lamps, and telephones. Take all cords, including power strips, off of the floor and keep them out of sight. You can do this by hiding them behind furniture or putting them on top of tables. Running cords through a cable-managing tube is another great option to hide them.Consider putting a cover over electrical outlets, unplugging electronics, and getting rid of frayed wires. This can minimize the risk of electrocution by chewing.
 Puppies are curious and love to play. Your puppy may see toys or other knick-knacks in your bedroom as chew toys. Small pieces are easy to swallow and choke your puppy. It can also knock over small items, possibly causing injury.Store toys in a closed closet or in a bin that your puppy can’t reach. Place small knick-knacks, such as figurines or hair ties, in a spot that your puppy can’t reach by jumping or pulling fabric.
 Many bedrooms have heating or cooling devices to keep you comfortable through the night. But these can also present a danger to a puppy. Cover and secure any heating and air vents or fans to minimize the risk that your puppy burns itself or gets too cold.Purchase your temperature control units with covers that you can get at pet stores and large retailers.
 You may have plants in your room to give it a bit more atmosphere. Many plant species are poisonous to puppies and dogs. In addition, your puppy may try jumping from nearby spaces to hanging plants. Move any potentially poisonous or hanging plants to a place your puppy can’t access. Some poisonous plants for puppies include:Aloe
Holly
Calla Lily
Ivy
Carnations
Gardenia
Sweet pea
Tulip

, Your clothing may have strings and/or embellishments that can serious injury to your puppy’s intestines. Put clothing items on hangers in closed closets and dressers. This can keep your puppy from accessing them and minimize the risk of injury from eating clothing.Keep your closets and dresser drawers closed at all times. This can keep a curious puppy from ingesting potentially harmful clothing items.
 Even items that don’t seem dangerous, such as shoes or clothes, can injure a puppy if ingested. Keeping your laundry in a tall and closed can keep your puppy from eating something that could harm it. It can also save special items of yours.Keep the laundry basket off the floor if possible. If not, use a tall and closed hamper if possible. You can also store the laundry basket in a closed closet., Puppies may see shoes as chew toys. This may not seem particularly dangerous, but pieces can break off shoes, choking your puppy or harming its intestines. Keep your shoes in containers, on a shoe rack, or in a closed closet so your puppy can’t access them., In addition to clothing, shoes, and other larger items, small or undetectable hazards such as buttons, strings, or toy parts may be in your bedroom. These can also be a choking hazard for a puppy. Cleaning your room regularly and spot cleaning daily can prevent your puppy from ingesting potentially hazardous items.Vacuum your bedroom at least once a week to ensure that you get any invisible items such as strings or buttons.
Pick up any clothing, toys, or other small items and put them in a place your puppy can’t reach them.
 Many people have a bathroom that connects to their bedroom. This can also present your puppy with all kind of potentially harmful items, including a spot to grab a “drink.” Securing your en suite bathroom can minimize the risk of injury or even death.Put cleaners, chemicals or medication in cabinets with childproof latches or on shelves your puppy can’t reach.
Cover your garbage can so your puppy can’t access chemicals, medications, or items such as feminine hygiene products. Consider putting the trash bin inside a latched cabinet.
Close the toilet lid to minimize the risk of your puppy falling in, drowning, or drinking water with chemicals. Consider placing childproof latch on the toilet to keep your puppy safe.
 The best way to ensure you’ve puppy proofed your bedroom is to check it from the vantage point of your puppy. Look over each area of your bedroom and note if you see any potential problems. Ask yourself questions including the following as you inspect each area:Is there anything to eat, drink or chew here?
How can I get at forbidden items?
Can I hide or get stuck in this space?
What items might fall, strangle, electrocute, or harm me?

, Every bedroom has a variety of nooks and crannies and potential items that could harm your puppy. After you identify spots that might injure your puppy, fix or remedy them as soon as possible. This can minimize the risk of injury and even death for your puppy.


Invest in items such as closed hampers, hangers, or outlet covers. This may cost you a bit of money, but could save you from expensive vet bills in the long run.
 After fixing potential problems in your bedroom, you may still have questions. Talking to your about your concerns can help you figure out additional ways to puppy proof your bedroom. Ask your vet about training and what alternatives to bedroom items your puppy may like. Take your puppy to the vet if it accidentally ingests something it shouldn’t from your bedroom. For example, “Hi Dr. Merker, Baloo got into my closet and ate some glitter from a shirt of mine. Can you have a look to see if he’s ok? Also, how can I keep Baloo from digging and prying my closet open?” Your doctor can treat any injuries and suggest ways to prevent further harm to your puppy.
 Dogs and puppies that are trained are less likely to get into things they shouldn’t. Start training your puppy as soon as you get it. This can ensure that your puppy doesn’t destroy anything of yours and protect it from potential harm.Consider using a professional trainer or taking your puppy to training classes if you don’t have enough time to consistently train your puppy.

