 It is important to know about Lucario's inherent traits and flaws before playing as him. While individual strategies may change over time, only an update will change these qualities.


Combos aren't his specialty, but they're still possible.
Forward-special becomes a projectile as he takes more damage.
His weight causes him to fall more slowly, thus leaving him vulnerable in air.
His up-special has more end lag than other moves. To avoid being an easy target, aim for the ledge instead of the platform.
His aura-based attacks get stronger as he takes more damage.
His power increases as his stocks decrease.;
, Lucario's tilts compliment his speed well. They are fast enough to ensure a hit, and they provide decent knock-back at higher percents.



Forward Tilt: A quick, 2-hit attack. At low percents, it's good for following up with a grab, dash attack, or smash. It can become a kill move when both Lucario and the opponent are around 150%, but not likely in competitive play thanks to directional influence. However, you can prevent their re-entry with neutral special.

Up-tilt: A circling kick. Its speed and minimal end lag means it can be safely used after shielding. You can also chain a few of them together; heavier characters are most susceptible to it. However, the knock-back is too strong at higher percents for setting up combos.

Down-tilt: A quick, downward kick that, ironically, sends opponents into the air. Like forward-tilt, it combos well into grab and dash attack. However, the hit box is small and the knock-back will be too great at higher percents.
 All of his specials get stronger as he takes damage. As such, he will rely heavily on them.



Neutral-special (aura sphere): A ball of aura that progressively becomes a kill move. By far his most useful move. Side-step dodge out of a charged one, back-throw, and release the full-powered attack. Expect your opponent to shield more in anticipation after you're done charging. Use that time to grab. The only downside is that faster characters can take advantage of the charge time.

Side-special (force palm): This is mainly used when Lucario reaches 50% and up due to its poor hit box and damage beforehand. If close enough, it becomes a grab that can kill at around 90%. Knock-back is determined by your opponent's damage rather than your own.

Up-special (extreme speed): One of the best recoveries in the game, while also being the most dangerous. It has more end lag than any of his other moves, thus making him vulnerable after use. Also, it deals damage, but only for a brief period before it ends. Lastly, its speed and power increase as your damage increases. This makes it even more dangerous because you have to manually guide it and it can easily jet over the entire stage.

Down-special (double team): By far the worst counter in the game. The animation provides enough time for opponents to block. It's also too slow to effectively use in the air. Despite all of that, it can still hit opponents who are off-guard. Its success depends on a smart prediction.
 Despite Lucario's floatiness, he can do damaging aerial combos. While not all of these are the most ideal for an aerial combatant, they're still serviceable.



Neutral-aerial: An aura-based attack whose hit box covers his whole body. Because of its end lag, it's best used as a short-hop set up that requires good timing.

Forward-aerial: The only aerial that combos into itself. You can use it after just about any throw. Though, the opponent's damage will dictate the knock-back, of course. Once that happens, use it to edge guard.

Up-aerial: A reliable follow-up to an up-throw. It can even kill if both you and your opponent are at high percents. Its poor hit box is balanced by its speed.

Back-aerial: Like other back-aerials, it can provide quick kills, more so for Lucario thanks to his aura gimmick. It can't combo into anything, thus making it a great closer to an aerial combo.

Down-aerial: Two quick kicks that do little damage. It's near impossible to integrate into a combo. With practice, however, you can use it as a mix up since it changes your opponent's direction and can be followed up by a grab. Just keep in mind that that's easier said than done.
 Not much to say here. Like most throws, they're good combo-starters. Though, they are better when your opponent is healthy. Also, none of them can kill on their own.



Up-throw: Aside from it being his strongest throw, it send the opponent up far, but not too far, thus making it good for setting up aerial combos.

Down-throw: It sends opponents further up than up-throw, thus making it less reliable. Other than that, it functions pretty much the same way as up-throw.

Back-throw: It slams opponents into the ground behind you. They land close enough for you to do it again, but a dash attack would be better. Though, a fully charged aura sphere best compliments it.

Forward-throw: It has the same perks and the same drawbacks as up-throw and back-throw. To some it's slightly worse, while to others it's just as good. It all comes down to individual playstyle and preference.
 Smash attacks are what Lucario excels at. When Lucario is at 70% and up, charging becomes more of an option. Also, each smash attack has different uses.



Forward-smash: While it does okay damage at low percents, it's a bit too slow to be used whenever. The aura gimmick does nothing to the speed, but it does increase both damage and knock-back. Sneak it in after shield or when your opponent is rushing you.

Down-smash: It's slow, but it hits both directions. If timed right, it can hit opponents just coming out of a side-step dodge. Unlike side-smash, it is usable at both low and high percents.

Up-smash: While not completely terrible, it's the least reliable. If you're at 60% or higher, it can cancel out down tilts, but even at higher percents it won't kill as fast. In addition to that, it's the hardest to hit.
 Contrary to popular belief, it's not wise to wait until your damage is high to take the offensive. As mentioned above, he is a lighter-weighted character so he is more susceptible to knock-back. It is much wiser to take the offensive as early as possible. Also, no combo is set in stone since they are highly situational. Nevertheless, seeing a rough example may help.Just keep in mind that it'll become less usable as either Lucario or your opponent's damage increases.


1) Grab.
2) Rapidly press A to rack up damage.
3) Up-throw.
4) Use forward-aerial attacks in succession.
5) Get close
6) Charge neutral special on them.
7) Grab again.
8) Back-throw.
9) Neutral special.
 Every character has their own unique play style and every experienced player has their own unique habits. Picking up on these requires actual experience. However, know that every character falls victim to the conditions of their weight class. Because of this, general tips will be more useful than suggested combos. Just remember that most are variations on the one in Step 2.


Heavy characters are powerful, bulky, and slow to both move and attack. They also have more landing lag.
Light characters are weaker, the least defensive, and quick to both move and attack. Their stats makes them reliant on combos more than other weight classes.
Swift characters are light characters that they are a stronger, a bit more defensive, and just a tad slower.
 They are the ideal opponents since they hit the hardest. You can play offensively and get significantly stronger from damage in no time. Even so, you do not want to get too hurt. The key to surviving comes down to these tips:


Their landing lag gives you time to set up a combo with a dash attack.
An alternative/follow-up to the dash attack is a down-throw into up-air.
Your smash attacks KO at 60%.
They dish out the greatest knock-back, so floaty characters like Lucario are more vulnerable.
Well-timed spot-dodges will protect against deadly tilts and smashes.
Use down-special just before their smash attack. Their poor speed makes them less likely to block.
Use forward-air more often than back-air.
When landing, use down-air to stop up-tilts/smashes.
Use forward specials at 40% to keep them away.
 They can easily outpace Lucario. This enables them to exploit Lucario's less-than-stellar combo capabilities. The best way to beat them is to exploit their poor defense, keep them at a distance, and disrupt their combos.


Fire a decently charged neutral special that will miss by a small margin. Just as the characters move quickly, so does the opponent's mind; use fear to break their focus.
Use partially charged neutral-specials to keep them away until you're at 60%.
Lucario can use their fast falls to set up combos.
At 60%, forward-special becomes a projectile. Use it to keep them away.
Out-predict them and use down-special. Its slow speed won't matter because they'll be locked into a pre-determined combo.
Their speed allows them to escape Lucario's combos easier.
Above all, play defensively.
 Swift characters can be seen as an unofficial subdivision of light characters. The only reason they are being differentiated is because they are Lucario's biggest threats. Much of the same advice for light characters applies here. However, these are Lucario's biggest threats (specifically Sheik and Zero Suit Samus).


Projectiles aren't as necessary.
They take the greatest advantage of Lucario's slow attacks with their speed and, sometimes, power.
Forward-air is your best bet when they try to get up close.
Before blocking/spot-dodging, determine whether the attack has one or multiple hits. If only one, then prepare for follow-up attacks.
It's very difficult to escape a combo once caught.

