 Your title will vary depending on what kind of book you are writing. Nonfiction titles can be creative, but should be more descriptive of what the book is about. Fiction titles can be more mysterious or creative. The title is the first thing your readers will read. The title needs to give readers some idea of what’s inside the book, entice, and be informative.If you have a nonfiction book like a series of essays, or a biography, your title should be more to the point.
Fiction or genre stories like horror, fantasy, science fiction, and mystery, should be creative and entice readers to want to know more, offering intrigue. Use words that are commonly associated with certain genres to start.
A mystery novel could use a title like “The Mysterious Road Forks”. Readers will identify this title with mystery, unanswered questions, and a plot involving a strange road.
Fantasy and science fiction titles can include made up names or places, or words of magic. “The Signal from Vandor” could be a title to a science-fiction book that tells of a strange alien signal from a far away planet named “Vandor”.;
, Every book, fiction or nonfiction has at least one major theme; and even nonfiction stories follow some type of plot. Write down what your themes and plot are in one paragraph. Think about what your characters do throughout your story. What sort of moral dilemmas do these characters deal with?


If your book is about a hero or group of heroes conquering evil, then your theme deals with good vs. evil.
Perhaps you have a fictional story that takes place in the real world. Are your characters dealing with growing older, moving on to another stage in life, hiding a secret, death, or something else?
If you have a nonfiction book, ask yourself why you are writing this book. Are you writing a series of essays about a specific event because you feel compelled to inform others? Maybe you’re exploring some aspect of history that you are inspired by.
Whatever kind of book your titling, write a paragraph that summarizes your themes and plots putting yourself in the reader's’ shoes. Knowing this information, ask yourself what you would want to see in a title for this book. Perhaps you want to know that it is a history of some event. Or you might want to know that you’ll be reading a coming of age tale.
Understanding your plot will also help to craft a title that doesn’t completely give away your plot. You don’t want the readers to know everything about the unfolding story within without having to open the book up.
 Where and when the story inside of your book takes place will help you dictate what kind of language to use in your title. A medieval tale may not use modern words or language. A spy novel set in the modern day may deal with hacking and computers. Your title should aim reflect these aspects. For example, instead of using the word “soldier” in a medieval setting, you may opt for “knight”.


Settings and time periods can also be a great place to start when titling. If your story were about a group of climbers ascending a large mountain, think about the words you could use based on that information alone. Words like “mountain”, “summit” “peak” are all precise nouns that inform and intrigue., Search online for titles that may be floating around in your head. Not only will you find out if a particular title already exists, but you may find further inspiration.


You don’t want to name your book something that already exists, especially if it’s a best selling book. This will make it harder for people to find your work if you publish your book.
Searching for phrases online can also point you in a new direction that you may not have thought of before. You might find that instead of using the word “tale” in your title, the word “adventure” or “fable” sounds better for what you’ve written.
 In addition to searching for titles online, go to your own bookshelf and study the titles of your favorite books. Think about, or even write down, a short answer as to why you picked up a particular book in the first place.


Even if you were referred to a book by a friend or read it in school, you probably saw or heard the title before you knew much else about the book.
Were you drawn to this book because the title intrigued you and you wanted to know the story underneath? Books like “The Great Gatsby” are loved in part because of the fantastic storytelling and quality of writing. But the title does the legwork before you get to uncover that story. “The Great Gatsby” gives you an idea of what the book is about. But if you knew nothing, “Great” sounds wondrous, strong, and compelling. What is “great”? Who is “great”? “Gatsby” is an interesting and precise noun. It sounds like a name, but it could be something else. A title like this is simultaneously informative, and mysterious. It’s only until you’ve read the book, that you can look back and understand the title completely.
 Some writers start with a title before a single word of the story has been written. The title informs the story and inspires how it will unfold. Other writers write the whole story and then go back and add a title based on what has been written. In either case, the title will usually go through some changes during the entire process. Start with a working title that serves as a placeholder if you’re still writing your book. The working title can help to keep your story on track in terms of plot development, character choices, and overall genre.


You might find that your working title ends up staying unchanged. But as the story continues you may also find that your working title no longer applies.
In either case, your working title will help you to craft a final one as you learn more about your book.
 Many titles come from your main characters, or the most important character to your overall story. Certain characters are known as the Title Character, in that the character’s name is in the title. The play “Hamlet” simply uses Hamlet’s name as the title, and the reader knows upfront that this story is about that character. “The Great Gatsby” does the same. John Green's “Looking for Alaska” not only provides a sense of mystery concerning the subject of the book, as Alaska could be a place or the name of a person, but it ultimately tells us that the character, Alaska, is the driving force of much of the story’s action.


You may choose not to use the name of a character in your title, but being to identify who your important characters are, and why each one is important to your story will give you options.
The novel “Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell” is a story that involves many important characters, yet the title shows readers who the leading forces are. It intrigues readers right away by not only the uniqueness of the names, but draws up a curiosity on what the relationship between these two is, and why both are important enough to be given the title.
 It’s always much easier to edit down than it is to have to add. Writing down ten or so book titles will not only force you to come up with several different, and unique options, but it will also give you room to combine a few titles into one perfect one.Try not to edit yourself while writing your test titles. You’re not committing to anything yet, so just free write and have fun coming up with fun, crazy options.
Don’t worry about word count too much here, as you just want to get your ideas out.
Try to incorporate different combinations of place, characters, themes, and action verbs., Look at your list of amazing titles that you have compiled so far. Star the ones you like best and look for ones that provide some context of the story that is within your book.


Read over your work. Are there any parts or phrases that jump out? Take out a phrase that is catchy, or grabs one's attention. If it is concise enough, you could play around with this phrase as the title.
Jane Austen's “Pride and Prejudice” is a great example of a title that tells readers exactly what the theme of the book is about, but it doesn’t give anything away in terms of spoiling the actual plot. This title is also poetic and an alliteration, meaning the beginning of both words start with the same letter and sound.
”Moby Dick” is another example of a great title that provides intrigue without giving the story away. You may not know who or what Moby Dick is before reading, but after, you’ll have a larger understanding of the meaning of this title.
 Specific nouns and actionable verbs which are more specific. Both will make your title sharper and more creative. Look at your favorite titles from your list and pick a few that really stand out to you. Now see where you can get more specific. Toy around with replacing generic nouns like “boy” “girl” “town”, etc. with specific ones. What is the name of the boy, girl, or town? Can you replace a word with a more specific one that provides further details?


Take for example “The Scarlet Letter”. The use of “scarlet” is much more interesting than simply “red”. “The Red Letter” sounds fine, but by getting more specific with what shade of red, you add a finer point of detail that makes your title stand out.
 Sometimes long titles are extremely intriguing and inventive. However, it can be harder to have a good book title if it is longer. “The Hundred-Year-Old Man who Climbed out of the Window and Disappeared” is a long title that works because it manages to be a story in itself without divulging the story of the book very much. On the other end of the spectrum, “Dracula” is one word that tells you everything you need to know.


The length of your title is subjective, but aiming for a shorter book title may be easier to do.
A more traditional, and often successful strategy is to use two or three word titles in an “adjective + noun” or “noun + of + noun” formula. Titles like “Game of Thrones”, “Lord of the Flies”, and “My Sister’s Keeper” use this strategy.
Additionally, think about searchability for your book if you are publishing it, especially online. You not only want your title to be memorable, but you want it to be easy to type into a search on both a computer and mobile device.
Nonfiction and more academic works can get away with having a longer title due to the nature of the book’s contents. “The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money” needs to be longer to adequately describe all of the contents held within.
 Play with contrasts, moods, and vivid language. A great book, and title make readers think about what the title truly means. The title has one meaning before someone has read the book, and another after, when that reader has gained the knowledge and insight from within the pages.Going back to “The Great Gatsby”; once you know the story, the title gains another meaning. Gatsby, to the outside world, is a great and mysterious individual. After reading the book, “great” takes on a new meaning. There’s an irony and contrast in the title. Gatsby isn’t truly a great man. Gatsby has risen to the status of greatness through dishonest means. Gatsby’s life is a sham, and the only thing “great” about the man is the story people tell. A third meaning to the title comes from Gatsby’s most redeemable character motivation, love. While Gatsby has lied, and is pretending to be someone else, the character acts out of love for Daisy. In this way, Gatsby is “great”.Not only does the title “The Great Gatsby” tell you who a main character is, what the book is about, and provide multiple meanings, but it is also succinct. When writing your title, try to incorporate as many of these elements as you can.
 Once you have a title you like, step away from it for a while and ask others for an outside opinion. Another perspective may be just what you need to perfect your title.


Give people a quick synopses of your story and ask for feedback on your title. Ask these people if the title is intriguing. Does it make sense? Is it too short or too long?
After you step away from your title for a while, you can go back to it with fresh eyes. Read over your work again and compare it to your title. You may find you have thought of something else in the meantime.

