 Your doctor will examine you and perform some tests in order to make a diagnosis. He or she will take your medical history and listen to your abdomen with a stethoscope.Be sure to describe your symptoms accurately and precisely to your doctor. He or she may recommend you have a blood test, a stool test, and/or a breathe test. These three tests can check for H. pylori infections as well as other potential causes and contributory factors.

In some cases your doctor might decide to perform an endoscopy. This is an examination which involves inserting a small tube, called an endoscope, down your esophagus and into your stomach. The endoscope has a camera to visualize lesions, and the ability to take biopsies to check for infections or other abnormal stomach conditions.
An alternative to an endoscopy is a barium swallow and X-Ray. This not as invasive, but is less accurate., Depending on your diagnosis, you will be prescribed medication which will relieve your symptoms by reducing the amount of acid in your stomach. This will allow the stomach lining to heal. The two major types of medication prescribed are:


H-2 blockers — Cimetidine (Tagamet),Ranitidine (Zantac),Nizatidine (Axid),and Famotidine (Pepcid)all work by lowering the amount of acid released into your digestive tract.Proton pump inhibitors — Esomeprazole (Nexium),Lansoprazole (Prevacid),Omeprazole (Prilosec),Pantoprazole (Protonix),and Rabeprazole (AcipHex)also lower acid levels in the gut. Some are available by prescription only, and some can be obtained over the counter.
Always follow the directions on the package or your doctor's instructions when taking medication. Do not take more than the recommended dose unless advised to do so by your doctor.
 An H. pylori infection is the leading cause of gastritis. If you have been diagnosed with one, your doctor will prescribe you a regimen of drugs to tackle the infection. This treatment is known as H. pylori eradication therapy, and generally involves taking a course of drugs which include two antibiotics as well as a proton pump inhibitor to reduce stomach acid and allow your stomach lining to heal.If you are prescribed a course of medication, be sure to take the full amount and continue taking the drugs until the end of the course.
For an H. pylori infection, you will typically have to take the medications for 10-14 days.