 While you can choose to continue receiving paper statements if you pay online, going paperless will instantly earn you 500 points. Therefore, giving up your paper statements will earn you $5 worth of merchandise at Gap and its affiliate stores.


This makes paying online the cheapest option. In contrast, you won’t earn any rewards paying by mail and will pay substantial fees for paying by phone.;
, Go to the Gap website. Click "Register" under the "Login" option. Create a User ID and password. Input personal information.


You will be asked to provide an email address, billing address, user ID, and to customize account options, such as whether you want to receive your bill online.
 Return to the Gap website and enter your User ID in the "Login" box. You will be directed to your online account where you can see statements, check your rewards, and pay your bills.
, You will not be able to pay with card; instead you will insert your checking account information. This includes the name of your bank, checking account number, and bank routing number.Your routing and account number will be found at the bottom of your checks. The routing number will be on the bottom left hand side. A string of numbers will be followed by a space. The second, longer string of numbers will be your account number., Click the "Submit" button. You should receive confirmation. Try to submit a day or two in advance of the deadline to be sure that payment goes through on time.


The payment will not post to your account for 72 hours after you finish the online submission., If you haven't received a Gap statement in your mail, call 1-800-GAPSTYLE (1-800-427-7895) and say "Credit Card" when you are prompted.


If you are having trouble getting a person on the phone, press 0 until you do. A Gap operator will be able to help you or transfer you to someone who can help you receive your statements.
 Write your Gap account number on your check. You should write the check out for at least minimum balance due, but you should try to pay as much of the current statement balance as possible.


Make the check payable to “Gap.”, The statement should include an envelope to mail your check with. Tear off the statement, fill it out and include it with the check in the envelope.


If you lose the envelope, address an envelope to: Gap/SYNCB PO Box 530942 Atlanta, GA 30353-0942., A standard denomination stamp should suffice. As of today, this sort of stamp will cost 49 cents., Mail is often not a reliable or prompt form of delivery. If you do not send the check a week in advance, you might be liable for late charges.
 You will be charged a $10 fee to pay by phone.To put this in perspective, you will need to spend $200 at Gap stores, to earn $10 worth of store points. If you plan to pay by phone, a Gap card will probably not save you any money.This estimate only includes rewards from points; Gap Cards do also qualify you for special sales. Still, you are likely to end up in the red should you choose to pay your Gap card via phone., This includes your billing statement and your bank account information listed on your checks., The number is 1-800-GAPSTYLE (1-800-427-7895).
 Say "Credit Card" when you are prompted.
 This will include your bank name, routing number, and account number. You can find this information on one of your checks.


Your routing and account number will be found at the bottom of your checks. The routing number will be on the bottom left hand side. A string of numbers will be followed by a space. The second, longer string of numbers will be your account number., Write it down so that you can confirm your payment or reference it later. If you don't receive confirmation, call back to establish that the transaction was completed.

