 It is crucial that you do not start the discussion too early or late, especially with expectant mothers. Expectant mothers should be in their third trimester before you start this conversation.


If you try to start the conversation right after a woman announces she's pregnant, you risk sounding insensitive. Consider the mother's needs during pregnancy, and wait until she is farther along.
If you wait too long after the baby's birth, you risk missing a vital window for the baby to start breastfeeding. Women should start breastfeeding their baby within an hour of birth.If you are seeking to educate people other than mothers, wait until the topic comes up naturally in conversation. Perhaps you are discussing another friend's baby, or maybe you read an interesting article on the matter.
 If you are a breastfeeding mother, you may start the conversation by sharing your personal reasons for breastfeeding. Perhaps you breastfeed to improve your baby’s health or maybe you do it to increase your bond with your baby. Either way, let others know why. You can say:


“For me, it is important to give my baby the best start in life that I can."
"Breastfeeding can reduce my baby's risk of disease and infection. Babies are so vulnerable, so it is very important for me to protect mine any way that I can."
“I felt as though there was an important social bond developing between me and my baby. Breastfeeding really helped us grow together.”

, Some people might be confused or put off by breastfeeding. If they have questions, do your best to answer them in a confident but non-judgmental way. Do not feel defensive. They are just curious, and by answering their questions, you can help teach others.For example, if they ask “Why are you breastfeeding instead of using formula?” you might say, “Breastfeeding will help protect my baby against sickness. It has been shown that babies who are breastfed have fewer allergies, infections, and skin diseases, and they are healthier over the course of their life.”, Some people might have certain notions about breastfeeding. Perhaps they think it is inconvenient, or maybe they worry that it prevents women from returning to work. Explain in a gentle tone how breastfeeding can be part of their life and schedule.


You can say, “Breastfeeding does not require you to wash bottles. You won’t have to pack formula before you leave the house. It’s really convenient!”Let working mothers know that breastfeeding is possible while they work. You can tell them, “You can always pump your milk and save it for when you are not around your baby. Breast milk can be refrigerated for up to eight days. You can even freeze your breast milk!”You might want to inform people of how breastfeeding might save them money. You can say, "Did you know that you can save up to $1000 a year by breastfeeding instead of giving your baby formula?"If a woman has reasons for not breastfeeding, do not try to convince her to do it. While breastfeeding might be right for some women, you should not lecture someone who is unable to do it.
 If someone makes a comment about you breastfeeding in public, stand up for yourself. You can use this opportunity to teach them about the importance of breastfeeding.


If someone asks you to stop breastfeeding in public, you can say, "I am just feeding my baby. It is important that they receive proper nutrients, and this the most natural way for me to provide that to them."
If someone asks you to go to go to the bathroom, you can say, "A bathroom is not a sanitary place to feed a baby. Would you eat in the bathroom?"In many English speaking countries, including the US, UK, Australia, and Canada, it is legal to breastfeed in public.If someone challenges you, you can say, "What I am doing is perfectly legal, and I have every right to stay here."

