 You may recognize these as the little pink curlers that you've seen in movies or your grandmother's house. They are super affordable and available at any beauty supply store. They come in many sizes, so get whatever size you want your curls to be.Not all foam curlers are pink, that is simply the most popular color. Any foam curlers will work just fine.
 Your hair should be freshly washed and still damp when you roll your hair in foam curlers. Your hair is more likely to hold the curl if it dries in place. If your hair has difficulty holding curl, add some gel or curl enhancing product to your hair before rolling it in curlers.
 As with rag curlers, it's easiest to divide your hair into sections before putting it in curlers. There should be three sections of hair: the right side, and the left side, and the middle. Hold each section in place with a hair tie.You will start with the middle section of hair, and then move on to the sides once you've finished.
 Start by opening the hinge on the roller so that the plastic clip is sticking out to the side. Starting at your hairline, roll a 1 inch piece of hair around the roller, all the way to the root. Once you reach the root, close the hinge over the rolled hair, and click it into place.Roll 1 inch pieces of hair into curlers all the way to the nape of your neck. This should take 4-8 curlers, depending on the size of the curlers and how much hair you have. At this point, you're curlers should be in a mohawk type shape.
After you've finished the middle section of your hair, roll the side sections of your hair into curlers, starting at your temple and working your way back. Each section should use 3-8 curlers.
The bigger the curlers, the fewer you'll need. The smaller the curlers, the more you'll need. If you have thin or short hair, you'll use fewer curlers. If you have long or thick hair, you'll use more curlers.
Tie a scarf around your head to keep your curlers in place overnight.
 To undo your foam curlers, un-snap the hinge of each curler and gently unroll one at a time. Start with the curlers by the nape of your neck and work upwards until all of the curlers are out. Your curls will be bouncy and close to your head., If you want messy, tight curls, do not brush out your hair. Instead, toss your curls gently with your fingers until you get your desired look. If you want luxurious waves and volume, brush your curls out. They'll look big and bouncy. Finish your hairstyle with hairspray.