 The symbolic meaning of the pyramid – wide base that narrows to a point at the top – parallels the amount of each food group you should include in your daily diet. Although the modern version of the pyramid takes into account physical activity, age, and gender, the original concept design was to illustrate that a variety of foods need to be consumed in differing amounts to maintain a healthy diet. Divide the paragraph into four sections by drawing three horizontal lines across the pyramid.
The base, or bottom level, should run the entire width of the pyramid. The next two levels should be split down the middle by drawing a vertical line in the center of each level. The top level, or peak, should be its own level.
Since there are a great variety of foods that you consume during the week, make sure the pyramid is large enough to enter multiple food names within the structure of the pyramid.;
, The food pyramid emphasizes five major food categories along with fats, oils, and sweets. It is important to accurately label each section of the pyramid because each food category provides some, but not all, of the nutrients you will need throughout the week. The bottom and largest level is reserved for breads, cereals, rice, and pasta. These are all foods made from grains, which requires the greatest nutritional intake per day.
The second level from the base is divided into two sections – vegetables on the left and fruits on the right. All of these foods are made from plants, which contain the essential vitamins, minerals, fibers needed on a daily basis.
The third level from the base contain products made from animals – milk, yogurt, and cheese; and meat, poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, and nuts. These foods are high in protein, calcium, iron, and zinc. The left side should be labeled the vegetable group and the right as meat group.
The peak of the pyramid is not a food group; rather, this is where the fats, oils, and sweets section goes.
 Section size and pictures give you a visual idea of how much of each group should be consumed, but placing the number of servings is a more accurate representation. Serving size is a good way to evaluate how much you are eating because the labels on packages at the grocery store are required to reveal the number of servings of all foods that you buy. The number of servings depends on how many calories you need to consume for a healthy diet. For example, 1,600 calories is enough for older adults and sedentary women; 2,200 calories is sufficient for children, teenage girls, active women, and sedentary men; and 2,800 calories is suitable for teenage boys, active men, and very active women.
These three calorie levels are labeled as lower, moderate, and higher, which accounts for the range of suggested serving size. You must decide which level you fit best under.
On the pyramid, label the grain group 6-11 servings; the vegetable group 3-5 servings; the fruit group 2-4 servings; both the milk and meat groups are 2-3 servings each; and the fats, oils, and sweets should be labeled as “use sparingly.”

