 One of the most important things to do when passing a kidney stone is to drink lots of water. Your urine should look light yellow or clear. If it looks dark yellow or brown, then you are not drinking enough water.Try adding a squeeze of lemon juice to your water to add some flavor.
Drink 8-10 glasses of water every day if you have kidney stones.Drinking cranberry juice can also be beneficial for kidney health. Its tannins can prevent infection and promote overall health.;
, Over-the-counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen, aspirin, and acetaminophen are often recommended to help relieve pain caused by kidney stones.If you can, try to take Motrin or Advil, which are both preferred by doctors over other NSAIDS.Check with your doctor if you are not sure about which type or how much you should take.
Make sure that you read and follow the product instructions as well.
 Drinking a glass of fresh celery juice may help because celery has antispasmodic properties. That means that celery juice can help to relieve any pain that is caused by spasms in the tissues in and around your kidneys.If you have a juicer, then you can make your own fresh celery juice with a few stalks of celery.
If you do not have a juicer, then try to find a local juice bar and ask them to make you a cup of celery juice.
Eat some celery seed, too. Celery seed is a good tonic and urine promoter., Green tea may help to treat kidney stone pain and it has also been shown to play a role in preventing kidney stones.Drink two to four cups of green tea per day. You can drink regular or decaffeinated green tea.


To make a cup of green tea, place 1 teaspoon of dried tea leaves into a tea infuser or teabag, place the tea in a mug, and then pour a cup of boiling water over the tea. Let the tea steep for about 5-10 minutes, then remove the infuser or teabag., White willow bark contains the same active ingredient as aspirin and it may even provide the same pain relieving effects. Try drinking a cup of white willow bark tea to get some relief from kidney stone pain. Keep in mind that white willow bark tea may cause stomach irritation for some people. Do not give white willow bark tea to children under the age of 16.To make a cup of white willow bark tea, place 1 teaspoon of dried herbs into a tea infuser or teabag and place in a mug. Then, pour one cup of boiling water over the herbs. Steep the tea for 5-10 minutes, then take out the infuser or teabag.
Drink one cup and then wait for a few hours to see how the tea affects you. Some studies indicate that white willow bark is as strong as aspirin., There are some homeopathic medicines that may help to ease pain caused by kidney stones. These remedies are often available in health food stores and well-stocked grocery stores. You can take three to five pellets of one of these remedies labeled 12X to 30C. Repeat the dosage once every one to four hours.Some homeopathic remedies to try include:



Berberis. Try this remedy for pain that is mainly in your groin area.Colocynthis. Try this remedy for pain that eases up when you lean or bend forward.Ocimum. Try this remedy for pain that is accompanied by nausea and/or vomiting., Phyllanthus niruri is a plant that may help to treat kidney stones and relieve kidney stone pain as well. Phyllanthus niruri works by relaxing the ureters, which makes it easier to pass kidney stones. This plant may also help the kidneys to excrete kidney stone forming substances such as calcium.