 Because kids can be very trusting, make sure they understand that even someone who seems perfectly nice could also be lying to them. If they don't already have a personal relationship with the person, there's little reason to connect with them online.If you're monitoring your kids' social media and internet usage, you can ask them about their friends. If you don't recognize the name (say, as someone you know your kids are friends with at school), ask them how they know the person. If they say they only know them through online interaction, you can press more about how their relationship developed.
Avoid being accusatory, and tell your kids that you aren't mad at them. You simply want to make sure that they're safe, and that they're making responsible choices about their online activities.
You also want to let your kids know that if they ever have any questions or problems with someone, or if someone online makes them uncomfortable, they should immediately cease communication with that person and block them. Make sure they understand that they don't owe anybody time or attention online for any reason.
 If you suspect that someone your kids are interacting with online is a catfish, you may be able to find hints of this by looking at that person's social media profiles. Check both on the site where your kids met them as well as elsewhere on the internet.Some catfish are very elaborate, and have multiple profiles across many different apps and sites. Some are only on one site, and you can't find any trace of them anywhere else online.
Often a catfish's profile will be relatively new, and may have few friends. They also may have tons of friends, but there never seems to be any personal interaction, or none of these people seem to know the person in real life.
You also should watch out for vague profiles, or profiles in which all of the pictures are selfies. Real people typically will have at least a few pictures of themselves with friends or family – a catfish typically won't have any pictures like this.
 When your kids get a friend request or other contact online from someone they don't know in real life, they should automatically figure out if this person also is friends with anyone else that they know personally.If there are mutual friends, you or your kids can talk to those people and find out more about this person. Ask them if they know the person in real life, if they've ever met them, and what they're like.
If there's a mutual friend who does know the person in real life, find out how they met the person, how well they know them, and how long they've known them. You also might want to try to find out why this person wants to be friends online with your kids when they don't personally know them.
Keep in mind that there might be an innocent explanation. For example, it could be that the person is going to be switching to your kids' school next year, and wants to get to know some of their classmates in advance. However, it still pays to do your homework if you want to protect your kids from online catfishing.
 Commonly used search engines all have a function you can use to search by image rather than by using key words. This type of search can be an easy way to quickly identify a catfish.Simply copy or save the suspicious person's profile picture, and maybe a few other photos from their profile. Then drop them into the search engine and check the results.
For a catfish who is using fake images, you typically will find another social media account or website with the same pictures prominently displayed. Catfish typically don't go to great lengths to find fake images to use. They may even be using pictures of a model or celebrity.
If you determine that the person is using fake pictures, talk to your kids about it and present the evidence to them. Suggest that they block this person from their social media accounts, and let them know that you are there to support them.

