 There are many different types of herbs you can grow. If you are brand new to the experience stick with an easier herb, such as bay tree, chive, mint, or parsley. More advanced herbs are oregano and rosemary. The hardest herbs to grow are basil, cilantro, and sage. Do not start out with difficult herbs if you have never grown herbs before. , Choose a pot with drainage holes. Use terra cotta to help the herbs breathe. The pots should not be smaller than 6 inches in diameter for individual herbs. If you want to grow herbs together, put two or three in a pot that is 8 inches deep and 10 inches in diameter. You can grow different kinds of herbs in the same pot, but don’t mix herbs that have different watering schedules, different soil needs, or are very different sizes. , Use high quality, organic soil. Different types of herbs like different soils. Chives and mint like damp soil. Sage, basil, oregano, bay, thyme, and rosemary like well-drained soil. You can buy potting soil that stays damp for longer or well-drained soil that stays dry at a gardening store. For growing rosemary, thyme, and basil, add eggshells to your soil. Put the eggshells in a food processor with water and add them to your soil. , Grow your herbs on a southwestern window, to get good light. If you can’t get enough light from a window you can get clamp-on reflector lights with bulbs. Place the lights very close to the herbs (about four to six inches away). Brown spots on the foliage means the herbs are getting too much light. Plants with long stems and very few leaves are not getting enough light and need more. , Herbs don’t need very much water. Overwatering herbs is the biggest mistake people make. Let the herbs dry out completely before watering them. Put your finger in the dirt all the way down to the roots to see if they are dried out. You will be able to pick up on a pattern of how long it takes the plants to dry out. To water your herbs put them in the sink and water the base where the stem and dirt meet. Let the water soak through. When the herbs are drained completely, put them back on the saucers. Never leave water in saucer or the herbs’ roots will rot. 