 Find a safe and distraction free space where you and your parents can talk. Make sure both of you have time to have a full discussion about dating. Starting the conversation is always the hardest part, but once you get started talking it gets easier.


You can say, "Mom and dad, can I talk to you about dating? Is there a place we could talk just the three of us?" You may want to make sure that it is only the three of you talking, if you have siblings, don't discuss dating with them. If there are other people there, they can make the conversation more complicated.
 Be as direct and honest as possible and remember to remain calm. Consider starting off the conversation by saying, "The reason I want to talk to you about dating is because I am wondering about it and want to talk to you about a few things." Your parents will probably appreciate that you know what you have thought what you want to talk to them about.


Write down what you want to say to your parents. You can write down all your thoughts and feelings and then circle the main points. After you have your main points rephrase them so that they are clear and direct. Remember to leave space in the conversation for your parents to talk. If your parents interrupt you often, calmly explain that you want to explain each point you are making fully, before the discussion begins. Say, "I have some things to say, but I want to finish what I want to say before we start discussing it together, is that okay?"

, You might assume that you know their views when you don't know for sure how they feel. Show them that you care about their feelings and concerns. They probably just want the best for you, and may need time to understand that you want to date.


At first you may find it difficult to listen because you are talking about that you really care about. However, if you can focus on what they are saying you will have a much more productive discussion.
If you are unclear about what they are saying or want to show them you understand them, you can reframe what they are saying understanding what they are saying correctly. You can say, “So what you are saying is that…” and re-explain their most important points.
 It is easy to become emotional and irrational when you are talking about things that really matter to you. Arguing will not help you communicate clearly and could end up hurting your chances of getting through to your parents. If you find yourself arguing stop and back away from the topic you are talking about and move on to a more neutral topic of conversation. If your parents start to argue and getting angry, back away from the issue and talk about dating at another time after they have calmed down.
 Negotiations are a process and they might take a few conversations before everything gets worked out. Work to find compromises that make both parties happy.


For example, maybe your parents will be okay with you going out on a group date, even if they don’t want you to go on dates one-on-one, yet. Also, if you are able to respect a compromise you have made with your parents, maybe later they will allow you even more freedom to date.
 Remember, you may initially feel angry, frustrated, or discouraged, and that is okay. Try your best to stay respectful to your parents, even if you feel frustrated. If you need to take some time to yourself go to a quiet place where you can be alone for some time and write in a journal about your feelings, this will help calm you down.


After some time has passed, feel out the situation and decide when/if you should bring dating up again. If you can remain mature and calm through the discussions about dating, this might show your parents that you are more grown up than they realized. If your parents say no it might be negotiable later or it may be completely non-negotiable. Whichever the case, consider spending more time with your parents rather than less. Your first impulse may be to pull away but your parents, however, maintaining a strong relationship with your parents is going to help you in the long run. , Continue to talk to your parents regularly about your relationships, either casually or in a one on one conversation. Set up parent dates where you can go out with your parents and catch up on life and how you are doing.


If you start having problems due to your relationship, have another talk with your parents. This is natural because dating is going to bring up a lot of new situations you need to talk through. Go through the same processes of communication that are described above.
You may have to talk through the same issues several times before you both parties feel good about the situation. Remember, it is a growing process, and working through dating issues in a healthy way may end up strengthening your relationship with your parents and your partner.

