 If you think you want to get a psychiatric evaluation, try talking to someone you trust. This may be a family member, friend, coworker, doctor, teacher, or religious leader. Having support from someone you trust can help you decide.For example, you may say, "I haven't been feeling the best. I think I may have a mental illness and want to get evaluated. What do you think about that?"
If you believe you should get tested, don’t let people discourage you. Your mental health and well-being comes first.;
, General practitioners cannot perform psychiatric assessment or tests. You need to see a licensed mental health professional. This may include psychologists, psychiatrists, and licensed social workers.You can get a referral to a mental health professional from your physician. You may also want to look up mental health professionals in your area.
 Thinking that you need mental health care can make you feel like something is wrong or that you are broken. You may think that you're the only one who has this sickness, and that you will be considered strange and different. This is not true. You shouldn’t feel upset if you help. Getting help is important so you that you can receive the treatment you need.


Many common problems, such as depression, are made worse by the feeling of being alone. Many problems like this are very common, so you are not alone. People who have suffered the same problem can help you understand it, and cope with it.
 Psychiatric assessments and tests aren’t intended to have right and wrong answers. There isn’t a way to study for them. They are intended to help your mental health professional determine your condition and create a treatment plan.Many of these tests are available online, but you should not look at them. This can skew your results and either cause you to be misdiagnosed or make you seem like you have more problems than you do.
 Though the words “psychiatric assessment” may sound scary, it is nothing to fear. Psychiatric assessment and testing can help get you a proper diagnosis so you can receive treatment and alleviate any negative symptoms or complications related to your condition., If you think you may have a mental illness, you may want to learn more about them. This may help you get an idea about what your problem could potentially be. You can check out books about different conditions from your local library, or you can search online. There are many reputable websites about mental illness, but try not to diagnose yourself. Remember, you need a mental health professional to diagnose you.


People with emotional conditions respond to situations in such extreme ways that they make things worse.
Those with behavioral problems has to do with habits of behavior.
Developmental disorders deal with handicaps that prevent normal mental growth.
Physiological problems occur when there is a problem with the brain that is caused by physical problems with the nerves or muscles.

