 It is important to choose a calendar system that fits your work style and personality. If you choose a calendar that feels unnatural to you in the way it is set up or how it functions, chances are good you will not use it.


Visual people work well with to-do lists, hourly schedules, and weekly or monthly calendars, which allow them to see everything at a glance.
Tactile people usually like paper calendars, color coordinating, doodling, and enjoy writing and being creative.;
, Offices and kitchens tend to be the primary locations for setting appointments. Scheduling meetings may also happen if you run into a colleague or friend while eating out at a restaurant. Knowing where you will use your calendar will help you determine whether to get a stationary calendar or a portable one.
 Keep the purpose of your calendar and your own personality in mind. What features are absolutely necessary? Which ones do you prefer over others, but you could sacrifice as long as the essentials are met?


Reminders help you remember that an important date or meeting is coming up. This not only gives you time to prepare for it, but can also prevent you from being late.
A note section gives you space to jot down miscellaneous information. It also allows you to draw visual reminders.
Task lists enable you to track your projects for the week. They can also provide accountability and encouragement as you reach specific goals.
 Calendars come in many sizes and formats. Look at your list of preferred features and compare them to the calendar systems available to you.


Wall calendars remain in a single location and provide a quick overview of the upcoming month.
Daily planners can be kept at home or taken to work. They provide a more detailed view of each day's activities.
Mobile devices are, by name and design, extremely portable. They also allow you to enter recurring events and can usually remind you that a meeting is coming up soon.
Printable calendars can be downloaded, personalized, and printed. They can also be saved to your computer and emailed to other individuals.
Online calendars are accessible from anywhere, as long as you have Internet connection. They also usually allow you to share your calendar with others.
 It does not matter which one you choose, as long as you commit to using it. If you find that the system you selected is not as natural a fit as you thought or hoped it would be, keep searching until you find the best fit.

