 Generic printers won’t work, and specific equipment will be required. You may even want to plan ahead if you hope to expand into a printing empire that does more than cards.


The printing system is of utmost importance. A simple inkjet printer may work for small amounts, but if you plan on printing thousands of cards a month, you’ll have to buy an expensive industrial printer or a high-end, color, laser printer.
Get a cutting machine. The larger the volume of cards, the more likely you’ll want to buy something industrial. Smaller orders may be cut with hand-operated machines.
 Design software is crucial to printing. Choose software that can handle and provide a wide variety of fonts, as well as intricate graphical abilities. Ensure it’s a program your computer can adequately handle without slow-down.
 You will need an ample amount of inventory that can handle normal, every-day orders as well as large, rushed orders from potential customers. Ensure you have a variety of paper type (i.e. thickness, weight) to satisfy demands.
 When customers walk in or visit your page, your finest works should be on display. Your most detailed orders filled with the greatest difficulty and beauty. Some older printing and cutting machines could be great eye-openers and conversation starters. Vibrant images of your best work should be easy to navigate to online.
 With all the printing machinery and paper in place, it’s important to draw in business. Let everyone possible know you’re in the card printing business.


Approach businesses in the area. Talk to their representatives, their corporate communication or branding personnel, and see what type of deals they have on business cards. Try to beat that deal and earn a corporate customer with huge orders.
You’re in the printing business, so print up some attractive flyers. Sell your business through your design, but don’t forget to include all the pertinent information. Put your flyers in business mailboxes and bulletin boards.
Put an ad in the newspaper, tv, and/or radio to reach a diverse audience. Write a concise, memorable, and professional ad that draws attention. Repeat customers may even turn into testimonials.
Cultivate your social media image. Ads can be placed on Google and Facebook, but managing your store’s accounts is controlled advertising that allows maximum customer interaction.
 Using your storefront as a means to attract business could be key to success. Having the right spot, however, could be the key to whether or not anyone sees the store at all. Consider the following concepts:


Choose a reputable part of town. The business should be somewhere with the maximum number of potential customers and professional clientele. It should be somewhere that matches what your business stands for.Consider the same concerns valid for future employees.
Consider how close you are to the competition. If another printing business is already established in the area, choosing the same location may be a critical mistake. Find a spot that has an opening in the market and similarly styled surrounding businesses.
Go where there is skilled labor. If you plan on hiring anyone to help out, you’ll need to be close enough to a pool of labor that can perform the job adequately. You may even consider poaching talent from other printing companies in the area.
Ensure your location can accommodate expansion. If you plan on expanding into screen-printing in the future, and you’d like to fill tons of orders, you’ll need enough room for new machinery, ink, fabric, and a variety of other items. Find a location that fits all your future needs.
Understand the local zoning regulations by reaching out to the planning agency. They’ll be able to tell you the difference between residential and commercial, as well as if expansion is allowable.