 If the files has been deleted, there's still a chance that the data is still there, but has just been set to be overwritten by new data. By not accessing the SD card, you increase the chances that the data will not be overwritten.


Until you're ready to try recovering files, it's best to remove the SD card from any device.
 Data Rescue 3 costs money, but is one of the more powerful data recovery programs available for OS X. You can purchase Data Recovery 3 from the website or through the Mac App Store.


If you prefer a free option, try PhotoRec.
 Insert the SD card into your Mac. If you don't have an SD card slot, you can get an external USB card reader or insert the card into a camera and connect the camera to the computer.
 You can find it in your "Applications" folder. Select "Start New Scan" from the main menu.
 A list of drives will appear in the Data Rescue window. Select your SD card from the list.


You may also be prompted to select the volume. Most SD cards will only have one volume, but if there are multiple volumes, just select the entire SD card.
 For your first try, select "Deleted Files Scan". THis will look through the free space to find files deleted from the SD card. If this method does not produce any results, you can come back and try a "Quick Scan" followed by a "Deep Scan". Click Start once you have selected your scan type.
 The scan process may take a while, especially if you are running a Deep Scan. If you need to pause the scan, you can click the Suspend button.
 After the scan has completed, you will be presented with a list of possible files to recover. Check the box next to each file or folder you want to recover.


If you performed a Quick or Deep Scan, files will be located in the "Found Files" section of the results.
If you performed a Deleted Files or Deep Scan, files will be located in the "Reconstructed Files" section of the results. File names will typically be lost.
You can preview files by selecting them on the list and clicking "Preview". Not all file types can be previewed.
 After you are finished selecting files, click Recover and select a location on your computer to save the files to. Click Open once you have found a suitable location.

