 Here is a suggestion on how to do that. Chain 14, then make 1 dc in the fourth chain from your hook (this counts as the first dc), 1 dc in each of the next 9 chains. Do a few row of 10 dc. Measure the length of your 10 dc row. Remember, length means from the first dc to the last dc of the row as these curtains are worked lengthwise.;
, Take the length of your window and divide it by the length of your 10 dc row. Take that number and multiply it by 10 (which is the number of dc you had in your sample piece) to get the the number of dc you need for your curtains.
 This pattern used 10 dc as an example only. If you used 5 dc and it measured 2 inches (5.1 cm) and the length of your window is 40 inches (101.6 cm). You would divide 40 inches (101.6 cm) by 2 inches (5.1 cm) to get 20, then multiply 20 by 5 dc which tells you that you need 100 dc.
 But you need to add 1 more as it needs to end on an uneven number to make the edges works out right. Then you need to add 3 more for the starting chain which counts as the first dc. So take the number you got above and add 4 more to that, this is the number of stitches you need for your starting chain.
 But this may not work for you as your window may be a different size (the width of the window that these curtains were made for was 37 inches from the top of the trim to the bottom of the trim with the curtain width extended a few inches below the bottom trim board) and your gauge may be different than here, as you may crochet tighter or looser. So it is best to check your gauge before beginning.


First row: 1 dc in the fourth chain from hook (this counts as first dc). 1 dc in each ch to end of row, turn.
Rows 2 to 7: Ch 2 (counts as first dc, here I experimented with ch 2 and ch 3, but the ch 2 looked better. Just don't do it too tightly). 1 dc in next 3 sts, ch 1, skip next st, *1 dc in next st. ch 1, skip next st*, repeat from * to * to the last 4 stitches, 1 dc in the last 4 stitches, turn. This gives your curtains a "mesh" look.
Row 8: 1 dc in each st to end of row, turn.
Repeat 7 rows of "mesh" and 1 row of all dc until the desired width.
 If you have the round type curtain rod, you can weave the rod through the top meshes of the curtains below the 4 dc on each row. If you don't have the round type rod, add more to the length of your curtains so you can fold them over at the top and sew to make the sleeve for the curtain rod to slip through.