 The Catholic Church does not set a maximum age on ordination. However, specific dioceses and religious communities do not accept applicants above a certain age. when there is a limit, this is usually in the range of 40 to 55 years.You must be male and unmarried. Widowers are accepted, but typically not within a year or two of the spouse's death. Divorcées must apply for annulment. Some Eastern Catholic Churches have different regulations, and (rarely) a married man ordained in another faith may convert and become a Catholic priest.
Homosexual tendencies and acts are judged on an individual basis, but generally make it much harder to enter the priesthood.
 Parishioners may feel more comfortable with an older priest who shares more of their life experiences. In particular, the priesthood needs individuals who demonstrate human, intellectual, spiritual, and pastoral qualities.If you can demonstrate these qualities in at least one or two areas, you are much more likely to be accepted by a seminary, have your financial burden sponsored, and eventually become ordained.


Educational and career experience may help, but your personal life can be a source of strength as well. For example, teaching, providing emotional and spiritual guidance, or contributing to your community can all help prepare you.
 Seminary provides rigorous education at a graduate level, which may be daunting if your school years are deep in your past. Talk to mentors in the church to find seminaries that cater to older students.You may also find a seminary specializing in counseling, teaching, or another area that fits your life skills.You may enter seminary without a bachelor's degree, but it will be more difficult to get in, and the length of your education will typically increase to eight years.
 After you complete seminary, a bishop can ordain you into the Catholic ministry. You will first serve as a deacon for at least six months. After this service, you may be ordained as a diocesan priest serving a parish or other local area; or take vows and live in a religious community.

