 If you know the group well, then you can jump into more controversial discussions. If you are new to this group of friends, then you want to proceed carefully. Try to focus your conversation on common ground areas, such as education, entertainment, travel, etc. Avoid talking about politics, religion, and other hot-button subjects, at least early on in the friendship. Keep it light.The girls may be the ones to introduce topics that you are not entirely comfortable with. If, for example, they start to talk about women’s health issues you may want to use humor to change the subject or give you an excuse to step away. However, if you feel comfortable just listening and your presence doesn’t seem to bother the others, you can always do that as well.
 The group of girl friends that you are hanging out with might go to a place where you don’t want to, or can’t, follow. If this is the case and you feel like waiting, try to find something else to pass the time. Or, if you feel like leaving entirely, that’s fine too, just don’t make a big deal out of it.


For example, if you are hanging out and the girls decide to all head to the ladies room together, then your best option is probably just to wait it out. Go take your own restroom break, walk around the area, or play on your phone to pass the time.
If the girls decide to spend a longer time in a setting that may be uncomfortable (or just really boring) for you, like a women’s clothing store, then you may need to consider calling it a day. You might say, “If you all want to go in there, no problem. I’ll just catch up with you later.”

, Your friends want a friend, not a mentor, a watchdog, or a sibling. Watch your tone to make sure that you don’t sound condescending or overprotective. For example, don’t pry too far into their dating lives without being invited to do so. Also, if you are older than your girl friends, try not to remind them of this too often. Instead, look for common ground.


If your girl friends tell you about a problem that they are having your first instinct may be to jump in and offer a variety of solutions. You might even try to solve the problem yourself. Avoid doing this unless they tell you that you can. It can come off as pushy and overprotective. Instead, listen to them and offer empathy., Be very careful pursuing a romance with one of your girl friends while hanging out with other girls as well. Showing more attention to one girl or flirting can create an awkward situation for the whole group. If you are romantically interested in one of your girl friends, act out your feelings when you are one-on-one with her.


On a related note, if one of your girl friends tries to flirt with you and you are not interested, try to be gentle but firm in letting her know. You might say, “I really enjoy hanging out with you and the group, but that’s all I’m interested in right now.”

, If you are nervous or anxious about being the “odd man out,” then try some relaxation techniques before hanging out. Take a few deep breaths, massage the area between your thumb and forefinger (it is a pressure point), or turn on some relaxing music. Remind yourself that they are your friends, so there really is no reason to be concerned., If you have friends who also hang out with these girls, then see if you can find out any extra information about them. Maybe you will discover that one of them really likes music, but can’t stand talking politics. Or, perhaps one of them might be interested in you romantically. These are good things to find out before hanging out, if you can.


You need to be careful about this and only approach trusted friends for advice or information. You might say, “I’m hanging out with Claire and Amy on Thursday. Do you know anything about them?”

