 Laser hair removal therapy is one of the most common cosmetic procedures performed today.In this procedure, a highly-concentrated beam of light targets individual hair follicles, destroying them. Hair generally stops growing back near-permanently after three to seven sessions.Pros: Quick, relatively painless. Widely available due to popularity.

Cons: Causes pain and redness similar to that of a sunburn for several days. Blisters, temporary discoloration, and other, more painful side effects are possible but rare.Notes: Treated hair falls out over about a month, not immediately. Sunscreen usually recommended to protect the treated area.

Cost: Varies; about $235 per session., In an electrolysis, a small, very thin probe is used to destroy individual hair follicles with a shortwave radio frequency. After, the hair itself is removed with tweezers. This method causes near-permanent hair loss after several treatments. Electrolysis is suitable for most of the body.Pros: Generally very minor discomfort. Short appointments, only a few sessions usually needed.

Cons: Can cause temporary pain and redness.

Notes: Be sure to choose an accredited, certified electrolysis expert. Poor technique can cause additional pain.Cost: Varies; about $25-$150 per hour.
 Unfortunately, for the time being, there is no truly "permanent" hair removal method. While the methods above can permanently end hair growth, they won't always have 100% perfect results. After a few years, some minor amount of hair regrowth is possible, so repeat "touch up" sessions may be necessary. Be aware of this as you make your decision.
 While both laser therapy and electrolysis are considered by the FDA to be generally safe when performed by a professional, there is a very small (but real) chance of danger with these hair removal procedures and others. For example, in a few isolated cases, individuals who used excessive amounts of face-numbing cream for their laser therapy treatment reportedly experienced life-threatening symptoms.For this reason, it's crucial to discuss these procedures with your doctor before agreeing to undergo them. Only your doctor can tell you for sure which treatments (if any) are safe and appropriate for you.

