 You might be able to get massage therapy through a medical referral. This is sort of like your doctor “prescribing” massage as a treatment and sending you to see a specialist. It will also make it more likely that your insurance will cover the massage. Talk to your doctor about a possible referral.Discuss your neck pain and ask if the doctor would advise massage. If she agrees, ask for a referral. In one study in Australia, about ¾ of doctors reported referring patients to a massage therapist at least once per year.
Keep in mind that, even with a referral, your insurance might not cover the treatment. While most physical therapy and chiropractic treatments are covered, about 90% of patients pay out of pocket for massage therapy.
 Massage therapy is performed by professionally trained and certified therapists and is different from a normal, relaxing massage. Namely, it will be more intense. Sessions usually last 50–60 minutes and can at least temporarily reduce pain and depression, increase range of motion, and minimize muscle tenderness.Call to book an appointment with a certified massage therapist. To find one in your area, ask your doctor or try the American Massage Therapy Association’s (AMTA) website.
Some chiropractor and physical therapy offices also offer massage therapy. Ask there, too.
 There are over 80 different kinds of therapeutic massage available, several of which might work for you. Talk with the therapist to decide on a plan of action. When you book your appointment, describe the pain and indicate that you’d like your neck worked on. He can then tailor the massage for your needs.Be specific about what the underlying problem is. Is your neck pain due to arthritis, for example? Perhaps it is whiplash from a car accident or a repetitive stress injury from work? These may have an effect on the strategy used.
Ask the therapist what techniques and treatments he will use and what they should normally feel like. You will want to know what to expect.
Discuss any other health problems you have. Massage therapy isn’t advisable for people with conditions like blood clots, osteoporosis, or hemophilia.

