 Pfannkuchen is a generic name for a sweet pancake (literally, Pfannkuchen) make in a pan either on the stove or in the oven.Pfannkuchen are a year-round favorite that can be served topped with any number of things from applesauce to powdered sugar and even peanut butter.


There is no one standard recipe for Pfannkuchen, with different variations among families and geographic regions.Some variations have fruit such as cherries, blueberries, or apples folded in to them.
Pfannkuchen is also known by different names within Germany including Eierkuchen, Flädle in Swabia, Schmarrn in Bavaria (which is a smashed up Pfannkuchen), or Pankech in the region around Bonn and Koblenz (called the Eifel).;
, Before you can make your Pfannkuchen, gather the ingredients you need to make them. The recipe is so simple that you may already have everything at home. If not, the ingredients are available in any supermarket.


For a Pfannkuchen that serves four people you’ll need the following ingredients: 3 large eggs; 1/2 cup all-purpose flour; 1/2 cup whole milk; 1/4 teaspoon kosher salt; 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract; 2 tablespoons unsalted butter; 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice (optional); 1/2 cup fruit jam (optional); 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar.The traditional topping for Pfannkuchen is either applesauce or powdered sugar.However, consider other options such as marmalade, fresh fruit, peanut butter, Nutella. Pflaumenmus, which is a delightfully spiced plum spread, is another excellent choice.
 Before you can enjoy your Pfannkuchen, you need to prepare it. Preheating your over to 400° F before you start mixing ingredients will ensure that you can eat the Pfannkuchen as quickly as possible.This simple recipe calls for baking the Pfannkuchen in the oven in a pan, such as a cast iron pan, at a temperature of 400° F. Other recipes will cook the Pfannkuchen directly on the stovetop. You can try cooking the Pfannkuchen using both methods.
 You’ll need to mix your ingredients together before you can put them in the pan and then the oven. It’s important to mix them in the order in which they’re listed so that you achieve the best results.


Whisk the 3 large eggs to combine them.
After you’ve whisked the eggs, add the ½ cup flour to the egg mixture. Continue to whisk the eggs and flour until they’re smooth.
When your egg and flour mixture is smooth, add the ½ cup whole milk, ¼ teaspoon kosher salt, and ½ teaspoon vanilla. Mix all of the ingredients together until they’re well incorporated and then set aside for a moment while you prepare the pan., Once you’re mixed the ingredients, you’ll need to prepare the pan to cook the Pfannkuchen. You can use any kind of larger frying pan, but a cast-iron skillet will give you the best results.


Add the 2 tablespoons unsalted butter to the skillet and then place it in the pre-heated oven until the butter melts.When the butter has melted, remove the pan from the oven and quickly pour the batter into the pan.
 You’re Pfannkuchen are almost ready and only need another few minutes to cook in the oven. The mixture in the skillet will bake up into a golden and fluffy pancake before your eyes.


Return the pan to the oven after you’ve poured in the mixture.
Bake at 400° F for about 15 minutes. The Pfannkuchen is ready when it is puffed up and a golden color., Drizzle your Pfannkuchen with some lemon juice and spread a topping of your choice from powdered sugar to applesauce. The time has come for you to enjoy your Pfannkuchen!


If you don’t like lemon juice, then omit this step from the recipe.
The traditional topping for Pfannkuchen is either applesauce or powdered sugar.However, consider other options such as marmalade, fresh fruit, peanut butter, Nutella. Pflaumenmus, which is a delightfully spiced plum spread, is another excellent choice.
Sprinkle with additional powdered sugar if you like.

