 Once your remove your arm sling or splint for good, you may notice that the muscles surrounding your shoulder and upper chest look a little smaller and/or feel weaker. If that's the case, then you need to consider some form of physical rehabilitation. Rehabilitation can begin once you are pain free and can perform virtually all arm/shoulder movements. A physical therapist can show you specific rehabilitation exercises to restore muscle strength, joint motion and flexibilityPhysical therapy is typically needed two to three times per week for at least four weeks to significantly strengthen an area that's suffered a fracture.
A physiotherapist can also stimulate and strengthen your weaker shoulder and chest muscles with electrotherapy, such as electronic muscle stimulation.
Most people return to all their regular activities within three months of an uncomplicated collarbone fracture, although age and previous health status are important factors., Chiropractors and osteopaths are doctors who specialize in musculoskeletal injuries and focus on establishing normal motion and function within joints, bones and muscles.After your collarbone and shoulder area heals, the associated joints may be stiff or slightly malpositioned. A chiropractor or osteopath can use manual joint manipulation, also called an adjustment, to reposition joints that are misaligned due to the trauma that broke your collarbone. Healthy free-moving joints allow bones and muscles to function properly, and reduces the risk of degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis) from developing in the future.


You can often hear a "popping" sound with a joint adjustment, which is not at all related to the "cracking" sound associated with broken bones.
Although a single manual adjustment can sometimes restore a joint to full mobility and eliminate stiffness, more than likely it will take three to five treatments to notice significant results.
 Acupuncture is the ancient Chinese practice of inserting thin needles into specific energy points within the skin to reduce pain and inflammation — helpful initially for a broken collarbone — and to potentially stimulate healing.Acupuncture is not typically recommended for healing broken bones and should only be considered secondarily, but anecdotal reports suggest it can stimulate healing for fractures and other types of injuries. Acupuncture has a very good safety record and worth a try if your budget allows for it.


Acupuncture reduces pain and inflammation by releasing a variety of compounds in the body, particularly endorphins and serotonin.
Acupuncture stimulates the flow of energy, which is often referred to as chi by practitioners of the art, which may be the key to stimulating healing in bones and other tissues.
Acupuncture is practiced by many types of health professionals including some physicians, chiropractors, naturopaths, physical therapists and massage therapists — whoever you choose should be certified by NCCAOM.

