 In addition to the effects, benefits, dosing recommendations, and possible drug interactions of the specific natural supplements you plan on taking, you should also know some general information before buying supplements:


Supplements are "natural," but they can still be potent substances capable of inducing considerable drug-like effects.Use reputable databases, such as the one provided by the U.S. National library of Medicine, to check herbal supplements for drug interactions. You can find this database here: https://medlineplus.gov/druginformation.html

Herbal supplements can be toxic if taken in the wrong dosage, or if they interact with other medications or supplements.
Supplement manufacturers are not required to run tests to prove the efficacy or safety of their products.
 You should always be careful with what supplements and dosages you take, but if you’re pregnant, currently breastfeeding, or are taking other medications it’s especially important to check with a medical professional. Supplements, like medications, can cause interactions with other meds or affect your baby.If you’re about to have surgery, be sure to tell your doctor if you’re taking supplements. Just like medicines, you might have to temporarily stop taking your supplements prior to a surgical procedure.Health claims about supplements generally apply to people between the ages of 18 and 65. If you’re younger or older, be especially careful with supplements because they may react differently in your body., How herbal medicines and supplements are categorized and regulated varies from one country to another. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates natural products through the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA). These safety regulations have no bearings on the same product sold in other countries.The FDA regulates supplements, but by different, less strict, standards than food and medications.Go to the library or search the internet to find out what organization is in charge of supplement safety in your region.
Products made in the United States and Europe may be more closely regulated than other countries. Supplements made in China, India, and Mexico have been found to sometimes contain toxic material and prescription drugs.When possible, buy herbal supplements from the U.S. and Europe, even if that means shopping internationally.
 The claims that manufacturers make about their products are required to be based on evidence, but they do not have to get those claims evaluated by the FDA. Other than talking to your doctor or pharmacist, you can do your own research before using a particular supplement:Call the distributor or manufacturer directly to ask them questions about the supplement. They should have someone available who can answer your questions.
The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) has a helpful website for shoppers, as does the Office of Dietary Supplements. Visits the websites for these agencies for consumer advice about using supplements safely. These websites also have a list of supplements that are being reviewed for safety; avoid using those supplements until they’re proven safe.
The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH) and the Office of Dietary Supplements (ODS) of the National Institute of Health (NIH) also provide helpful information for consumers.