 If you’re not using the sextant from aboard a ship at sea, you’ll have to correct your sighting for your height above sea level.We’ll discuss the correction later; for now, you just need to know your elevation above sea level.;
, The horizon mirror is only partially silvered, allowing you to look through it and through the sighting scope beyond it.The horizon line forms the baseline for the angle of elevation for the object you’re determining the position of.
Your sextant may not regard the horizon line as being 0 degrees. If it doesn’t, you’ll have to correct the angle measure of the object you’re trying to determine by the same amount as the horizon line error. This error is called index error., A second mirror, the index mirror, is mounted on the moving arm. Moving the arm rotates the disk the index mirror is on until light hitting the index mirror hits the reflective portion of the horizon mirror, making the object the light comes from appear to rest on the horizon.


Sextants designed for looking at the sun include shade glasses to protect your eyes from the sun’s rays.
 The clamp is a flip-lock that prevents the arm from moving freely.
 Make the adjustments gradually while swaying the sextant from side to side until the object just touches the horizon.
 You’ll need to record the time in hours, minutes, and seconds, starting with the seconds first to avoid errors.


Quickly recording the time is especially important if you’re using a sextant in marine navigation.
 You can read the angle of elevation for the object as follows:


The degrees of elevation will be at the center of the index bar (the part of the index arm the clamp and micrometer knob are attached to) in a window over the sextant arc. The index bar may have a small magnifying glass to help you read the graduations on the sextant arc.
The minutes and seconds can be read from the graduations on the micrometer knob.
 The angle measure you found with the sextant needs to be corrected for each of the following things:


Index error. This error is caused when your sextant doesn’t read the horizon as 0 degrees, but as more or less than 0. If your sextant reads the horizon angle as greater than 0 (a positive number), subtract the horizon angle from the angle measure of the object. If your sextant reads the horizon angle as less than 0 (a negative number), add the number of degrees difference to the angle measure of the object.
Dip. This correction adjusts for your position above sea level. Find your elevation in feet (if in meters, multiply by 3.28), then multiply the square root of your elevation by 0.98 to find the amount to correct the angle measure by.
Refraction. Light rays bend when passing through a substance; this bending is called refraction. The thicker the atmosphere, the greater the refraction. You can get the correct refraction correction for where you are by consulting the Nautical Almanac.
Parallax. You need to correct for parallax if you’re observing the sun, moon, or a planet with your sextant. This correction factor is available from the Nautical Almanac.
Semi-diameter. If you’re observing an object with a significant apparent diameter (the sun or moon), you need to find the apparent distance from its edge to its center. This correction factor is available from the Nautical Almanac.When all of these corrections are applied, you have the object’s angle of elevation.
 This occurs at noon, local time (standard time).


Follow the instructions in “Part One: Finding Angle of Elevation for an Observed Object.”

, The sun appears directly overhead (at zenith, 90 degrees elevation) at the equator (0 degrees latitude) on the vernal and autumnal equinoxes (the first days of spring and fall).


From the March equinox, the place where the sun appears directly overhead moves northward until the June solstice, then it moves back toward the equator until the September equinox. The latitude where the sun is directly overhead on the June solstice is the Tropic of Cancer, 23.5 degrees North latitude.
From the September equinox, the place where the sun appears directly overhead moves southward until the December solstice, then it moves back toward the equator until the March equinox. The latitude where the sun is directly overhead on the December solstice is the Tropic of Capricorn, 23.5 degrees South latitude.
If you are north of the Tropic of Cancer, the sun will always appear south of you at its highest point. If you are south of the Tropic of Capricorn, the sun will always appear north of you at its highest point. If you are between the tropics, the sun may appear either to your north or south at its highest point, or directly overhead, given the time of year.
 If the sun appears south of you at an elevation angle of 49 degrees, subtract 49 from 90 to produce a difference of 41.


If you are making this observation on either the June or September equinox, this difference is your latitude, in this case 41 degrees North latitude. If the sun had appeared north of you at this same elevation on either of the equinoxes, your latitude would be 41 degrees South latitude. If it isn’t one of the equinoxes, you have more work to do.
If the latitude at which the sun is directly overhead is north of the equator and the sun appears to your south at its highest point, add this latitude (the solar declination) to the remaining angle to get your latitude. If the sun appeared overhead at a latitude of 20 degrees North latitude when you saw it at an elevation of 49 degrees from your position, your latitude would be 61 degrees North latitude (90 – 49 + 20). Likewise, if the latitude at which the sun is directly overhead is south of the equator and the sun appears to your north at its highest point, you would add the latitude to the remaining angle to get your latitude.If the latitude at which the sun is directly overhead is south of the equator and the sun appears to your south at its highest point, subtract this latitude from the remaining angle to get your latitude. If the sun appeared overhead at a latitude of 20 degrees South latitude when you saw it at an elevation of 49 degrees from your position, your latitude would be 21 degrees North latitude (90 – 49 – 20). Likewise, if the latitude at which the sun is directly overhead is north of the equator and the sun appears to your north at its highest point, you would subtract the latitude from the remaining angle to get your latitude.
 Polaris is the brightest star in the constellation Ursa Minor (the Little Bear, Little Dipper). It is located at the end of the Little Bear’s tail/Little Dipper’s handle. If you have trouble spotting it, there are two ways to find it.


Sight along the two stars at the outer end of the bowl in the Big Dipper in the direction the bowl opens. These pointer stars will lead your eye to Polaris.
Sight from the Great Square in Pegasus through the constellation Cassiopeia (resembling an “M” or “W,” depending on its position in the sky). When the Big Dipper is below the horizon, this is a substitute method to find Polaris.
 See “Part One: Finding Angle of Elevation for an Observed Object” for instructions for how to do this. The angle of elevation for Polaris will be the same as your latitude.


This method works only for locations in the Northern Hemisphere, as Polaris is not visible for locations south of the equator.

