 Your form will depend on where you work. Visit this website https://www.afge.org/Join and click on one of the following to download your membership form:


Federal Employee
TSA Employee
D.C. Government Employee;
, Enter the requested information by printing neatly or using a typewriter. There is a short video on the website that shows you how to complete the form. If you have questions, call the following numbers:


Federal employees can call 202-639-6410.
TSA employees should call 866-392-6832.D.C. government employees can call 202-639-6410.
 State that you want to join the union and that you have included your application. Make sure to include your full name and telephone number in your cover letter.TSA employees don’t need to complete a cover letter with their application.
 Make a copy of the completed form and the cover letter for your records. Submit them to the address provided. You can also submit the form by fax.


Federal government employees should fax the completed form and cover letter to 202-827-7950.TSA employees should fax their completed form to 202-355-6491, Attn: TSA Membership. You can also mail your form to AFGE, 80 F Street, NW, Washington, DC 20001, Attn: TSA Membership.
D.C. government employees should fax their form and cover letter to 202-827-7950.
 On average, members pay about $14-16 per pay period to the union.Your dues will be automatically deducted from your paycheck.
 There might not be a union in your workplace. Send an email to the Organizing Department to discuss starting one.The email address is comments@afge.org. In the subject line, type “I want AFGE at my workplace!”

, Union members get access to several home benefits that will save you money. For example, consider the following benefits:


Mortgage program, which provides hardship assistance and low rates for refinancing your mortgage.Home heating oil discounts.
Special group discounts on home insurance., Union members get discounts for vision care, hearing care, dental care, and health club memberships.You can also get a prescription card that will save your family up to 25% off brand-name drugs and up to 60% off generic prescription drugs.Retirees can also get Medicare supplemental insurance, which pays for various coinsurance, deductibles, and medical expenses., As a union member, you can meet with a lawyer for a free initial consultation. If you go ahead and hire the lawyer, you can get a 30% discount on many other legal services., Join the union and save big on your entertainment budget. Union members get discounts to the following:


Six Flags
Hersey Park
Broadway shows
Cirque Du Soleil
Theme parks and resorts around the country

, Union members can save money when they travel. For example, you can get discounts on car rentals, hotels, and some airlines., Visit https://www.afge.org/member-benefits/ to read up about all of the benefits available to union members. If you have questions, call 888-844-2343 or 202-639-6941.

