 Here's what you must do.



"For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;" (Romans 3:23)
"Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:" (Romans 5:12)
"If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us." (1 John 1:10)

,


Jesus said: "I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish." (Luke 13:5)

,


"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3:16)
"But God commends his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us." (Romans 5:8)
"If you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus, and shall believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved." (Romans 10:9)

,


"For with the heart (core being) man believes unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation." (Romans 10:10)
"For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved." (Romans 10:13)

, I believe that Jesus Christ shed His precious blood and died for my sin. I am willing to change and turn from my sin. I now invite Jesus Christ to come into my heart and life as my personal Savior.
"But as many as received him, to them He gave power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on His name:" (John 1:12)
"Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new" . (2 Corinthians 5:17)

,, Read the Holy Bible, the guide and tool to kindness and the right path to eternal life. If you encounter questions, resolve them by asking someone at your church to help you with them.


"Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needs not to be ashamed, rightly dividing (aligning and applying) the word of truth." (2 Timothy 2:15)
"Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." (Psalms 119:105)

,


"And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive." (Matthew 21:22)
"Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God." (Philippians 4:6)
"However, they did not all heed the good news; for Isaiah says, 'LORD, WHO HAS BELIEVED OUR REPORT?' 17 So faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ." (Romans 10:17)


,


"Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:" (Matthew 28:19)
"Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching." (Hebrews 10:25)
"All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:" (2 Timothy 3:16)

,


"And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature." (Mark 16:15)
"For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel!" (1 Corinthians 9:16)
"For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believes; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." (Romans 1:16)

, Say:"Father, God, I change my mind and turn from my sin, reject all my wrong doing; I want your will, and I truly thank you for everything you have done and that I am now freely forgiven and can be saved from the penalty for my sins -- as a free gift. I know that you place a new life in me. Thank you for your gift to me of receiving The Holy Spirit in Jesus' name.";
, You must repent and be baptized in the name of the Father, the Son (Jesus Christ), and the Holy Spirit as a sign of accepting Him, for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the promised gift of the Holy Ghost. The five ways to grow your relationship with God are: praying to God, reading the Bible, praising, worshiping, and fasting. Also, through Jesus and the Holy Ghost/Holy Spirit we show God's love by kindness, forgiving others, making peace, having a faithful, loving relationship with believers (Don't live by feelings; judge no one harshly, not even yourself; live and walk in Christ's Spirit, in The Spirit of God in faith, hope and charity. So, live in the Spirit and "And I give to them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man snatch them out of My hand", Jesus said; that is safety, secured.) But, when you (in your mind) are convicted of sin -- repent, asking God for, accepting forgiveness, expecting consequences for some wrongs -- and going on as a Child of God, all in Christ Jesus' name -- with God as the one, true Judge of all things both good and bad. God's love is perfect and casts out all fear.

