 Since you probably need an idea where to go, this quest will also help you with that. Simply head to the spot in the middle of the map, just outside of the circular corridor area, and wait for a cart. When you see it, jump on, kick back, and relax as you are taken to the many sights and sounds of Navea for free. Once the tour is done, you get the nifty title of “Tourist,” which boosts your HP by 20 points.;
, Laura, the ambitious girl that she is, just opened her bakery. But alas, no one is buying any of her goods. Time to help her out. She’s found in the Trade District, northeast of the entrance, just across from the Guild Merchants. Talk to her, and accept the Loudspeaker from her.


Right-click on the Loudspeaker in your inventory to head to one of the three locations, then right-click again to actually use the item. Repeat two more times to completely advertise the bakery’s opening.
The first area is in the Residential Neighborhood at the west of town, right next to the portal to the Fight Club, specifically to the west of the small fountain there. The next area is at the west side of the large town circle in the middle of the map, and the last area is in the Trade District, north of where Laura is located.
After doing the three announcements, you’ll be prompted to return to Laura, and once you tell her the good news, she’ll give you a nice cake and the title “Sales Pitcher,” which gives you +16 DMG.
 Remember the small fountain? Head there, and go buy some matches from Matchstick Seller Wendy. Right-click the matches in your inventory, watch the cute little scene, and you’ll get the title “Light Bearer,” which boosts your CRIT by 4 points.
 Now that you have some idea of the area, time to further broaden your horizons and get a quest under your belt too. Head to the Trade District, next to the stairs near Laura. Talk to Delivery Person McArthur and offer to help him.


Run to the small Portal directly south of you and stand still on it. The portal looks like a huge circular pattern on the pavement and has a golden glow with a wing-like pattern above it. This specific portal will lead you to the Military Hall.
Run to the Military Hall, and into the small area that looks like a house with a line of bushes fencing it off. It’s found to your left and next to the large stairs. Talk to the singular lady knight, Military Officer Iris.
After delivering her package, run up those stairs until you see another portal. Use it to warp yourself to the Residential Neighborhood. Head east, and right next to the giant purple lion-man, you’ll find Aunt Dana. Hand the package to her, and receive the title “Express Courier,” which grants you a bonus 16 DMG.
Remember, this quest is timed and you need to complete it in under 2 minutes, so don’t take your sweet time to explore. The way described here is the quickest, and also introduces you to the local warp portals native to Navea.
 You probably spotted another quest at the entrance of the Military Hall. Talk to Policeman Hugh, and agree to patrol the area. Head to the outer portion of the “Central square,” which is the roofed corridor area circling the middle of the map, and somewhere in the northwestern part of the circle, you’ll spot an Annoyed Girl and a Drunkard. When you approach, the Drunkard turns aggressive, so beat him up. After the girl gives you her thanks, you’ll receive the title “Deputy,” which nets you a bonus 4 EVA when equipped.
 Head back to the Military Hall. Talk to Soldier Levi, who’s hanging out by the cannons. He’ll ask you to pick up some stuff for him, so agree to it. Now hug the wall south until you spot an alcove decorated with what appears to be furnaces. You’ll see a bunch of people there, but your aim is Craftsman Karn, who’s in the innermost portion of this alcove.


Talk to Karn, and after listening to his gripes, run back to Levi and talk to him to receive your title of “Personal Assistant,” which adds 16 points to your DMG.
 South of Levi is Training Officer Leroux. Talk to him, and after a brief speech, he’ll hand you some Training Weapons. Face the Training Dummy next to you and Leroux, click on it, then right-click on the Training Weapons on your inventory. Do this three times, and you’ll get the title “Private,” which nets you an extra 4 points to EVA.
 Head on over to the far northwest area, where the Sky Pillar resides. On the western side, by the river, you’ll find a man, Fisherman Taz, west of the Fishing Association. Talk to him and receive a Fishing Rod you’ll use for this quest.


Right-click on the rod, and a short scene will play. Watch it to the end, and you’ll receive the “Ace Angler” title, which nets you a nice bonus 20 HP when equipped.
 On the far northwestern area of the Sky Pillar, you’ll find a poor lost Granny. Talk to her, and she’ll start following you. Head on south to the Residential Neighborhood, then east until you reach the fountain next to “to Military Hall” warp. A short scene will play. With Granny safe at home, you’ll net yourself the “Good Samaritan” title that adds a bonus 4 CRIT when you equip it.
 Oh no, poor Mick can’t find his friends! Mick is found just northeast of the entrance in the Trade District.


First go directly south, in the small alcove directly west of Baker Laura, next to the stairs. You’ll find Kate behind some people talking, and you’ll be alerted by the game that you found her. Speak to her first and then be on your way.
Next up is Leah, who is found beside Auction House Sally, who is somewhere due west of Mick. Speak to her again, then it’s time to look for Allan.
The last child is found directly east of Laura, right on top of the roof. Jump on top of the boxes and barrels next to the stalls, then jump on top of the tarps of the stalls, then double-jump to reach the roof. After talking to Allan, make your way back to Mick.
When you talk to Mick after you’ve found everyone, a short scene will play, and you’ll recieve the achievement “The Seeker,” which gives you a bonus 20 points to your HP.
Do note that this quest is known to be horribly bugged: sometimes Kate or Leah won’t spawn, sometimes they both aren’t there, and sometimes even Mick won’t spawn. As of writing, many players have reported this bug, but the quest remains glitched. Sometimes, the glitch is easily fixed by exiting and re-entering Navea or by using a different channel, but they are not very reliable methods. Luckily, the dev company, XLegend, has already announced that they’re working on fixing this error.

