 Try to find the softest material you can find. After all, it will be going on "boo boos."


Something that measures about 13 by 13 inches (33 by 33 centimeters) would be ideal.
Use white, brown, or cream for a more realistic bunny.
A soft color, such as baby blue or pastel pink, is perfect for a baby.
Consider using your child's favorite color.
 Pick two corners that are opposite each other. Roll both of them towards each other until they meet in the center., Bring the two pointy ends towards each other. Make sure that the crease is on the inside., Grab hold of the two loose ends and bring them toward the fold/curved part of the U. Hold onto the bunny tightly.
 Keep wrapping the rubber band until it is nice and snug. This will make the head, of the bunny.
 Cut a piece of ribbon that is about 12 to 14 inches (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) long, and tie it around the bunny's neck in a bow. Place the bow to the left or right of the ears.


Try to use a ribbon, ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) wide.
The ribbon can be any color you want, but the bunny might look more interesting if the ribbon is a contrasting color. For example, if the bunny is white, use a blue ribbon. If the bunny is cream colored, try a pink ribbon.
 Use fabric glue to attack a small pink pompom for the nose, and two googly eyes for the eyes. If you don't have any of these at home, try one of the following options:


Draw the eyes, nose, and mouth on using a permanent marker. Make the nose pink, and the eyes blue or black.
Sew on a pink button for the nose, and two black or light blue buttons for the eyes. You can also glue the buttons on instead using fabric glue.
 Do not use a cotton ball. Those fall off easily and do not last long.
 You can use a regular ice cube or "reusable" ice cube. Reusable ice cubes are great because they are made from plastic. They don't melt like regular ice does, so they get wet or soggy.


If the hole is too small, you can carefully widen it with your fingers. This will move the rubber band closer to the front of the head.
 The washcloth keeps the ice from actually touching the skin, making it ideal for young children. To help your child feel better, consider saying one of the following poems:If you fall and bump your knee,/Ask for a little help from me./I’ll hold a piece of ice for you./Your boo-boo will be good as new!
If a boo-boo has you feeling crummy,/Stick an ice cube in my tummy./Hold it to your boo-boo tight,/Soon everything will be alright!
When the tears begin to flow,/From a bruise or bump or blow,/Boo-Boo Bunny is so nice,/In its tummy holding ice,/Gently soothing all the while,/Sadness turning into a smile.
Boo Boo Bunny is here today,/To help your boo boo go away./This funny, fuzzy, furry friend,/Will cool the hurt to help it end./She'll make the ouch go bye-bye fast,/So hold her until the pain has passed./And when the boo-boo is all through,/She'll still be here to play with you.

