 In fact, do not include references in a job application unless asked specifically to do so.


For many employers, contacting references is the next step in vetting a candidate after the interview. It requires a time commitment and thoughtful insight into the type of employee you would be.;
, Keeping it close at hand allows you to appear prepared if they ask for it.
 You will not turn in the same references unless you have to.
 Ask people to be references when you leave a job. Keep in contact with them online or by phone to keep the connection.


Always ask for permission before adding someone as a reference.
 While most reference pages only contain 3 to 5 references, it is good to have a master list on your computer.
 The majority of your references should be professional; however, some jobs may ask for both personal and professional. Personal references should not be family, but should have close contact with you via family or friendship.


Give priority to personal references with high professional standing. Doctors, lawyers, nurses, teachers and other community leaders may hold more weight with a new employer. You may use contacts you have gained in business organizations, volunteer efforts or membership based organizations.
 Your references may have moved to new jobs or new areas. Make sure you have their most up to date information before including them on any reference page.



The full name of the person.
Their current title and employer. Make sure you have the office address and phone number. Although you can give a home address if they are retired. The person's title is a huge asset to your application. The more important they appear, the better.
Include a phone number and email. Ask the reference what number or email they prefer to use for contact. If possible, avoid using personal emails that look unprofessional.
Determine the number of years you have known the person.
Write a short description of how you know the references and how you worked together.
 Think of the reference page as a continuation of your resume.
 Creating a table allows you to input more information into your reference page while still being easy to read.


Think of your reference page as an opportunity to include information that can improve your chances at getting a job. Adding a column to explain your relationship can give you preference over an applicant who simply included a name and address.
 Consider using "Name," "Relationship" and "Years Known" if that information is positive.


If you have not known the references long, consider taking out a "Years Known" column and splitting it into "Name/Address," "Title," and "Relationship."

,, This serves as an introduction that prepares the HR department or potential employer for their call.
 If possible, ask someone else to proof it as well.
 Do not give too many or too few references, or this may reflect poorly on you.
 They can also tailor their answers to the position you would like to get. Send them a thank you note afterward.

