 Sometimes, people who rely too much on technology get stuck in a rut where they just stay on their tablets or phones, spend too much time on the internet, or watch television. Put away the technology and try new things. Engaging in new experiences helps stimulate your brain.You can start with things you are comfortable with. Try a new restaurant or type of ethnic cuisine. Travel somewhere new, even if it is close by.
You can also try something completely different than what you usually do. If you aren’t active, sign up for a dance class or tennis lesson. If you spend a lot of time being active, try a painting or cooking class.
 Another way you can help keep your mind stimulated and get away from technology is to take up a hobby. Hobbies where you use your hands are especially good for your brain. These kinds of hobbies help focus the mind, boost your mood, and stimulate your brain cells.Good hobbies for your brain include creating music, drawing and painting, reading, any kind of arts or crafts, and home repair or building projects. You can also try dancing, martial arts, geocaching, writing, learning new languages, playing challenging board games, hiking and camping, or gardening.
 Many studies have found that exercise boosts concentration, learning, and brain health. Exercise also helps in the formation of new brain cells. Many people are so attached to technology that they don’t get out and exercise. Put away your phones, laptops, and televisions and get active.Aerobic exercise has brain boosting effects. Try walking, jogging, running, swimming, dancing, cycling, or a cardio class at the gym.
Low impact exercise can also be beneficial. Yoga and tai chi can help improve your mental functioning.
 Many people find nature to be calming and relaxing. It can provide a much-needed boost to your mental well-being. Find a local park, trail, mountain, forest, or beach, and spend some time outside. Use this time to hike, write in a journal, or meditate.

Some places may not have a strong phone signal. Do not worry, but do let someone know where you are going ahead of time. Get a trail map if available, and heed all posted warnings.

