 In some situations, overcoming anxiety means faking it until you make it. You can steel yourself to enter anxiety-provoking situations by repeating positive affirmations that empower or calm you. You might try:”When this is over, I’ll be glad I did it”
”It’s hard now, but it will become easier with time.”
”I will not let anxiety stop me from reaching my goals.”
”Feelings come and go. This anxiety won’t last forever.”

, One of the most common fears is of the unknown. When uncertainty exists you might be tempted to not make any decision because you fear making the wrong one. Turning anxiety into action is much more feasible when you practice visualizing a favorable result.


Let’s say you are hoping to ask the girl next door out on a date. You might beat the anxiety and give yourself courage by envisioning the result you want. Do this several times each day leading up to the big event.
Close your eyes and imagine greeting her. She smiles when she sees you approach. You have a witty comment that gives you a surge of confidence. Then, you say, “I would really like it if you go to a movie with me on Friday. Will you?” She says, “yes.”

, Anxiety can feel like a live wire in your body. You can’t sit still or focus. Exercise is a great activity to make use of this surplus energy. As an elixir of life, exercise offers a host of benefits like fighting off illness and helping you manage weight. One of the benefits most helpful to you, however, is its ability to neutralize anxiety and improve your mood. Thanks to feel-good chemicals called endorphins, you will feel more relaxed after a good sweat session.


Transform your anxiety into action by going for a run, lifting weights, having a dance party with your best friend, or going for a swim in the neighborhood pool., Employ your creativity to bring order to the chaos happening in your head. Making art can allow you to ease stress, express yourself and take your mind off anxiety. Any art form will do. Try your hand at several different types to see which one works best for you.


Consider painting, writing, singing, knitting, baking, or even decorating. You may find that this activity becomes a regular hobby for you to find joy and fend off stress.Get started in whichever way is most comfortable for you. If you want, you can join a class, but if that does not work for you, you can just install an art app on your phone or buy some starter kits from a craft store.
 It can be tempting to numb or mask anxiety by engaging in unhealthy habits. This only makes you susceptible to developing an entirely new problem. Rather than numbing your anxiety with alcohol, drugs, excessive shopping, or gambling, turn to these other positive coping mechanisms instead.

