 To use Dropbox, you will need to create an account for the service. To do this, go to the offical website and click "Sign up". If you already have an account for Dropbox, you can skip this step.;
, To sign up for Dropbox, you will need to enter your full name, email address and a password. To ensure that your files don't fall into the wrong hands, Create a Secure Password to protect your account.


If you have an account for Google, you can also use this to sign up for Dropbox. Some users may find this more convenient as it takes away the need to create another account.
 Once your account has been created, you can now sign into it using the same credentials you used in the previous step.
 If you have not installed Dropbox on your computer, a notice should appear. From here, you can download the ".deb" file used to install the software.
 After the download has completed, navigate to the location where you downloaded the file and double click it to open it in the Software Center.
 Once the Software Center has loaded up, you should be presented with meta information about the package. Click the install button the begin the installation.
 To install new packages on your computer, you will need to use your root password. Enter your password when the field is presented to you.
 Additional packages may need to be installed with the Dropbox client called libappindicator1. Click Install to install this package.


Click Continue to confirm that you want to install the additional package







, After the installation is complete, Dropbox will need to be configured a bit further before your can start sharing files. Choose: I already have a Dropbox account, and then click Next.
 To allow the client to use your account, you will need to use the credentials you created an account using earlier to log into the service. Once you have filled out these fields, click Next

, Typical gives you the standard setup, thus making it easier for new users.
 Click Next to continue the introduction select Skip Tour to jump to the Dropbox folder

, Before you can start sharing files using Dropbox, the folder will need to synchronize. This may take a few moments.

