 Go to a licensed mental health professional or a physician trained in ADHD issues for a confirmed ADHD diagnosis. This person will interview you to get a detailed idea of your past and current life experiences and challenges.Depending on where you live, mental health professionals might vary in availability. For example, in some countries with nationalized healthcare, mental health care is guaranteed if you wait a few weeks. In the United States, some health insurance companies cover a short string of behavioral therapy, but most require you pay out of pocket for mental health care. In other countries, you must pay out of pocket entirely.
Examples of professionals to go to for a diagnosis include clinical psychologists, physicians (psychiatrist, neurologist, family doctor, or other type of physician), and clinical social workers.
 Bring your health records to your appointment, as these may indicate certain health conditions that mimic symptoms of ADHD.It can be helpful to get a physical exam before visiting your mental health professional.
It can be illuminating to talk with your parents or other family members about your family medical history. ADHD can be genetic, so it is helpful for your doctor to know about your family's past medical issues.
If you are currently on medication, bring a sample of your medication and your prescription. This will help your healthcare professional understand your lifestyle, medical history, and current healthcare needs.
 Many individuals with ADHD experience difficulty at work, including time management, focusing and managing projects. These challenges are often reflected in job performance reviews as well as the number and types of jobs you’ve held.


If possible, bring these records to your appointment.
If not possible, try to remember where you have been employed and for how long.
 Your ADHD has likely been impacting you for years. You may have gotten poor grades or frequently been in trouble in school. If you can find your old report cards and school records, bring them to your appointment. Go back as far as possible, even to elementary school., It can be useful for the therapist to talk with other people about your possible ADHD. It might be hard for you to say that you’re constantly restless or that you have trouble concentrating.Only bring people you trust. Ask if they want to go before expecting them to go with you.
Only bring someone if you think it will be helpful. If you think you would have a better time with just you and the professional, then don't bring anyone else!

, Recent studies have shown a direct link between ADHD and the inability to stop eye movement.This type of test is still in the experimental phase, but it has shown remarkable accuracy in predicting ADHD cases. Ask your doctor about its relevance to your case.

