 Preheat an outdoor charcoal or gas grill to a medium-high heat setting. Oil the grill grate when ready.


If you're using a charcoal grill, fill and light one chimney full of charcoal briquettes. Once the charcoal is evenly covered in gray ash, spread the coals evenly over half of the coal grate.If you're using a gas grill, preheat the burners on one half of the grill to high heat. Position the grate in place, cover the grill, and wait approximately 5 minutes for the grill to finish preheating.;
, While the grill preheats, remove the husks from the corn. Rinse the exposed cobs under cool, running water and dry well with clean paper towels.


While rinsing the corn, use your hands to peel away most of the silky threads still clinging to the kernels.
You can technically grill the corn without removing its husks, but traditional elotes are lightly charred, and you won't be able to achieve that effect without removing the husks.
 Arrange the cobs of corn over the portion of the grill receiving direct heat. Cook them for 7 to 10 minutes, or until the ears are evenly charred and hot throughout.Use tongs to turn and rotate the corn every few minutes. The corn should be lightly charred over all sides, and rotating it is the only way to accomplish that.
Remove the corn from the grill as soon as it appears done.
 Pour the melted butter into a shallow dish. Roll each ear of corn in the butter, coating all sides evenly.


Alternatively, use a basting brush to brush each ear of corn with the melted butter, coating them as evenly as possible.
 Use a spoon or butter knife to spread the mayonnaise over all sides of each ear of corn.


Note that the corn should have a fairly light coating of mayonnaise. You only need to apply enough mayonnaise to flavor the corn and help the seasonings stick.
 Sprinkle each ear of corn with grated cotija cheese, chopped cilantro, and chili powder.


Apply as much or as little of these seasonings as desired.
Cotija cheese is ideal, but if you don't have any, you could use grated Feta, Parmesan, or Romano cheese., Serve the corn immediately, while it's still hot and fresh. Cut the lime into wedges and serve it alongside the corn.

