 Piano is a common starter instrument because it's easy to really see the music. Common in many cultures and styles of music, piano or keyboard is an excellent choice if you want to learn an instrument, regardless of whether you're young or old. Piano variations you'll be able to add to your repertoire later might include:


Organ
Accordion
Synthesizer
Harpsichord
Harmonium;
, From classical to death metal, learning the play guitar opens all kinds of doors into new musics and styles. It's had an impact on pop culture more than probably any other instrument, and is a super-popular choice for first-timers everywhere. Pick up an acoustic guitar to stay mobile, or check out its electric cousin to get started bumming out your neighbors and playing heady licks. Once you've got guitar basics mastered, you could also add other instruments to your six-string canon:


Bass guitar
Mandolin
Banjo
Harp
Dulcimer

, One of the most viable careers in music performance revolves around playing classical strings, in orchestral, string-quartet, or other settings. The instruments of the chamber might be right for you if you've got an interest in classical sounds. While they may have a stuffy reputation, these are still commonly used in folk musics and other settings all around the world. The classical strings include:



Violin. This is generally seen as the "lead" instrument in the world of strings. It's got an excellent range, is easy to hold, and is sublimely expressive in a way that few other instruments can even try to be.

Viola. Somewhat larger than a violin, it's deeper and darker in tone than the violin. If you have longer arms, and larger hands, you might consider the viola rather than the violin.

Cello. The cello is much larger than the violin and viola, and must be played sitting down, with the instrument between your knees. It has a rich, deep tone akin to a male human voice, and while it can't reach the heights of a violin, it is immensely lyrical.

Double Bass. This is the lowest-sounding member of the violin family. In classical or chamber surroundings, it's most often played with a bow, and occasionally plucked for effect. In jazz or bluegrass (where you will often find a double bass), it's generally plucked and occasionally bowed for effect.
 Both simple and complex, the brass family of instruments are basically long metal tubes that feature valves and buttons that alter the pitch. To play them, you buzz your lips inside a metal mouthpiece to create the sound. They're used in all types of concert bands and orchestras, jazz combos, marching bands, and as accompaniment to old-school R & B and soul music. Brass instruments include:


Trumpet
Trombone
Tuba
French horn
Baritone
Sousaphone

, Like brass instruments, woodwinds are played by blowing into them. Unlike brass instruments, woodwinds are played through reeds that vibrate as you blow over them. They make a variety of beautiful tones and are extremely versatile instruments to play jazz or classical music with. Woodwind instruments include:



Flute, piccolo, or fife

Saxophone
Clarinet
Oboe
Bassoon
Harmonica

, Keeping the time of most music groups is the job of the percussionists. In some bands, this will be provided on a kit drum, while other combos will feature a wider variety of instruments, banged on with mallets or hands or sticks. Percussion instruments include:


The drum set

Vibraphone, Marimba, and xylophone

Glockenspiel

Bells and Cymbals


Congas and bongos

Timpani

, People are making music with more things than ever before. You may have seen that guy on the street corner, with 5 gallon (18.9 L) paint buckets and saucepan lids, tearing up the rhythm. Drums? Maybe. Percussion, certainly. Consider playing:


iPad. If you have one, you probably know by now there are some truly amazing musical instruments that defy categorization. Tap on the screen and a voice emerges from a puddle of blue on a green background. Flip apps, and now you're playing a vintage '80s synth that cost $50,000 then, and $.99 now—and sounds better.
Have you got a couple turntables? To be a great DJ takes a lot of skill and a lot of practice, and anybody who tells you that's not music is wrong.
 As you can see, there are more instruments than you can shake a rhythm stick at. Some of the difficult-to-categorize are listed below:


Erhu (Chinese two-stringed fiddle)
Guqin (Chinese stringed instrument)
Sitar
Dulcimer
Koto (Japanese harp)
Bag-pipes
Ukulele
English horn
Pan flute/panpipes
Bagpipes
Ocarina
Recorder
Tin whistle
Fife
Quena

Mellophone (a marching version of a horn)
Alto horn
Bugle
Piccolo trumpet
Flugelhorn

