 During this procedure, the surgeon will remove the mole without making any incisions into your skin, so you will not need to get stitches. Instead, she will shave off the mole using a scalpel. The surgeon will likely use localized anesthesia on the area before she does the procedure.First, the surgeon will use a scalpel to shave the mole off so it is flush to your skin or slightly below the level of your skin.
Then, she will use an electrical instrument to cauterize or burn the area to stop the bleeding. Alternatively, she may use a solution on the area to stem the bleeding.
She will finish by protecting the wound with a bandage and giving you instructions on how to take care of the wound so it does not get infected.
Never try to shave off or surgically remove your mole on your own. This is a serious medical procedure and should only be performed by a certified physician and/or surgeon.
 Surgery to remove the mole is often the most effective way to get rid of it. The surgeon will make an incision and cut out the mole. Most moles removed by cutting with stitches are done in cosmetically sensitive areas where you want to remove the mole for cosmetic reasons.The surgeon will first sterilize and numb the mole and the surrounding area. Then, she will use a scalpel to cut the mole and a border around the mole. If the mole has a risk of being precancerous or cancerous, the surgeon will remove a larger border around the mole to ensure the mole has been completely removed.
The surgeon may use deep stitches or stitches on the upper surface on the skin, depending on the depth of the mole. If the mole penetrates deep into the skin, she may use stitches that are placed deep in the wound and are absorbed by your body. If the mole is not very deep, she may use stitches on the upper surface of your skin, which will need to be removed by your doctor once the wound has healed.
 After the procedure, you should care for the wound by putting a layer of petroleum jelly or Vaseline on the wound and a clean bandage. You should also clean the wound one to two times a day with water or diluted hydrogen peroxide.Continue to apply fresh Vaseline and a bandage to the wound after cleaning until the wound has healed.

