 Place a pillow under their head and a pillow under their legs. Cover their body with two large, warm towels.


It’s best if your partner is naked or wearing just underwear as you want to be able to massage them directly on their skin.
 Take some of your weight on your legs so you’ll be able to reach your partner’s back without straining yourself.
 This will help to warm the oil up and release the scent of the oil.
 Breathe with them and check to make sure they are feeling relaxed and comfortable.
 Lightly rub your hands over their shoulders. Start with light pressure on their back and shoulders.
 Roll the towels down to expose your partner’s upper and lower back and place one hand on top of the other and circle around their shoulder blades. Use the pads of your fingers to massage the tops of their shoulders, around the sides of their neck and up to the base of their skull.


Maintain a slow, even rhythm as you use your fingers and thumbs to rub around the tops of their shoulders. Squeeze them lightly to loosen them up. Then, sweep back down the base of their spine with a few long, smooth strokes.
If your hands tire easily, switch to your forearms. Have your partner sit up while you stand behind them. Place your right forearm on his left shoulder, with your palm facing up. Rest your left forearm on his left shoulder and use your body weight to press down on your forearm while rotating it in towards his neck. Repeat this on the other side of his body., Starting at the base, run up to the top and gently back down their spine.


Use your palms and run up and down their spine, gently increasing pressure every time you run up and down their spine, so that your hands soothe the muscles on both sides of their back.
 Petrissage is a kneading massage technique that involves using your fingers and thumbs to lightly knead the skin around the back and shoulder muscles.-

Form a 70 degree angle with your hand and thumb and knead the tissue around their back and shoulders.






You can also make small circles with your thumbs all the way up both sides of their spine. Be careful not to touch the bones of their spine or rub directly on their spine.Check in with your partner to ensure they are still comfortable and let them know you are going to also massage their lower back and lower body.
 Rub more massage oil on your hands. Use the palm of your hands to move up and down over their lower back, hips and buttock. The buttock is the site of a lot of stress and tension, as are the hips, so take your time and use petrissage or long fluid strokes to release any knots or discomfort in these areas.