 To begin, place all dirty laundry into the hamper, freeing up more space and quickly removing obstacles. Place clean laundry in drawers and the closet. Clothes are the number one culprit of clutter, especially in a child’s room, so make sure you keep on top of storing and sorting clothes.;
, Each article of clothing should have a distinct and separate space. Although it may be easier to simply store everything in the dresser, or everything in the closet, each different type of clothing should have its own place.


Place coats, sweaters, dresses, and shoes in the closet. These items will typically be too bulky to fit into a dresser drawer.
Place shorts, pants, and leggings in their own drawer, or their own section of a single drawer, setting aside a separate drawer or section for shirts. Do the same for pajamas, socks, and underwear. This way, when you need an article of clothing, you know exactly where to find it.
 The bed can serve as an excellent focal point for the room, and creates a useful workspace as you organize. Smooth the sheets, comforter, and pillow, and place any decorative elements such as throw pillows, blankets, or stuffed animals in their proper place. , Identify any unused or unwanted toys or articles of clothing, and place them into a designated donation bin. Donation items can look different each time you clean the room. Some days, you might find a large number of toys or clothing items your child no longer needs or wants, and other days, you might not be able to find any. Look for toys covered in a thin layer of dust. If dust has enough time to accumulate, your child has likely lost interest in the toy.
Similarly, look for clothing items that have remained folded and untouched through 2-3 weeks of laundry. These items are not being worn, and someone else may be able to benefit from them.
 Throw away or recycle any unneeded items, such as old school papers, food and drink items, broken toys, or irreparable clothes. Be sure to thoroughly examine problem areas, such as under the bed, under dressers or shelves, and in the closet.
 Everything should have a designated place, down to the last sock. As you glance around at all of the askew items, identify the basic areas in need of organizing and tidying. Clothes should go into closets and drawers, toys into toy chests, books into bookcases, and so on. , Select a basket for toys, and place between 5-10 objects in this basket, separating toys into additional baskets of 5-10 toys. Keep one basket in the room, and the remaining baskets in a closet or other storage space. Once per month, switch baskets. This will keep the room neatly organized, and clutter-free. , Books can be arranged according to author’s name, color, size, or subject. Ask your child how they would like their books to be arranged, have them help arrange their books, and place them back into their bookshelf.
 Although the tendency is to think less is more where school and craft supplies are concerned, children benefit from limited options. For desks, place only 2-4 writing utensils, and 1-2 notebooks, along with some erasers, paperclips, etc. Make sure all of the desk’s contents are age-appropriate.
For craft spaces, provide your child with 2-3 types of writing utensil (a box of crayons, a single set of watercolors, and a handful of markers, for instance), and some construction paper.
Keep hazardous materials such as glue and scissors on a high shelf easily accessible to you, but impossible for your child to reach.
 You might be tempted to hold onto sentimental items, but these can stack up quickly and create a mess. If you came across several broken toys, torn-up books, or damaged clothing items, either set them aside to be fixed, or place them in your trash or recycle bin.


The most common source of clutter is surplus. Taken inventory of your child’s room, and set aside duplicate items, as well as waste and donation objects; children do not need the same toy in five different colors or incarnations.
 Remove errant items from the closet, under the bed, and all surfaces in your child’s room. Place rogue toys, escaped books, or neglected pillows on or in their designated space.
 Rather than doing an all-over organization every month, rotate your area of focus each week. Take 10-15 minutes per week, and focus on the desk one week, following by the closet the next, and so forth. This will keep the room tidy and organized, without the need to set aside a large chunk of time. , Show your child age-appropriate chores, and encourage them to engage in these chores every day. A toddler can be encouraged to fold their pajamas and make their beds each morning.
A school-age child is capable of putting books away, arranging work areas, and putting laundry away.
Children 7 and older are capable of helping with laundry, throwing away trash, and performing routine cleaning tasks.

