 This can be done either on your computer or in physical file folders. Choose whichever one you want, or you could even use both, so you have a back-up. Make and label one file folder for each of the following categories:


Goals/Deadlines: Even if you don't have a publisher or editor breathing down your neck, it's a good idea to create personal goals and deadlines for completion. Create a master list for your folder and update both calendars if anything changes. For example, if you have an interview with a veterinarian, place that on the calendars and review your master list as to how that alters your goals.
Characters: One for each major, secondary, and recurring minor characters as well as another for a "master character list." If your story is one that has character "types" (such as aliens or monsters) make a folder for those as well.
Maps/Settings: Not just for large scale settings (such as a "story world" map so you can differentiate between galaxy sectors in a sci-fi tale or which neighbor lives next door to the other one) but for each major household so you don't have your main character with the master bedroom on the first floor in one chapter, and then five chapters later it's on the second or third floor.
Scenes: One for your "Master Scene List" (see tips) for a quick overview and one for each scene in your novel. You may eventually wish to combine scenes into chapter sections, but until you're sure exactly what form your novel is going to take this technique makes it easier to mix and match until the novel is solid.
Research: Start with a list of questions on areas in your novel that you are unsure about and use secondary (encyclopedia etc.) as well as primary resources that you can frequently acquire through a few phone calls whether by using the phone book or by contacts you know from work or your personal life.
 File major categories (character, etc) alphabetically and then by sub-categories (specific characters). If you're doing this on your computer, do the same thing - make one large folder with your novel title, and then inside of that, make many smaller folders.
 Have dictionaries, thesauruses, books, etc. on hand so that you don't spend an hour looking for them should you need them while writing your book.
 To get an idea of whether or not your novel has the "right stuff" start with a rough outline or "Master Scene List". To do this, write the numbers 1-30, list style (skipping a line for each number) on a piece of paper. By number 1, write a sentence or two about your opening scene. By number 30, write a sentence or two about your closing scene. Now that you know how your novel starts and the general direction you're headed in, write a sentence or two for the remaining numbers.
 The point of this kit is so you can grab needed supplies whenever you leave the house. You never know when you'll run across a reference source, be inspired, or, more importantly, be able to grab a few extra moments to work on a bit of your novel. For your "On the Go" Kit, you'll need to place the following inside of a tote bag or briefcase:


Paperback dictionary
Spiral notebooks
Tape recorder and peripherals
Various office supplies (pens, pencils, erasers, etc.)
Small calendar

, Brainstorming can allow for the introduction of new ideas that weren't an original part of your plan. They can also help you get over writer's block at any stage of the writing process.
 Go somewhere you enjoy being, such as a local coffee house with a great vibe, the beach, the woods, your favorite reading corner. It's important to feel comfortable and at peace. If you're working with a friend or group of friends, find a place where you all feel comfortable and can speak freely without feeling self-conscious.


Even when resting you can brainstorm. Lie down when you're tired and think about your novel and let the ideas run freely.
 Let the ideas flow freely, and don't stifle any of them. You never know which newly surfaced idea might develop further. Record all of the ideas as best you can (writing, recording on a device, filming, etc.).
 Which ideas have traction? Allow these ones to flourish and turn into real elements within your novel.
