 If the babies you are caring for have a mother, she will likely keep them alive. However, female mice are often careless towards their young, may abandon a litter, and may even eat some of their offspring.If the mother stops feeding her young, or if she eats any babies, place her in a separate cage
If the mother is aggressive or does not care for the infants, you will need to feed and care for them yourself.;
, If you know where to find another nursing female, she may accept the orphaned baby mice as her own.This is the best option, both psychologically and physically, for the babies but it is not always possible, especially if they are over 1.5 weeks old.


Quickly find a nursing mother from a pet store or breeder.
Rub the foster babies with bedding from the new mother’s cage to let them absorb her smells.Place the babies in the mother’s tank.
Keep an eye out for signs of aggression, excessive squeaking, or abandonment.
 Even if a biological or surrogate mother is taking care of the newborn mice, diarrhea and dehydration are common problems you may encounter when raising newborn mice.Dehydration occurs alongside diarrhea and can kill the babies if not treated.


A swollen tummy, lethargy, and yellowish discharge from the anus are signs of diarrhea.Replace the mother’s milk or formula with an electrolyte solution for human infants.
Take the babies to a vet to ensure they are healthy.
 Your local pet store will carry many different formula options, such as Kitten Milk Replacer or Esbilac, that can be used to feed baby mice.Human formulas Enfamil (the kind without iron) and Soyalac can also be used. Whole, raw goats milk will nourish the babies as well.


Slightly warm the formula or milk before feeding; do not use hot or cold formula.
Powered formulas will need to be mixed with water per the directions on the container.
 You can also use an eyedropper. If you are using a syringe or bottle, suck liquid up into the container to prepare for feeding. If you are using string, simply dip it into the formula until it is dripping.
 Take care to not squeeze the syringe or bottle with much force. If you see liquid bubbling from their noses, stop feeding immediately.When the mice have round, full tummies, they do not need any more food.
 Mice ages 0-1 week need feedings 6-8 times a day; mice 1-2 weeks need feedings 5-6 times a day; mice 2-3 weeks need feedings 4 times a day; and mice 4 weeks old only need feedings 3 times a day.Space each feeding a couple of hours apart. You will also have to feed the mice during the night.
 A small amount of liquid will come out, but if the baby is dehydrated, nothing may come out. Rub until there is no more liquid.

When the mice appear to be getting stronger, try feeding them regular rodent pellets.
 Pet supply stores have rodent chow available, whether it comes in blocks or pellets. Choose a formula that is 16% protein, 18% fiber, and less than 4% fat to raise healthy mice.You no longer have to wet the pellets.
You can provide apples, bananas, broccoli, and other snacks, but remember that mice have tiny stomachs and should not overeat.
Mice usually drink 3-7 ml of water per day.Hang a small animal water bottle in the cage, and keep it filled.
Before, the mice were getting water from their food, but now they eat dry food, and the water bottle is necessary.
 Your local pet store will have many cages to choose from, but be sure to buy one big enough.
 Mouse cages should not provide spaces where the mice can escape and should have a solid floor (without wire grates). Plastic cages will often become damaged after cleaning, so opt instead for metal and glass cages or aquariums that can withstand thorough cleanings.


Mice are very good at chewing, so choose a cage without protruding parts and wires the mice can chew on.
Provide hiding spots for the mice, such as small boxes or cardboard tubes.
Using a cardboard box for the babies is only a temporary option, as mice will quickly learn to chew through the box and escape.
 Wood shavings or shredded, recycled paper products will suffice.Avoid cedar and pine shavings. Clean the bedding as soon as it is soiled, which can be as often as twice a day, and disinfect the entire cage every three to four weeks., This will keep the babies warm and comfortable. Use your at-home heater and air conditioner to monitor the temperature.

