 Do you want to use it to enhance your business? Are you looking to start a new relationship? Are you wanting to use it to make or connect with old friends.


Each objective will require you to tailor the next instructions to your specific need, but putting yourself out there is the first step to success.;
,


Log-in your information and open an account on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Other sites you might consider later include YouTube to post your videos, Flickr to post your photographs, digg, meetup or de.licio.us.
If you enjoy writing, consider a free blog on a site such as Wordpress.com as well. Blogs require time and dedication to maintain, so only commit to one if you think you can devote the time to it.



Be truthful. That is a golden rule. The objective is not to misrepresent yourself. Instead it is to make your credentials shine, to network and to build connections based on mutual respect, not lies.
Be thorough. By including such details such as your high school, college and place of employment, you can access friend request tools that let you target specifically the people from your past and present.
Be witty. Whether you are looking to find a mate, looking to impress co-workers or trying to stand out online, use your creative skills to make a positive impression when describing yourself.
 They say that a picture says a thousand words, and this especially holds true when making online first impressions.


Ask a friend or family member to take a headshot for you. Don't hold the camera phone a foot from your face and snap your own pic. Don't hold the camera phone to the mirror and take your picture that way either. Instead, choose a good background like the woods, or a grassy area, and have someone take your headshot looking down at you. This angle will help avoid a double chin, and it gives you a subtle background that rocks your profile picture.



On Facebook, you can friend request anyone, but it is up to them whether or not to accept your friend request. Facebook also has other tools such as searching through your email accounts to send messages to your friends to network with you. You can also search by your high school or college to make additional connections.
On Facebook, once you start making connections, the software will begin to recommend people that it thinks you might want to be friends with based on who has already friended you. This is a great way to build your connections.
On Twitter, you can "follow" anyone's Twitter feeds that you would like. Most people will follow you back if you choose to follow their site, so following a large amount of people is the first step to getting your own followers.
LinkedIn is based on existing connections, so it will only allow you to connect with people that you know. If there is someone that you would like to connect with, though, you can simply message a current contact to make the electronic introduction for you.
 No one wants to know that you just ate a sandwich, but if you ate a sandwich at a popular new deli and wanted to rave about the establishment, that makes it a meaningful comment.
