 Resetting your Android will revert it to its factory settings and delete all of the data on it. Make sure to back up anything that you want to save before proceeding with the factory reset.


Open the Settings app and tap "Backup & reset" to see your backup options. You can back up most data to your Google account, including contacts and other settings.
Photos will need to be backed up to your computer or to your Google Photos account. See Transfer Photos from Android to Computer for instructions.
 You can reset your Android device from the Settings app. Note that the following instructions may vary slightly depending on your Android model and manufacturer, but the process is generally the same. If you can't access the Settings app because you are locked out of the device, see the last step of this section.


Select "Backup & reset." You can usually find this in the "Personal" section.
Tap "Factory data reset" and confirm. This will begin erasing all of the data on the Android and will allow you to setup the device as if it just came out of the box.
 If you can't access your Android device because you're locked out, or it's been lost and you want to wipe it remotely, you can use the Android Device Manager.


Visit google.com/android/devicemanager or open the Android Device Manager app on another Android device and log in with your Google account.
Click the "Erase" button in your Android device's card. Confirm that you want to erase the device.
 If you can't access your Android device and can't use Android Device Manager, you can reset your Android using Recovery Mode.


Turn your Android phone completely off.
Press and hold the Recovery Mode buttons. These vary depending on your device, but the most common combinations are Volume Up + Home + Power or Volume Down + Power. Continue holding these buttons until the Recovery Mode logo appears.
Use the volume buttons to navigate the recovery menu and the Power button to make selections.
Select "recovery" and then "wipe data/factory reset."

, Newer Android devices have an Activation Lock that ties the phone to the owner's Google account. This prevents a thief from activating a stolen Android phone. If you are prompted, you will need to enter the password for the Google account that was associated with the device before the reset in order to setup the device.


If you purchased the Android used, you'll need to contact the original owner and have them enter the password for you.

