 Set your oven for 400°F (204°C) degrees before you start mixing ingredients. This should take about five to ten minutes. However, if your oven doesn’t have a timer to indicate that it’s ready, try using an oven thermometer. You will have to check the thermometer before baking, but you will get a more accurate temperature reading than just guessing.
 You can make muffins using either rolled oats or peanut butter, but for regular sized muffins you will have to double the ingredients. For example, to make regular muffins with rolled oats, you need two cups of oats, two bananas, two eggs, one cup of Greek yogurt, and so on. The same would apply for regular sized muffins made with peanut butter. Set aside all add-ins like blueberries, coconut flakes, chocolate chips, almonds, mango, pineapple, and strawberries.
 As you measure out each ingredient, put them into a standard blender or food processor. The order you add them doesn’t matter, but try alternating wet and dry for better mixing. Make sure to only add the first set of ingredients, though, as the add-ins like blueberries, chocolate chips, and almonds will be put in later. Once every item has been put in, blend the mixture for one to two minutes until smooth.
 Before filling your muffin tin, make sure to line each cup with a cupcake liner or piece of parchment. You can also use cooking spray or oil to coat the cups and prevent sticking. After this, pour batter into each cup in the tray until they’re 3/4th full, as the muffins will rise.
 After all the batter has been portioned out, start adding any additional ingredients you want. For example, if you want chocolate chip muffins, put a couple of chocolate chips into each cup of batter. Or if you want blueberry cinnamon, place two to three blueberries into each mixture and sprinkle them with a pinch of cinnamon. You can also alternate inclusions if you want a bit of everything.
 Once your oven has hit 400°F (204°C) degrees, place the muffin tin into the center of the rack. The muffins should bake 15 minutes or so depending on your oven. To be sure they are baking through and not being over baked, check the muffins about five minutes in. You can insert a toothpick or fork to see if the batter is baking properly. If either item comes back wet with batter, then the muffins need longer.
 Once they’ve finished baking, the muffins will need to rest and cool for five to six minutes. You can leave the muffins in their tin for this. However, after they have cooled, feel free to move them to a different plate or platter. You can also eat them if you like.

