 Put 4 cups (500 g) of powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons of meringue powder, and 6 tablespoons (88 ml) of warm water into a large mixing bowl. Use an electric hand or stand mixer to combine the ingredients on low speed. Once the powdered sugar is wet, you can turn the speed up to high. Beat the royal icing for 5 to 7 minutes. The icing should be stiff and glossy.Royal icing keeps its bright white color and doesn't require any additional cooking to hold its shape.;
, Get out a piping bag and attach a #10 tip. Set the bag into a large bowl so the tip points down. Scoop the royal icing into the piping bag. Place a moistened paper towel over the tip when you're not piping the snowflakes. This will keep the icing from hardening in the tip.If you don't have a piping bag, you can use a plastic food storage bag. Just fill the bag with the royal icing and snip off a bottom corner. Keep in mind that you won't have as much control over piping the snowflakes.
 Lay a sheet of waxed paper or parchment paper on a baking sheet. Print off a page of snowflake designs that you like and slide the print underneath the waxed paper or parchment paper. You should be able to see the snowflake designs through the paper.If you're comfortable with piping, you could pipe the snowflakes without using printed designs. Just pipe the snowflakes directly onto the parchment or waxed paper.
 Remove the moist paper towel from the tip of the pastry bag and pipe over the snowflake designs. Pipe the longest lines of the snowflake before moving on to the smaller lines of the snowflake. If you make a mistake, dip a small paintbrush in water and smooth out any mistakes.Although you're tracing the snowflake designs, the snowflakes will be on the parchment or waxed paper.
 Once you've piped all of your royal icing snowflakes, use a small paintbrush to brush each snowflake with water. They should be completely coated with the water. Sprinkle the snowflakes with edible glitter before the water has a chance to dry. Let the glittered snowflakes dry completely before you remove them from the paper. Use your snowflakes once they've hardened.If you don't have edible glitter, you can use granulated or decorative sugar.

