 Check for customer reviews on the site; ensure that it is a reputed jeweler. Diamond earrings from a reputed jeweler will provide you the certification issued by GIA or the equivalent body where you live. And so you will be assured of the quality of the earrings and you will be also assured that you are getting the best deal in diamond earrings.;
, Develop an understanding of the Four Cs of diamonds. The 4Cs of diamond are very important since they determine the quality and price of diamond. Color is the tint of diamond and today you can find many fancy colored diamonds but white diamond is very popular and generally most people prefer white diamond for their earrings. Clarity refers to the inclusions and flaws of diamond. Always remember that you usually cannot see these flaws with naked eyes. Carat is the weight of your diamond in the earrings. Cut refers to the quality of the shape of diamond. The most popular cuts for stud earrings are round and princess.
 If it is plain diamond studs, a lot of online jewelers offer them in a few easy steps. A few clicks, quick choices, and you are done. But then, that’s missing out on the fun and creativity.


Beginning from simple diamond studs, you have whole range like semi hoops, hoops, chandeliers, designer earrings, and colored diamond and diamonds with gemstones. Semi hoops give the appearance of hoops, but are the more affordable alternative. Chandeliers are definitely for those special occasions. Studs can be for daily wear and double up for evening wear.
 Remember that the personality of the wearer dictates the choice significantly. And then, are these earrings meant to be worn occasionally, or on a daily basis? Women who wear subtle jewelry on a daily basis may appreciate something dressier for evening wear.
 A lot of guides on earring buying are available. Based on personality and face shape, earrings need to be chosen with care. Always remember oval faces can wear any style but round faces look good with longer earrings.
 Another thing which you must consider is the setting for your diamond earrings. You can choose your earrings in a variety of precious metals. You can select silver, gold or platinum earrings or you can even go with chandelier or hoop earrings in alloys. But if the skin is sensitive then you must avoid alloys. Platinum is best for sensitive skin.
 Keep the hairstyle and size of the ear in mind. Petite women look better in earrings that add length but a short woman will be enveloped with chandeliers. A tall woman needs stud earrings and dangling hoops. Avoid earrings which are too heavy or large for the earlobes. If you are selecting the earrings for regular use then lightweight trendy patterns are best option for you.
 Go to jewellery store and antique shops to look for different styles.