 Our mind is conditioned by thousands of years of cultural and societal conditioning which have a strong momentum.For example: like a code or program runs hardware, in the same way, you have this mental conditioning which runs you as a "bundle of conditioned reflexes.You are not even there. Plus it's the very nature of your mind to react and resist.


This is one of reasons that ego is not a personal problem.Its cause doesn't depend on where one is, same egoic patterns will emerge in different situations or places. Ever heard of the saying "Wherever you go, there you are"? So if you consider it a personal problem, that's a sign of more ego.
 Your mind is hyperactive, as most of your thinking is compulsive, recurring and pointless.The same thoughts come again and again, and they trigger the same reactive thoughts and emotions, based on the conditioning. It's like old broken records playing in your head.They are like parasites feeding off your energy. This is so deep-seated that you don't even know that you are feeding these parasites by resisting or reacting to them. Hence, these unhappy thoughts and emotions persist.


Recognize the dysfunction. Just watch the automatic narration (thoughts) of mind with high alertness. If you simply watch, you will see the dysfunction and irrationality of never stopping voice in your head.. For example: Have you noticed when you procrastinate, there is a voice in your head that says something like 'I/you can do it later' or 'You have lot of time' etc. If simply observe the voice, even if it makes you procrastinate, and you will notice in the long run that how dysfunctional and unproductive procrastination is. Its like collecting evidence(truth) to see if the voice in your head is right or wrong. That's when ego dissolves naturally because you truly see its dysfunction, shortsightedness and irrationality. That's when an intelligent action arises naturally. There is no doing or trying involved but just an alert seeing. That's why just being aware is so powerful.
In the same way when you observe yourself resisting, just observe the resistive patterns and you will see that resistance serves no purpose and in fact is dysfunctional and parasitic.
If "you" - the mind - did not believe that unhappiness(resistance) works, why would you create it? The fact is, of course, that negativity does not work. Instead of attracting a desirable condition, it stops it from arising., Have you noticed when you feel sad, anxious, or negative, there is something in you that craves more related thoughts and emotions to re-energize itself? You are looking at the ego.

Similarly, when you experience pain (physical or emotional), there's something in you that wants more pain, as if saying 'You deserve it.' That's ego. Ego thinks staying in the state of negativity and unhappiness will get it what it wants- Course of miracles. Which is, of course, a delusion. Otherwise who would want to remain stuck in unhappiness?You don't feel uncertain or sad because of the situation, as it's always neutral. However, you feel unhappy because of the automatic thoughts that come in response to it.
She's rejected me, I am ugly and a loser.' 'Why is it raining? I hate this weather.' 'He didn't have the decency to text me back.'
Can you refrain from adding mental stories to the situation and just see the suchness of this moment? How simple life would be without those mental stories.'She didn't want to talk to me.' 'It is raining.' 'He didn't reply.'
Here's an experiment. Next time you feel an urge to react or resist then instead of acting it out or resisting it, can you drop it just to see what happens?

, "The world can change only from within" (Eckhart Tolle). What we see externally (man-made) is a result of what we thought once. Once it was all in the form of an idea that was materialized. Every creative idea comes from the realm of the consciousness which turns into thought form then turns into material form. It's the mind, which acts as lens or instrument through which an idea is materialized. That's why if our inner psyche is polluted, then the materialized form will be exponentially polluted also.On an inner level when you resist, you cause more reactions and hence pollute your beautiful being and that's what is seen externally.“The pollution of the planet is only an outward reflection of an inner psychic pollution: millions of unconscious individuals not taking responsibility for their inner space… As within, so without: If humans clear inner pollution, then they will also cease to create outer pollution” (Eckhart Tolle).

