 Slim-fit pants are a great way to dress up a t-shirt. Wear pants in a solid color or shade, such as black. Or, go for a wild animal print. Add semi-formal shoes, like nice flats or pumps.Optionally, add a skinny belt.
Look for skinny pants in any material; for instance, black or dark-washed jeans, or dressier fabrics. Add a well-tailored blazer or a fitted leather jacket.
 It should fall just below the knee. The skirt should be relatively voluminous. It can be structured at the top and flowy at the bottom, or flowy throughout.For example, opt for a white denim skirt with a belt. Or, don a skirt in solid black leather.
To up the fancy factor, look for a skirt in a jewel-toned floral fabric.
Try wearing a fitted cardigan in a solid color over a midi skirt in a micro-print.
 Look for trousers with a slight sheen and a crease down the legs in the center-front. Match them to a dinner jacket. Even sneakers won’t take this outfit down to casual, so feel free to sport any kicks you like.The trousers can be plain or patterned, from straight leg to wide-legged. Try wearing a long-sleeved tee with rolled-up sleeves over straight-legged pants. Or, wear a cropped and fitted blazer with big shoulders over high-waisted, wide legged trousers, and tuck in your tee.
 Turn a graphic tee into high fashion with an ankle- or floor-length, light-colored skirt. Wear formal shoes, and keep the tone of your accessories elegant.Pair your pastel maxi skirt with metallic or blingy flats. Or, if you’re a brave fashionista, try pretty clogs and ankle socks.Look for a skirt with a bit of volume, in a soft color like baby pink. A fabric such as chiffon or tulle would work well. If the fabric’s entirely translucent, wear a slip underneath.
For a bolder version of this look, try tucking a black and white graphic tee into a long, full skirt with a rich color like kelly green.
 Tuck in your tee and pair it with a high-waisted miniskirt. Or, if the tee is cropped, you can wear it untucked. Add a skinny belt. Try wearing wedges with this look.Try more casual looks like skirts in leather or denim. Or, wear a low-key graphic key with a bright skirt like sunny yellow or cobalt blue.
 For example, wear palazzo pants. You can opt for micro-print like cheetah, or a large, safari print. If you have a pair of palazzo pants that have a matching belt or sash, even better!Palazzo pants look great in any solid color as well. Your shirt and pants can have similar colors or be mismatched. Try adding a denim jacket and/or a crop top.
 If the shirt is long enough, wearing it as a dress glams up the look. This looks great with tall boots, such as plush black boots that stop just under the knee.This look looks chic with extra-long pendant necklaces. You can also dress up a scoop-neck tee with a choker necklace.
Wear an overcoat to give you added length in the back. Or, achieve a similar affect with a hi-lo graphic tee.

