 You may need to eat 200 fewer calories in your 50’s than you did in your 30’s and 40’s. However, getting vitamins and nutrients is just as important – and keeping up your calcium and vitamin D is even more important now to prevent osteoporosis.Limit calories without losing nutritional value by choosing the right foods.It will help to keep a food journal. Write down what you eat every day. Look at food labels and record the calories you’re getting from your foods. Take into account what is a serving size for what you’re eating – if the label lists an item as 200 calories but you’re eating three times the serving size, that’s 600 calories!

, Studies have shown that people who eat breakfast every day tend to gain less weight than those who skip breakfast. Start your day with a healthy meal to kick start your metabolism and boost your energy. Have egg whites, low-fat or fat-free cottage cheese, whole grain oatmeal, or fresh fruit.
 Bad fats are those from red meat, butter, margarine, and shortening. Decrease how much of these you eat as much as possible. Cook with olive oil instead of butter; olive oil contains good fats that are much healthier for you. Replace red meat like beef and pork with poultry like chicken or turkey. Eat lots of fatty fish, which contain good fat and lots of nutrients. Salmon, mackerel, and herring are great options. Opt for low-fat or fat-free dairy.


Get protein from unsalted nuts, seeds, soy, and beans.
Limit eating takeout or fast food to once a week., Fresh fruits and veggies contain important nutrients and low fat content. Fresh and frozen is better than canned – canned fruits and vegetables often contain high amounts of salt and additives. Eat 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables daily.Make the bulk of your meals with whole grains, which have tons of fiber – choose whole wheat bread, rice, pasta, oats, and quinoa.


Avoid white bread and other refined sugars.
Eat a variety of vegetables – dark leafy greens, red and yellow veggies, peas and beans, and starches., Sugars add lots of calories to your daily diet. Cut down on cakes, pies, cookies, doughnuts, ice cream, and candy. Avoid other common sugar-heavy items like soda, energy drinks, sweetened tea and coffee, and flavored water.Spice up regular water with natural flavors like lemon, lime, or orange slices. Try mint, cucumber, or even basil for fun flavors.
You don’t have to completely eliminate sugar – it’s okay to treat yourself. Don’t make sugar a part of your regular diet, though.
 Alcohol contains a lot of sugar and extra calories. Other than the health effects of alcohol, consuming it regularly can make it much harder to maintain a healthy weight.Limit your alcohol to one drink a day at the maximum, and even less if you can.

