 When you are ready for some straight whiskey, try it over ice. Fill a glass with ice and pour the whiskey into the glass. Taste it chilled. Whiskey flavors may taste different to you when you consume it chilled instead of at room temperature, and most people find whiskey easier to drink when it is chilled, though not necessarily better tasting.


Most whiskey drinkers only drink blends, not single-malts, on the rocks, as the ice can ruin the strong, distinctive flavor of a single malt., This is the granddaddy of whiskey cocktails. Depending on your tastes, you can use a variety of whiskeys for the drink, from sweeter bourbons (the traditional choice) to more subtle and spicy rye whiskeys. To make an Old Fashioned, stir the following over ice:


2 ounces whiskey
½ ounce simple syrup or 1 sugar cube
2 dashes bitters
1 inch of orange peel or one small orange wedge
1 candied cherry, optional
Ice for mixing and for serving

, The classic Kentucky cocktail is made with sweet bourbon and a lot of it. The better the bourbon, the better the drink. You should always use fresh mint, and you should muddle it (lightly smash it with the sugar cube) at the bottom of the glass before adding the bourbon. To make one, simply mix 2 ounces bourbon with a sugar cube and a handful of crushed ice along with the muddled mint.
 Manhattans are a little sweet for some people, but others swear by the sweet/sour combo. Like the Old Fashioned, you can adjust the whiskey you use for a better cocktail -- rye for something stronger, bourbon for something sweeter. To make a Manhattan, shake the following with ice in a mixer.


2 ounces whiskey
1 ounces sweet vermouth
1 to 2 dashes bitters, such as Angostura
Small length of orange peel.

Technically, using Scotch whisky for this is a Rob Roy, which is a bit sweeter. Bourbon can be used, but it will likely lead to an overly sweet drink for some people., This simple, easy drink doesn't call for much, but adds a nice sour punch to your drink that goes down easily. To make one, simply shake the following together in a mixer with plenty of ice:


2 ounces whiskey
1-ounce fresh-squeezed lemon juice or a packet of sours
1 teaspoon sugar
A Boston Sour adds in 1 egg white as well for a frothy, more substantial drink.
 A Hot Toddy is basically brewing tea with whiskey instead of tea leaves and is a fantastic drink on a cold and rainy day. Typically it is made with Irish whiskey. To make a Hot Toddy, pour your whiskey into a glass, then heat up the following ingredients and pour over the whiskey once it is simmering.


2 ounces water
3 cloves
Cinnamon stick
½ inch piece ginger, peeled and sliced (optional)
1 strip lemon peel
2 ounces whiskey
2 teaspoons honey (adjustable to your sweetness preferences)
1 to 2 teaspoons lemon juice
Dash of Nutmeg