 Lay the bandana flat on a table so that it looks like a diamond. Fold the bottom half of the diamond up to the top to make a large triangle. Then take the top corner of the triangle and fold it down to meet the base of the triangle to create a wide pentagon shape.Fold the pentagon in half length wide. The scarf should now look like a long rectangular band.
Repeat the process of folding the strip in half until the band is about 1 ½ inches (3.81 cm).
Pick up the band, making sure it doesn’t unravel. Place the middle of the band at the top of your head, then tie the two ends at the nape of your neck into a knot.
If you are wearing your hair down, make the knot under your hair.;
, Follow the same stems as making a wide headband, but instead of placing the middle of the band on the top of your head and tying it at the nape of your neck, place the middle of the band at the nape of your neck and tie the tails of the bandana into a knot at the top of your head., A hippie style headband goes over your hair like a crown, giving you a laid back, bohemian vibe. To create this style, follow the steps to fold your bandana in a wide headband, then place the center of the bandana on your forehead. Take the two loose ends and tie them behind your head, making sure that you hair falls underneath the bandana.









You can make the band skinny or wide, depending on your preference.
 Begin by laying the bandana down and bunching the bandana toward the center to make a long rope shape. Loop the rope shape into a loose, open knot.








After you form the bandana into an open knot, pull your hair back into a ponytail and tie your hair with an elastic band.
Slide the looped knot over your ponytail and tighten the knot until it is snug against your hair tie.
This is a good look to make with a long, scarf-like bandana as opposed to a traditional square bandana.
 Begin making this vintage-style hair wrap by first styling your hair by making a pouf or by doing an updo and keeping your bangs down if you have bangs. Fold the bandana corner to corner to make a large triangle. Then drape the triangle you made over your shoulders like a cape. Bring the corners up to the top of the head, letting your poof or bangs go in front. Bring up the back corner of the bandana and tuck it under the two front corners, then make a knot to tie the front corners of the bandana together above your forehead.








The bandana should be completely covering your head, with your bangs or poof coming out in the front to give the style more nuance.
 Another classic way to wear a bandana is a 90’s style look that works on both men and women. To create this look, lay your bandana out flat on the diagonal and fold it in half to make a large triangle. Lean your head forward and place the center of the base of the triangle against the top of your forehead. Then take the two ends of the triangle and wrap them to the back of your head. Tie them together in a knot at the nape of your neck. Make sure that the back corner of the bandana is resting on top of your hair and pointing at the knot in the back.


If you have long hair, make sure you tie the knot underneath rather than over your hair.

