 It doesn't sound like much, but it can lead to all other forms of art. Start by collecting things that appeal to you visually. This can include stamps, business cards, trinkets, wrappers, and pictures. Collage them together so that they can be rearranged as you come up with new ways for each piece to fit. Try pinning them on a wall or bulletin board or arranging them on a table. When you want to try other forms of art just look at your collection. If you notice that you seem to have a lot of bright colors, maybe you will want to try painting or drawing with bright colors. If you notice that you have many people in your collage, then perhaps sculpting or portraits may interest you.;
, This could involve drawing an object several different ways: with pencil or with pen, by taking your time or by doodling it quickly, and by experimenting with colors and shades. Once you find a method you enjoy, stick with it to improve technique and work in new ideas to improve creativity.
 Experiment with layout and composition and with different subject matter, like landscapes or objects or people. Explore different color combinations or black-and-white settings, and if photography turns out to be your thing, consider upgrading to a camera with many variable options. Try out digital photo-manipulation if you want to add a little something more exotic than what you can find to shoot.
 Consider different ways to paint, including splatter paint, realistic painting, surreal art, and creating your own style. Sometimes painting can be quick, as when you are inspired, and other times it can be very time-consuming when your imagination is at a stand-still. White paint was invented for a reason - just consider it white out for an impressive essay; your brush is your pen to make it even more amazing.
 Experiment with different materials you can use - clay, wire, yarn, and various combinations. If you are carving something, be prepared to spend time and to make mistakes - after all, you are creating something 3-Dimensional. Sculpture can be one of the harder types of art to start with, especially if you are working with stone or marble.

