 Soaking in hot water will dry out your skin because it washes away protective oils. Take warm, rather than super hot, baths and showers. Limit how long you soak in the water. Generally, try to keep it to 5-10 minutes., Avoid exfoliating with harsh scrubs with “pits” in them, which can cause flaking and irritation. Rather, use a cream cleanser with “beads.” Stay away from rough washcloths, and instead use a soft sponge or puff. Just use your fingertips when washing your face. Softly clean your skin in gentle concentric circles., When shaving your legs, face, or anywhere on your body, always use shaving cream or lotion. Never dry shave or shave with just soap. Shave in the direction of hair growth, not against it. Replace your razor blade weekly — shaving with dull blades can irritate the skin.Don’t use hair removing creams or depilatories, which can be very irritating., After your shower or bath, avoid rubbing your skin dry with a towel. If you have time to air dry, do that by staying nude until moisture naturally evaporates from your skin. If you can’t air dry, pat your skin dry with a soft, clean towel.To best hydrate your skin, apply moisturizer while your skin is still a little damp. This traps moisture in your skin., Your hands get the most wear and tear, and are exposed to the most irritation, throughout the day.Carry a small bottle of unscented, moisture-rich lotion in your purse, backpack or briefcase. Moisturize your hands multiple times throughout the day, especially rubbing lotion onto the backs of your hands and over your knuckles where the most chapping happens.


If you’re in a profession where you have to wash your hands often, or live in a particularly cold, dry climate, your hands may take a beating. Moisturize every time you wash your hands, or at least hourly.
 Dry air irritates skin by drying it out, causing chapping, itching, and flaking. This is worse in the winter, when windows are closed at the heater is on. Get a portable humidifier and put it in your bedroom, or whichever room of the house you use most often, to keep your skin moisturized during winter months.Clean your humidifier often so it doesn’t grow fungus or bacteria., Your skin may react poorly to specific ingredients or products, and if you don’t pay careful attention it may be difficult to recognize the problem. Keep a journal, and whenever you experience skin irritation write down everything you used that day – include soap, lotion, detergent, cleaning products, and even what jewelry you were wearing. Note where the irritation occurred – sometimes you can tell the reason for red or itchy skin because it’s right underneath a certain piece of clothing or jewelry.


Take this journal with you if you see a doctor about your skin so they have as much information as possible about your problem.

