 The Main Menu will appear once it’s through loading.;
, Select “Customize” from the menu tabs on the upper portion of the screen and head inside “Creation Center.”

, You’ll be taken to the “Create a Player” screen.
 There are seven ways you can customize a player. The first one will be the Player Info. Here you can set your player’s personal details like name, birthdate, college school, team, and hometown.


Use the directional keys, the Accept button, and the Back button on your controller to select or modify any kind of customization you like on your player while inside the Create a Player screen.
Use the left and right bumper buttons of your controller to switch between customization tabs.
 The second part of customizing a player is the Appearance tab. Here, all the aesthetics aspects of your player can be modified. Every physical aspects of your player—hair style, skin color, facial appearance, and body size—can be adjusted here.
 The third part is the Equipment tab. Select the equipment you want your player to wear, like helmet, facemask, neck pad, back plate, and more.
 The Style tab determines the kinds of stance your player will take while playing the game. The kind of stance your player can use depends on the player position you’ve set in the Player Info tab.
 The Ratings tab is where you can set the player’s stats like Strength, Speed, Agility, Catching, and more. Your player’s ratings determine how well he can perform during the game.
 The Player Traits tab adds character to your player by allowing you to set recognizable trait. Does your character fight for extra yards? Does he drop open passes? These kinds of options can be set in the The Player Traits section.
 The seventh and last part of creating your player is the Contract Info tab. Here, you can adjust your player’s salary, signing bonus, and years left to play.
 Press the “Accept” button to save the player you’ve created and a message box will appear. Select “Save Player” from the message box to confirm saving your player.
 You’ve just created your own Madden 25 player!

