 There are a number of mufflers available for purchase that are designed for different specific needs. Ask the clerk at your local auto parts store to help you find a muffler that will fit your specific year, make and model vehicle that also offers better sound absorption or dampening.You may also be able to find replacement mufflers at large retail outlets.
Some universal mufflers may fit your needs.
 Your muffler may have accumulated a good deal of rust due to its constant exposure to water and road grime. Spray a rust penetrator like WD-40 on the bolts and allow it to soak in for a few minutes. If the muffler is secured to the exhaust pipe using a flange, spray the bolts on the flange.You may need to use multiple applications of rust penetrator before you can loosen the bolts.
If the muffler is held in place with muffler clamps, spray the bolts on the clamps.
 With the rust broken loose thanks to the rust penetrator, find a socket or hand wrench of the appropriate size and loosen the nuts on the exhaust clamp. You will probably need to replace the clamp, so if the bolt breaks, it’s okay.You may not be able to reuse highly rusted muffler clamps.
If you need to replace a muffler clamp, you can purchase replacement ones at your local auto parts store.
 Once you have removed the exhaust clamp, respray the area where the muffler pipe meets the exhaust piping with rust penetrator. Allow the penetrator to sit for a few more minutes. You should then be able to pull the muffler toward the back of the car to slip the two pipes apart.You may have to cut the pipes apart if they’re rusted together too thoroughly.
If your muffler was welded in place, you will have to cut the pipes apart.
 The rubber muffler mounts will hold the muffler in place after it has been removed from the rest of the exhaust piping. The muffler hangs on the mounts with a piece of metal that extends through a rubber eyelet attached to the body of the vehicle. Pull the muffler back and away from the vehicle to pull the metal portion out of the eyelet.It will take a good amount of force to release the metal from the eyelet.
If you tear the rubber eyelet, you can purchase a replacement one at most auto parts stores.
 Insert the metal prong from the muffler through the rubber eyelet on the vehicle. The rubber will prevent the muffler from rattling or creating a vibrating noise inside the cabin of the vehicle once the muffler is completely installed.The rubber eyelet can stretch slightly to allow you to insert the muffler into the piping after you hang it.
Make sure to replace the rubber eyelet if you damaged it removing the old muffler.
 Spray down the piping before you insert the new muffler into the exhaust on your car. Spray on exhaust sealant establishes an air tight seal between the two pipes which will reduce the chances of an exhaust leak where the pipes connect.You may need to allow the exhaust sealant to sit for a few minutes before moving on.
Refer to the instructions on the exhaust sealant to know how long to let it cure.
You can purchase exhaust sealant at your local auto parts store.
 Slide the muffler piping or adaptor over the existing exhaust pipe. The muffler should rest directly below the rubber eyelet, so the eyelet hangs straight up and down. If the two pipes feel loose or can be wiggled, you will need an adaptor to match the correct size of piping.Most exhaust piping comes in two or two-and-a-half-inch diameters.
You will not be able to seal the wrong size pipe onto another pipe, even by overtightening the muffler clamps.
 Slide a muffler clamp over the area where one pipe overlaps the other with the muffler seated properly. Use a hand or socket wrench to tighten the clamp until it is not possible to move the pipes back and forth at all.A half inch drive socket wrench will provide you with the leverage you need to tighten it sufficiently.
Be sure you tighten the clamp over where the piping overlaps, otherwise you could crush the exhaust piping.

