 Different airlines have different rules about what you can bring aboard. You need to make sure you have all liquid items in your carry on. If an item is not allowed, you'll have to put it in your luggage.;
, Look through your suitcase, and make sure you have everything. From extra underwear, to pairs of shoes. Sit down and think of anything you might have missed for at least 10 minutes.
 For example, you might be on vacation for 11 days. You need to make sure you can make 11 outfits for each day you'll be on your trip. With at least 2 extra outfits for formal occasions, and one extra outfit for aquatic activities.
 Anything that you might question about, you need to look up. You don't want to commit an international crime by mistake.
 If you haven't done this, you need to do it now. You need to get to the airport at least two hours before your flight. This will give you wiggle room and will allow for emergencies to happen without complete devastation.
 Get a scale, and put your bag on it evenly. Then round it to the nearest 10th. Look at the airline's regulations on bag size. Be prepared to pay whatever overage fee they might have.
 This includes tickets, photo id, debit cards, passports, etc. You need to put these in a big zip case you keep with you at all times. Put the case in your carry on. This way you'll know where it's at.
 Look at metal things, and remember where they are. You will go through a scanner, and you will need to take them off.
 Chances are you have a big suitcase to carry with you. I recommend having a family member or friend take you. If you do not have any willing to do so, call a cab.
 iPads, Kindles, Nooks, eReaders, and laptops are all great forms of entertainment. Before your flight, try to fill your devices up with books, movies, and songs. This way you'll have nearly an endless collage of entertainment to keep you from being bored during your flight. If you don't have any of these devices, try bringing a book that you might enjoy to read during your flight.
 You don't want to run out of clothes!

