 This decision should be made as soon as possible, and is best if made even well before the hurricane season. Hotels and motels may be sold out everywhere within 300 miles (480 km) of the evacuation point, making it really important to have somewhere established to evacuate to (for example, a friend's or relative's house in a nearby state, etc.). Make plans to evacuate with friends or family in advance as well.


Have an agreement that, if an evacuation appears imminent, both parties will attempt to contact each other. Phone lines may be too jammed to complete a call but you might be able to leave a message online or through some other means, so be sure to make arrangements to check these different messaging possibilities. Above all, agree that they should expect your arrival anyway even if there is no message or contact.
Review hurricane maps provided by local authorities. These will detail major routes and shelter locations and you should be able to pinpoint the evacuation routes and resources most apt to your own situation.;
, Major highways will inevitably be backed up for miles. Find an alternative, winding path if one is available. You may and most likely will find it necessary. Having GPS can be helpful in this instance but also have road maps with you in case the GPS hasn't covered everything or it doesn't work.
 Ensure you have enough to eat, drink, and stay entertained, as well as allowing ample time for restroom breaks. Failing to prepare for hours on the road can turn gloomy trip into a nightmare!


If you have children, be sure to have their favorite toys, games and books as well as some sleeping items such as blankets and pillows. If you have a portable DVD player, this can be a good way to pass a few hours and older children can bring along portable game machines (be sure to also bring along the car charger).
If you have pets, make sure to have their necessities with them, and never leave them in the car unattended if you need to stop. The articles How to Prepare Your Pets for Disaster and How to Prepare an Emergency Plan For Your Pets go into greater detail on how to plan for your pets.
 Gasoline cans will become impossible to find when the storm approaches. Keep one can empty and another can full, then store them in a locked trunk for safekeeping.


If you live on an island and plan to leave by ferry, do not use or fill any gas cans until you have left the island. In most cases, you will not be allowed to ride the ferry with them. However, be sure to bring them empty and fill as soon as possible.
Only use approved gasoline containers to hold gas. Not doing so can be a safety hazard.
 If a storm is approaching (before an evacuation order), top it off every day.
 If you have a way to store these supplies, purchase them as soon as possible. Hardware and lumber stores will become swamped by crowds as the hurricane approaches. You could even have your plywood fitted for each window in advance.


Store hurricane lumber somewhere safe from moisture, such as in a shed or hanging from a dry wall.
 This should include notifying who you will be residing with, turning off the breakers and gas main, gathering your pets (or doing whatever you plan to do with them), gathering clothing, food, medications, etc.


If you complete none of the other steps above, complete this one. When the time comes to evacuate, having a checklist will save you time, prevent panic and allow you to leave knowing that everything has been taken care of.

