 Many foods have adequate levels of fiber already provided. The ‘Guaranteed Analysis’ provided on your pets’ food bag should note the maximum crude fiber concentration. Most pet foods contain about 5% crude fiber, and this is often adequate for the average healthy dog., If your dog is constipated or has diarrhea, this could be something a simple stomach bug, parasites, other gastrointestinal diseases, or strain due to an enlarged prostate or mass impeding the passage of stool.Observe your dog to see if the symptoms persist for more than two days.
 The symptoms of constipation can overlap with those of urinary obstruction, which is very serious. If you see your pet repeatedly straining then a vet check is strongly advised. Ask your vet to include a rectal exam. If the primary issue turns out to be one of diet and digestion, your vet may suggest fiber supplementation.
 A small dog only needs about 1 tbsp. per feeding. A large dog of 50 lbs. (22.67 kg) or more can use 1/4 cup (236.58 ml) per meal.Use discretion when purchasing since canned pumpkin pulp is not the same thing as pumpkin pie mix, which has additives and sugar that aren't healthy for dogs., Fresh green beans are an additional source of fiber for dogs. Prepare a handful by lightly steaming in a microwave, then completely cooling. Finely chop or blend them then incorporate them into your dog's meal.


Raw green beans are less digestible, so your dog won't experience all of the possible nutritional benefits. However, they make a good snack during games and training.
 A single medium-sized sweet potato contains over 3 grams of fiber. To serve one to your dog, peel it first and chop it into small cubes. Put the cubes into a shallow bowl with a small amount of water, cover with plastic wrap, and steam in the microwave until you can easily pierced them with a fork. Mash with a fork, then incorporate 1-3 tbsp. into your dog's main meal.
 Be aware that these and other veggies may also increase other nutrients, including potassium. These may not be beneficial for your pet if they have other or concurrent health problems, such as kidney disease. Your vet can help determine the best vegetables based on any other conditions your pet may have.
 Whole grains are another ideal and inexpensive way to supplement dog meals with fiber. Some of these products may be fortified with vitamins or other supplements, so be sure to examine all nutrition information before using commercially available processed foods.
 You can use Metamucil or other OTC fiber additives for a few days to help your dog recover from an episode of constipation.Sprinkle it over your dog's food for the fastest way to resume regular bowel movements. Use about 1/2 tsp. for small dogs, or up to 2 Tbsp. per meal for very large dogs. Add a small amount of water to blend the fiber.


Use sparingly and for no more than two days to ensure you don't encounter the opposite problem of dog diarrhea.
 Switching to a commercial diet with a higher listed fiber content (or to a veterinary prescription such as Hill's w/d, Royal Canin GI Fiber Response, or Purina's DCO) might be an easier way to supplement additional fiber without extra shopping or preparation steps. You may have to purchase or order prescription diets from your veterinarian, or you may have to obtain a written prescription for the food to purchase it from a pet food retailer.
 'Fiber' is a term that describes many different polysaccharides and not all fiber is created equally. Different forms of fiber will have variable effects on water absorption, digestion, and fermentation within the intestine. This could lead to undesirable effects, including flatulence, bloating, or diarrhea.If you experience this with your dog, try changing the type of fiber or lowering the amount that you’re adding.


Adding excessive amounts of fiber to the diet for the goal of weight loss can also have dangerous effects by diluting essential nutrients, calories, and decreasing the absorption of some minerals.

