 Gerbils need regular attention to stay socialized. If you stop playing with them, they won’t want to play with you anymore. Make sure you are spending sufficient time with them every day, both caring for them and providing recreation.Don’t ever let them out of their cage unsupervised. Gerbils are very good at hiding!

, Gerbils need playtime outside their cage every day. Whenever you open the cage, make sure you are in an enclosed area with few hiding spaces so that your gerbil can’t run away. Check that all windows and doors are closed before opening the cage and make sure no electrical cords are within reach.It’s best not to let your gerbils out of their cage until you are able to hold them.
If they do manage to find a hiding place, it’s best to wait for them to come out on their own rather than forcibly grab them.
A great place to let them play is in an empty kiddie pool.
 After the initial introductory period, let your gerbil enter your environment on their own terms. If you can’t touch them by the second day, try letting them out in an empty bathtub.Place their cage in the tub, sit on the opposite side, and open the cage door.


Don’t pull them out of their cage forcibly! Just open the door and sit near it.Make sure the tub is clean, with no soap or detergent residue., You can buy safe toys or make your own. Cardboard tissue boxes, egg cartons and empty toilet paper rolls are great “toys” you can easily find around your home. They also might like wooden blocks with holes drilled for walking through and wheels to run on.Buy a wheel that is solid, not one with spokes or holes in it. Their tails or feet could get caught in any holes and cause injury.
Don't give them scented paper towels or towels with text or writing.
Gerbils need to chew, so look for untreated and unpainted wooden toys rather than plastic ones or painted ones.
Use empty paper towel or toilet paper rolls to make a fun tunnel for your gerbils to run through.
Make a tunnel out of PVC pipe.
 Gerbils tend to be fidgety, but to develop a close bond they need to get used to your touch.Wait until they approach you and gently stroke their head or back.


Be careful not to use too much force! Gerbils are little and may scare easily until they get used to you.
 Wrap a treat in a few tissues and paper to make your gerbil a special toy. Make sure to use clean, white tissues with no lotions or added scents!Put treats in the middle, fold tissues in half, and roll up like a burrito.
Tie the end of the tissue pack into a loose knot and put inside a toilet paper tube.
Stuff a tissue into each side of the roll, so that the treat is in the middle.
Place the roll on a sheet of white paper and roll like a burrito.
Twist the ends like a candy wrapper and present to your gerbil.
 Hold a treat in your fingers just out of their reach. When they move towards it, bring the treat up and over their head, towards their back. Eager gerbils will flip over to get to it.If your gerbil is really smart, they may just turn around on the ground to get the treat. Try holding it closer to their head next time.
 Gerbils can jump 18 inches across and 6 inches high, and can even change direction in mid-air.Hold a treat in your fingers up high to encourage jumping. Hold a treat several inches away and a couple inches high to encourage a long jump.
 Create maze with blocks or other light objects and put a treat or two at the end. Carefully place the gerbil at the beginning and watch them try to find the treat.


Start with a straight line maze and increase difficulty as your gerbil gets used to it.

