 The water pressure should be low, not high; high water pressure can increase pain. The water will help clear away dirt and debris from your cat’s paw.If your cat resists you or is prone to scratching, then wrap your cat in a towel with just its head and the injured paw exposed.;
, Inspect your cat’s paw for foreign objects such as pebbles, burrs, and metal or glass shards. If you spot any foreign objects that can be easily removed with tweezers, then remove them with disinfected tweezers.Disinfect the tweezers by swabbing the tip of the tweezers with alcohol.
If the foreign object is deeply lodged in your cat’s footpad, do not remove it with tweezers. Take your cat to the vet and have the vet remove it instead.
 Use a clean cloth or towel to apply gentle pressure to the wound. Hold the towel on the wound for one to two minutes. Minor cuts and scrapes will stop bleeding after a couple of minutes. Deeper cuts may take five to ten minutes to stop bleeding.If the wound keeps bleeding after 10 to 15 minutes, then take your cat to the vet to have the wound checked out.
 Do this once the bleeding has slowed or stopped. Make an antibacterial solution by mixing warm water with a mild antibacterial soap. Fill a syringe with the solution. Squirt the solution onto the scrape until it is clean. Then rinse the paw with warm water.For the first three to five days, you should clean the wound two or three times a day.
 Place a couple of gauze pads on the wound to form a cushion. Secure the gauze with medical tape or a self-sticking product. Starting at the toes, begin to wrap the tape around your cat’s foot. Make sure to wrap all the way up to your cat’s ankle in order to secure the bandage in place.Avoid wrapping the bandage too tight. You should be able to stick two fingers between the bandage and your cat’s leg.
If the cut is very minor, then bandaging may not be necessary.
 You can use a regular Ziploc bag or another clear, plastic bag. Place the bag over the paw and use medical tape to secure it in place.The plastic bag will keep the bandage clean and dry. It will also prevent your cat from picking at the bandage.
 Each time you change the bandage, inspect your cat’s paw for healing and any signs of an infection. If your cat’s paw is swollen, oozing pus, or has a foul odor, then it may be infected, or the bandage may be wrapped too tightly. Take your cat to the vet if you notice any of these signs.If the wound is still bleeding after three days, then take your cat to the vet to have its footpad checked out.

