 Check with the breeder to see if your Tonkinese has gotten her first distemper vaccine at six weeks of age. Ask for proof that she's gotten this important vaccine, along with a dewormer at her first veterinarian examination. Don't bring your cat home until she's gotten them. Make sure to schedule the following tests and vaccines for your cat:Feline leukemia test: Talk with your vet to determine if you should vaccinate your Tonkinese against feline leukemia. Your cat should be tested for the disease before exposing her to other cats in your home. You can also have her tested when she gets her first distemper booster.
Distemper boosters: Your cat needs these at 9 weeks and 12 weeks of age. She'll need them annually after these early boosters.
Rabies vaccination: Your Tonkinese should get this at 12 weeks of age and then you'll need to follow your city or county requirements and vaccine manufacturer's recommendation. Usually, an every other year vaccination is advised.
Dewormer: Give a dewormer every 3 to 4 weeks, starting when your Tonkinese is 8 or 9 weeks old. Do this a minimum of two times.;
, Decide if you'd like to breed your cat. If not, get your Tonkinese spayed (if she's female) or neutered (if he's male) to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Make sure to have the surgery done before your Tonkinese is six months old. This will reduce the likelihood that your Tonkinese will breed before having the surgery.


Spaying or neutering your cat can also cut down on undesirable behaviors such as spraying urine or annoying heat induced behaviors, can reduce her cancer risk, and can reduce the likelihood that she'll roam., While it may seem like your Tonkinese is constantly at the vet's if she's a kitten, you need to continue providing regular veterinary care as she grows. Your cat should see the vet once a year for an exam and vaccination boosters. Do this until she becomes a senior cat around 10 years of age.


Once your Tonkinese is around 10 years old she should see the veterinarian twice a year. This will help catch any age-related diseases., Use a cat toothbrush and toothpaste to brush your cat's teeth every day. Get your cat used to teeth brushing by initially placing a small amount of toothpaste on your fingertip to let your cat taste it. Do this again the next day, but also rub your finger along her gums. The following day, put toothpaste on the brush and gently rub it along his gums. Over the next few days, slowly work the bristles along her teeth in small circles, working up to the entire mouth.Avoid using human toothpaste because the fluoride it contains is toxic to cats.
Brushing your cat's teeth daily will reduce plaque and bacteria buildup.Once your cat is comfortable with the process, it should only take a minute.
 While your veterinarian check your cat's teeth at her annual exam, you should also take her if you notice any loose or missing teeth; if she has growths or sores in her mouth; or if her gums are red or inflamed.Daily brushing is important, but it won't remove the deeper buildup of plaque and bacterial buildup under the gums. Take your Tonkinese to the veterinarian once a year for a professional teeth cleaning.
 If your cat is acting ill, contact your veterinarian for advice. Cats are good at hiding illnesses, so if you see her acting ill, she may have been sick for a while. Symptoms of illness include:Change in diet (not eating or drinking)
Vomiting excessively
Diarrhea
Problems urinating (either excessive or unable)
Weakness or lethargy

, Read the labels on cat foods and look for one that lists meat as one of the top two ingredients. Tonkinese cats need meat to get certain amino acids found only in meat protein. If they do not get these essential amino acids, they can become ill. They can suffer from serious eye and heart problems if these amino acids are lacking in the diet.


Manufactured cat food contains the essential nutrients your cat needs, but you still need to look for a quality product that doesn't contain more fillers than meat.
 Proper feeding is an important way to keep your Tonkinese healthy. Talk with your veterinarian or look on the food package to determine how much food to give according to your cat's age, weight, and activity level. Split this amount into two or three servings a day. Cats prefer to eat frequent, small meals throughout the day.Spreading out the food during the day will keep your Tonkinese feeling full and satisfied.
You may want to purchase a timed feeder that dispenses food throughout the day.
 Use a rubber brush or regular soft bristled cat brush to briskly brush over your Tonkinese. Since Tonkinese have a shorter coat, they don't need much grooming. Take grooming as a chance to check your cat for fleas, cysts, lumps or bumps on the skin.If fleas you find fleas, treat your cat immediately to control the problems.


Pay attention to any lumps or bumps, especially their size, shape and color. If they doesn’t resolve or grow within a week, contact your veterinarian.
 Trim your Tonkinese's claws when they get long and sharp. Place your cat on your lap and use the forearm on your dominant arm to gently restrain her upper body. Once she's restrained, use your other hand to pick up a paw and gently press on it. This will expose her claws and you can use your dominant hand to trim the the white tips off. Just be sure to avoid trimming the pink part of the nail. This area contains the blood and nerve supply. Cutting this part would cause your Tonkinese pain.


You can use scissor-type clippers, a guillotine-type of clipper, or human nail clippers., Place your cat's litter box in quiet part of the house that is out of the way. Tonkinese cats are generally easy to litter box train, as long as they have a clean litter box with fresh litter. Choose clay, clumping, silica-based, or plant based litter (like pine or wheat).Once you find a litter that your cat likes, keep using that kind or your cat may decide to relieve herself somewhere else.


Studies show that cats prefer fine-grained, unscented litter.Clean your cat's litter box daily by scooping out the soiled litter and replacing it with fresh litter.
 A scratching post gives your playful cat a chance to scratch, climb, and explore. Teach your cat to use the scratching post instead of scratching other things. When you notice your Tonkinese scratching something like the furniture, pick her up and place her near the scratching post. She'll soon associate scratching with the post. You can also spray cat deterrent spray on items you don’t want damaged by his scratching.


Scratching is a normal, healthy activity for cats to help them remove the dead outer part of the claws. It also lets your cat mark her territory., Since Tonkinese cats are active, you'll need to offer plenty of toys to keep her stimulated. Be sure to include interactive toys so that you can play with her. Consider using laser pointers and feather wand toys in your play sessions. Tonkinese love to play fetch. Toss her wadded up pieces of paper or small soft balls.


Don't forget that your Tonkinese cat also enjoys cuddling you. Let her spend time sitting in your lap or just relaxing with you., Tonkinese cats love to explore and climb. Give your cat the opportunity to climb and scramble. You may purchase a cat tower or set up a ramp so she can climb up and look out windows.


Your Tonkinese may become troublesome if she gets bored. Prevent this by creating an interesting environment for her to discover.