 Invitations can be sent out via the postal service, your phone, your email, or even by creating an event on Facebook. Use the medium you feel most comfortable with. Online invitations can be easier, as you will not have to locate the addresses or phone numbers of all of your friends and family members.


If sending out paper invitations is too time-consuming or stressful, consider using an online invitation site capable not only of sending invitations, but also keeping track of RSVPs.
Make sure you include the time, your address, and any additional pertinent details, such as details for parking, and general directions to your home.;
, A housewarming party is difficult to plan and follow through on if there are boxes stacked everywhere, or you are in the middle of painting. Clean and arrange your home prior to the party, choosing a date that best suits your needs.Typically, the first 2 weeks after moving into a new place, you are busy setting up, cleaning, and making any needed changes. Give yourself a two-week grace period, and have the party after your home is unpacked and settled into.
Make sure all valuables are secured before the day of the party. While you likely trust your guests, it is better to keep valuables hidden or under lock and key than to end your party and discover something missing.
 When you throw a party, your guests will likely expect food of some sort. Depending on how large your party is, providing all of the food can get expensive. Fortunately, you have the option of making a meal yourself, doing a potluck dinner, or providing light snacks and cocktails.If you are making a meal yourself, make sure you have an accurate headcount. Be sensitive to the dietary needs of others, and provide at least two main dishes, one of them vegetarian or vegan.
If you go the route of a potluck dinner, give your guests an idea of how large a party you expect, and the types of foods they might want to bring, such as dips or side dishes.
If your preferred method of feeding is finger foods and cocktails, provide a wide variety of options, from mini sandwiches to vegetable and cheese platters. Have plenty of back-up drink mixes and serving platters, as finger foods tend to go quickly.
 Part of a housewarming party is showing off your new digs. Prepare accordingly, but feel free to avoid entering bedrooms, garages, and other reasonable off-limits spaces. If you feel comfortable, you can also give your guests the option of meandering through your home according to their own time and interests., As part of your housewarming party, you can invite guests to say a few words to invite positivity and light into your home. This can be a religious ceremony, or can be a secular one--the choice is entirely yours.You can contact your religious or spiritual leader for information about any traditional rituals or practices your faith might have. They may need to be performed by a religious layperson, or may be able to be performed by you or a loved one.
If you’d like a secular home dedication or blessing, consider inviting family or friends to speak positivity or their own blessings into your home.
Utilize meaningful items. For some, this might mean religious icons, while for others, this might be as simple as some incense or a bundle of sage. Keep in mind that this is your home, and your blessing; it can be whatever you want it to be.
 You can have a small book available by your front door for guests to write a quick note in, along with their address, or you can send follow-up notes online.


Many guests will show up with a gift. Although it is considered rude to request gifts, don’t forget to express sincere gratitude for any gifts brought.
Make writing notes a family affair, if there are multiple people in your family. This will get the work done more quickly, and will be a more personal, intimate touch than a generic card from a single family member.

