 In your new career, make sure that you are using your ADHD to your full advantage. Often times, people with ADHD are better at multitasking than is the person without ADHD. Take advantage of this skill by working on multiple tasks at once.For instance, consider taking phone calls and responding to emails simultaneously. Don’t press send until after proofreading, however.
 Many consider a lack of focus as being the primary issue of those with ADHD. However, recognize that when you do focus on a task, you can be zoned into that task for hours and complete it even faster than someone without ADHD. Avoid getting sidetracked on meaningless tasks or in social media, but instead immerse yourself in your work and you will yield positive results.Take note of any time that you get distracted and what is distracting you. Likewise, take note of times when you are in the zone and working exceptionally well. Pay attention to what might be promoting your productivity so that you can try to replicate it later on.
 Each week, you should have a list of all of the projects or assignments that you need to complete as well as a list of larger projects that need attention now. This will assure that you do not forget about a task and miss a deadline. Consider putting these tasks on your calendar so that you plot out time to work on them., At the end of each day, you should have a well developed plan for the following day so that you know what time you should arrive to work, what you will be doing all day, and what time you will leave. Review your calendar at the end of each day so that you enter into the next day ready and prepared.You can plan out your social events, as well.
If you struggle with lists, plans, or schedules, then see if you can locate an ADHD coach or therapist to help you develop these skills.
 One of the best ways to assure that you are focused and engaged in the work you’re doing is by requesting assignments that interest you. There will be many little mundane tasks that you are required to do that are perhaps of little to no interest to you. You can balance this by signing up to do things that you will enjoy.For instance, if your boss is looking for someone to assist with a mentoring program run out of the office, and you enjoy working with children, this might be a good fit for you.
Keep in mind that you do not have to wait for your boss to request something. If there is a project that interests you and that you would like to work on, then let your boss know.
 Inform your boss of the goals that you have set to keep yourself accountable. This will help ensure that you do not get lazy in your role and that you are always pushing yourself to be the best version of you that is possible. It will also help guarantee that you do not get bored at work and will help you develop professional skills that will be helpful to you both now and in the future.For instance, perhaps a goal you have is to improve your students’ average test scores by three points on the next test. Communicate this to your supervisor and then put an action plan in place to achieve your goal.
Be sure to create a visual reminder of your goals. For example, you can write them on a piece of paper and post it somewhere you will see it daily.

