 You do not want to intimidate them, but you do want them to take you seriously. Make sure that they have actually exhibited the bad behavior. Do not punish or reprimand them for nothing.;
, He or she now knows what behavior you want him or her to stop and if he or she continues to do it, there will be a negative consequence.
 For younger kids, a corner or step is ideal. For school aged children and older kids, a chair or room is a better idea. Do not send them to their bedroom. That is where they sleep, relax, and play with their toys. The same room should not be used as a relaxation place and a punishment. Try a guest room or office or any room that the child has no interest in. This way, all their attention will be focused on what got them in time out and how they should change their behavior.
 Say something like, "You after I told you not to so now you are going to stay here for minutes." The proper allotted time for a time out is 1 minute per the child's age. It is usually helpful to set a timer.
 This is one of the most important steps. Go back to what you were doing prior to putting him or her in timeout. Do not stand there and babysit them and force them to stay in the time out. Do not say anything else to them. Answering them back is only giving them the attention they want from you. Instead of focusing on changing their behavior, they're focusing on getting out of timeout and/or getting you to talk to them.
 If the child gets out of time out, place them back there and restart the timer while still saying nothing (not even "I'm restarting the timer now that you got out!"). No matter how many times they get up, do not let them go until they've sat there for the full amount of time without getting out. If you give in after the 5th or the 10th time that they've got out of time out, they will just learn that as soon as you get tired of putting them back, they are free to go instead of learning that there will be consequences.
 Once the child has sat there for the full amount of time, explain to them (while getting down to their level and making eye contact again) why they were in timeout. Then ask for an apology. Say something along the lines of, "I put you in timeout because you after I told you not to. Now, you owe me an apology." After they give you a sincere apology meaning they looked you in your eyes and said it in a genuine tone instead of whining, shouting, or mumbling it under their breath, give them a hug and kiss. After the timeout, go about your day normally and do not drag it on.

