
At this point, it gets hard if you don't speak Japanese. You will notice the edges of the screen beat in a simple rhythm; this is to help you keep in time. By listening to the beat and looking at the edges press ○ button in time with it. After that you will get your next drum.;
,
Enemies: One dinosaur.
Now it gets a bit harder. You have to help the flag Patapon march across the screen. You do this by doing □ □ □ ○ in time with the shaken tune in the background and the screen edges. If you do it correctly the Patapon will respond and sing out Pata Pata Pata Pon. (Make sure you yet they finish saying Pata Pata Pata Pon because they will stop if you press a button) Now after they finished saying that if you do it again □ □ □ ○ you will get a combo point. If you keep on doing that you will get more combo points and this helps them move faster and has other benefits. You can stop and not do anything and they won’t move but if you do that you will have to pick up the momentum again by doing combos of □ □ □ ○ again.
The ⇱ Home button shows your button list. The only one there at the moment is □ □ □ ○.
The D-Pad helps you look around. ← looks left and → scroll the screen right. You can only see a limited distance on both sides.
Also you will notice in the top left is your Patapons and their life and how many of each you have. Currently we only have one flag Patapon.
Now keep on moving forward by doing combos of □ □ □ ○ after a little bit you will see a Patapon on the floor if you keep on moving forward he will join you. Now we have a spear Patapon and two Patapons all together. Keep on moving forward. You will get another one from behind a bush again keeping on moving forward by using □ □ □ ○. Another Patapon will come running towards you and join your group. Now we have three spear Patapons. Keep on moving forward.
A big dinosaur monster will appear and attack you if you stay still. Don’t worry though it’s pretty harmless and won’t lose life if it attacks. Keep on moving forward it will follow you and attack but just keep moving. Two zigotron will appear and say some things but then they go off; they are the enemy tribe and your main enemies. Keep on moving until you reach the pillar. Well done mission complete! The stats screen will appear you can scroll up and down it with ↑ and ↓ on the ↓. Press Cross or ○ button to continue. The next screen is basically a summary of what you have just learned.

