 Slowly but surely pick at every little detail and fight with him over it by saying something insulting or crabby. Then, blame all the fighting on him; act like you're innocent and had no part in the fight, and that he's the one who's making a mountain out of a molehill. Guys really hate feeling like they're the ones who can't shake things off and just be "cool."


Say that you're at the mall with him. Another hot guy walks by and you check him out. Your guy says "Were you just checking that guy out? You totally just checked that guy out!" You answer him with: "I'm insulted you would even say that. You always think I'm the one doing something wrong, but you conveniently never look at yourself first. I'm not even going to get into it because I respect you, something that you apparently don't have for me."

, This is something that guys absolutely despise, because they want sole power to flirt with you, and any guy who takes that power away they view as a threat. Be aware though, that this can escalate quickly and cause some pretty heated exchanges, so be prepared.


The trick is flirting with other guys subtly enough so that when he brings it up, you can deny it and say that you're just being friendly:
Flirt with servers, bartenders, or retail workers and then say: "I'm just being friendly; I know how horrible it is to work as a server. I'm just trying to brighten their day."
Flirt with his friends and then say: "You say that being social with your friends is important to you, and then you try to cage me up like an animal and go on a witch hunt whenever I'm friendly to one of your friends. Ridiculous."
Flirt with random men you meet on the street or at restaurants and tell him you just have a special fondness for strangers. Will. Drive. Him. Crazy.
 One little, under-the-surface insult will reap huge rewards later on. Men and women alike hate being embarrassed in public, especially by the one person who's supposed to protect them from that kind of exposure.


Tell other people when he does something wrong: "He's a little slow today; he forgot his ABCs right after he got out of grade school."
Call attention to him when he embarrasses himself. If he spills water at a restaurant, you could ask the server for a bib or a booster seat, for example.
 It's okay to become a princess if the reward is worth it. And the reward is, on both counts: you'll be able to get stuff in the bargain, and you'll make him feel that his whole worth to you is in what he can give you and what he can do for you, not in who he is as a person. That's pretty devastating stuff.


The trick is to demand things, not ask for them: expensive new jewelry, gift cards that you spend on other friends, trips that you take by yourself because you need time to "re-evaluate." Sometimes, even just asking for these things will drive him up the wall.

