 You may also want to have a good set of crock sticks to keep it sharp, and you may also want to have a set of pliers. Some fox squirrels have pretty tough bones in their legs. The pliers make it a lot easier to break those bones.;
, The reason for this is that you’ll get fewer hairs on the meat while cleaning.The wet hair doesn’t stick to the meat as easily as dry hair does.
 Make a cut up close to the base of the tail. Cut through the tail bones and skin the skin away from the flanks a little.
 Grab both back legs with a hand and give a good steady pull up. This will strip the skin off from better than half-way on forwards.
, Work your finger/thumb through the area until it goes all the way through to the other side. Pull the skin out to the foot on each leg and pull the skin up to around the head.
 If the bones are too tough (as is sometimes the case on fox squirrels), use the pliers to break the bones. Once the bones are broke, use your knife and cut the front feet loose from the legs. Now all that’s left is the head (on the front half at least).Cut around the neck with your knife and give a good twist. The head and skin attached will break loose.
 Grab the little section of skin that’s left on the belly and start working it back. Usually, you can jerk the rest of the skin off by holding the squirrel behind the front legs and giving a pull on the skin. Pull it off to the feet again as done on the front.
 If you’re going to use the pliers, this is probably where you’ll need them. Break the bones in both legs and then cut the rest of the way off with your knife.
 Start at the end of the rib cage at the breast bone. Put just the tip of your knife in to avoid cutting any of the “innards” and making a mess. Cut toward the pelvic bone, a little at a time, avoiding the intestines and such.
 Once you get the belly and pelvic bone split, don’t bother with pulling the guts out. This is the easy way of cleaning a squirrel. You won’t need to gut the critter completely. Spread the back legs backwards toward the back like a butterfly to open up the belly area. Reach in and pull the intestines, any blood vessels and such loose from the back end of the squirrel. Pull the stuff loose up to about the diaphragm.
 Twist the leg a little so that you can see where the leg is attached to the torso. Cut the leg loose completely while like this. You’ll be able to see really easily where to cut. Do this with both front legs.
 Next, go to the back of the rib cage and make a cut right behind the last rib, all the way up to the backbone. Do this on both sides.
 Pitch the ribs and guts in your gut bucket.
 Cut all the way around, and then twist to separate the saddle piece (back) from the legs. Pitch the saddle piece with the front legs. Next, cut up on either side of the tail to separate the back legs from the backbone. Pitch the backbone piece in the gut bucket. Once you’re done, you’ll have 5 pieces of meat, the 2 back legs, the 2 front legs, and the saddle piece.

