 Most shelters will post profiles of their dogs on their website. Before you visit the shelter in person, read through their website so that you can identify dogs who might be a good fit for you. Some may even let you search for trained dogs. You might look for a dog advertised as being housebroken, leash trained, or good with children.
 Inform the staff members at an animal shelter that you are looking for a dog that has already been trained. In most cases, the staff members will be familiar with the personality and history of every dog that resides in the shelter. They can introduce you to dogs that are trained. You might ask them:Do you have any dogs that are already housetrained?
Which dogs are good with children?
May I see dogs that are leash-trained?
Are there any dogs that have been crate trained already?
Which dogs have lived in a house or apartment before?
Are there any dogs that already respond to their name?
Which dogs are responsive to commands?
Was this dog a stray or surrendered by their owner? If they were given up, why?

, Older dogs are more likely to be house and leash trained, and they may even know some basic commands. They will also be easier to take care of than younger dogs, as they will not have the behavioral or chewing problems of puppies. When at the shelter, consider adopting a senior dog.Keep in mind that older dogs may have more health issues than younger dogs.
It may take a few weeks for your dog to feel comfortable around you after adoption. This does not necessarily mean that they are poorly trained, but rather that you will still need to take the time to bond with and interact with your new pet., Many shelters will have an area where you can visit and play with the dog to see if their temperament suits you. This is a good opportunity to test the dog’s training. Try out a few commands with the dog, such as “come here” and “sit.” Get to know the dog, so that you can make an informed decision.


Remember that the dog may respond to many different commands. Try several out to see which they answer to. For example, say “sit,” “down,” “lie down,” and “stay” to see which one works on the dog.
Older dogs may be anxious around new people. You may never know what happened to them before they came to the shelter, and living in a kennel can be traumatic. Remember to keep an open mind and be patient with these dogs. With time and care, they may turn into a loving pet.

