 Raleighs are all around us, either in a skip for free or in a trendy London bike shop at a huge premium. Keep your eyes open! A good starting point is e-Bay or Gumtree. One recent acquisition was a 1970s 3-gear ladies. Raleigh 65 quid, not bad at all.;
, This may sound silly, but old bikes are held together by a perplexing system of brackets, screws, rivets and other fiddly bits, it is highly recommend taking detailed notes, or better yet photographing the order of brackets, cables screws and where they belong. Taking apart is one thing, but putting back together can be a nightmare!

, Wheels and brakes are pretty standard, much like modern bikes. Get rid of all the cabling first, it'll ride much better with a fresh set of cables (again especially if you have a three gear hub system make notes, the spotty oik in Halfords is not going to know what a three gear system is, let alone advise you on how to sort out the small pile of bits and bobs that a three gear cable consists of).
,, You'll need to unscrew the top (at the base of the crank) and knock the pin out with a hammer. If your bike is pushing 20 years these pins will be VERY stiff. Persist, it will eventually fall out and the cranks will slide off easily.
,,, Cosmetic rust also responds really well to sanding, make sure all your surfaces are even and wiped clean before the next step.
 You will need a good primer, your new snazzy color and a sealer, or lacquer to finish. if you do a re-spray at home it can cost as little as 20-30 pounds for a whole bike. Avoid spraying too close (this creates 'runs') and spray in even strokes to get good all over coats. Always follow directions on cans.
 It costs peanuts and really makes a bike feel like new.
 A sanding, a re-spray or a new set of tires make wheels look really good. If you can get hold of them white wall tires, they will always make a vintage Raleigh look ace!

, Leave your paint job to dry for as long as possible, and use your notes/photos to re-assemble you new rad-mobile!

,