 Xenophobia in politics manifests as jingoism, an extreme and narrowly-defined nationalism coupled with hawkish foreign policy. Progressive politicians are the opposite: they stand for peaceful resolutions, value multiculturalism, and believe in the equality of all people regardless of their nation, religion, or creed. Avoid voting for politicians who support war or punitive sanctions against a different culture or ethnic group simply because they are different.
 Laws which strictly regulate hate speech and hate crimes are powerful deterrents against xenophobia. Xenophobes tend to support strict immigration and refugee policies which limit the flow of asylum-seekers.


Prosecute hate crimes and hate speech.When foreigners are threatened, attacked, or have their businesses ruined, someone needs to be held accountable. Punishing the perpetrators sends a clear message that xenophobia is unacceptable.Getting assistance and support of law enforcement is crucial. Police are often untrained in how to address hate crimesor, worse, among the chief exploiters of refugees, migrants, and foreigners.
 Craft educational curricula that celebrate diversity and encourage tolerance for cultures different than your own. Similarly, institute workplace guidelines in hiring, firing, benefits, and compensation which ensure all workers are treated equitably. In schools, government, and industry, promote positive images of minorities, foreigners, asylum seekers, and other marginalized peoples at risk for being the targets of xenophobic attacks., Form or join a nonprofit organization that fights for social equality and inclusion. Hold rallies and marches against xenophobic incidents and legislation.


Marching sends a powerful signal to xenophobes that their behavior is unacceptable.Use social media to promote your message and actions.
Launch public education and awareness campaigns to insist that foreigners and refugees deserve respect and empathy.Include marginalized peoples in the decision-making process.
Use relevant holidays like World Refugee Day (20 June) and the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (21 March) to bring attention to the problem of xenophobia.
 Journalists can be an important source of information and education in the fight against xenophobia.Write to your local newspaper, your news website of choice, or your favorite news magazine asking for more stories about how xenophobia is hurting people both abroad and in your state or nation. Repost stories you see online through social media. Make xenophobia a visible issue.


Start a blog to criticize and document the xenophobic sentiments you hear from public figures, celebrities, or just people around you.
 The “other” should be included in the decision-making process to find out how they experience xenophobia and how they think it could best be combated. Encourage migrants, refugees, and victims of racism and discrimination to speak up about their experiences and how they were made to feel.


Give the victims of xenophobia a platform from which to denounce their attackers. The quality and scope of documentation in cases of xenophobic harassment and violence is generally poor.Provide aid to victims of xenophobic attacks. This may include food, shelter, clothing, or non-material aid like counseling.
Let the victims of xenophobia know that they have rights and don’t need to suffer in silence.

