 Finding an insurance carrier who understands your specific needs and can provide you with a policy, which reflects that understanding, is an important part of choosing malpractice insurance. To identify insurers who specialize in coverage for members of your profession:


Check with professional associations for endorsements and recommendations. Professional associations, such as the American Bar Association, local bar associations, the American Nurses Association, or the American Medical Association can generally furnish you with a list of companies who provide insurance coverage specifically for members of that particular profession, and oftentimes will endorse a specific provider.
Ask your colleagues for suggestions. Other professionals in your industry can be a great source of information on reputable malpractice insurance companies in your area, particularly those colleagues who have been sued for malpractice and have personal experience with a carrier’s willingness and ability to defend and/or pay claims in a timely fashion.;
, While it may take some time, you should contact each insurance company personally to obtain a quote. Many companies make this easy by providing quote request forms on their websites so that users can give the company the required information and then receive a phone call from an agent, once a quote has been prepared. Fill out some request forms or make some phone calls when you have time to discuss the specifics.
 Comparing policies means more than determining which policy is the least expensive, or which provides the maximum dollar amount of coverage. Some things besides price and coverage amounts to consider when comparing policies include:


Consent to settle. A consent to settle clause in a malpractice insurance policy provides that the insured’s consent is required before any settlement will be paid by the insurer. A clause such as this may be very important to those who wish to defend any or all claims to the fullest, as it will prevent the insurer from settling any claims without your permission.
Defense costs. Defense costs are paid in one of two ways, inside the limits of liability, or outside the limits of liability. When costs are paid inside the limits, they count toward the policy’s liability limit, thereby reducing the amount available to pay a claim through settlement or judgment. Costs that are paid outside the policy limit are paid independently of the liability limits of the policy, and therefore do not reduce the amount available to pay a settlement or judgment.
Hammer clauses. A Hammer clause allows an insurer to limit its liability in cases where it has determined that a settlement is appropriate, but the insured withholds consent to settle. In cases such as these, a hammer clause will leave the insured responsible for any amount of future settlement or judgment, which exceeds the original proposed settlement. This type of clause can force an insured to settle claims against his or her will, in order to avoid the possibility of becoming responsible to pay a certain amount of a future settlement or judgment.
Limits of liability. The amount of coverage available on a policy and the average amount of a malpractice claim for your profession in your area should be in sync. For example, if you are working as physical therapist in Atlanta Georgia, where the average malpractice claim for physical therapist is $175,000, your should only consider policies which provide at least $175,000 in coverage.
Prior acts coverage. Most malpractice insurance policies cover prior acts, and not just those, which occur after the coverage has been purchased. If you are new to your profession and have not yet practiced, this may not be as important to you as it may be to those who have been practicing for years and may be subject to a claim arising out of an incident, which occurred before purchasing their current policy.
Exclusions. While knowing what is covered is important, knowing what is not covered may be critical. Exclusions are clauses that eliminate coverage for certain events and/or types of damage.
 Conduct some online research to determine which companies are the most reputable and reliable in terms of stability and payment of claims. Some websites that provide this type of information include:


A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”). A.M. Best is a worldwide insurance rating and information company, with over 100 years experience in the insurance industry. A.M. Best can provide you with an insurance carriers rating as well as information on its financial condition and credit score. Visit the A.M. Best website at http://www.ambest.com/.
Standard and Poor (“S&P”). S&P is one of the most well known rating companies in the world. The S&P website can provide users with an insurance company’s financial strength rating with provides details on the insurer’s ability to pay its policies and contracts. S&P ratings and information can be found at http://www.standardandpoors.com/ratings/insurance/en/us/.
Moody’s Investor Services (“Moody’s”). Moody’s is another well known company that provides its users with many resources to locate important information and ratings for insurance companies, including a search tool, special reports, and market segment research. Moody’s research and ratings can be found at http://www.moodys.com/researchandratings.
Weiss Research (“Weiss”). Weiss furnishes its users with insurance company ratings that are consumer oriented and easy to understand. Because its rating scale goes from A-F, Weiss website users can tell at a glance whether a specific company is worth a continued investigation. Visit the Weiss online at http://www.weissratings.com/.
 While finding no complaints against a specific company does not mean the company has never had a complaint, finding many complaints against a company may help you narrow your list of potential insurers. Some excellent places to check for complaints against a provider include the Better Business Bureau (“BBB”), which can be located online at http://www.bbb.org/, and your state’s insurance regulatory or licensing board or commission.
 While technology has made it easy to conduct day-to-day business without meeting with people in person, or sometimes without even leaving the comfort of our own homes, a face-to-face meeting with an insurance agent is important when choosing malpractice insurance. Meeting with an agent in person will give you the opportunity to ask questions, determine how easy it will be to work with the particular agent, and make some evaluations as to the agent’s honesty and ability.

