


Purchasing a house at auction is risky. You should not attempt it without an attorney's help unless you have experience purchasing property at auction.
If the sale is a foreclosure auction run by the lender, the property is often still in foreclosure. In addition to the cost of the home, you may need to settle unpaid tax bills if you win. An attorney can help you find out all terms and outstanding debt attached to the property before the auction.
Property liens and outstanding taxes may also exist on houses auctioned by owners or as part of an estate settlement. The auctioneer or property owner is legally responsible for disclosing this information to all interested parties prior to accepting bids.;
,


Check with local realty offices to find out if they have listings for area houses up for auction. Lenders sometimes use real estate brokers to oversee the auctioning of the home, but not all real estate agents specialize in property auctions.
Watch your local newspaper's classified sections under both the "Real Estate" and the "Auction" listings.
Contact auctioneers in your area who specialize in real estate auctions, or call auctioneers' offices to find out if they hold house auctions.
Pay attention when driving for signs in front properties, especially if a house you want to buy is sitting empty. If the house is coming to auction, there should be a sign out front announcing the date of the auction and listing a phone number where you can call for more information.



Read the terms and conditions of the auction. Notice what fees the auctioneer charges and any money the winning bidder must pay in addition to the winning bid price.
Pay attention to the auctioneer's selling practice and how he calls for bids. Watch the crowd carefully to spot who is bidding and notice how they bid. Some auctioneers give out auction paddles or bid cards for bidders to use. After a bidder enters into the bidding, she sometimes indicates her continued bidding to the auctioneer with a head nod or hand movement.
,


A title search will locate outstanding debts, including unpaid taxes and property liens, as well as previous construction debts that can reveal unknown condition issues.
Most reputable auctioneers provide a current title assessment that indicates that the property is free of all debt. Or, they will disclose the amount of outstanding debt that the new owner must assume, in addition to the house's bid price.
You can have an attorney do a title search for you if the auctioneer does not provide one, or you question the credibility of the auction company.
 Inquire about town by-laws, ordinances, zoning issues and toxic or hazardous waste issues that may affect your purchase decisions.
 Do not allow yourself to get caught up in the bidding and go over the price you decided you are willing to pay.

