 Most dead skin build-up occurs in and around your bed because you spend so much time there. This attracts dust mites and accumulates allergens. You will want to have multiple blankets, sheets and pillowcase covers to switch out with.;
, Wash all blankets, sheets, pillow cases, bed covers and other bedding with detergent in hot water at a minimum of 131°F weekly to kill dust mites and remove allergens. High water temperature can kill dust mites better than just using detergent. Also wash curtains.Set your washing machine to its hottest setting. If the water isn’t hot enough, check your hot water heater. Most hot water heaters have an adjustable knob to change the maximum temperature.If you can't wash bedding in hot enough temperatures, throw them in the dryer for at least 15 minutes at a temperature above 130 °F to kill mites. Afterward, wash and dry the bedding so allergens are removed. You could also dry items in direct sunlight.
Use a product that contains essential oils, like eucalyptus, cedar or tea tree oil to add to the wash’s effectiveness. Using detergent plus bleach will remove most allergens and a significant amount of dust mites, even in cold or warm water. Items can be washed again to reduce mite levels further. Know that live mites can be transferred from mite-infested items to mite-free items during washing.Hot tumble dry items for an extra half an hour after drying or dry clean items to kill dust mites. This will not get rid of the allergen dust mites produce, however.
 Vacuum everything that you can, including couches, mattresses, armchairs, floors, mattresses and other places where people frequently sit or lay down on. To trap allergens effectively, your vacuum should have a double-layered microfilter bag or a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter. This is important because it helps ensure that dust is not recirculated into the air.


Vacuuming removes surface dust but can’t remove most dust mites and dust mite allergens. Mites are tiny enough to pass through the vacuum cleaner bag. However, vacuuming keeps dust down so these areas aren’t as attractive to mites. Get underneath and behind furniture to keep "dust bunnies" from forming.
If you have severe allergies, leave the area being vacuumed and let someone else do the work. Stay away from the vacuumed room for about two hours to let everything settle.
Keep your vacuum serviced so that it continues to work well.
Use a water vacuum to keep mites inside the water container so you can dump the water into your toilet and flush it.
You may wish to wear a mask when you vacuum to avoid inhaling allergens. Even if you don’t have allergies, it’s best to leave the house for about half an hour after vacuuming for the remaining dust and allergens to settle.
 Steam cleaning dissolves dirt and grime, removes germs from surfaces and kills dust mites. However, the moisture that accumulates in carpet padding from steam cleaning creates an ideal environment for dust mites. Think about using dry cleaning methods instead., Feather dusters and dry cloths will stir up allergens into the air. Use a damp or oiled mop, rag or electrostatic cloths to clean hard surfaces once a week. This will help keep dust and dust mites down.
 Whether you packed up clothing for a move or it’s starting to get cold for winter, wash all these items before using them. Dust mites love to settle into the fibers of unused and unwashed clothing and blankets as they collect dust in storage. Washing them ensures that both mites and allergens are destroyed so you can enjoy your items sneeze-free.

