 Seminars can come in a variety of forms. Talk with the organizer of the session and ask them about their expectations for your talk. They may want you to discuss a pre-circulated paper. Or, perhaps they would prefer that you give a speech with less audience interaction.You might ask, “Are you looking for a lecture format that is focused on research or a more interactive audience experience?”;
, Know who you will be speaking to and tailor your information to their interest and experience levels. If you are unfamiliar with the group, ask the seminar organizer to give you a bit of information about the possible backgrounds of audience members. If you have worked with this group before, then use the information that you know about them to tailor your talk to what will help them, and you, the most.For example, in a scientific talk before a group of specialists, you may not need to explain all of your jargon and can jump into in-depth topics more quickly.Depending on your audience, you may also choose to directly engage with controversial topics or shy away from them.
You can even get to the venue a bit early and try to talk with some audience members to get a better feel for the room prior to directing your seminar. You might ask one of the attendees, “What made you want to attend this particular seminar?”

, Make sure that you are comfortable using whatever technology is in the room. This may mean getting to know PowerPoint really well. Or, perhaps you need to practice how to switch slides using an automatic clicker or prompter. You may even want to give some thought to how you will set up the microphone, if you plan to use one.For example, if you are planning to use a slide presentation, then you’ll want to make sure that the room is equipped with a good projection system.
 As you start to craft your presentation, think about whether or not your audience can actually interact with your visuals. For example, if you are using slides, then they need to be visible, clear, and easily readable. Use a large font and clear lettering. Stay away from too many extra graphics and include only minimal text.Be aware that it takes anywhere from 1-2 minutes for an audience member to read through a slide along with you. Therefore, don’t overload your presentation with slides or you will never finish. Instead, go with pictures that can accompany the information that you are providing directly to your audience.You can also use other visual styles, such as models, posters, flyers, or brochures. Don’t feel forced into sticking with slides and instead consider dipping into your creative side, if the seminar format supports this.
 If your seminar will focus on a paper discussion, it is a good idea to work with the organizer to get a copy of the paper out to potential audience members at least a few days before the meeting. This will allow audience members to come prepared with advanced questions and comments. It will also let you dive into deeper material right away, as you can assume a certain level of common knowledge.If the paper that you circulate is a work in progress, you might say so on the draft itself and then repeat this at the start of your seminar. This way audience members will know that you welcome constructive criticism and other ideas.
 Once you have an outline in place and your visual materials prepared, you will want to practice as often as possible. Ask your friends and family members to serve as mock audience members for a trial run. Videotape yourself and then play it back, so that you can identify areas of improvement. Practice until you feel totally comfortable with the material and process.


After each practice session, make notes on the sections that are working well and those that still need some refining.
 It is a good idea to get to the seminar room a little early, so that you can see how the room is set up. You can also upload your presentation and pass out any handouts or brochures. This also gives you a last minute opportunity to meet with the seminar organizer to iron out any issues.


If you arrive 15-30 minutes beforehand that is usually enough time to accomplish everything that you need to do prior to starting the session.

