 An affidavit for an uncontested divorce typically asks that you identify yourself and your spouse at the top of the form. You should also provide contact information, such as a mailing address and a telephone number., The form will also require that you provide information about the marriage. Each form will request different information, but generally you may be asked for the following:the date you were married
where you last lived together as a couple
the reasons why the marriage has broken down

, You typically complete the affidavit after a certain amount of time has passed. For example, you might have separated and served divorce papers. After thirty days, your spouse still has not responded. The affidavit will ask you how you served notice on your spouse that you filed for divorce. Generally, you served notice in one of the following ways:personal service
certified mail, restricted delivery
waiver of service
commercial delivery service

, You filled out financial statements when you filed papers for divorce. You should review them and tell the court if there has been any substantial change in your financial situation.Also explain whether your spouse filed financial statements as well.
 The affidavit will also request information about your children and whether or not the wife is pregnant. You may also have to provide information about any children fathered by someone other than the husband., The court will also request information about any child custody proceedings which are ongoing or were held in the past.Go through your papers and find court documents so that you can provide accurate information.
 The affidavit may also ask if you are requesting child support. You should check your state’s child support guidelines. Typically, each state determines the amount of child support according to a formula.


The form might ask you to explain why the court should depart from the formula. Provide details. For example, your child might suffer from a long-term disability and require medical services.
 You need to sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury. For this reason, you should double-check the information in your affidavit to make sure that it is accurate and complete.


You also may have to sign in front of a notary.Check your form. If so, you can find notaries at the courthouse or at many large banks. You can also find a notary by visiting the website for the American Society of Notaries and using their locator function.Type in your zip code to find notaries near you.
You must bring acceptable forms of personal identification to show the notary. Generally, a valid driver’s license, state-issued ID, or a passport should be sufficient.

