 You can purchase hanging pots and hooks from any home and garden store. Hanging plants are both attractive and cat-proof!;
, You can find deterrent sprays in the pet store that won't harm your plant, but will discourage your cat from poking around it. A good example of a safe product is “Get Off,” but always make sure to check the label before buying a deterrent product. Some of these sprays might actually hurt your plant.


You can make your own deterrent spray at home, as well. Make a mixture of one part vinegar to three parts water, and spritz it onto the leaves of your plant. Cats hate the smell, and it doesn't hurt your plant!

, This is best done with "remote punishment."The idea is to make the cat associate approaching the plant with something bad, like getting sprayed in the face with water. However, you don't want the cat to associate the punishment with you. You want your cat to think the punishment came out of nowhere.


Booby trap the plant by using putting a can of compressed air that's activated by a motion sensor near it. These pet-training aids can be purchased in pet stores or online.
When your cat approaches plant, he'll get a blast of compressed air. This doesn't hurt him, but it'll make him think twice about approaching the plant again.
 He may well stop eating the plant when you're around, but he'll probably keep doing what he wants when you're out of the room. Punishing the cat yourself actually makes him more devious. He also might grow a little frightened of you, which isn't the relationship you want with your pet.
 Put tin foil down around the plant, or a plastic carpet protector with the knobby side up. Your cat may not be willing to walk across an unpleasant surface to get to your plants.
 Collect and wash out empty cans — whether for canned vegetables or soft drinks. Line them up along the edge of the table where you keep your plants, then add more rows on top to form a wall. When your cat jumps up and knocks them down, the noisy clamor will send him flying. He'll think twice about approaching your plants after enough scares.
 This might sound quirky, but products like Silent Roar contain lion feces. Though you won't be able to smell it, your cat will, and he'll get the message that a powerful stranger has already claimed the plant as part of his territory.

