 Own your feelings and tell your friend how you are feeling as a result of not spending time together. Instead of launching into a complaint session or accusing your friends of not caring, explain to them that you have noticed you are no longer spending time together and explain how this makes you upset.Be specific about what you have noticed. For example, if you are used to eating lunch together every day and that suddenly changes, let the friend know you miss them. If the time you are missing is no longer possible, offer ways to fill the void.
Say something like “I’ve really missed you at lunch the past couple days. I feel like I never see you. How about we make plans for the weekend?”

, Frame your concerns in a way that avoid blame and make your feelings very clear to your friend. Instead of blaming your friend for ignoring you and lashing out because they found new friends, remind them how much you value your friendship.Instead of telling your friend how awful of a friend they are, tell them “I really miss you. It makes me sad that we aren’t spending time together like we used to.”

, Not every friendship will remain equal at all times but there should be give and take from both of you. Do you feel like you are getting your needs for friendship met? Are your needs realistic? Everyone has a need to talk about themselves. Does this occur with your friend or are the conversation topics always about them?Friendships can change over time. It is up to you to evaluate how much you should put into any given friendship over time. Just because you share a history with a friend does not mean you have to settle for a relationship that you are not happy in.
 Make plans to resolve the current problems while still honoring the friendship. If your friendship overall is good but you have hit a bit of a rough patch lately, it is probably worth working to save the friendship. If, on the other hand, you are losing far more than you are gaining it might be time to part ways.If you do decide to step back from the friendship, this does not mean there has to be some big blow out or dramatic end to the friendship. It can be as simple as limiting the time you spend together to slowly put distance between you.

