 In other words, look for a greater number of atoms than in the original molecule. This is usually allowed to happen by breaking a pi bond or bonding to a set of unpaired electrons in the molecule. Addition reactions do not “swap” one atom or group for another. They just add something new.Addition reactions usually happen when double or triple bonds are attacked. For example, if a double bond is present between two carbons, and if hydrogen was added across the bond, it would result in hydrogen being added to the molecule. No other species would leave.;
, This is the opposite of an addition reaction. Something will be taken away from the original molecule and leave behind electrons. These unbound electrons will either show up as a lone pair or form a pi bond in the molecule.If you remove hydrogen from a hydrocarbon chain, the result would be that the unpaired electrons go into a double bond between two of the carbons. This does not require anything else to be added, it only removes the hydrogen.
 A substitution reaction occurs when some group (A) on the molecule is removed and replaced by some new group (B). This does not necessarily change the number of pi or sigma bonds in the molecule, as you would see with addition and elimination reactions. Common types of substitution reactions are:Nucleophilic Substitution ― When one nucleophile replaces another nucleophile in the reaction.
Electrophilic Substitution ― When one electrophile replaces another electrophile in the reaction.
SN1 ― A substitution reaction that involves only one molecule in the transition state. In other words, the leaving group leaves first, and then the new group is free to attack the molecule.SN2 ― In this type of reaction, the transition state is formed from two molecules. This happens because the new group attacks the molecule at an available site, and the leaving group is forced to fall away., Rearrangements form isomers ― molecules that have exactly the same atoms present but in a different configuration. Isomers will have the same chemical formula, but different properties that are unique to their configuration. The number of bonds is usually unaffected in rearrangements, as well.There is a subset of rearrangement reactions know as tautomerization. This is when two isomers rapidly flip back and forth between each other.
 Oxidation-reduction (or Redox) reactions are very common in organic chemistry, as are radical reactions. You should be somewhat familiar with these reactions from general inorganic chemistry, but it is a good idea to review them. If you continue your pursuit of organic chemistry, you will encounter more complicated reactions that occur under specialized conditions, but they will follow the same basic foundations as all organic reactions., The word electrophile refers to “electron-loving” species. This applies to atoms, molecules, and ions. If it can accept an electron pair, it is considered an electrophile. Just remember that not all electrophiles attract electrons with the same intensity. Electrophiles with higher electronegativities will attract electrons better than those with lower electronegativities.Cations are good examples of electrophiles. Since they have a positive net charge, they are attracted to the negative charge of an electron. Halogens (Chlorine, Fluorine, etc.) are also strong electrophiles, since acquiring one electron will fill their outermost electron shell, making them more stable overall.
 Nucleophiles are the perfect compliment to electrophiles. A nucleophile is any species that is capable of donating a pair of electrons. Species with lower electronegativities will be more able to donate electrons, thus making them better nucleophiles than species with higher electronegativities.Anions boast a negative charge overall, and are often able to give up electrons in order to become more stable. This usually happens via ionic bonding. Alkali earth metals such as sodium also tend to be nucleophilic in nature since giving away an electron will stabilize their outermost electron shell.
 This is, in essence, just a way of looking at mechanisms consistently. You should read your mechanism as if the nucleophilic compound seeks out and reacts with the electrophilic compound. This will help you to remember where to start and where the electrons are going.


An example of this might be that you have a molecule containing a double bond between two of its carbons (pi electrons are usually able to form another bond with a new species), and a bromine (halogen) molecule attacks that double bond. The result would be that the double bond would be broken, and the bromine would be added to one of the two carbons (which carbon depends on the conditions and type of reaction).
 While organic chemistry is a huge subject, there are important underlying principles that govern the more complex reactions. If you become familiar with these principles and understand their applications, you will be able to see how they play out in the most complex set of organic reactions. Some of the most important foundations are:Stereochemistry ― This refers to the way that the shape and size of a molecule affects its reactivity.Resonance ― This is when a molecule has different possible electron configurations. For example, an electron pair could be found in a double bond or on a close by functional group. This flexibility provides stabilization for the molecule.Aromatization ― This takes the delocalization of electrons seen in resonance (the ability of electrons to be shared across the molecule) to a different level. In an aromatic molecule there are always (4n+2) pi electrons and they are delocalized across a conjugated pi bond system or in a ring (such as benzene).Functional Groups ― These groups of atoms are responsible for different characteristics of the molecules that they are attached to.
 This will allow you to preview the information that will be covered in lectures. You should take notes on what you read and make sure that they correspond to the notes you take during lecture. You should also write down any questions that you have while reading, and ask them if the lecture doesn’t answer them for you.
 You will benefit greatly by breaking the large amounts of information covered in an organic chemistry class down into notecards. The system you use for your notecards will depend on what information you wish to learn at the time. Do not throw away your note cards. Keep them to review each week, and you will be much better off for the final exam.For example, you could make a set of notecards for a series of addition reactions that you are studying. Likewise, you could make a set of notecards that cover the different types of reactions (addition, elimination, substitution, etc.). You could make several sets of notecards, such as the two mentioned, that organize the information in different ways.
 Research shows that cramming all of your studying into one massive session is not very effective. You will learn a lot more if you spread out your study time. Remember to take a study break every forty-five minutes to rest your brain.Be sure that you go back and review past material material each week. This will keep the material fresh, and can be done easily by reviewing your notecards.
 Even if you prefer to study alone, a is where you will discover different ways to look at organic reactions. Other students might be great at determining which reactions are SN1 or SN2, while you are better at identifying nucleophiles and electrophiles. This exchange of knowledge will benefit everyone.Another way to approach social learning is to tutor someone else, or find a tutor yourself.
 Working through practice problems will force your brain to recall the information that you have learned. This is a vital skill for taking the test. It is also a good idea to time yourself so that you can get faster at working problems. Try taking practice tests and work on completing them in the same amount of time that you will have in class.