 For most people, this will be a simple decision, based on where you are licensed and where you live. But if you or any of your partners are admitted to the bar in multiple states, you may choose to incorporate somewhere else. Check with the secretary of state’s office in any state where you are eligible.You may want to base your decision on the ease of incorporating, or on the fees or taxes associated with operating a PLLC in that state.;
, Just as with the formation of any corporation, you must have a unique name. If you base the name of your PLLC on your and your partners’ names, this probably won’t be a problem. But you do need to check.To search for the PLLC names that are eligible, visit your secretary of state’s website. You should find an online link to search for registered corporate names.
 In some states, you may be allowed to form an LLC (Limited Liability Company), but not a PLLC (Professional Limited Liability Company). In some states, professionals are not allowed to form LLCs, so they must form a PLLC. Check with the secretary of state or the corporations office in your state to find out.For example, in the state of California, professionals may not form a PLLC. In California, professionals may form an RLLP (Registered Limited Liability Partnership) or a PC (Professional Corporation), but not a PLLC., As with any other corporate organization, a PLLC begins with drafting the articles of organization. These may be called articles of organization, articles of incorporation, or some other similar name. Check with your secretary of state’s office to get the name right., If you research the website of the secretary of state where you choose to practice, you are likely to find a template form or sample of the Articles of Organization for a PLLC. In most states, you are not required to use the form provided, but you may do so. The state provided form usually satisfies the minimum requirements for incorporation.This article will walk through the basic elements of the Articles of Organization for a PLLC. You will need to research your particular state for the specifics.
 The first article will usually be to establish the formal name of your PLLC. Many states will require that the name end with the letters “PLLC” or the words “Professional Limited Liability Corporation.” Check with your state for this requirement., You do not need to get specific, but you do need to state the type of business or profession that the PLLC will engage in. This can be as simple as, “The professional service limited liability company shall practice the profession of legal representation.”You do not need to get more specific than that, even if you intend to specialize in one field. For example, if you were to say that "This PLLC shall practice bankruptcy law within the state of Massachusetts," you would limit yourself if you wish to expand in the future.
 This does not mean that you are limited from practicing throughout the state, or even in other states where the members may be licensed to practice. But you do need to name the county where the majority of your work will take place. This may, or may not, be the same county where your primary office is situated.
 The registered agent is the individual or business that will receive service of legal process for your PLLC. Some states set strict expectations or regulations about the identity of the registered agent. Other states are more relaxed or may not require the naming of a registered agent at all. The common options for registered agent are:the secretary of state. In some states, a PLLC is required specifically to name the secretary of state as its registered agent.
an officer or director of the PLLC.
an employee of the PLLC, such as a secretary or receptionist.
an outside company that you employ as registered agent. Such companies exist to accept legal service on your behalf, and then forward it to you. An arrangement like this prevents delays in receiving notice, in case your PLLC is small and you take vacation, for example.
 This section is not required for all states, but if your state requires it, you need to identify the length of time that you expect the PLLC will remain in business. You may set a specific number of months or years, if you have a specific time in mind. Or you may say that the PLLC will operate "perpetually."If you set a specific length of time, or an end date, and then you wish the PLLC to continue beyond that date, you will need to file an amendment to the Articles.
 In most states, the original members of a law practice PLLC must hold a valid license to practice law within the state. In this section of the Articles, you need to provide the names and residential addresses of all the original members and/or managers of the PLLC.
 There are generally two recognized management structures for a PLLC, the "manager-managed" and the "member-managed." If your state requires this identification, you will need to choose one, identify it, and provide a statement describing the structure.The "manager-managed" structure assigns the duties of managing and operating the business in one or more named managers. These managers do not need to be engaged in the practice of law.
The "member-managed" structure is one in which the members share in the management duties.
As one example, the State of Arizona requires the Articles of Organization to select one of these management structures, and then submit an additional form known as the Manager/Member Structure Attachment Form., The Articles of Organization must bear the signature of at least one of the organizers. The organizer does not always need to be one of the professional members. For example, as a law firm, a non-attorney manager may be the one to sign the Articles of Organization., This office may go by the name “Board of Bar Overseers” (Massachusetts), “Board of Overseers of the Bar” (Maine), “Board of Professional Responsibility” (Tennessee), or just “State Bar.” In most cases, this will be the organization that initially issued your license to practice law.You will need to contact the licensing board in your state and request a certificate that verifies that each of the members of the PLLC is a currently licensed attorney within the state. This certificate will need to be filed along with the Articles of Organization., Filing as a PLLC requires the payment of a filing fee. You will need to check with the Secretary of State's office where you are filing, to find out the amount of the fee and the method of payment that will be accepted.


For example, in New York, the filing fee is $200.In Arizona, the filing fee for a PLLC is $50, with an optional payment of an additional $35 for expedited service.In Oklahoma, the filing fee for a PLLC is $100., In some states, you may be able to file this online, with a credit card to pay the filing fee. In some states, you may have to file in person. Check with your secretary of state or corporations office to determine the following details:the number of copies that need to be filed
any additional statements or evidence that must be submitted
the amount of the filing fee
the filing address (if you can file by mail)

, In many states, you are required to publish a notice of intent to form a PLLC. The secretary of state, or the county clerk for the county in which you will be practicing, will provide the name(s) of authorized newspapers for this purpose. You may need to file a notice more than once to be valid.In New York, for example, you must check with the clerk for the county court where the PLLC will practice, and find a list of approved publications. The notice must then be published in two separate newspapers.

