 If you're having trouble getting your baby to latch, you may be feeding them before they're hungry. Try to schedule breastfeeding sessions when your baby is actively displaying signs of hunger.Your baby may suck on their lips, finger, or fist.
They may fuss or fidget.
Babies cry if they're very hungry, and a hungry, distressed baby will be harder to breastfeed. For the best results, try to address hunger when your baby first starts fussing or sucking on their lips, fingers, or fists.;
, If you're still getting used to breastfeeding, or are struggling with latching, sit on a good chair that provides back support and rest your feet on a stool. To encourage the baby to get in the right position, use a breastfeeding pillow or a pile of pillows in your home.You and the baby should be tummy to tummy at all times.
The baby's ears, shoulders, and hips should be in alignment.
Make sure the baby's nose is opposite the nipple.
If this position is not working, you can try using an alternate position. For example, you might try cradling the baby across your lap as they breastfeed., Once you're in position, you can encourage the baby to latch. A baby that's struggling to latch may need some guidance.Keeping your fingers away from your nipples, turn your breast toward the baby in a "C" or "U" position.
You want your baby to latch naturally, so aim the nipple at their nose or lip. Do not try to force the nipple in the baby's mouth.
If your baby still hesitates to latch, tickle the lip with the nipple gently.
When your baby does open their mouth, gently slip the nipple in. Most of the lower part of the your nipple should be in their mouth and the baby's nose should be sunk slightly into the skin above the nipple. The baby's lips should be fleshed out on either side, like fish lips.
 You want to make sure the baby is getting enough food while latching. You may have to encourage the baby to latch again if they're not latching properly. The following indicate a good latch:You can see the baby's tongue at the bottom of their lip.
Their ears wiggle.
Their jaw is wiggling.
You can hear swallowing noises.
There is little discomfort.
 Breastfeeding can hurt some women. If you experience frequent pain when breastfeeding, take steps to reduce tenderness and soreness to your nipples and breasts.Tuck cabbage leaves into your bra between feedings. This may reduce some swelling and soreness.
Treat your breasts with care between sessions. Wear breast pads if you leak between sessions and change them often. When bathing or showering, avoid getting harsh soaps or shampoos near your breasts., Unfortunately, some babies do bite when they breastfeed. If biting is an issue with your baby, do not pull back as this can cause your baby to bite harder. Instead, push the baby into your breast as this is more likely to cause them to let go as it reduces airflow.If you notice the baby getting ready to bite, gently stick your finger in the corner of their mouth to prevent biting.
 Breastfeeding should not be intensely painful. There may be issues with you or your baby if your have very sore, sensitive breasts and nipples during breastfeeding. Certain problems should be addressed by a medical professional.Plugged ducts can cause very sore spots on one area of the breast. They can also cause red spots to appear on the breast. Such issues should be handled by a doctor.
Pink nipples and shooting pain in your breasts can indicate an infection of you or your baby. You should consult a doctor for evaluation.
 If you continue to struggle with breastfeeding, you should seek outside support. Find a lactation support group in your community by checking at your local hospital. You can also seek lactation support groups online. If you're worried your baby is not getting enough nutrition due to breastfeeding issues, make an appointment with a lactation specialist.
 Mastitis is an infection of the breast tissue that can be caused by breast feeding. It is marked by tenderness, swelling, redness, burning, and pain in the breasts. You will also experience flu-like symptoms, including a fever. Mastitis should be addressed by a doctor.Usually, painkillers and antibiotics are used to treat the infection. You should take all the pills as directed to properly treat mastitis.
Your doctor may also want to talk over your breastfeeding techniques with you. They may have suggestions about preventing a reoccurrence of mastitis.

