 Focused and controlled breathing is an important component of mindfulness and something that you can practice together as a family. In order to learn deep breathing have everyone inhale and count to four, hold the breath for a count of four, exhale for a count of four, and finally count to four before inhaling again. You could also try a fun breathing exercise called breathing buddy. Have each family member lie down in a circle with a weighted “breathing buddy” placed on their tummy. Then watch the buddy rise and fall while focusing on breathing.This will help make sure everyone is breathing properly using the diaphragm.
Slow down the breathing by counting to three as you inhale and back down to one during the exhale.
For toddlers and younger children they could use a small weighted stuffed animal as a breathing buddy. For older kids and teenagers they could use a rock, shell, or other trinket.
 This is a great way to help each member relax and focus on the present. Walk through the woods while being silent and taking in the natural environment. Adults often overlook their surrounding environment and this type of activity can help you appreciate your life.Alternatively you could try walking through a crowded shopping centre. Your mind will likely focus on your surroundings rather than getting distracted by thoughts of work or other activities.
At the end of the walk ask the members of your family what they noticed while walking.
Alternatively, you could go for a walk as a family and have two to five minutes of silent time and then discuss things you noticed for the rest of the walk., Another mindfulness activity you can do as a family, involves sitting or lying down together and then focusing on different parts of the body. Allow each member of the family to announce a body part and then discuss how that part feels. This forces your mind to engage and focus on the present activity. Then ask your kids to describe how they are feeling by focusing on a specific body part.For example, you could begin by saying “I’m focused on my feet, and they are sore.” Then your partner could say “I am focused on my stomach, and it is hungry.”
Continue this exercise until interest wanes or you can just do one round daily.
 Set aside five minutes each day for family meditation. Once, everyone becomes comfortable meditating, you can increase the time to ten minutes. In order to meditate, have each family member find a comfortable place to sit and then close their eyes and focus on breathing and positive visualization.

