 There are many different recipes to create different patinas. Patinas change the color by creating a chemical reaction with the metal to create a colored film over the surface. You can use a patina on any copper or bronze metal to give the surface an aged color and appearance similar to the green coloring of the Statue of Liberty. Depending on the material, you can search for a patina recipe to create the color you are looking for or purchase one over the counter.


For a green verdigris patina, add three parts apple cider vinegar to one part salt.
For a black patina, add sulfur of liver (sulfurated potash) to warm water.Some patina recipes will require the metal to be heated before applying the patina, so you may need to purchase a torch to heat the metal.
 You can use a regular paint bucket for cold mixtures, but you may want to use a large metal pot if the patina mixture needs to be heated. The bucket should be large enough to immerse your object in the solution. Patina mixtures may need to be heated or cooled, so use a container that will work for the temperature of your recipe.


Some chemicals can give off hazardous fumes. Always use a workspace that is well-ventilated.
If you are coloring an object that is too large to put in a container, you can put a patina solution into a spray bottle and spray it all over the metal. You can also wet a rag with the solution and rub it on the metal, or use a paint brush to apply it to the surface. Just be sure to wear rubber gloves when using harsh chemicals to avoid contact.
 Put on a pair of rubber gloves and place the metal object in the container filled with a patina mixture. Depending on your patina recipe, you may need to let the piece sit for anywhere from a few minutes up to several hours. Set a timer and wait.
 Check on your piece after the allotted time. If you want a more intense color, let the metal soak longer. Put on a pair of rubber gloves and remove the metal once your metal has taken on its desired appearance.
 The patina will continue to change while the piece dries, so be patient. If you want to color the piece further, place it back into the mixture and repeat the process.
 Use a spray-on acrylic clear coat varnish to help protect the surface and coloration.

