 You'll save a lot of time if you know exactly what you're going to do, as well as when and where you're going to do it. A lack of planning can result in you spinning your wheels and not getting much out of your workout.The simplest lunchtime workout is to go for a quick run or use an elliptical machine or similar apparatus that will give you a good cardio workout.
You can use ankle and wrist weights for brief bouts of a minute at a time to add resistance to your cardio workout. Remember that wearing weights on the wrists and ankles can cause injuries to the shoulders, hips knees and ankles. Don't wear them longer than 10 minutes.
If you plan to work out at a gym and you don't feel comfortable planning your routine yourself, check and see if there are any classes available midday that you can take.
Signing up for a class won't help if the time you take your lunch break varies. If that's the case for you, you'll have to come up with a routine you can do on your own. You might be able to watch a class to get some ideas for what to include in your routine.
 Gather your workout clothes and any personal care items and put them in a bag so they're ready to go. Set them by the door and take them with you when you go to work so you don't have to make a trip back home.Include gym clothes that are light and breathable, and that won't trap excess sweat on the body.
Make sure you pack clean underwear. These garments will absorb the most sweat, and you likely won't want to wear them for the rest of the day.
Slip in a small bag for toiletries that you'll need to freshen up after your workout, including deodorant or anti-perspirant. Face wipes or baby wipes are a good choice for a quick clean-up.
 If you plan to work out at a gym or fitness center, find one ideally within walking distance from your workplace so you won't spend too much time commuting to and from the gym.One benefit of walking to the gym is that the walk can double as a warm up, so once you get to the gym you're ready to work out.
If you're already a member of a gym close to your house, find out if that gym has another location that's closer to where you work.
 If you're going to exercise during your lunch break, it generally isn't the day to wear a fussy, delicate blouse or a complicated suit that takes time to put on and has to be hung up in a certain way.If your work attire is business casual, it shouldn't be difficult to plan your work attire around your lunchtime workout.
A dressier office may require more planning, but try to choose garments that you can put on and take off with ease, and that can be folded rather than hung up.
Throw a dryer sheet in your gym bag to keep your work clothes fresh while you're working out.
 You likely won't have time to take a full shower and get ready for work after your lunch-break workout using the same routine you use to get ready in the morning.Wiping yourself down with a cleansing wipe should suffice to freshen you up for the rest of the day. Towel off thoroughly after your workout to make sure your skin isn't damp from sweat.
Make sure you apply deodorant or anti-perspirant after your workout. You may want to pack an anti-perspirant body spray, particularly if you tend to sweat profusely after a workout.
Your streamlining should begin when you get ready in the morning as well. For example, if you typically wear makeup to work, it's probably not a good idea to put on a full face of makeup if you plan to exercise during your lunch break.
Look for products that do double duty. For example, instead of wearing foundation you might want to use a tinted moisturizer. A little powder on the nose, chin and brows can help refresh your post-exercise face.

