 Fill a large stockpot with enough cool water to cover the spinach, then set it on the stove over medium-high heat. Allow the water to reach a steady, rolling boil.


Note that traditional blanching will preserve the color and taste of the spinach but may cause a loss of some nutrients to occur. To reduce the amount of nutrients lost, consider steam-blanching instead. Prepare to steam-blanch by placing a steaming basket over the boiling water., Quickly dunk the full batch of spinach in the water and cover the stockpot. Start watching the clock immediately, and remove it after two minutes pass.If steam-blanching the spinach, place the leaves in the steamer basket and immediately cover it with the lid. A tightly sealed lid is necessary to capture enough steam to blanch the spinach.
If direct blanching the spinach, note that the water will likely turn green as it cooks.
 Scoop the spinach out of the stockpot and into a large bowl filled with ice water. Keep the spinach submerged for another two minutes in this cold water.


The quick transfer should stop the cooking process and halt the loss of nutrients. It should also further preserve the color and flavor of the spinach.
 Place the spinach in a salad spinner, then turn the spinner until the leaves seem dry.


If you do not have a salad spinner, place the spinach leaves in a large colander set out over dry paper towels. Allow the spinach to drain for around 20 minutes, then use additional paper towels to tap away any excess moisture.
 Pack the prepared spinach into freezer-safe plastic bags. Squeeze or suck as much air from the bags as possible before sealing them.


While you can technically use freezer-safe plastic containers instead of bags, doing so increases the risk of freezer burn since you won't be able to remove the excess air.
 Place the bags of spinach in your freezer for long-term storage. When prepared properly, blanched, frozen spinach should remain edible for around 9 to 14 months.


Thaw the frozen spinach in your refrigerator for several hours prior to use. Since thawed spinach tends to be soggy, it cannot be eaten raw but can be used in smoothies and cooked dishes.

