 There are several varieties available and you can choose the one that best matches your personal preference, including waxed, unwaxed, flavored and unflavored. Here's what you need to know to make a decision about which type of floss is best for you:








Floss comes in two basic forms:

Nylon (multifilament) floss. This floss is made up of many strands of nylon fabric, making it stringy and possible to break apart.Nylon floss comes in waxed and unwaxed.
PTFE (monofilament) floss. This floss is made up of a single strand or thread, and glides in between even the tightest of spaces.If you have wider gaps between your teeth, then tape floss or even superfloss, which is used for cleaning orthodontic braces and dental bridges, may work best.
Single-filament floss is slightly more expensive, but it will be able to slide between teeth more easily and will be less likely to shred. Each container of floss lasts a long time, so using non-nylon floss is a worthwhile investment.;
,









Many people like to floss after brushing. This will allow the toothbrush to start removing the stray particles of food from your teeth before you even begin to floss; however, brushing your teeth after flossing may allow more fluoride from the toothpaste to reach between teeth and removes any debris left after flossing., You should leave about 3 – 4 inches (7.5 – 9 cm) of the floss exposed. This is the area you'll be using to floss your teeth. Once you wrap the floss around your index fingers, you can grab it with your index fingers and thumbs.
 Using your thumbs can be more helpful in flossing your upper teeth and using your index fingers can be more helpful in flossing your bottom teeth, but do whatever is most comfortable for you.
 It doesn't matter which tooth you start with as long as you cover every tooth before you finish. Most people like to start in the middle between the two top teeth or the two bottom teeth. Once you've picked an area, slide the floss gently between your tooth and the gum line. You should do this carefully instead of being too aggressive, or you'll increase the chances of bleeding or hurting your gums.


Do not snap the floss down into the gums. Think of it as gently rubbing the floss between the gum line and the teeth, not vigorously yanking it around.
 After you slide the floss between your teeth, you should curve it around the bone and let it dip below the gum line (ideally, it should dip about 2 – 3 millimeters down). Once the floss is in place, move it up and down to agitate the area carefully. This will help reach the contours of each tooth.


Additionally, floss in a back and forth motion to help scrape additional plaque and debris. When you're done, gently move the floss back out the way it came.
 Make sure to floss your teeth one at a time — don't wrap your floss around the gum of one tooth as well as the gum of another. This will make the process less precise, and you'll be more likely to hurt your gums. Clean floss can be acquired by unraveling the extra floss that is wrapped around the index finger. Make sure you use a new piece of floss for each tooth. If you're really getting in there and run out of clean floss, pull out some new floss to finish the process.


Unwind new floss from one hand to the other as you go, so that you are flossing with a fresh piece of floss.
You may experience some bleeding in your gums. This is a sign that your gums actually need to be flossed more often. Bleeding gums often discourage people from flossing because they don't want to deal with the pain, but you should know that your gum bleeding and swelling should go down once you make a true habit of flossing.
 Gum disease and tooth decay frequently occur on the back teeth. It can be a little bit harder to get in there, but you shouldn't neglect this crucial part of flossing. Gently slide the floss between your rear molars and your gums, and carefully pull both sides of the floss toward you as you agitate the area., After you floss, rinsing out your mouth can help you remove any stray particles that were nearly dislodged from your gums, or that you were able to remove but were left in your mouth. This will also help give your mouth a fresh, clean feeling.


Using chlorhexidine mouthwash destroys almost completely any trace of bacteria and creates a protective barrier around the gums and teeth that have been flossed.
 The American Dental Association (ADA) suggests flossing for two to three minutes, but even 60 seconds of flossing daily can significantly improve your gum health. Most people floss before bed. If you know you've had a meal that led you to have more food stuck in your teeth than usual (such as having corn on the cob for lunch), then you can floss earlier, too, to get out the stray particles of food. That being said, you don't want to overdo the flossing, either, or you may damage your gums. Just once a day should be the perfect amount.
 Flossing significantly lowers your likelihood of gum disease and decay, making it an essential part of your hygienic routine. If you can't floss the traditional way, try flossing with:









Floss holders, small Y-shaped devices that hold floss. For those who aren't coordinated enough to handle traditional floss.
"Superfloss," which expands in larger spaces and contracts to fit through smaller spaces. Super floss may be beneficial for people with wipe gaps between several of their teeth.
Floss threaders, which make it easier to work around any dental work that you might have gotten.
Consider using a water flosser in addition to flossing. A water flosser, also known as a water pick or an oral irrigator, is a device that aims a stream of water at your teeth. It can help remove particles of food from your teeth and can also help reduce gum disease as well as bleeding. It can also make the process a bit more fun. Be aware that it can work in addition to flossing, but should not be used as a substitute.