 If you are planning an adoption or your children encounter adoptive friends in school or in the community, it’s good to remind them of what not to say. Let them know that putting someone on the spot with a lot of personal questions will make them uncomfortable and could upset them. Instead, just be supportive of their friend and know that they now have a loving family who cares about them.


For example, your child may want to know what happened to the birth parents, how the adoptive parents found the child, and the like. And although these are understandable questions, they may not be ones the adoptee is ready to answer. Tell your child it’s natural to wonder, but they should only bring it up if they really feel the adoptee is ready to share.Make sure that you keep the lines of communication open and encourage your child to ask you any questions they have about adoption before bringing up those questions with the child.
 One of the first ideas that pops into a child’s head about adoption is that the child’s birth parents didn’t love them and gave them away because of it. Assure your child that this usually isn’t the case and to never say that to someone who is adopted. Explain how hurtful hearing a comment like this is, and ask them how it would make them feel if someone said that to them.


Explain to your child that sometimes, people have babies when they aren’t ready or when they are in bad situations. Tell the child that the birth parents loved the baby so much they wanted more for it and knew they couldn’t provide everything it needed, so they looked for someone who could. Explain the bravery something like this takes., Your child may want to feel sorry for someone who is adopted, or act shy around them because they don’t fully understand the situation. However, explain to your child that they should feel happy for them that they were wanted so much and chosen to be a part of someone's family. Tell your child you understand why they may feel sorry or uncomfortable, but that they shouldn’t act any differently. Assure them that adoptive children are just like they are and should be treated the same as everyone else is.


For instance, you could say, “I understand you may feel bad for your friend, but they are living a really great life and there’s no reason to feel bad for them.” You could also say, “I know you may not totally understand the situation, and may feel weird about your friend now. But there is no reason to. They are the same friend they’ve always been.”
Taking the time to validate your child’s feelings, while explaining in a friendly way that they don’t need to be any different, may help them become more comfortable with their friend. If the adopted child is a sibling, do not tolerate any suggestions about the child not being a real part of the family. If your child says this out of anger or resentment, make sure that you swiftly address it in front of both children.

