 Start by making eye contact with your partner as this will signal that you are engaged in her and trying to set a romantic mood. Ensure your partner meets your eye contact and maintains eye contact with you, as this will show she is also interested in some romantic caressing.;
, Studies have shown that romantic partners respond better to caresses with hands that are at slightly above room temperature.

Rub your hands together before touching your partner and avoid holding cold beverages or cold objects, as your partner may not respond positively to a caress by ice cold hands.

You can also warm your hands by putting on gloves if you are in a cold outdoor environment or holding them over a warm fire if you are sitting in front of a romantic fire with your partner. The idea is to warm up your hands to a temperature that will be pleasing when you touch your partner’s body.
 Most people enjoy slow, gentle caresses so take it nice and easy when you touch your partner. Try to exert slight pressure with your fingertips and your hands on your partner’s face, neck, shoulders, arms, and back, moving about one inch per second. You may want to make light circles over your partner’s skin, figure eights, or trace any beauty marks with your fingertips.

Watch out for any ticklish areas and avoid running your fingertips over these areas, as this can cause discomfort. Instead, use a warm palm or your knuckles to softly caress any ticklish areas.
 As you caress your partner, you should communicate with her to determine how and where she enjoys being caressed. Ask her, “How does that feel?” as you run your fingertips and hands over certain spots on her body, and if she is clearly enjoying how you are touching a certain area, continue to do this. Read her verbal cues and her physical cues to ensure your caresses feel good to her.

You can also tell her to “coach you” or show you where she would like to be caressed and how she would like to be caressed. This could create some fun foreplay between you and your partner and allow you to please your partner with your caresses.
 Your partner may not be able to verbalize her desires when it comes to touch, so take note of how she is responding to your caresses. If her body language is open, excited, and stimulated, with visible sweating, looks of pleasure, and head nodding, these are all signs she is likely enjoying your caresses. If she displays looks of discomfort, annoyance, or boredom, making no eye contact with you or head nodding, these may be signs she is not into your caresses. You may then need to change up your approach.


If you are caressing a man, most men enjoy when their partners stroke their chests, back, and buttocks with a light touch. You can also tease his groin area with your fingertips and apply pressure with your hands on his groin area.If you are caressing a woman, most women enjoy when their partners stroke their chest area, their buttocks, and their inner legs. You can also tease her groin area with your fingertips, using light touches.