 The Maremma sheepdog has white or cream colored fur. Shades of orange or yellow might also be present.If your dog has brown, black, or spotted fur, however, it is not a Maremma.The Maremma’s coat should be long and plentiful. It might feel rough to the touch. It should be a bit wavy but not curly.The fur on the muzzle, head, ears, and feet will be shorter than on the rest of the body. On limbs, likewise, the hair will be relatively short on the front side, but will be a bit longer on the back side.
The Maremma sheepdog’s billowing fur makes it poorly adapted to heat.;
, The Maremma sheepdog typically weighs between 70 and 100 pounds. If your dog weighs less than 70 pounds, it might not be a Maremma sheepdog, or it might just be a puppy.Bitches average 66 to 88 pounds.Male dogs average 77 to 99 pounds.
 Maremma sheepdogs stand 25 to 30 inches tall. Of course, it’s possible that you have a jumbo Maremma, in which case it might stand 31 or even 32 inches tall. But if your dog is significantly taller or shorter than the 25 to 30-inch range, it is likely not a Maremma., A Maremma’s tail is set low and droops to below the joint of the hock (that is, the point of reverse articulation in the hind legs). When the dog is quiet, the tail will hang dow. If the dog is excited or alert, it will point straight out, its tip curved upward slightly. The tail will be covered with hair just like the rest of the animal., Maremma sheepdogs have a supple and sturdy build. The body should be muscular and well-developed. The shoulders should be broad and straight. The body should rise slightly toward the loins before falling toward a strong rump.The body should be a bit longer than the dog’s height as measured from the ground to the dog’s shoulder.
 Maremma sheepdogs are brave but not aggressive unless provoked.They demonstrate intelligence, and so can easily learn tricks and commands. Overall, they are a lively and hardy breed with an air of majesty about them.If the Maremma does not have a flock to guard, they will gradually become more possessive of their owners, more defensive of their possessions (toys, beds, and so on), and more territorial.Maremma sheepdogs are aware of their surroundings, but to the untrained eye, their natural attentiveness might be mistaken for nervousness.
Generally the Maremma is docile, as they are bred to be so.Maremmas need space to run and play.

