 The size of the rod you buy should be determined by the size of the fish available to catch in your region.


For fish under 20 pounds, use a six-foot rod with at least a 10-pound test line.
For fish over 20 pounds, use a seven-foot rod with at least a 20-pound test line.

Longer rods are better for fishing from banks, as opposed to a boat, since they offer greater reach.

;
, Most sporting good stores sell starter tackle boxes that include a range of supplies to get you started. When it comes down to it, all you really need are sharp fishhooks, but some of the other accessories are nice to have.


Glow-in-the-dark bobbers can come in handy when you're fishing at night.
Other types of bobbers can be helpful when you're fishing on a still pond.
You'll also need buckets and coolers to hold your bait and any catfish you'll be bringing home.
 Some catfish enthusiasts swear by a specific type of bait, but the truth is that catfish will eat many different things. For your first few catfish expeditions, take a few different types of bait, so you can find out what the catfish in your region like to eat. Try some of these options:


Try cut bait. Shad, herring, goldeye, and other baitfish release oils that attract catfish. Slices of these fish are particularly effective for catching channel catfish, which are the most common type of catfish in North America.

You can also use live baitfish that haven't been cut. These won't release oil as readily, but they may be more appealing to catfish since they're alive. Experiment to see which one is better.


Try crawfish. Catfish in southern regions might eat crawfish, which is available at your local bait shop.
Try nightcrawlers, which you can also buy at the bait shop. These worms are appealing to many types of fish..
If you don't want to make a run to the bait shop, you can use chicken livers or pieces of corn.
Try an artificial bait. There are dozens of artificial catfish baits sold at sporting goods stores, many of which claim to have a magic ingredient for which catfish go wild. However, expert fishermen say that the best fish are caught with real, live bait.
 If you know you stand the chance of catching a 50-pound fish, you're going to need a large piece of bait. Smaller bait like nightcrawlers will get stolen off the hook.
 Catfish aren't going to eat fish pieces that have been sitting out, so you'll need to store them in a bait cooler to keep them cold during the hours you'll be spending on the water.


Keep nightcrawlers in a container inside a cooler.
Keep cut baitfish on ice.
Keep live baitfish in a bucket of cool water.

