 Be upfront and honest about what you expect from a conversation. If something annoys you, express it in a non-judgmental manner. For example, when someone is constantly on their phone, whether it is to check facts or update social media, that action interrupts the natural flow of conversation. Politely ask the person to focus on the conversation, not double checking that every fact is 100% accurate.For example, you may say, “Can you put away your phone? I'm distracted by it. I prefer it when you don't check everything that comes up while we talk.”
If you are having a debate or need facts for a presentation, fact checking is okay. However, when most people talk, they are not worried about facts. They relay stories based on their memories, sometimes embellishing or adding details for emphasis. When someone fact checks, it takes away from this natural storytelling experience.
 Though it may be awkward at first, you may consider asking others to put away their phones during dinners, get togethers, and conversations. This helps keep the conversation focused on the people and exchange of ideas, not on double checking the accuracy or minutia of everything someone says.This may be easiest at social engagements, such as dinners, small get togethers, or group activities.
Try saying, “I propose that we all disconnect for the evening and enjoy each other’s company. Can we put away our cell phones so we won’t be distracted by social media, texts, or looking things up?”
You may add that everyone should leave ringtones on so they can be contacted in case of an emergency.
 If nothing else works, you may consider talking to the person about their actions. Tell them that it bothers you. Explain that you would like to focus on the conversation and exchange of ideas instead of perfect facts or getting every detail correct.You may consider telling them that you feel like being on a cell phone in a conversation is rude, or that you don’t appreciate being fact checked like they don’t trust you.
For example, you may say, “It really bothers me when you fact check everything during our conversations. It makes me feel like everything I say is wrong and pulls you from the conversation. I would like just to talk to you and exchange ideas, not look up everything we say.”

, When talking to the other person about this issue, you should express your point of view without sounding like you are passing judgment on them. "I" statements are ones that use "I" and "me" instead of "you" and "you're." These can help you express your point without blaming or accusing the other person.

Instead of saying, "You're always challenging what I say," you can say, "I appreciate it when conversations don't revolve around constant fact-checking."

