 While obvious it must be stated again: candy is not good for you or your teeth. High in sugar, it's also sticky so it seals that sugar directly to your teeth, and your saliva turns those sugars to acids. Add in the fact it has no healthy benefits whatsoever and it’s easy to see why candy should be cut from your diet., This is particularly true for children and teenagers, whose enamel is not yet mature and therefore even more susceptible to the erosion caused by the acid content of vinegar. Regardless of age, after eating foods containing vinegar it’s a great idea to wash your mouth out afterwards.Also look to avoid vinegar in places you might not consider right away, such as potato chips, sauces (especially hot sauces), and pickles. Pickles may be the worst offenders as they contain vinegar AND sugar.
 Grapefruit and lemons are the worst offenders among fresh citrus fruits due to their higher acid content. Perhaps even worse, however, are dried fruits. Not only are they high in sugars but their fibrous biology causes them to stick to teeth, wedging that sugar and acid into the cracks, crevices, and porous surfaces of teeth.


Don’t forget that tomatoes are a fruit. They also have a high acid content and can damage enamel both raw and as a sauce. Your best bet is to eat them as part of a meal so that you can enjoy their flavor and nutrients while cutting down on their acidity levels.
Some citrus fruit each day shouldn't be a problem — these fruits, after all, have a great many benefits. Just be conscious of how much you are eating and try to notice any affects on your teeth.
 Saliva breaks down carbs while you chew, turning them into enamel-eroding acid. Even healthy carbs like brown rice, whole-grains, and sweet potatoes are flagrant perpetrators. White carbohydrates are even worse — they are the most incriminated factors that produce cavities. Carbohydrates also tend to get stuck in teeth and continue to wear down enamel all day long, developing aggressive bacterial sites.
 For example, eat something that counterbalances the acidity of fruit, such as nuts, at the time of eating the fruit. This will turn enamel-wearing acids into friendly bases in your mouth, sparing your teeth the wear-and-tear.
 Most snack foods are carbohydrates in one form or another, contain sugar, and some of them are also acidic due to the presence of vinegar or other additives. So in addition to being, basically, devoid of nutritional value they also wear out the enamel on your teeth.
 If you enjoy nibbling on food all day long, you may be endangering your teeth. The best solution is to ensure that the foods that you consume are either low in acidity or are combined with foods able to counteract the acidity and reduce your need for the acidic food.


For example, consuming nuts or cheese with fruit may be one way to reduce the effects of acid wear. Nuts and dairy foods are considered helpful balancers to acidic foods.

