 Before you begin the online complaint process, take the time to pull together information and copies of evidence you have about the crime.


The more information and detail you can provide, the more likely it will be that the crime will be investigated and the perpetrators eventually brought to justice. However, you shouldn't hold off reporting fraud simply because you don't think you have a lot of information.Any documents or other information you have typically can be attached to your complaint as a digital file. Make sure you convert any such items to digital format, such as by scanning them, before you start your complaint., The FBI runs a website that collects information on internet crime to be disseminated and analyzed by the FBI and other federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies.You can submit a complaint about online fraud whether you are the victim of the fraud or a third party with information about the fraudulent activity.Keep in mind that the IC3 program only evaluates crimes that take place over the internet, so if you observed fraudulent activity in person, the website may not be the best place to file your complaint. However, IC3 staff may evaluate any complaint of fraud that has a web-based component, even if aspects of the crime occurred offline., You must agree to the FBI's terms and conditions, as well as understand how your information will be kept secure, before you can proceed with filling out the IC3 complaint form.Any information you submit must be true and correct to the best of your knowledge. If you knowingly and intentionally provide false information, you could be subject to penalties for perjury including fines and jail time.Once your information is received by the IC3, it will be evaluated and shared with the appropriate agencies depending on the character of the activity you've reported. Although IC3 may share information with federal, state, or even international law enforcement agencies, the individual agencies retain discretion regarding whether to follow up on your complaint or initiate any investigation., The complaint form requires you to provide your own name and contact information, as well as factual details about the crime you want to report.Providing an accurate name and contact information is important so investigators can contact you if they have further questions or need more details about the activity.You should provide as many details and specifics as you know or can recall. It's important to maintain a high level of accuracy, but at the same time include as much information as possible.Avoid making judgment calls regarding what information is important and what isn't. A fact that may seem inconsequential to you could be evidence of a similar method that unlocks a pattern consistent in several other cases about which you're unaware.
 Once you've reviewed your complaint and are satisfied that the information you've provided is correct and complete, you can click the button to submit it to IC3 for evaluation.


When your complaint is complete, make sure you download or print a copy of it for your own records, so you'll know what you submitted if an investigator contacts you to follow up.
You'll get an email that confirms receipt of your complaint and assigns you a username and password to access your complaint at any time.After you've submitted your complaint, it can't be deleted or withdrawn. However, you have the ability to add information to it if anything else happens regarding the fraudulent activity, or if you learn any new details.