 In arbitration, a private person (called the “arbitrator”) will act like a judge and listen to your dispute. The agency that oversees domain-name registration has created an arbitration process you can use to dispute the use of a domain name. You can only use this arbitration process if the domain-name holder is cybersquatting. If you win, you can get rights to the domain name.Cybersquatting is the practice of buying the domain names of businesses and then selling them to the business for a profit.For example, a person might notice that a new company in their home town is growing rapidly. This person then buys a domain using the company’s name for the sole purpose of selling it to the company. This is cybersquatting.
If the domain-name holder is not cybersquatting, then you will need to file a lawsuit. For example, the domain-name holder may actually be using the name on an active website. This is not squatting, though it could be trademark infringement.
You also shouldn’t use arbitration if the domain-name holder’s infringement has cost you money. Arbitration panels are not empowered to give you compensation. If you think that you have lost money because the domain-name holder is using your trademark, then you should bring a lawsuit in federal court instead.Online arbitration is relatively cheap and quick—about 57 days.This is much faster than a lawsuit. If time and money are important factors for you, then you might want to bring an arbitration.
 ICANN stands for the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. This corporation is in charge of domain registration throughout the world. It has established a Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy, which you can use to challenge someone’s ownership of a domain.If you win your arbitration, then the company that registers the domain (the “registrar”) will switch ownership to you.


ICANN also approves a list of arbitrators you should choose from if you want to arbitrate. You can find a listing by visiting their website.You can click on one of the approved arbitrators in order to submit information and start the arbitration process.
 You can submit your complaint electronically through the arbitrator. However, each arbitrator approved by ICANN also publishes model complaint forms. You can download this form and use it to help you gather necessary information for filing your complaint. After downloading the form, you should gather the following:your contact information, including name, address, telephone number, and email address
your preferred contact
the registrant’s contact information, including name, address, telephone number, and email address
the disputed domain names
the contact information for the registrar
information about your trademarks or service marks, including the goods and services for which the marks are used

, At the National Arbitration Forum website, for example, you start by clicking on “File a Claim” at the top of the page.On the next page you will see a drop-down box. You should select “Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP) Case.”


You will then be taken to a screen where you can input information about your dispute.
 This is a factual test. For example, “zarpo” is not confusingly similar to “targee.”


However, if the domain name is identical to your trademark, then it would be confusingly similar. Also, if the domain name incorporates your trademark, then it is also easy to show that the domain name is confusingly similar to your trademark.
For example, your trademark may be “zarpo.” A domain name “zarpo.com” or “onlinezarpo.com” uses your trademark as its domain name. Therefore, the domain name is confusingly similar to your trademark.
 You can’t legally challenge the domain name unless you can meet this element. A domain-name holder will not have any rights or legitimate interests if he or she is not using it as part of a bona fide offering of goods or services.For example, you can prove this element if the domain name leads to a blank website, with no goods or services being sold on the website.
However, so long as the business is making preparations to offer goods or services, then it will have legitimate interests in the domain name.
 “Bad faith” is the third element you must convince the arbitrator of. Specifically, you need to argue that the domain-name holder did not register the domain for a legitimate purpose. Instead, it attempted to do the following:It registered the domain name for the primary purpose of selling it to you or to a competitor. If there is no content at the website, then this is proof that the primary purpose of obtaining the domain name was to sell it, not use it.
It registered the domain name to prevent you from using it or to disrupt your business.
It used the domain name for commercial gain because consumers would be confused and think they were visiting a website related to your business.
 You need to tell the arbitration panel what you want them to do. This is your “remedy.” You have two options: have the domain name registration cancelled or have it transferred to you.


If you choose simply to have it cancelled, then someone else could register it at a later date. Accordingly, you are probably better off requesting that the name be transferred to you.
 Arbitration isn’t free. Your fee amount will depend on whether you are having a one-person or three-person panel hear your arbitration. Generally, you will have to pay $1,300, which is the standard cost of a one-person arbitration.You should be able to pay electronically, at the same time that you submit the information in your complaint.
 After you submit your complaint, the arbitrator will contact the domain-name holder, who must file a response to your complaint. The domain-name holder has 20 days to file an answer.You will have the option to file a reply within five calendar days, although you do not have to. You should file a reply if the domain-name holder made false statements which you can quickly correct.
 Arbitration is a fast process. Unlike in a lawsuit, there is no fact-finding period or court appearances, which slows down the process and increases the expense. Typically, the arbitrator will rule in 14 days.If you win, then you should get the domain transferred to you within 10 days of the decision.

