 You can run your house cleaning business as a “sole proprietorship.” This means that you are the sole owner of the business and are responsible for all of the business’s debts. For tax purposes, you will use your Social Security Number and report your business income on your Form 1040.You could also create a limited liability company (LLC). With an LLC, you can protect yourself personally from lawsuits. If an LLC is sued, then the person suing can only get your business assets, not your personal assets.To form an LLC, you need to file “articles of organization” with your state’s Secretary of State or equivalent office.
If you want to form a house cleaning business with another person, you could think about forming a partnership. A partnership is a business formed by two or more people. However, individual partners are legally liable on the debts incurred by the partnership.
Choosing between the different forms is a complicated process. You will also need to consider the tax advantages or disadvantages of each. For help, you should meet with a lawyer.;
, Your business will need an identification number for tax purposes. If you are running a sole proprietorship or an LLC as a sole owner, then you generally can use your Social Security Number. However, if you have created a corporation, partnership, or other business, then you will need an EIN from the IRS.You can apply for your EIN at the IRS website at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online.
 You will need a tax number from your state so that you can pay state taxes. You should visit your state’s Department of Revenue to register for an account number.Generally, you will be responsible for paying the following taxes:


corporate taxes
employment taxes
personal income taxes
sales, property, and use taxes

, In the U.S., you need to register a house cleaning business with a state agency. You can find your state’s agency by visiting the Small Business Association’s website, which has a list of states. Click on your state.


The SBA website is here: https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/state-licenses-permits.
Contact the agency to find out what permits or licenses you need in order to run your house cleaning business. You should get these before opening your business.
 You may also have to register your business with your city or county.Cities and counties can apply their own taxes, which you must pay.You can check with the city office or town manager. There should be forms for you to fill out if you must register with them.
 You may need a DBA if you plan to operate using any name other than your own name. For example, if you want to advertise as “Charlie’s Cleaning Company,” then you will need to file for a DBA with your county or city.You should contact your county clerk or state business office and ask if DBAs are required. Not all states require them.If you are required to file, then the government office should have forms you can fill out.
 Registering a business is only the beginning. You also will want to spend some time thinking about registering your trademark or business mark, as well as determining how often you need to file reports with your state.


See Register a Company for more information.

