 The leaves used depend on your preference, but for this demonstration mint leaves will be prepared.


You can purchase fresh leaves at your local supermarket or farmer's market.
If getting to the store is difficult, no problem! There are online herbal stores that sell, package and ship tea leaves.;
, Wash the stalks thoroughly to remove all pesticides or residue that may still be attached. Dry them by leaving them to air dry or with clean paper towels. A clean paper towel is the fastest method.
 Gently remove each individual leaf from the stalk using your hand or a sharp kitchen knife. After each leaf is removed, place them on a baking tray.



The temperature of the oven must not be too high. If placed above the instructed temperature, the intense heat will cause the leaves to dry quickly. Overly dried leaves will lead to a tasteless tea.
There are various methods to preparing tea leaves.Dry mint is a useful source for drying leaves. This page offers five different ways to dry mint leaves.
 Keep a constant watch on the drying process for the next ten minutes. Be sure to check every five minutes to ensure the leaves do not become overly dried.
 The leaves must still be green but also have a crispy texture to them. This tells you they are dry, but not burnt.
 If you feel that only half is necessary do so. If you prefer your tea much stronger, stuff the tea bag to the very top.


The tea bags used can be purchased online at various stores.
There are various popular online outlets that are just a few of stores that offer these small bags.
, Only complete this step if you intend to keep your tea bags for a long period of time. This is to prevent air from causing the tea leaves to lose their potency. This will preserve the tea bags for usage of up to a year.

If you no longer want to use the bags when making tea, just remove the leaves and prepare the tea using a pot and boiling water.

How to Make Mint Tea is a helpful page that provides two unique ways to prepare mint tea with different flavors.
 This process can be used to dry various other leaves, like lemongrass, peppermint, or cerasee teas, to just name a few.