 If you’re nursing a serious family wound, such as childhood abuse or neglect, you should deal with this injury as soon as possible. Otherwise, if you keep suppressing it, you’ll find your ability to trust and love in other relationships and aspects of life will suffer. For serious problems, you should seek the help of a therapist to analyze and guide you through your feelings. A licensed professional can also help you brainstorm ways to deal with the past and move on in the future.If you have health insurance, you should ask your provider about which doctors or services they cover. Websites like PsychologyToday and goodtherapy.org have searchable online databases that can help you find professionals in your area.
 When reflecting on the impact a betrayal or trauma has had on your life, have your therapist help you identify your objectives for the process. For example, do you want to eventually forgive your family member and re-forge former bonds? Or, do you just want to find a way to get over the past so that it doesn’t affect your life in the future?


Since seriously abusive family members rarely apologize for the past, your goals should not include receiving an apology or even recognition from the injurious person., Personal healing after painful family wounds is largely dependent on self-esteem: you’ll only be able to acknowledge your pain and get over any associated shame if you believe you’re a person worthy of respect and happiness. You can work on building this self-esteem by investing time and energy in yourself and your interests.


Physical activities like jogging, swimming, or team sports will buoy your mood by releasing endorphins and relieve anxiety by burning off adrenaline.Creative pursuits such as painting or writing will help you to express your feelings and feel a sense of accomplishment, as well as helping you recover from family trauma. , Getting over a troubled family past is much easier if you work on building trust and intimate relationships with friends. It will improve your self-esteem, improve your mental health, and even boost your physical health, all while proving that you aren’t totally dependent on nuclear family ties. You can strengthen existing friendships by making time for personal conversations, trust-building activities, and attending one another’s special events.
 One of most important parts of the healing process is closure, and a wonderful way to achieve closure is to write a letter and express unaired feelings.Even if the other person doesn’t claim accountability or never even responds to the letter, you’ll feel a sense of relief at having released pent-up sadness and anger.


Depending on your goals, you might have decided not to address the family member directly. You can still reap the therapeutic benefits of this step, though, by writing a letter which you won’t actually send. You can say all the things you’ve always wanted without putting yourself in a vulnerable position and potentially re-aggravating healing wounds.
 Even if you intend to never see or speak to the offending family member again, you might want to consider forgiving the family member for the sake of your own mental and emotional wellbeing. This is because forgiveness can help you let go of the past and feel liberated moving forward.You can ask your therapist for help creating a manageable, productive plan for forgiveness that doesn’t compromise your progress.
 If there is an abusive family member, it may be necessary to dissolve your relationship with that person. As hard as it is to repair conflict within the family, it is equally as hard to protect yourself from an abuser within the family, especially if you experience pressure from other family members to have a relationship with the person. This can be very difficult and complicated, so enlist the help of a therapist to strategize how to do this.


You may wish to tell the other members of your family why you are ending this relationship. An unfortunate truth is sometimes other family members will not want to believe what you are saying. Your therapist can help you prepare for this. If other family members are siding with your abuser, then you may need to remove them from your life as well.