 ROTC stands for Reserved Officers' Training Corps. The Navy, Air Force, and the Army all have programs in place at a variety of universities to train commissioned officers who will serve actively following graduation, in exchange for money toward college. Full and partial scholarships are available through ROTC programs. To join, sign up for the ROTC Basic Course in school, or you can take it before school starts in the summer. Your success in this course will qualify you for ROTC. In some high schools, you can join Junior ROTC to help prepare you and give you a better chance of being accepted into the program. Research the options available at your school if you think this option might be right for you.
The Coast Guard offers a similar training program called CSPI. Offered at fewer schools (primarily coastal universities), this can be another good option for qualified candidates., If you're a very talented athlete, lots of teams offer free tuition in exchange for committing your talents to the team. If you're a talented athlete, get in touch with the coaches at schools you're interested in and see if you can get in for a workout or a tryout to get a sense of your chances.Many different schools and sports offer scholarships to players, starting in the junior and senior year of high school. You may start getting interest from schools who'll be in touch and scouting you as a potential player. If you haven't been in touch with any interested schools by the time of your senior year, though, you probably need to make other plans.
It's important to understand that most full-ride scholarships are reserved for sports that bring lots of revenue into the school, mostly men's football and basketball. Other sports do offer scholarships, some substantial, but many fewer full scholarships. If you're a softball player, for example, going to school for free may be difficult.
 If you're already a college student studying computer-science, Microsoft University offers free tuition to students looking to transfer and get trained in a slightly different, more innovative way. This can be an excellent but competitive way of getting trained, and all but guarantees you a high-paying job on the other side of your degree., If scholarship opportunities don't pan out, you'll need to pay for as much of tuition as you can by exhausting your federal loan options. These offer competitive interest rates, compared to private loans, and are easy to defer until after college. It's in your incentive to pay them off quickly to avoid accruing extra interest, but it's also easy to win deferments in the short term while you complete your degree and post-graduate degrees and seek gainful employment.
 Federal loans often won't cover the whole package, which can put some student families in a tight spot, making private loans a necessary supplement. Fortunately, you can often work to consolidate these loans after college, and defer the payments until you're finished with school. If you've got no way to pay for school otherwise, these are reliable and readily available options for students in need.


You may have to get your parents to help cosign for these loans, unless you have a credit history that's significant, depending on the lending institution. Sallie Mae, in particular, caters to students, helping to take out loans to help pay for college.
 Much like a 401k, a 529 savings plan allows you to invest a certain amount of money with a financial advisor, attempting to make school money with mutual funds. Each state handles 529 plans differently, but nearly every state has a plan in place to allow students to save tax-free money for college., Work study programs are available that allow you to work on campus in some capacity, in exchange for a break on tuition, or pay that you can then put toward tuition. Work-study will be a part of financial aid that you'll qualify for if you can demonstrate need, but you'll still need to find campus jobs and apply for them to get this variety of aid.


If you don't qualify for financial aid, get an off-campus job to make money and put it toward your tuition payments, as much as possible on top of loans.
 Don't stop looking for scholarship opportunities and seeking out different options when you get in campus. Most students will have already enrolled and started classes before becoming aware of different university-specific funding options and scholarships available. Talk to a financial advisor in the registrar's office at your school to stay updated on new scholarships and options for paying for school. Don't give up.