 Not all shows have audiences that are open to the public, or even at all. Be sure to find out well in advance if you can obtain tickets to attend a program taping, and if so, how much they will cost, or if they are free.;
, Almost all TV studios are located in big cities such as New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, etc., and your visit may require an overnight stay if you live far away. Consider choosing a hotel in the vicinity of the studio to ensure you can attend the taping on time, or work in extra travel time.


If you're already visiting a city where your favorite TV program is taped and would like to be an audience member, visit the studio and ask if standby tickets are available. These are typically free and often are distributed on a first come, first served basis, and tend to run out quickly if the program is popular. If you find out these are available, arrive at the studio extra early to obtain one and return later in the day at the specified time.
 Most TV shows follow a strict taping schedule, so take care to plan your visit to coincide with the program's off-season. Shows are often taping during the fall and winter seasons and less commonly during the summer; however, many live talk shows and game shows are recording year-round for daily broadcast. Programs with studio audiences tape most frequently in the morning, late afternoon, and into the nighttime hours.
 Even if you're a loyal daily viewer, there may be a handful of tidbits about the show you didn't know, and these can be helpful when you're attending the taping. Find out more about the studio audience experience, and determine if you want to be selected to appear onstage, if applicable (such as on a game show). It will all make the experience more enjoyable.
 Never rush to be there at the last minute or you risk your seats being given away to standby ticket holders. Your seat location will usually depend on your place in line, so be extra careful to arrive early to avoid being seated in an undesirable row. While everyone will get at least a moment or two to be visible on television, your best bet to get spotted is if you sit up front or at the end of a row.
 Watch closely, listen to the hosts, clap along if a guest singer or band is performing, and enjoy the experience. For most people, attending their favorite programs live is a once-in-a-lifetime event.

