 There are several possibilities here:


Try designer clothing consignment stores. These stores carry designer fashions that the owner no longer wants to wear but would like to get a little bit of money for. The owner of the store takes some of the sales price and the seller gets the rest. You, the buyer, often get a real bargain. Many times the clothing in these stores has been barely worn. Be prepared for last season's fashion sometimes but if the clothing is designer, it should withstand radical fashion changes and will be well tailored, well fitting and of good quality fabric.
Shop at thrift stores in wealthy areas. You will have to rummage a fair amount, so be prepared for some hard work but amazing bargains can be uncovered.
Try market stalls. Some market sellers specialize in selling used designer wear. You can search in local phone directories or on the Internet.;
, For lower level designers, these stores are around in most major cities. For more high-end, expensive designer wear, the outlet stores are fewer except in fashion mecca cities, such as Montreal. If you are near them, you will score some amazing bargains that didn't get sold for one reason or another to the stores and designers that were meant to take them. These are usually advertised in newspapers and by way of flyers or wall posters.
 Again, this works only in cities that specialize in making the clothing but they will often have some streets lined with boutiques that are so competitive, their designer label prices are kept much lower than in other parts of the world.
 Try eBay and other online auction sites. Sellers do the walking, rummaging and stocking for you. All you need to do is sit there with your mouse hovering over the clothes that interest you. Ask questions if the photos are unclear or there isn't enough information supplied.
 Get your friends together and ask them to bring at least one piece each of designer gear they no longer want and start swapping. Don't forget to include jewelry, scarves and hats as part of the swap party.

