 If your sibling says something like "you're an idiot," turn around and, if there's a pencil behind you, pick up the pencil and say "It's all right, pencil, he/she didn't mean it."


This gets very annoying if you keep talking to the imaginary object instead of your sibling.






Your sibling might even scold you back like "You're the fool who's talking to a pencil." The backup plan for this is to tell your teacher or parent that your sibling not only scolded the pencil but also scolded you.
 Start insulting them in that language. Make sure your parents don't know the language. To make it easier, don't just learn bad words, get insults, curse words, or mean phrases in your vocabulary.


Or, you can just say "Hi, your name is (name)" or some other random phrase, and make them think you are insulting them. Then, after they beg you (or tell on you), you can tell them what it really means.






Another proven method is to call them "benevolent," which means nice. After they disagree and you tell them what it really means, continue this a few days, and one day change "benevolent" to "malevolent," which means "mean" or "nasty."






Make up your own language and start insulting them in it. Make sure it is hard to understand. If they understand it then they can tell your parents.
 This is another super-annoying trick. If they stare back, then start staring at them with very very wide eyes and a scary face. Put your face about an inch away from theirs, and make it obnoxious.


Stare at the back of your siblings head till they turn around. Just smile and wave. Then do it over and over again till they get annoyed!







, You don't even need to look at them, but if they move, keep following them with your finger. For some reason, pointing is really threatening and annoying. Siblings hate it!

, When your sibling is talking to you, be quiet and ignore them like they are not there. This works very well when they are asking you where something is.
 Siblings hate it when another sibling pretends they're a different gender, especially if they're a boy. Calling a boy a girl is one of those things that should really annoy him.


Mistakenly call them the opposite of what they are. For example, if you have a brother and you're talking to someone right in front of your brother, say "My brother is so annoying! She... I meant he! said...". Do this over and over.







