 Most dates happen at night, so opt for an evening showing over a matinee. Furthermore, choose a Friday or Saturday night to go see the movie, since those evenings are considered by most to be date nights. You want to communicate to her that you definitely consider this to be a date.If she agrees to go to a movie on a Friday or Saturday night with you, it’s a good sign that she definitely likes you as more than a friend.
Her presence alone should boost your courage!

, Either one of these types of movies will create an atmosphere conducive to putting your arm around a girl. On the other hand, a raunchy comedy or documentary might not create the most romantic atmosphere.


Scary movies in particular work well because when people go through frightening things together, even if it’s just a movie and not “real,” it creates a feeling of closeness.Make sure she likes horror movies before you bring her to one. You want the experience to be fun for her, not literally terrifying.
 Once the two of you sit down in the theater, check out the seating situation. Are the seats close enough together? Are they comfortable? If you shift your weight around, do the seats make any weird or awkward sounds? Is there an armrest between your seats and, if so, will it get in your way? These are all things to consider.


If any of the above-mentioned scenarios seem like they might get in your way or create an awkward moment, wait for a better time.
If your shoulders are touching when you sit in your seats, you’ll be able to pull the move off seamlessly.
 The best time to make your move is during a romantic scene or a scary scene during which she might appreciate a little comfort. Avoid trying to put your arm around her a during sex scene, since that could be very awkward and send her the wrong message.


Another bad time to try is during a pivotal scene or a climactic one, since your move might be more of a distraction to her than a romantic gesture if she’s engrossed in the film.
 You will probably be feeling pretty nervous, but try not to show it. If you are visibly stressed out, your date will probably start feeling the same way, which is not an ideal situation for this. Try to breathe slowly and evenly and keep your demeanor calm. Mentally remind yourself to relax every now and then, if you need to.


Avoid fidgeting, which communicates that you’re anxious.To pull this off smoothly, you should also try to make the move feel spontaneous to her (even if you planned every detail).
If it feels planned out and forced when you put your arm around her, she’ll notice and it will probably create an awkward, uncomfortable atmosphere.

