 Before you even think about hitting the pavement with your new sneakers, spray a shoe protectant on them. A good protectant spray will let leather or canvas breathe, while also preventing stains and water from absorbing. It will also help wipe off mud, grass or grime on all kinds of shoe materials. Liberally repeat application every few weeks. It will not discolor your white shoes. ;
, The longer you let stains set in, the harder they will be to remove. Prevent this problem by wiping off things, like mud or wet sand, as soon as you can. Use a damp cloth or sponge with a drop of dish soap, or use pre-moistened sneaker wipes. Throw some sneaker wipes in your gym bag, or keep them for on the go activities.
 Yes, the same cleaner you use to wipe down your countertops will keep your white sneakers looking brand spanking new. Every time you come home from wearing your shoes, spray a little Fantastik, 409, or whatever your poison may be and wipe it off with a paper towel or dishcloth.


Do not use a cleaner with bleach, because it can discolor shoes.
Spray just enough to clean dirt and scuffs. You don't need to drench them.
 The same stain remover pen that spot-cleans your clothes works great on your white canvas sneakers too. Whenever you get a grass stain or mud splatter on your shoes, treat it with a stain remover pen ASAP to keep them clean. Work the pen over stitching to keep it as bright as the rest of the shoe too.


Remember this is a spot treatment. There's no need to completely cover your shoes in stain remover.
 Sometimes all the prevention possible will not keep your white sneakers always looking clean. Before you do a thorough cleaning with a damp sponge, brush or wipe off any dirt, mud, grass clippings or sand. It’s important to get rid of excess debris, while your shoes are dry, so you don’t set stains in more.
 Remove your laces to get them, and your shoes, looking as clean as possible. If you attempt to wash your shoes with the laces still in them, grime will accumulate around the openings. Place laces in a small mesh laundry bag to keep them from wrapping around other laundry. Set them out to dry and do not place them in the dryer to avoid shrinkage., Drop one to two drops of dish soap on a damp sponge or dish rag. Place your sponge in a bowl of water or rinse it in the sink to dilute. Don’t use too much soap on your nice, white sneakers! Wring your sponge or rag out to remove excess water, and gently wipe your shoes down from tongue to sole. Do not scrub leather.
Carefully rub dirt and repeat if necessary.
 Take a wet dish rag with a dime-sized amount of laundry soap to clean canvas. Wring the dish rag out and wipe down your shoes thoroughly. Wet the rag again to remove all accumulated dirt and soap. Wipe down your shoes a second time. Repeat if necessary, and let them dry by a fan or in the open air for a few hours.


Do not place canvas in the washing machine. It can tear them and yellow your soles.
 Even after you have thoroughly brushed and cleaned your white sneakers, you may be left with discolored areas. Leather shoe polish can take care of this. Wipe polish on with a soft cloth, like an old t-shirt, and let it dry for a few minutes. Take a clean side of your old t-shirt to lightly buff out any scuff marks.


White leather shoe polish is good for solid white shoes.
Use a neutral shoe polish on white shoes that have accent colors. A neutral polish goes on clear and can be used on other leather shoes or bags., A magic eraser works wonders on smooth rubber soles, and leather for that matter. Dip your magic eraser in water and squeeze out the excess. Gently scrub your soles and wipe water off with a paper towel. Repeat this process until you remove as many scuff marks and stains as you can.


This works best on smooth soles. A magic eraser will not get into textured areas as easily.
 Rubber soles can be a tricky area to keep clean on white sneakers, especially if the soles are textured. Spot clean scuffs or grass stains and get into crevices with a toothbrush. Spray an all-purpose cleaner on your toothbrush or use soap and water, and scrub away.
 The sun can yellow-white rubber soles. Keep your shoes in a closet or under a bed. Make sure they're stored away from large, open windows and never keep your shoes outside.

