 Traditionally, parents tend to see themselves as knowing more than their child, with a responsibility to guide the child through daily life. As a child becomes a teen, however, he or she learns to function more autonomously and wants more independence. The more you try and control your teen, the more likely pushback will become. Then, the gap between teen and parent can widen when a teen’s desire to live more autonomously is not met.By accepting your teen, you can lessen conflicts and reduce stress.


When you feel the urge to tighten the reigns on your teen, take a moment and ask yourself, “How can I allow my teen to grow and respect his or her need for independence while still prioritizing safety?”;
, While punishment was an effective way to parent a young child, it will likely lead to more conflict with a young teen. When your teen misbehaves or makes a mistake, change your approach and help your child to understand his or her emotional motivations and make repairs.Don’t see it as trying to get your teen to do what you want, but as allowing your teen to make mistakes, understand the mistake, and then repair any damage. Instead of enforcing external rules, lead by example and enforce values, not rules. Teens who have their own personal motivation are more likely to engage in positive behaviors than those who are forced (such as, “I make these choices because I know they have a better outcome for me and other people” than, ” I follow rules because I’m told to or because otherwise I will get punished”).Sit down with your teen and ask what happened. Help him or her sort through emotions and understand what led to the action.Then, guide him or her in how to make things better.
If your teen makes a mistake, accept it (and your teen). Make sure that the mistake is seen through the lens of learning more than punishing. For instance, if your teen mistreats a younger sibling, ask him or her, “what led to you yelling?” and, “If someone says something to you that you don’t like, does that justify the same kind of behavior? Why or why not?” Once you talk about emotions, think about a solution. Ask, “Your sister is upset. What do you think you can do to make things better between the two of you?”

, When adults makes a risky decisions (such as speeding), they know that consequences occur and they make decisions based on those consequences. Teaching the same principle to your young teen is fair and allows for him or her to build responsibility. Be clear in behavioral expectations and consequences upfront, not after-the-fact.It’s important to teach the teen that he or she has the power to affect outcomes, based on the behavior he or she chooses. Being upfront in expectations means less fighting and less stress later.


Have a discussion with your teen about the freedoms he or she is gaining as a young teen (such as a cell phone, later curfew, or more time with friends). While introducing these freedoms, discuss consequences if these freedoms are pushed by the teen. Come up with consequences together so that you are each in agreement.
 Teens experience high levels of stress, and if unarmed with how to deal with it effectively, may turn to drugs, alcohol, video games or tv, or other unhealthy ways of coping. Teens struggling with stress may experience irritability, anger, worrying excessively, sleeping problems or eating problems.Help your teen find ways to manage stress. Ask her what physical activities interest her, or what sports he wants to explore; exercise and physical activity are great ways to work through stress.Encourage activities such as journaling, going for a walk, talking to friends, drawing or coloring, and listening to music.
Modeling healthy coping can go a long way: get adequate sleep, eat healthfully, get some exercise and engage in coping strategies of your own and show your teen that you value coping strategies for stress., When talking with your teen, avoid an interrogative approach and instead approach with curiosity. Discussions with your teen don’t have to include advice or judgments (and these often create distance between parents and teens). Instead, ask your teen about his or her feelings, opinions, and views.This allows your teen to learn and express the self and build emotional vocabulary. Then, talking with your teen will be less stressful and more helpful for both of you.


If your teen tends to give one word answers, be proactive in asking open-ended questions that allow for elaboration. See this as a time to get to know your teen. Instead of saying “How was your day?” with the typical, “good” or “fine” response, say, “What was the most interesting part of your day?” or “Tell me something you’re looking forward to this week.”
When talking about feelings, you don’t have to say things like, “How did that make you feel?” Ask, “What was that like for you?” or “what are your thoughts on this?”

, Before immediately disagreeing with your teen, allow him or her to speak without interruption. Showing that you are listening and hearing your teen respectfully may make it easier for the teen to share his or her opinions, thoughts, and feelings with you.Showing respect to your teen allows him or her to see that you acknowledge the words and feelings, and you are interested in what is being said. Feeling heard and understood is important to a teen.


Even if you wholeheartedly disagree with what your teen is saying, listen anyway. Allow your teen the time and space to express how he or she feels, then share your feelings.
 It’s been suggested that parents should say 50% less than what they do when talking to their teens.Chances are, your teen understands you and you don’t need to keep repeating. By keeping your words simple, you may avoid prolonging arguments or disagreements and decrease negative feelings between the two of you.


Remember when you were a teen and your parents would go on and on about something while you were thinking, “Okay, stop, I get the point”? Keep your words simple so your teen doesn’t get there, too.
 When talking with your teen, keep in mind that he or she wants to feel heard, acknowledged, recognized, and to have approval.Finding these things at home may mean he or she doesn’t look for them outside, which can be harmful. Avoid focusing on the negatives, and reinforce (and keep reinforcing) the things your teen is doing well. Acknowledging and appreciating your teen may encourage him or her to seek you out to talk.


Avoid giving compliments and focus on acknowledging effort, hard work, and intrinsic traits in your teen.For instance, avoid saying, “Good job with the ‘A’ on your exam.” and instead say, “Your hard work really payed off. You studied hard for that exam and I’m glad you see the evidence of that. I can see you value studying and your schoolwork.”
If your friend is being kind to another friend, acknowledge that. “You’re a really supportive friend and I can tell you value your friendships.”

, Arguments aren’t just about outright disagreements; they can help you understand your own beliefs and reflect what’s going on inside. You may find things in your teen that mirror feelings you have that you’ve effectively hid from yourself. See it as an opportunity to learn about yourself. Consider your reactions to your teen and ask yourself how they reflect back to you.If you feel rejected by your teen, ask yourself, “How have I felt rejected in life?” or “How do I reject aspects of my own self?”

, For your own health and for the purpose of modeling positive coping strategies, don’t turn to quick fixes when faced with stress. This can include overeating, planting yourself in front of the tv or video games for hours, smoking, drinking alcohol, consuming drugs, or taking out your stress on others.If you find yourself using these strategies, try replacing them with healthier strategies.


While these can temporarily alleviate stress, they do more harm than good in the long run, and set a poor example for your teen.
 Exercise is good for both your body and your mind. Even brief exercise, like a walk, can benefit your mood and help you deal with stress.Not sure what do to? Go for a walk with your dog, jump on the trampoline, or swim laps at the pool.


Lots of gyms offer classes you can take, such as yoga, weight training, or dance basics.
If you’re interested in sports, join a local league and get involved in baseball, basketball, racquetball, or anything else that interests you.
 Make sure you have friends outside of your nuclear family to spend time with regularly. Spending time with friends allows your body to feel calm and safe.Surround yourself with people you consider good listeners (and make sure you’re a good listener back). Just being around people you enjoy automatically allows you to calm down and feel less emotionally defensive.While a phone call can be beneficial, make sure you have friends nearby that you can spend time with face-to-face.
Don’t have many friends in your life? Check out How to Make Friends.
 While being a parent is hard work, make sure you have at least one thing you do every day that brings you enjoyment.This can be as simple as enjoying a perfect cup of coffee, writing a novel, reading a great book, or playing the piano. Communicate to your kids that this is time set aside just for you, and it is not to be interrupted.


Sometimes it’s easiest to have this time early in the morning or late at night.
 Meditation has many health benefits, including allowing your mind and body to relax and focus.There are lots of different ways to meditate, including silencing the chatter of the mind or practicing loving-compassion. If you’re new to meditation, start with 5-10 minutes, and if you choose, you can increase the time.


Try this: sit or lie down and make your body comfortable. When you notice your attention wandering (and it will wander), gently bring it back to your body and your environment. Then, shift your attention to noticing the inhalation and exhalation of your breath. You don’t need to analyze it, just notice it. Any time your mind wanders to plans for the day, memories, or other thoughts, gently bring your attention back to your environment and your breath., If you continue to struggle with dealing with your young teen, it may be time to seek outside help. A therapist can help your teen improve communication, work through emotional or mental disturbances, and help find coping strategies. Many therapists who work with teens also work with parents in order to improve relationships. If you notice your teen increasing aggressive or violent behavior, drug/alcohol abuse, promiscuity, runaway behavior or brushes with the law, consider seeing a therapist.If you find yourself resorting to violent behavior such as hitting to discipline your teen, this a an indication that further help is needed.
For more information, check out How to Tell if You Need to See a Therapist and Encourage Someone to See a Therapist.

