 It is important to get some blood flowing to your muscles before you start stretching. This can make it easier to stretch your body further. To warm up your muscles, just do about five to 10 minutes of cardiovascular exercise, such as walking or jogging.You can also try stretching after you have finished a workout, such as after a bike ride or after playing a game of basketball.;
, Doing basic stretches may not make you look like a contortionist, but they will help you to develop the flexibility you need to stretch like a contortionist. Try starting with some simple stretches, such as a:



Forward bend. For this stretch, just stand with your feet shoulder width apart and fold your upper body down towards the ground and try to touch your toes. Hold the stretch for about for about 30 to 60 seconds.

Quad stretch. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart and then bend one knee. Grab your foot with your hand and pull your foot in closer to your butt. You should feel a gentle stretch. Hold for about 30 to 60 seconds and then switch to the other side.

Chest opening stretch. Reach your arms out to your side so that they are even with your shoulders and then push out your chest. Hold this stretch for about 30 to 60 seconds.
Reclined leg stretch. Lie on your back on a padded mat with your legs on the ground. Lift your left leg as high as it will go without changing the position of your right leg. Grip your thigh or calf with your hands. Straighten your left leg completely, and hold this position for about 30 to 60 seconds. Then repeat with the other leg.
 While you hold a stretch, make sure that you continue to breathe. Taking slow deep breaths will help you to relax, which might help you to stretch your body further. As you breathe, you can also allow your body to sink a little deeper into the stretch.


Try taking a slow deep breath in through your nose as you count to five. Then, slowly exhale as you breathe out and count down from five. Repeat this breathing exercise as you hold the stretch.
 To increase your flexibility, you will need to make stretching a part of your daily routine. Try to set aside about 10 minutes to stretch different muscle groups every day and try to push yourself a little further every day to gain flexibility.


Try to keep track of how far you can stretch your body in each position. For example, can you reach your knees? Your calves? Or your toes when you do a forward bend? How far can you stretch your arms behind your back? You might want to jot these details down in a journal to help you monitor your progress.
 In addition to stretching your muscles, it is also important to keep them strong to be able to stretch like a contortionist.If you do not already have a strength training routine, then consider starting one to condition the muscles that you are stretching.


Along with 150 minutes of moderate cardiovascular activity every week, the CDC recommends that adults perform muscle training exercises on two or more days per week. The exercises should target all of your major muscle groups.