 This method is much easier to do with an artificial tree as you can disassemble it and get at the “roots” of the branches. However, if you want a more illuminated tree and you have a real tree, it’s possible – it’s just more work.


Put all the branches in front of you, categorized by where they go on the tree. You'll be starting with the branches that line the bottom.
 Putting in only the bottom row makes it easier to line each branch with lights. Start at the base of one branch, wrap up to its tip, and back down to its root. Keep doing this around each branch on the bottom.


Make sure the lights stay on the sides of the branch by really nestling them in there, or taking the strand and forming into a loop that you can place around the greens. Make sure the strands are snug on the tree and press them together if need be. The beauty of the artificial tree is that it's totally mold-able.
 Once every branch on the bottom is lined up and down, assemble the next level of the tree. Then, take your strand and move it up to the next set of branches, weaving back and forth like you just did, up and down, moving around and around.


If you notice the lights are coming loose, you can wrap them around the branch, too. However, this takes a bit more of the length of the set, and you may be short at the top (unless you have plenty of lights to spare).
 As the tree gets smaller and smaller, you’ll need fewer lights. Unless you want it brighter at the top, make sure you’re using the same ratio of lights as you did on the bottom.


As the tree gets thinner and thinner, your lighting work will be more and more visible. Take extra time toward the top to make sure your tree is as beautiful as possible.
 If some branches seem dimmer or brighter than others, adjust the lights as necessary, bringing them out to pop or nestling them in to be a bit dimmer. You may need to adjust the placement of the branches, too – the one obstacle of the artificial tree.


Make sure to test your lights in all different forms of lighting. Turn your house lights off and look at the tree; then, turn the house lights on. Experiment with all the settings on your strands if applicable, and take a minute to refine it to your tastes. It'll be worth it – this is the centerpiece of Christmas after all.

