 This guide will tell you how to be a good player and avoid bans and conflict with other players.;
, This is one of the most important one. If somebody gets on your nerves, simply add them to your ignore list (seen at the bottom right hand side, the red angry face.) If you call somebody a noob, you will lose respect for yourself and people won't like you as you will come across arrogant and big-headed.
 If a new member asks you for help, either help them (this can be done easily through private messages) or politely say no. Your reply should not include "No, noob." You should reply, "Sorry but I'm quite busy right now. Maybe I can help you later? :)" - and keep to that promise if they do ask you later. If it's something that is quite a basic problem then you can tell them politely to go to the home page for information on the topic they're after.
 Regularly check Runescape help sites (make sure they're legit and not scam sites) for item prices, or simply go to the Grand Exchange for a guide. If you are a long way away from Varrock then just go to any bank or ask a friend if they can give you a price check. Simply trade somebody, put the item in, and look at the text at the bottom of the trade box. This will show you how much the item is worth. Beware though, prices can change rapidly.
 If they follow you, right click the 'Private' tab at the bottom of the game screen, and click "Friends Private" (make sure you've removed the person in question from your friends list first!) The 'Friends Private' tab makes sure that only friends can see you online and send you private messages. Move worlds after you've done this so the harasser can't follow you again.
 - this is the mistake that a lot of people make, I've seen it a lot. Making it known that you've reported them can be a big mistake for the both of you and will only cause the person you're reporting to get more aggressive! If you are going to report someone, do it discreetly and don't say a word to them or it might make the situation worse for the two of you.
 Simple words such as Yes, No, Maybe, "But I'm going to do this" are usually innocent, but words such as Rawr, Gawdd, FGS, FFS (fictional words) are usually starred out and this will do you no favors if you are hoping to be a moderator.


If anything annoys you in the game, either stop doing it, teleport away, or go off Runescape altogether. Runescape is not created to be an obsession, it is a game that should be enjoyed moderately. If you get too angry, you might blurt out swear words or do something you'll regret, and then you'd be banned.
If somebody asks you for your level e.g Fishing level, or Smithing level, you don't have to give it them if you don't want to. Nobody is forcing you to, but if you really want to tell them, you can. Usually somebody who asks for levels is somebody who is willing to brag about their own levels and laugh at anybody else's. Stay away from these conversations if at all possible. If you happen to be ridiculed, just say, "Yeah, it's really low isn't it? I've not done this level for ages, dude" - this will give an explanation to the person who is making fun out of you. If they don't accept it, just ignore them from then on.. but don't be tempted to make disturbing comments.
, "Treat others as you would like to be treated yourself."

, Runescape friends should stay Runescape friends.

