 Most toddlers struggle with sitting at the table long enough to eat an entire meal. Pay attention to how often your toddler eats during the day. If they eat five evenly spaced meals or snacks per day, they are likely eating enough. Toddler’s are actually very good at determining when they are hungry or need to eat. As long as they have five small portions of food during the day, they will not starve or be too low in nutrients.If your toddler does not eat at all during the day or barely eats anything at each meal, they may not be eating enough.;
, Toddlers have small stomachs and may not eat large portions at meals. If your toddler eats a handful of food at each meal, they may be getting enough to eat. If they merely pick at a few pieces of food each meal, they may not be eating enough.You can try charting how much your toddler eats for one week to get a better sense of the portions of food they are consuming. Write down how much your toddler eats at each meal for one week to determine if they are getting enough food.
 Toddlers are known to be picky eaters and may show a preference for certain types of food. Take notice of what your toddler eats at each meal. Look to see if they prefer certain foods, such as starchy foods, vegetables, fruits, or beans. They may end up eating more of one food at meals because they like the taste of it.Write down what your toddler eats at each meal for a week. Notice if your toddler tends to go for the same foods at every meal. This can help you meal plan and modify your toddler’s diet so they eat more.
 As long as your toddler has a lot of energy and is growing properly, they are likely eating fine. Factors like genetics, general development, and ethnicity all come into play when determining a healthy weight and height for toddlers. Speak to your doctor about measuring your child’s growth and weight to ensure they are healthy.If your toddler does not seem to be growing properly or is underweight, this may be a sign that they are not eating enough at meals. Your doctor may recommend a diet plan to ensure your toddler gets the energy and nutrients they need to grow.
 Make sure your toddler has grains, vegetables, fruits, protein, and dairy at every meal. Add a very small amount of fats and sweets to the plate as well. Offering your toddler all the major food groups will ensure they have access to all the nutrients they need to grow and stay healthy. It will then be up to them to eat it once you present it to them.As part of a balanced diet, you should give your toddler around six servings of grains per day as well as two to three servings of vegetables and fruits. They should also have two servings of protein like chicken, beef, tofu, or beans, and 16 to 20 ounces of dairy like yogurt, milk, or cheese.
 Most toddlers do not need a lot of food at each meal to feel full. Adjust your toddler’s diet by serving them smaller portions at each meal, about 1 tablespoon of each food group on one plate. This is equal to ¼ of an adult portion size. Give your child less than you think they will eat and ask them if they want more or are still hungry once they are done with their plate.Give your toddler one tablespoon of food for every birthday they have had. For example, if your toddler is three, give them three tablespoons of a grain like brown rice, three tablespoons of vegetables and fruits like spinach, broccoli, apples, or pears, and three tablespoons of protein like fish, chicken, or beef.
 Toddlers often do not eat enough in one meal to remain full until their next mealtime. Have healthy snacks on hand to offer them between meals so they are not starving. Toddlers should have three full meals and at least two snacks a day. Provide healthy snacks like low-fat string cheese, fruit slices, yogurt cups, whole-grain crackers with peanut butter, or slices of lean chicken or turkey.Do not give your child snacks close to their next mealtime, such as in the next hour. Have them eat their snacks a few hours before their next meal. This way, your toddler will be hungry enough for their meal and not too full on snacks.
 Modeling good eating behavior for your toddler can help them develop good eating habits as they grow. Having regular mealtimes and a set eating routine at meals can make sitting at the table and eating easier for your toddler.Sit with your toddler at meals and turn off all distractions, such as the television or your phone. Make meals a family affair where everyone sits down, eats, and talks together. Show your toddler that you are enjoying your meal by chewing your food slowly and finishing all the food on your plate.
 You may be frustrated by your toddler’s lack of interest in their food. But resist the temptation to force your toddler to finish everything on their plate if they tell you they are full. Allow them to stop eating if they are no longer hungry. Pressuring them to eat will only make them upset and can cause food related issues for your toddler.You should also avoid bribing your toddler so they will finish their food. Do not offer them a sweet or dessert if they finishing their food. This can encourage them to use mealtime to get attention from you and can end up causing more issues for your toddler.
Do not threaten or punish your toddler for not finishing their meal. This can cause anxiety and stress for them around food.
 If you are worried about your toddler’s lack of interest in food, speak to your pediatrician about the issue. They can do a physical exam on your toddler and determine if they are malnourished or not growing properly due to poor diet. They can also offer tips on how you can get your toddler to eat more at mealtime in a healthy way.For example, you may ask the pediatrician, "Is my toddler at a healthy weight and height for their age?" "Should I adjust their diet or eating habits in any way?"
Your pediatrician can also recommend a pediatric nutritionist for your child if they are malnourished or not getting enough to eat.
 Your pediatrician can recommend a pediatric nutritionist that you can go to for a consultation. The nutritionist can create a custom meal plan for your toddler and give you advice on how you can make sure your toddler is eating enough on a regular basis.Over time, the nutritionist may modify your child’s meal plan to be less regimented or strict, especially if they show signs of improvement and are eating more regularly.
 This will likely only be an option if your child’s lack of interest in food is severe and they appear to have psychological issues related to food. Speak to your pediatrician about getting a referral to a child psychologist, if necessary. Sometimes toddlers can develop adverse reactions to food due to issues like anxiety or stress.For example, you may ask the child psychologist, "Do you think my toddler has issues with food?" "How can I help my toddler develop healthy eating habits?"

