 Endangered animals can seem like a far-away problem, but there are likely threatened species, from birds to bears to bugs, in your own neighborhood.


Invasive plants that overrun native vegetation and invasive animals without existing predators can combine to devastate native animal populations. Note the difference between invasive and non-native species; invasive refers specifically to species that thrive and overtake native species. Many non-native plants and animals are just fine. In fact most of our animal and plant foods are not native.
When planting, choose plants and flowers that are native to the area. Native vegetation is more likely to attract native birds, butterflies and other insects, and other animals that may be endangered.
Remove invasive weeds and non-native plantings in favor of local varieties.
Build bird feeders suited to native species.;
, Eliminate the use of chemical pesticides in your yard or garden in favor of natural deterrents. Give your local threatened or endangered species a fighting chance to thrive without dealing with unnecessary toxins. Water runoff can spread pesticide chemicals far from your home as well, so you will be benefiting a larger habitat than you might think.


"Integrated pest management" is an option that relies on "natural" ways to combat pests and unwanted plants. If, for example, you have an aphid problem, try attracting lady bugs that feed on aphids. The feeling among people who practice permaculture (and others as well)is that if you have an abundance of snails or slugs in your garden, the problem isn't the abundance of snails and slugs, it's the lack of ducks who would eat the snails and slugs and keep them in check.
Also, start composting to create natural, ultra-locally sourced fertilizer instead of relying on chemical-laced, long-distance hauled store brands.
 Many people dream of having the huge backyard with the pristine green lawn, but the growing encroachment of humans into wildlife habitats is a major cause of species endangerment.


Consider turning your yard into an edible landscape. In drought-stricken areas like California, focusing on using native and/or drought adapted plants can help animal species survive.
When it is time to move to a new home, think carefully about the amount of space you really need. Also consider the benefits of a smaller space (less mowing, for one!) as well as living in an area of existing development rather than a newly-carved suburban enclave.
If moving is not on your to-do list, consider whether it is possible for you to reduce your footprint on your own property. Would you be able to permit part of your land to return to a more natural state -- for instance, by replacing lawn space with native plantings that you allow to grow freely?

