 You will be the petitioner for the name change proceedings and are filing the case on behalf of the child.


You must be the child’s parent and will state your relationship in the petition. You also must list the name and address of the child’s other parent, if living.
The petition also includes information about where the child has lived for the past five years and any information about court proceedings to establish custody of the child., After you’ve completed the petition, you must fill out the verification portion and sign it in the presence of a notary public.


No other witnesses are required to verify your petition. The notary will charge a fee for his services., Although the child presumably lives with you, since you are the petitioner you have to file the petition in the court with jurisdiction over the county where you live.


In addition to the verified petition, you’ll need to file a civil case filing statement form, a notice of hearing, a final order, and a copy of the child’s birth certificate.You will pay court costs of $70 to open the civil case, which includes filing fees, court automation surcharges, and law library fees.The clerk of courts will stamp your documents and assign a date and time for a hearing in front of a judge., The original notice of hearing will be filed and stamped with the clerk of courts, but a copy of the filed notice must be published once a week for four weeks before the hearing is scheduled.


You can’t publish it in just any newspaper, you must use the legal newspaper of record. If you’re unsure which newspaper to use, you can contact the Auditor’s office in your county., A copy of the verified petition and a file-stamped copy of the notice of hearing must be served on the child’s other parent at least 10 days before the date of the hearing.South Dakota provides three ways to complete service on the other parent. You can hand-deliver the documents, send them using certified mail, or use a sheriff or private process server.
Along with these documents, you need to send the other parent a Notice & Admission form. This form says the other parent was notified of the name change hearing. He must sign this form in the presence of a notary.
Once the other parent has signed the Notice & Admission, he must mail the form back to you. A copy of this form will be filed in court with your other documents., Before the name change hearing, you must complete a form stating that you are the child’s parent and consent to the child’s name change. This form also will list why the child’s name is being changed.


The consent form must be signed in the presence of a notary., Before the hearing, you need to file your consent form at the clerk of court’s office with your other documents. You will file the original, signed form, not a copy., Before the date of the hearing, you need to complete the order of name change and notice of entry of that order. The order is the document that will be signed by the judge if she grants the name change., Since you are the petitioner, you must attend the hearing. The child may or may not be allowed in the court room, depending on court rules and the age of the child.


Ask court staff if you are unsure whether the child can attend the proceeding. You’ll want to make plans to take care of the child while you’re in court if she can’t attend., Once the judge signs the order for name change, you can finish filling out the notice of entry with the judge’s name and the date and time the order was entered., If the other parent did not attend the hearing, you’ll need to mail him the notice of entry. Otherwise you can hand it to him at the courthouse after the hearing is over.


If you’re mailing the notice, you must also fill out an affidavit of service and sign it in the presence of a notary. The affidavit affirms that you sent the notice to the other parent., You need the order for proof of the name change when you fill out the application to change the child’s name on her Social Security card.


You also will need to bring the child’s birth certificate or passport to prove her identity and citizenship.
The SSA doesn’t charge a fee for this, and will mail a new Social Security card to you once the application has been processed., You can use the new Social Security card as evidence of the name change for schools and doctor’s offices. Have the child’s name changed anywhere he has a record.