 Rabbits are naturally prey animals, so they experience more stress more than other animals. This means that your wild rabbit will likely run from you if you try to approach her. Her first survival defense is to run away to a place of safety.


Do not attempt to stop the rabbit from running away. This will only make her more stressed. This can lead to her death, since rabbits can suffer a heart attack or go into shock, which causes her gut to go into stasis, which will cause her to starve.;
, In order for the rabbit to get used to you and not see you as hostile, you should decrease your height when approaching her. This will make it seem less threatening to her. If she does approach you, do not react to her at first. Sit immobile for as long as it takes, which may be hours. It may also take multiple tries over many days, as she gets used to you., If you smell like other animals that are predators of rabbits, such as dogs or cats, she may not approach you. Put on freshly washed clothes and wash your hands before going outside to ensure you don't smell like any other animal., When you are trying to get the rabbit to trust you, leave a trail of tasty food the rabbit will like to lead her towards you. This includes leafy green like arugula, dandelion leaves, and carrot slices. This will help her trust you and go towards taming her., When you are trying to tame her, talk to the rabbit in a calm, gentle, low voice. This will help soothe her and not cause extra alarm.


Never shout at the rabbit or make loud noises. This will cause her to run away and hide.
 If you do manage to scare the rabbit, she may completely freeze. A rabbit uses this reflex to fool predators into thinking she is dead or to help her hide. If the rabbit approaches you in this manner, she is not happy to see you and does not want you to pick her up. She is actually terrified.You may be tempted and be able to pick her up in this catatonic state, but this is not a good way to help the rabbit. This will likely send her into shock and cause major problems for her. This can cause a heart attack or shock and eventual death., If you do pick her up, do not lift the rabbit in the air. Since rabbits are ground dwellers, picking her up is extremely terrifying. This can also lead to heart attack or shock for her.You may also permanently injure the rabbit's legs if you pick her up., If you want catch the rabbit without handling her, which may be a better and less frightening option, think about making a humane trap for her. Talk to a local wildlife society or animal welfare charity to see if they have one. You can also purchase one at a pet store.


You can also make a simple box trap with a cardboard box that will close once the rabbit enters it. To make this kind of trap, prop a box up on a stick, and poke a hole in the cardboard box. Then, tie a carrot or other treat from a string and loop it through the hole and tie it to the stick. When the rabbit enters the box and grabs the treat, the string will pull the stick and the box will come down., To lure the rabbit inside the cage, put down some tasty treats for him inside of it. This includes carrots, leafy greens, or dandelion leaves., If you want the rabbit to come to your trap, you need to put it somewhere that is well sheltered and protected. This will make the rabbit feel safe enough to come to your trap and eat the food you left in it., Rabbits are typically most active at sunrise and sunset, so make sure your traps are fresh and ready at these times. Make sure you check the traps after these times to see if you managed to catch them., Once you catch the rabbit, cover the trap with a blanket so she feels safe. Pick up the trap and then move it to a new location where you want the rabbit to be and open the trap so she can run out.


Make sure wherever you send her is safe for rabbits. You can ask your local wildlife rescue organization or animal control facility for advice.

