 You can't address dents in the carpet if the furniture is still there. Move the furniture to expose the dent and either rearrange the room to find a new home for the piece, or take it out of the room while you work.


When the carpet is exposed, check the label to determine what kind of material it is.
Synthetic fibers can be fixed using the cold ice cube method. Common synthetic carpet fibers include nylon, olefin, and polyester.;
, This is important if you're removing dents from a rug or area carpet where there's a wood or other finished flor underneath. To protect the floor, place a towel, rag, or other absorbent material under the carpet where the dent is that you'll be treating., Use as many ice cubes as you need to fill the dent completely. As the ice cubes melt, the compressed carpet fibers will slowly absorb the water. The more water the fibers absorb, the fuller and more swollen they’ll become, and this will reduce the indentation.If you're removing multiple dents from the carpet, try out the method first on a dent that’s in an inconspicuous area to test the carpet for color fastness.
 Let the ice cubes melt and leave the carpet to absorb the water from the ice overnight, or for at least four hours. This will give the fibers plenty of time to swell and start regaining their original shape and plumpness., When the carpet has had several hours to absorb the water, use a clean towel to blot the wet area and absorb any excess.The carpet doesn’t have to be completely dry, but it shouldn’t be any wetter than slightly damp. Switch to a dry area of towel as necessary to keep absorbing more water.


When you’ve absorbed as much water as you can, remove the towel that’s protecting the floor underneath.
 Now that the fibers have regained their original plumpness, you can fluff them back into shape to remove all traces of the dent. Use your finger, a small coin, or a spoon to brush and fluff the carpet fibers in multiple directions so they stand up tall and straight like the rest of the fibers.You can also use a carpet brush or carpet rake to fluff the fibers and remove the dent.

