 Certain websites allow skilled or knowledgable people to record lessons that others can pay to view. The teachers then can participate in forums to help their students through difficult parts of their content. Doing this not only allows you to share your skills with other people, but also earns a steady stream of income if many people participate in your class., People love buying interesting crafts and hand-made objects. Online stores like Etsy allow creative and crafty people to make money by selling their products. Be sure to enter the marketplace with something that differentiates your product from other offerings already available on the site.
 There are a number of sites that connect skilled individuals with people in need of those skills. Whether you are a graphic designer, lawyer, or translator, you can find someone willing to pay you a reasonable amount for your work. Try searching for "freelance work online" and check out the first few results.
 While it may seem like a daunting task to write an entire book, Ebooks do not need to be long to be informative and valuable. You just have to figure out what you know how to do that others would want to know and organize your information in book format. Of course the actual writing process will take time, but with online publishing services, publishing and selling your eBook will be a breeze.Your eBook can be easily published using a variety of online publishing services, such as those hosted by Google, Amazon, and Barnes and Noble. At each site you can submit your book and, once it is approved, will be listed for sale. Because your book is digital, the copies cost you nothing to sell.
Excluding time to write and convert to eBook format, you may earn a profit. However, average revenues from an ebook are less than $300. There are lots of competitors, many of whom spend hours promoting their books. So you may earn money from this venture, but don't expect to bring in a huge profit.
 YouTube allows content creators to earn money from advertising based on how many views they receive. The payout isn't much, about $1–$3 per 1000 views, but that can add up quickly with as you post more videos and gain more viewers. An added benefit here is that you can create videos about whatever you want, as long as you think others will want to watch it.


Be aware that videos, like eBooks, are unlikely to bring in much money. You face an enormous amount of competition, and it's pretty unlikely your videos will be viewed by anyone other than family and friends.

