 The first section of your press kit should be designed to give a journalist a good working knowledge of your organization all by itself. Think of the introductory section as the Cliff’s Notes version of the rest of your press kit. It should contain:An explanation of what your organization does, why your organization does what it does, and who it does it for.
Very basic facts about the history of your organization, including the date of its founding and its growth over time.
Important statistics illustrating the story of your organization. If the press kit was for a company, this might include growth numbers, if the press kit was for a band, the statistics might be YouTube views, downloads, or number of states (or countries) toured.
A table of contents for the rest of the press kit.
A press contact person and their contact information.;
, In some way, shape, or form, any organization creating a press kit is going to be offering a product or service. Since the product or the service is what generates income, you need to highlight its good points and minimize the bad. If you’re offering an new product, then explain why it is significant.For example, the Exmaster 5000--the culmination of years of research and development--is going to revolutionize the industry. A complete departure from the norm, the Exmaster 5000 can do..." Regardless of whether you’re touting an old product or rolling out a new one, this section calls for pictures, video, and audio to showcase your offering.
Although bands, theatrical companies, and nonprofits might not think of themselves as offering a product or service, their creative output or their mission constitutes their product.
 Since your press kit is designed to get media coverage on your own terms, you should include examples of the type of media coverage you’re aiming for.This is a standard component of a press kit, and reporters know it’s suggestive of the type of coverage you’re looking for. Let the rest of your press kit serve to demonstrate why the reporter should agree.
If your press kit is entirely digital, a good way to showcase previous media coverage is to quote the lede on your page and link to a PDF of the entire article. If your press kit is physical, edit judiciously. Fifty pages of old articles and press releases is overkill.
 In general, a section answering frequently asked questions (FAQ) serves to keep you from having to waste time answering the same questions again and again. But in the context of a press kit, the FAQ should suggest the types of questions you want the reporters to ask.For instance, if your organization sold a product that had an array of uses, but for whatever reason was buttonholed into a very niche corner of the market, you might pose a question like: “Is that all this widget can do?” and answer it with some suggestions on how to get the most out of your product.
 When it comes down to it, all stories are “human interest” stories. It is people who buy and use products and people who need services. There is always a way to find a personal angle in a story, even one about a product launch. When you write a little bit about your staff, you make it easier on the reporters to find out what that personal angle is.When you’re writing the biographies, cover more than the standard information about where so-and-so went to school and how many degrees they have. Instead, emphasize a unique aspect of the subject’s history, like their reason for joining the venture in the first place. A lot of people have degrees, but very few have exactly the same passions and motivations.
For example, you might say that "Our CEO, Bob Smith, didn't start out thinking he was going to be the CEO of an industry leader like Widgetech. He started out as a man with a vision--to make a widget like no other."

