 The FCBA provides legal protections when you make credit card purchases. This act protects the cardholder if the goods or services purchased are of poor quality. Under certain conditions, you can withhold payment for the purchase. Your credit card company will investigate the matter while the payment is withheld., The FCBA has several criteria that must be met before a credit card payment can be withheld. The purchase must be for $50 or more. The merchant must operate in your state or within 100 miles of your home. You must also make a good faith effort to correct the problem with the merchant.
 There are several sources you can check to find out about the merchant's returns and refund process. Start by calling the location or the accessing website where you made the purchase. Have your receipt and credit card information when you call.


Explain that you want to return items and obtain a refund. Ask the merchant how that process works. Note that some merchants may have restocking charges that might apply. Be sure to understand circumstances in which this charge applies.
If you purchased physical merchandise, you will probably have to return it before the merchant will give you a refund. Make sure that you're clear about how to return the items.
When you return the purchased goods, keep some type of documentation. If you visit the store, ask for a returned merchandise form. Keep the shipping receipt, if you ship items back. In some cases, the merchant may pay the shipping costs.
A merchant should promptly refund your money once they receive the items you purchased. Ask for documentation of the credit card refund. In many cases, the refund information can be emailed to you.
Use the merchant's refund information to verify that the dollars were credited back to your credit card account. Check your card account online, or review the next statement to confirm the credit.
 If the merchant is not willing to refund your purchase, contact your credit card company. Since this issue is more complex, call the company rather than trying to work through the website. Locate the card company's customer service number. You'll find it on the back of your credit card, or on your card statement.The company's automated phone line will take you through a series of prompts. Have your credit card and information about the purchase with you when you call.
Your account may have a password and user ID associated with your card. Enter that information when you're prompted.
You may be asked several security questions, so that the associate on the line can identify you. Answer those questions, based on the answers you provided when you set up your account.
Provide the vendor name, date, dollar amount, and the item purchased. Explain that you asked the merchant for a refund, but they declined. Ask your card company if they can withhold payment and investigate the matter.
If the credit card company withholds the payment, ask them to email you documentation.
 Whether the payment can be withheld or not, make sure that you understand the card company's process for investigating the issue. Ask your card company if you need to file a formal written complaint regarding the merchant.Confirm how long it will take for the card company to investigate your complaint.
Ask the card company if your account includes any extended warranty coverage for damaged or defective merchandise. If the merchant does not refund your money, you may be able to recover your funds through a warranty.
Keep all related documentation.

