 You can’t create more time out of thin air, so you need to find ways to maximize the use of the time you do have. Taking a week or so to jot down how you currently spend your time offers a good starting point for making changes. You may be surprised at the amount of time you spend on less important things, or immediately notice ways to improve your time management.Use a notebook and pencil or the electronic device of your choice to keep tabs on how much time you spend each day on things like job-related activities, housework, food prep/eating/cleanup, playing with the kids, and so on. Keep track for a week or more so that you can spot trends and establish averages.
Use this data as a baseline for how you utilize your time now, and to begin brainstorming ways in which you can reshuffle your daily time management to best suit your role as a parent.;
, You may have heard the old saying, “A place for everything, and everything in its place.” Having kids means constantly battling against messes and disorganization. However, by keeping maximum efficiency in mind when determining where things ought to go, you can reduce the time it takes both to put things back in place and to use those things as needed.Create a “ready to go” station near the door you use most often. Keep your keys, wallet, work items, and other such items you take with you often close by. If you have small children, keep the diaper bag stocked and ready to go.
Set up an area for the kids’ school and play things as well. Try to give each child a distinctive space, like a shelf or cubby, that can perhaps be labeled or personalized.
Organizing and filing paperwork efficiently is also very helpful, especially if your kids are in school. Create a filing system for bills, other mail, school papers, and so forth that is quick and easy for you to use. Ten seconds filing a permission slip now may save you ten minutes later.
 Many people assume that parenting means multitasking — helping with homework while preparing dinner, going through work emails, and throwing out ideas for you kid’s birthday party, for instance. Sometimes multitasking is unavoidable as a parent, but some people are more naturally adept at it than others. For those others, focusing on a single task at a time whenever possible will increase efficiency and probably reduce stress.Check out Multitask More Effectively for guidance on setting goals, juggling different tasks, and managing your time while doing so.
Whether you’re a natural multitasker or unitasker, though, try to focus just on your kid(s) when spending time with them. Don’t read a book to them while checking your phone, for instance. It’s good for their development, and good for your mental health, to put everything aside and just play every so often., Maybe you scoff at the notion of your ever becoming the “supermom” (or “dad”) type who devises and shops for the family menu a week in advance, or who has the next six weeks’ worth of school activities, family gatherings, and all the rest plotted out like some sort of battle plan. But even if planning ahead isn’t your strong suit, making the effort to plan for recurring activities and responsibilities can become a time-saving habit.The weekly menu planning really can save time, if it means you only have to go to the grocery store once and don’t have to spend time each day thinking about “OK, what do we have, and what can I make out of it?” Be realistic of course — you don’t have to be planning out gourmet meals each night. A slow cooker can be a parent’s best friend, and take-out menus (offering relatively healthy options) need not be a source of shame. And who says you can’t set aside a “breakfast for dinner” night each week?, Visual reminders tend to work better for kids, and they can help you out as well. Create an “information station” in a conspicuous, high-traffic area of your home. Post a calendar, a list of chores/assignments/activities, a progress sheet that lets your kids see what they’ve done (and what they still need to do), and so on.Especially if you have multiple kids, use color-coding or different stickers to identify each kid’s responsibilities, activities, and progress. For instance, a “chore chart” that uses stickers to identify progress toward a small weekly reward can foster your child’s sense of ownership of their responsibilities, pride in their accomplishments, and some healthy competition with their sibling(s).
While you many not decide to use stickers or colorful markers, post your calendar, assignments, and progress as well. When you’re a harried parent, little reminders are good, but big reminders are even better.

