 Imagining a successful first day can be a powerful tool to help your child battle back to school anxiety. Instruct your child on how to perform visualization and have them practice this exercise nightly leading up to the first day of school.


For example, you might say, “Close your eyes and imagine the first day of school being absolutely perfect. You are wearing your best outfit. You have a tasty lunch packed in your bag. You walk to your classroom with your best pal beside you. Your teacher has a bright smile and welcomes you to class.” Walking through this exercise can help alleviate fears and empower your child to make the first day great.Remind them that their day may not go exactly like they envisioned, but that is okay. It can be different and still be a great day.
 Breathing deeply is a technique that jumpstarts the body’s stress response. Taking slow, controlled breaths can help your child fight rising anxiety as they attend school on the first day. Teach this exercise as the summer comes to a close, and remind your child that they can practice deep breathing anytime at school.The 4-7-8 approach is easy for young minds to remember. Simply breathe in through the nose deeply to a count of four. Hold the breath for seven counts. Then, exhale through the mouth for eight counts. Repeat as necessary.
 Arm your child with powerful phrases that help them feel courageous in the face of back to school stress. Repeating positive mantras or affirmations can trick your child’s brain into thinking they feel confidence until they actually do.Try having them repeat their mantra on the way to school to help them get pumped up for a great day.


Try: “I am in control of my fear,” “This school year will be a great one,” or “Starting a new school year can be scary, but I am brave.”
Remind your child that they can use these mantras any point during the day should they become nervous. They can repeat them silently to themselves, or go to the bathroom and say them quietly in private.

