 Create a slip knot on the hooked end of your crochet hook using one end of the yarn.


Note that the unattached end of the yarn will be left alone for the remainder of the pattern and is referred to as the "tail end." The end still attached to the skein is the "working end," and you will be drawing yarn from that end as you make the hat.;
, Make two chain stitches from the loop on your hook.
 Work six single crochets into the second chain from the hook. This should form your first round.


Note that the second chain from the hook is also the first chain you created.
 To complete the second round, make two single crochets into each stitch of the previous round.


When done, this round should have a total of 12 single crochets.
Mark the last stitch of the round with a plastic stitch marker. If you do not have one, use a safety pin or paperclip.
 Work one single crochet into the first stitch of the previous round. Work two single crochets into the stitch that follows. Repeat this pattern to complete the remainder of the round, working one single crochet into each odd numbered stitch and two single crochets into each even numbered stitch.


When done, this round should have 18 stitches.
Move the pin marker to the last stitch of this round.
 Work one single crochet into the first stitch of the previous round. Work another one single crochet into the second stitch. For the third stitch, work two single crochets. Repeat this pattern, making one single crochet, another one single crochet, and two single crochets around the rest of the round.


When done, you should have 24 single crochets in this round.
Move the stitch marker to the last stitch in this round before continuing.
 Make one single crochet in each of the first three stitches of the previous round. Afterward, make two single crochets into the fourth stitch of the previous round. Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of your round.


You should make a total of 30 single crochets for this round.
Mark the end of round five with your stitch marker.
 For rounds six through nine, you will continue to increase the number of stitches receiving only one single crochet in between the stitches receiving two single crochets.


For round six, work one single crochet into the first four stitches of the previous round, then work two single crochets into the fifth stitch. Repeat until you reach the end of the round.
For round seven, work one single crochet into the first five stitches of the previous round, then work two single crochets into the sixth stitch. Repeat until you reach the end of the round.
For round eight, work one single crochet into the first six stitches of the previous round, then work two single crochets into the seventh stitch. Repeat until you reach the end of the round.
For round nine, work one single crochet into the first seven stitches of the previous round, then work two single crochets into the eighth stitch. Repeat until you reach the end of the round. Note that this round will have 54 stitches in it by the end.
Note that you should be marking the end of each round with your stitch marker as you work.
 For the remaining rounds, you will only need to make one single crochet in each stitch of the previous round.


Each of the remaining rounds should have 54 stitches.
Move the stitch marker to the last stitch of each round before moving onto the next to help you keep track of where you are at in the pattern.
This pattern should be followed for rounds 10 through 25.
 For the final round, you should make a slip stitch into each of the stitches from the previous round.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a 2 inch (5 cm) tail. Pull it through the loop on your hook and tighten it to form a knot.


Weave in the remaining tail to hide it and complete the baby hat.

