


First step is to have an out going bubbly personality. Riley is a bubbly, outgoing person on Girl Meets World. She's always happy and smiling. She loves everything she sees and keeps a positive attitude about everything.;
,


Riley loves dresses and skirts. You hardly see her wearing jeans, and she loves to accessorize with bracelets and necklaces. She loves wearing combat boots or high heels. She hardly wears sneakers, too! You can find any of these items at your local mall. The stores you can find them at are: Forever21, Pac Sun, Wet Seal, Free People, Brandy Melville, etc.



Riley only uses natural makeup like eyeshadow that matches her skin tone, a little bit of foundation and bronzer to make her look flawless. For her hair, she leaves it down. Natural or curly or straight are good.



Riley always smiles no matter what. She may have some up and downs but she always smiles an she holds her head high in the air no matter how she is feeling at the time. She never gives up and never shows that she is sad.



Riley is always kind with what she does! If she doesn't like something that's happening to her she says it nicely and tries not to hurt others feelings.



Riley is not afraid to be herself; a homework-loving goofy girly girl.
Riley loves homework! She even did Maya's, her best friend's homework and she said she enjoyed it a lot.
Riley is sometimes goofy but she likes it because she's being herself and that's all that matters to her. She does what she wants in her way and she stays true to herself.



Riley is finding her way in the world with her best friend Maya. She is figuring out the obstacles and ways of the world.
It's time for you to find your way in this world. Make it yours! Live life to the fullest and never give up.
 She doesn't care what others think! She is always herself and never gives up... If something knocks her down she gets right back up and goes for it.
Haters will be there but don't let them bring you down. Be friends with the ones that lift you up.
Remember to stay true to who you are.
Never give up
Live life to the fullest
Be yourself

