 A standard barbell is just a straight bar, while a hex bar is shaped like a hexagon, allowing you to step inside of the hex shape. If you are new to weightlifting, opt for the hex bar if possible. Stand directly between the hex bar’s weights to keep their combined weight aligned with your body. Treat yourself to an easier lift that feels less cumbersome than the standard barbell., Be aware that your grip on the barbell is just as important as the rest of your body’s ability to lift them. Expect the Pendlay and Yates rows to tire your hands out even more than standard rows.Avoid the injuries that might come from losing your hold. Develop a more powerful grip with longer endurance by buying a pair of grippers. Squeeze them repeatedly, an equal number of times per hand, during your off time.Remember: just because your back and arms crave more rows doesn’t mean your hands are fit enough to keep going.
 Keep your spine and neck relaxed before, during, and after each row.At the same time, pay close attention to your form so you don’t end up slouching.As you perform each row, ignore your arms and concentrate instead on how your back is reacting. Do not attempt bentover rows if you are having any issues with your back.
 Learn how to lift weights properly from a professional whose business is to know. Rely on their expertise to learn how to adopt the right stance, breathing, and lifting techniques. Although advice from your acquaintances may in fact be correct, take what they have to say with a grain of salt, since they may have adopted bad advice as wisdom from an unreliable source somewhere along the way.Allow your trainer to help you devise a program with specific aims, especially if they determine that you need to concentrate on other exercises before you’re ready to do bent-over rows.
If you decide against a trainer, always have a spotter on hand in case you have trouble or injure yourself.
 Don’t attempt to lift more than you’re able to. Use light weights in the beginning, or even just the barbell without any added weight at all. Concentrate first on adopting the proper form for bent-over rows (or any other lift) before worrying about how much weight you can lift., Go for a walk, take a jog, or do some calisthenics for five to ten minutes.Get the blood flowing so you are nice and limber for your lift. When you’re done, start your workout by using less weight than normal for each type of lift. Give your body a chance to warm up to it before challenging yourself with more weight.Don’t forget to cool down afterwards. Spend another five to ten minutes stretching after each workout.
 Before starting a new weight-lifting routine, visit your doctor. Ask for a physical and alert them to your plans. Find out if your body has any issues that may lead to injuries, or if your doctor advices easing into weight-lifting through any other form of exercise.

