 Look for a synthetic fiber that will allow your skin to breathe by wicking--drawing the sweat away from your body. This will help keep your body cool while you exercise. Polyester, Lycra and spandex work well.


Look for clothing that is made from polypropylene. Some lines of workout clothing will contain COOLMAX or SUPPLEX fibers, which can help you manage your body temperature.
Wear cotton if you do not anticipate sweating a lot. Cotton is a soft, comfortable fiber that works well for light workouts, such as walking or stretching. When cotton becomes sweaty, it can feel heavy and cling to your body, so it would not work well for more intense or aerobic activities.;
, Reputable brand clothes such as Nike Dri-Fit are generally of a higher quality than a generic brand.
 Depending on your own body image and personal style, you may prefer workout clothing that is loose, and covers most of your body. Or, you might want to wear fitted outfits that allow you to see your muscles and curves as you exercise.
 If you are running or biking, do not wear long pants that might cause you to trip or get stuck in the pedals. For yoga and Pilates practitioners, avoid clothing that will not move with you during different poses.
 Women should look for a good sports bra that offers support and flexibility, and men will want to look for a protective cup if they are playing contact sports as part of their workouts.
 While function and fit are the most important elements, you want to feel good while you are exercising, otherwise you might be tempted to cut your workout short.
 Men can wear shorts with t-shirts for workout and women can wear leggings with tops and t-shirts for comfortable workout. People who don’t like shorts can wear workout pants or flair pants for workout in gym.


For winter season you can use to wear full sleeve t-shirts or sweatshirts for workout which helps to keep body warm and give enough comfort.
 Don’t use to wear same color daily. Also buy a pair of good sports shoes for workout. You will feel more active in shoes and they also protect your feet from injuries. Buy few pairs of cotton socks.
 If you exercise outdoors, you will want to add a few layers of clothing during the winter, and even during fall and spring if you workout in the early mornings or late evenings. Wear items you can easily discard as your body temperature heats up during your workout.
 Runners, tennis players and trainers will want to choose a workout shoe that protects their bodies and boosts performance. Make sure you wear a comfortable athletic shoe that supports your feet and ankles.

