


Buy an approximately 10 ounce (283.5 g) salmon filet from your local meat counter. Buying fresh salmon will result in a better omelet than canned or frozen salmon.;
,


Find a sharp knife. Skinning salmon with a dull blade is both difficult and dangerous.
Hold 1 end of the salmon filet with your fingers. Insert your knife between the skin and the meat at a 45-degree angle at the end you are holding the salmon. The edge of the blade should be angled toward the skin.
Move the salmon back and forth on the knife. This should cut the salmon easily if your knife is sharp. You should not have to move the knife at all-just the filet.



Slide your fingers over the top of the skinned salmon until you discover the line of bones. Take each bone out with tweezers or your fingers.



Choose a pan that is between 6 inches and 10 inches (15.24 cm and 25.4 cm) in diameter. Any larger and the omelet will spread too thin. Any smaller and the omelet will be too thick to fold.
Make sure the frying pan is a non-stick pan. Even though the egg will be fried using vegetable oil or butter, a non-stick pan is essential to ensure proper flipping and removal.



Chop an onion and green pepper into fine pieces.
Cut the salmon into chunks. Use the same sharp knife you employed for filleting to cube the salmon into half-inch (1.27 cm) pieces.



Heat the pan on medium high for 1 minute.
Place 1 tablespoon (14.125 g) of butter into the hot pan and let it melt.
Pour the onion, green pepper and salmon cubes into the pan and sauté them for 2 to 3 minutes. Move the fillings into a small bowl and set it aside.



Crack 2 to 3 large eggs into a mixing bowl and beat thoroughly.
Add 2 tablespoons (29.6 mL) of milk into the bowl and continue to whisk until air bubbles form.
Place another tablespoon of butter into the same pan as before.
Pour the egg/milk mixture into the pan and let the eggs cook for 1 minute.
Lift the edges of the egg patty periodically to let uncooked egg into the bottom.



Spoon the salmon, onion and green pepper onto one side of the egg in the pan.
Cover the fillings with shredded cheese.
Fold the omelet in half, and place a lid on the pan for about 1 minute for the cheese to melt and the egg to finish cooking.
Remove the omelet from heat, turn off the stove and serve.
