 Glazed clay pots are a little trickier to drill into than their unglazed counterparts, but it can usually be done using glass and tile drill bits.These drill bits have a spear point head, which allows then to cut into hard, brittle surfaces with less pressure. If you were to use a standard masonry drill bit, you would need to apply too much pressure to break through the hard glaze, and the pot would likely crack apart.
The drill bit size should match the diameter of the desired hole. If you want to create a standard drainage hole in a medium sized pot, a 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) drill bit should work well enough.
It isn't strictly necessary, but you might also want to consider using multiple sizes to further reduce the risk of causing breaks in the clay. Start with a 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) drill bit and gradually work your way up through larger sizes until you reach the final desired size.
 Place one to four strips of painter's tape or masking tape directly over the spot you plan to drill a hole into.


The use of tape is especially helpful with glazed clay surfaces, which tend to be somewhat slippery. This tape gives the surface just enough traction to help prevent the drill bit from slipping as you start drilling.
One layer of tape should be enough in most cases, but multiple layers of tape will provide greater traction and are less likely to peel away during the process.
 If you do decide to work with several drill bit sizes, you should start with the 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) bit.


On the other hand, if you decide to use only one drill bit, simply attach that drill bit to your drill now.
A cordless drill with variable speed is strongly recommended. This will offer you the most control while drilling, and the fact that the drill is cordless makes it safer to use around water than a corded drill.
 Moisten the surface you'll be drilling through with water. Try to keep that surface consistently wet throughout the entire drilling procedure.If you're drilling into a recessed bottom, you can pour a small amount of water over the indented portion of the pot and work with that.
When you're drilling into a flat surface, it helps to have a continual dribble of water pouring over it from a garden hose or faucet.
The water acts as a lubricant, allowing the drill bit to work through the clay with greater ease and less pressure. It also acts as a cooling agent, which can prevent the drill from overheating.
Clay pots with very thin glaze may not need any water, but applying water to the surface as you drill still won't hurt.
 Position the drill bit over the spot you wish to drill through and turn on the drill. Use very light pressure and work through the surface at a slow, even pace.


The pressure you apply should be just enough to keep the drill steady. You should let the drill do the actual work of drilling through the pot instead of trying to force it through faster. This is especially important once you are nearly through to the other side of the pot, where the clay will be weaker.
Working too quickly will probably cause the clay to break.
When drilling through a clay surface thicker than 1/4 inch (6.35 mm), consider pausing in the middle of the drilling process and brushing away any chips or other debris. This can help prevent the drill bit and drill from overheating.
Once the drill bit breaks through the surface of the pot, you can pause your drilling and peel the tape away. If you don't wish to pause, though, you should at least peel the tape away after you finish drilling this first small hole.
 Once you've drilled a small hole into the pot, switch the drill bit for one that is 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) larger. Using this drill bit, drill through the hole you just created.


Center this drill bit over the center of the hole as you drill through it. This is a fairly safe way to slowly enlarge the hole.
As before, drill slowly and apply little to no pressure.
Work through the remainder of your drill bits in this manner, upgrading by about 1/8 inch (3.175 mm) each time, until you reach the final desired size.
 Wipe away any dust and debris using a damp rag, then inspect the area around the hole. Make sure that there are no deep cracks, chips, or other signs of damage.


This step completes the process.

