 Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), most insurance companies must provide a woman with one type of free birth control from each of the 18 Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved categories.When you call member services, the representative you are talking to may not know all of your options. Do not stop until you have a list of all your free options.
The 18 FDA-approved categories offer you a wide range of birth control methods. This includes being able to use a barrier method, like a diaphragm or a sponge, during sexual intercourse. You could use a hormonal method like birth control pills or a vaginal ring. The use of an implanted device like an intrauterine device (IUD) is another one of your options. You even have access to emergency contraception, like Plan B® and ella®, to stop you from ovulating after unprotected sexual intercourse. If you want a permanent form of birth control, you can choose to undergo a sterilization procedure like having your tubes tied. The best part is that you are offered patient education and counseling to help you figure out which method of birth control is best for you., Even if you are younger than 18, the rules and regulations under ACA apply to you. But, it will be hard to prevent your parents from becoming part of the conversation if you use their insurance.


You have a right to free birth control because of ACA. You can go to a doctor, talk to her about the different birth control methods, and get a prescription. She cannot discuss any of this with your parents. Your parents could find out because the insurance company must provide your parents with documentation of how their benefits are being used. Consider visiting a free clinic if you want complete confidentiality. Remember it is a good thing to involve a responsible adult in this important decision process.
 You may be able to get free birth control if you change to the generic form of your present birth control. After talking to your doctor, you may find that free birth control in a different FDA category actually would suit you better.Your doctor can help you make this important decision and the counselling is free because of ACA. You may try the generic form and see that it works just as well as your favorite brand-name birth control pill. If you do not like the free generic birth control pill, you may find that you actually like the equally effective and more convenient implanted device. Your insurer decides which birth control it will offer free in each category, but you can choose to fully explore your options.
 You may have a bad reaction if you do not use a specific brand-name birth control. Your doctor can make an official appeal to your insurer to have this brand provided to you free of cost.The Department of Labor makes it clear that you can be charged a copay for a brand-name drug or device when an equivalent generic is available. If a generic version is not available or your doctor determines that the generic form would not be medically appropriate for you, your plan or issuer must provide you with the brand-name drug or device without charge to you.In this situation, you cannot be forced to use a free birth-control method from another FDA-approved category.
 Your insurance company can charge a copay if you do not use an approved pharmacy to fill your prescription or an approved healthcare provider to perform a birth control procedure like inserting an IUD. Your insurer may not fulfill its responsibility to inform you of the changes in a timely fashion.For example, your insurer can start charging a copay on a previously free form of birth control if it now wants you purchase it from a home-delivery pharmacy instead of your local pharmacy like you had in the past., Insurance carriers require that you have a prescription for whatever type of birth control you are using. This includes over-the-counter birth control like spermicides (kills sperm), sponges, and emergency contraception like Plan B.This requirement is actually helpful to you. Patient education and counseling for birth control is covered by your plan free of cost. You can ask your healthcare provider questions about other forms of birth control available to you. You can chose to stick with the over-the-counter form of birth control or change to another type which suits your needs better.
 You have a right to free birth control because of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). However, some plans do not have to provide you with free birth control and others may not have to provide this coverage until a few years from now.


You must decide if the money you will save by using free birth control is worth the cost and effort of having to buy your own insurance.
Under ACA, some insurance plans are grandfathered if the plan was purchased before March 23, 2010. They do not have to follow ACA rules and regulations or offer the same benefits. So, your plan could offer some types or no types of birth control for free. At some point, these plans will have to provide you with one free method of birth control in each of the 18 FDA-approved categories, but you may not be willing or able to wait.If your employer is a house of worship, your plan is not required to cover free birth control. You will have to pay for your birth control. For all other religious employers, you are provided free birth control coverage through a third party. The information on this third party carrier must be made available to you.