 No matter how much guidance the assignment provides, an integral part of nearly any research project is allowing each researcher to come up with his or her own idea. You need to identify a problem in your chosen field that needs to be solved or to answer a question that has not yet been answered. At this stage, a pen and paper are your best friends. Without worrying about structure or format, start writing down ideas – anything you're interested in, really, as long as it falls within the bounds of the project guidelines. At this stage its worth remembering that the more interest you have in a given topic, the easier it will be to push through any obstacles that may crop up when trying to complete the project.


Don't hesitate while writing down ideas. You'll end up with some mental noise on the paper – silly or nonsensical phrases that your brain just pushes out. That's fine. Think of it as sweeping the cobwebs out of your attic. After a minute or two, better ideas will begin to form (and you might have a nice little laugh at your own expense in the meantime).;
, If you just can't seem to brainstorm anything very interesting, and you've been given a vague and unhelpful prompt, your next best bet is to review a textbook or lecture notes. Skim over them and look for subjects you found interesting. You can even flip open a textbook to the index, pick an interesting-sounding term or name, and go from there. Another extremely useful tool is journals. These are periodicals collecting research in a specific field. So if for example you were looking for a topic in radiology, you may want to look at a few issues of Radiology- the journal of the American College of Radiology.
 If you are doing this in partial fulfillment of a university course or honours degree programme, it's worth checking out what research topics were covered by other students over previous years. Sometimes you may be lucky enough to find a ready made suggestions at the end of the project which the author has made in their recommendations for further research. You may also be able to change the topic slightly to come up with a new project. This has the advantage of providing a ready-made, tried and tested, robust methodology for your project.

Some instructors will even provide samples of previously successful topics if you ask for them. Just be careful that you don't end up stuck with an idea you want to do, but are afraid to do because you know someone else did it before.
 If you have at least a little direction based on the project guidelines, take that basic direction and start turning it over and over in your mind. Write down everything you come up with on paper, even if it doesn't seem viable. Start with obvious approaches, and then try to think about other questions that are indirectly related to the main thrust of your guidelines. Keep adding items until you can't think of any more.


For example, if your research topic is “urban poverty,” you could look at that topic across ethnic or sexual lines, but you could also look into corporate wages, minimum wage laws, the cost of medical benefits, the loss of unskilled jobs in the urban core, and on and on. You could also try comparing and contrasting urban poverty with suburban or rural poverty, and examine things that might be different about both areas, such as diet and exercise levels, or air pollution.
 You can combine a few or several different parameters to create concrete questions that will give your research some direction. Continuing with the previous example, you might look at the dietary habits of the rural poor with the urban poor, cross-checking against the habits of well-to-do people to get an idea of whether diet is influenced more by money or environment, and to what extent., A good research project should collect information for the purpose of answering (or at least attempting to answer) a question. As you review and interconnect topics, you'll think of questions that don't seem to have clear answers yet. These questions are your research topics.
 Now that you have a handful of concrete research ideas that interest you, take your favorite and do a little preliminary research. If you're finding information you might be able to use, stick with that topic; if there seems to be no useful research at all, you'll either have to perform original research or change topics. Don't be afraid to take a gamble if there is research but it seems a bit thin – often, those are the areas where more attention is sorely needed, and your paper will draw some attention in the right direction, if nothing else.


Don't limit yourself to libraries and online databases. Think in terms of outside resources as well: primary sources, government agencies, even educational TV programs. If you want to know about differences in animal population between public land and an Indian reservation, call the reservation and see if you can speak to their department of fish and wildlife.
If you're planning to go ahead with original research, that's great – but those techniques aren't covered in this article. Instead, speak with qualified advisors and work with them to set up a thorough, controlled, repeatable process for gathering information.
 Now that you've narrowed the field and chosen a research question to pursue, it's time to get a bit more formal. Write down your research question, and then briefly note the steps you plan to take to get it answered. Finally, at the bottom of the page, write down each possible answer to the topic question. There are usually three potential answers: it's one way, it's the other way, or it doesn't seem to make any difference.


If your plan comes down to “researching the topic,” and there aren't any more specific things you can say about it, write down the types of sources you plan to use instead: books (library or private?), magazines (which ones?), interviews, and so on. Your preliminary research should have given you a solid idea of where to begin.

