 Of course you already know that you need a basketball, but do you have all the gear you need? You should have:


a basketball.






proper basketball clothing which includes a t-shirt and shorts or sweatpants






basketball shoes






a sports headband (optional)






a water bottle (with water), or Gatorade.






a timer






an ice pack






a pack of gum (this is for keeping your mouth from getting dry).





;
, Set your timer for 30 minutes, go right under the hoop and start form shooting.
 Start off right under the basket. If you can't shoot 5 out of 10 shots the distance away from the basket you are, then move in.
, Once the timer stops, take a 3 minute rest, then set the timer for 10 minutes again (20 if on a half court), and do the same thing over again only with your left hand dribbling the ball. After the timer is up, take a 3 minute rest, then set the timer for 10 minutes again (20 if on half court), and do the same thing over only instead of using 1 hand, dribble the ball with both(keep doing a crossover while running around the court. After the timer is up, take a 10 minute rest.
 Starting at the OB line right under the hoop, run from the line to the free throw line, then back to the OB line, then run to the half court line, then run back to the OB line, then run to the other basket's free throw line, then run back to the OB line, then run from your original OB line, to the next OB line at the other hoop. Keep doing this for about 5 times. Take a three minute break and do 5 more.
 If you have a friend with you, you can practice that way, but if you don't, you can bounce the ball against a wall and try to catch it as it comes back. Pass or bounce the ball from different angles (if you're using a wall it is more unpredictable, and trains you better). Do this for 30 minutes and then take a 10 minute rest.
 Try to make it bounce off, and rebound it in. The objective is not to make a shot it is to miss the shot, and rebound it in, that way you practice your rebounds. After the timer stops, take a 5 minute rest.
 Start off by making 3 free throw shots, then step back and make 3 three point shots, then shoot the ball run up grab it, run down the court to the other hoop, and make a basket, run back down to the other hoop and make a basket, keep doing this 5 times, then make a basket and miss, then rebound the ball back in, run down to the other hoop and do the same, do this 5 times, then pass the ball to your friend or bounce it off the wall, do this 5 times then stop. You are now finished with the exercises, so come back tomorrow and do it again!!!!!

,