 A well balanced diet is the key to help you meet your basic nutrient needs, prevent any deficiencies and maintain overall health.People with hypothyroidism are not any different. There is no special diet for an underactive thyroid. However, maintaining a well-balanced diet can help minimize any side effects.Aim to eat foods from each food group daily. Every group offers your body a different set of valuable nutrients.
Also have a varied diet. That means, try to choose a wide variety of foods within each food group throughout the week.;
, Although you may not need to lose weight, it's important to monitor your weight and calorie intake as obesity and weight gain are a fairly common side effect of hypothyroidism.Start by keeping track of your current calorie intake by using a food journal or a food journal app on your smartphone. Once you know what you're currently eating, you'll be able to make some changes if necessary.
If you feel you need to lose weight try cutting out about 500 calories daily. This generally results in a one to two pound weight loss each week.If your weight is only going up very slightly or you notice a very slow rise in weight, you may only need to cut out 250 calories a week.
Use your food journal or app to figure out what calorie level is best for you. For example, if you cut out 250 calories daily but still notice weight gain, try cutting out 500 calories daily.
 Eating adequate protein daily is very important for a well balanced diet. It's an essential macronutrient (a nutrient you need in relatively large amounts) and provides your body with the building blocks of many vital functions.To make sure that you're eating enough protein, aim to have one serving at each meal. One serving is about three to four oz or about 1/2 cup of beans or lentils.Measure your portions to help you stay on track.
The benefits of choosing leaner proteins is that these come with fewer calories and can help you stay within a designated calorie level.Choose proteins like: fish, shellfish, poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy, legumes, tofu or pork.
 Both fruits and vegetables are considered nutrient dense foods and are a vital part of a balanced diet. Nutrient dense foods are ones that are relatively low in calorie but very high in a variety of nutrients like fiber, vitamins and minerals.


Ensuring you have a fruit or vegetable (or both) at each meal will help you meet your daily recommended five to nine servings. It'll also help bulk up your meals with fewer calories.
Like protein, it's still important to measure your portions - even on low calorie foods. Measure out a 1/2 cup of fruit, one cup of vegetables or two cups of salad greens.
There has been some conflicting studies on some vegetables - cruciferous vegetables - and whether or not they are harmful to those suffering from hypothyroidism.Although there is no conclusive evidence, do not eat large amounts of items like: cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower or brussel sprouts. You do not need to avoid them, but monitor your intake.
 100% whole grains are a great addition to a balanced diet and can help provide your body with much needed fiber.In addition, there is no evidence to say these foods are harmful to those suffering from hypothyroidism.


Whole grains are considered more nutritious or nutrient dense compared to refined grains (like white flour, white bread or white rice) because they contain all the parts of the grain. This makes whole grains much higher in fiber, protein and many other nutrients.Again, make sure to measure your portions of these foods. One serving is one ounce or about 1/2 cup.Choose whole grains like: quinoa, millet, whole oats, whole wheat pasta, whole grain bread and brown rice.
 Eating soy when you have hypothyroidism has been a widely debated subject. However, there aren't studies that have been able to conclusively say to avoid soy if you have hypothyroidism.Soy is found in a large variety of foods. It will be difficult and take a lot of time to avoid all soy. However, if you have hypothyroidism you may want to limit eating large quantities of soy-based foods or limit foods that are high in soy.
Foods that contain large quantities of soy or are mostly soy-based include: edamame or soy beans, miso (miso paste or miso soup), meat alternatives (like vegan deli meat, chicken nuggets, cheese or hotdogs), soy milk and soy yogurts, soy nuts, soy sauce (and dressing and marinades using soy sauce), tempeh and tofu.Many soy products are considered to be a protein alternative. So a serving would be three to four oz or about 1/2 cup of soy beans.Stick to these servings and consume moderate amounts throughout the week.
 It's common to associate your thyroid gland with iodine. Many people also think taking iodine supplements can help cure or resolve their hypothyroid condition. However, it's advised not to take these supplements.Generally, iodine deficiency is not the cause of hypothyroidism - especially in the US.Taking extra iodine will not change your condition and in some people can worsen your condition.
Iodine is prevalent in Westernized diets (especially in the US). Iodine has been added to a variety of foods (like iodized salt) that helps prevent deficiencies.A true iodine deficiency in Westernized countries is very, very rare.

