 Consistency is key to establishing a good bedtime routine. You need to establish a regular bedtime schedule and strive to wake up around the same time each day.


Your circadian rhythm thrives on routine. It adjusts to having a regular bedtime and wake time. After a week of going to bed at, say, 11:00 every night and waking up at 8AM, your body will begin to get tired when bed time arrives and you'll feel more rested in the mornings.Try to stay on this routine, even on weekends. Strive to not sleep more than a couple of hours past your usual wake up time on Saturdays and Sundays.;
, If you're not on a regular sleep schedule at the moment, you'll need to ease into a new schedule. Do not go from being up until 2AM at night to having a firm 10PM bedtime. This sets you up for failure and will only result in you tossing and turning each night.


Make small changes slowly. For example, if you usually fall asleep at 1:00 AM and want to go to bed at 11 PM make adjustments in small increments. For the first three nights, try going to bed at 12:45. Then, push that back to 12:20. Keep moving your bedtime back by 10 to 20 minute intervals until you hit the right time., Lighting can help you wake up or fall asleep. Try exposing yourself to daylight in the morning and dimming the lights towards bedtime.


Your body has an internal sleep/wake clock that responds to light. You're hardwired to become energized in response to bright, preferably natural light. As soon as you get up in the morning, draw the blinds and let in the sunlight. If you don't have access to natural sunlight, or get up before the sun rises, you can try turning on the lights in your house or incorporating a short walk around the block into your regular morning routine.Too much light at night signals to your brain that it needs to stay awake. Dim or turn off the lights in your apartment or house as you near your bedtime. You should also avoid electronics like tablets, computers, and smart phones. The light from these devices stimulate the brain and may make you more alert before bed.If you have trouble staying away from your phone or computer, you can download an app that can convert the type of light emitted by electronics to a more soothing form that is less likely to interrupt sleep., In order to get higher quality sleep, which can help you establish a bedtime routine, avoid reaching for the snooze button in the morning.


The sleep you have during the 7 or 9 minutes between the alarm sounds again is not high quality. If you hit the snooze button multiple times, you'll end up more tired than you would have been if you simply woke up, as it takes a lot of energy to snap in and out of deep sleep quickly.Instead of setting your alarm to go off early so you can snag a few extra minutes of snooze time, set your alarm for when you actually need to get up. You will feel more rested without the extra sleep, even though this may be difficult for the first few days., Often, hunger pangs can prevent you from falling asleep fast. However, a heavy meal before bed can keep you up, due to discomfort or could potentially boost your energy. Stick to light, healthy snacks half an hour before bedtime.


Choose veggies, and foods high in healthy carbohydrates, and protein. Avoid processed foods, sugars, or refined carbs close to bedtime.Try spreading cream cheese and avocado on slices of turkey and rolling them up into small, bread free wraps. A fruit smoothie with spinach, frozen cherries, and fruit juice without added sugar can be satisfying before bed. Simple crackers and cheese or whole grain cereals also make healthy nighttime snacks.