 It could be a book that you or one of your friends wrote. It could be anything you want it to be.;
, It does not have to be perfect.
 Ask your friends to be the actors, because getting real actors will most likely be hard.
 It could be a camcorder, digital camera, flip, a webcam on your computer, or a real directors' camera. Get a camera that films in 720p or above (1280x720 or above).


Make sure you know the camera like the back of your hand before you go to the shoot. A DSLR camera is recommended if you have the money. But don't spend too much money on a camera if you're not going to get a decent one. Don't expect the cheapest DSLR to have good movie recording features.
 You won't be able to shoot all your scenes on a green screen, so you could build sets or shoot on location like a local park.
 If you do that, your movie will be a success.
 If it doesn't work, try again.
 Keep on trying.
 You might need some people that are willing to do stunts, as stunt doubles.


Chances are you don't have a lot of money so unfortunately you can't get real stuntmen. And not a lot of people are willing to be stunt doubles, as no one is willing to do stunts and not have their faces shown (unless they get paid). Real stunt men are trained professionals, your friends are not!

, See how it looks.
 Watch through all your takes with your editor (unless you're the one editing it) and decide which takes you're going to use.


Try not to use Windows Movie Maker, as it will have hugely annoying lagging footage. Try to get your hands on Adobe Premiere Pro/Elements. If you have a lot of violence in your movie you may also want to invest in Adobe After Effects.
 You can send it to real production companies, but it's most likely they'll turn you down.


If you want send your movie to theaters (they'll most likely turn you down as well), or if you have a home theater do it there, or just get it on DVD with Windows Live Movie Maker, and show it on your TV with your DVD player, Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox One or Blu-Ray.
 Invite the actors, some of your parents' work friends over, your family and friends.
 Upload to YouTube/Vimeo/Facebook.

