 Don’t try to push your way back into his life right after he rejected you; try to wait until you are both more comfortable. This process may take weeks, or maybe even months, to gather your courage to talk to him again. But just try to be patient and give yourself the time you need to heal and move on.You can tell when he starts being more comfortable by how he acts – if he starts treating you like he did before the rejection, then it is close to being back to normal.
Some signs that it may be the right time to start trying to interact with him again include increased eye contact between the two of you, noticeably fewer awkward encounters, or if your mutual friends tell you that they think he will be receptive to it.
 Instead of sulking around like it’s the end of the world, spend more time with your friends. This is especially important if the guy who rejected you is part of your friend group. Hang out with your friends and show him that you aren’t just sitting around your house super depressed because of that happened.Have a party at your house and invite him. Or go with your friends to the movies, even when you know he’ll be there. Show him that you are a fun person to be around.
 Starting conversations with someone who rejected you can seem difficult at first. But you’ll quickly get over the awkwardness after a little initial effort. Try to talk to him like you used to before he rejected you. If you struggle with this, try asking him questions about his life. This is a good way to get him to open up and for you to both move past what happened.Try asking questions like, “How did you do on the Math test?” or “Did your sister come home to visit this weekend?” or “What did you do this weekend?” Really, just ask anything to get him talking.
If you are friends with the guy or became friends with him, avoid bringing up the rejection. It only makes things a bit uncomfortable and you might regret it. It just makes him feel bad that he had to reject you, for whatever reason. And it may seem like you cannot let go of the past.
 Moving forward after a rejection can be difficult, and you’ll need to make a little effort if you want it to work. Try to forget about any embarrassment you may feel from the situation. Make the effort to be friends and show him that you’re not a person who can’t handle it. Stand by him in lines and talk to his friends. Make sure you glance at him in classes. And if he stares back, there’s a good chance he might want to talk. This will help make him think you're not afraid of talking with him.Treat him like any other person you would normally talk to.

