 State and federal laws prohibit landlords from discriminating against tenants by increasing rent only for selected tenants such as those of a certain race or those who have children.If you believe your landlord is raising your rent for a discriminatory reason, you first must determine if you are a member of a group protected by anti-discrimination laws.
Federal law prohibits landlords from discriminating against tenants on the basis of race or color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, age, and disability or handicap. Your state's law may prohibit discrimination for other reasons as well.
In most states your landlord also cannot increase your rent in retaliation for your participation in certain protected activities, such as joining a tenant's organization, reporting health or safety code violations to the government, or successfully defending against an eviction.If your landlord increases your rent within six months of your protected activity, states with anti-retaliation laws put the burden on your landlord to prove he or she did not increase your rent in retaliation for the actions you took to protect your rights.
 If you live in an apartment complex, finding out the rent your neighbors pay may provide evidence of a pattern of discrimination. In particular, talk to people who are of the same protected group as you to find out if they've had a similar experience with your landlord.
For example, if you are Muslim, talk to other Muslims who live in your complex and find out if they've also received similar notices of a rent increase.
Talk to people in other groups, too, and compare experiences. You may have proof of a pattern of discrimination if people in your group received rent-increase notices while people not in the group received smaller increases or none at all.
Be sure to consider how long people have been living in the complex or other non-discriminatory reasons that may factor into the situation.
You can create a simple chart listing how long the tenants have lived in the complex, the amount of rent paid, and any increases. Be sure to note whether the tenant is a member of the group you believe your landlord is targeting.
 If you have reason to believe your landlord has violated state or federal law, send a letter stating your refusal to pay the rent increase. Send your landlord a written letter informing him or her of your refusal – but don't expect your landlord to accept it placidly. You may get a nasty letter back, or your landlord may refer the matter to his or her attorney.
Use certified mail to send your letter so you have proof that your landlord received it.
Although you're refusing to pay the increased rent, you should put into savings the amount of the increase each month. In the event your landlord wins an eviction suit, a judge could order you to pay the entire amount.
 When you refuse to pay a rent increase your landlord may attempt to have you evicted.Since discrimination or retaliation are considered defenses to eviction, you typically don't have any opportunity to raise them until your landlord attempts to have you evicted.
Maintain logs and written records of your landlord's activities. You will need these to build your defense against eviction.
Keep copies of any communication between you and your landlord along with any notices of receipt if you mailed your landlord letters using certified mail.
If your landlord says something to you regarding the rental relationship, take a moment to write it down, and send a letter to the landlord confirming your understanding of the statement.

