 It takes a few days for testing to reveal effective antibiotic, in the interim a more broad spectrum antibiotic may be prescribed to initiate therapy. Similarly, there are times when pneumonia testing reveals no bugs — inadequate sputum or no septicemia (leading to a negative blood culture). Once treatment is determined, your symptoms should improve within a few days or weeks. You may still feel fatigued for over a month.Most people on antibiotics for pneumonia can be treated at home. If your symptoms do not improve after two days or worsen, contact your doctor immediately. That is a sign that you need a different medication.
You may continue coughing for two to three weeks after finishing the antibiotics. If this occurs, consult your doctor.
Antibiotics will not work for viral pneumonia. Your immune system will have to fight it off.
 If you have a high fever, sweating, and chills, you are probably losing a lot of water. It is important to stay hydrated so your body can fight off the infection. For severe cases of dehydration, you may need to be hospitalized. If you feel thirsty or have any of the following symptoms you need to drink more water:Exhaustion, headaches, infrequent urination, passing dark or cloudy urine, If your doctor says it is ok, you may be able to reduce your fever with over-the-counter medications such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB and others) or acetaminophen (Tylenol and others).


Do not take ibuprofen if you are allergic to aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, have asthma, kidney problems, or stomach ulcers.Do not give medications containing aspirin to children or teenagers.
Consult with your doctor before starting these medications to make sure that they will not interact with any other over-the-counter medications, prescription medications, herbal remedies, or supplements you may be on.
Do not take these medications if you are pregnant, nursing, or treating a child without first talking to your doctor.
 Your doctor may suggest cough medicines if you are coughing so much that you can’t sleep.However, coughing removes the mucus from your lungs and can be important in helping you heal and recover. For that reason, your doctor may advise against cough medications.An alternative to cough medicine is a cup of warm water with lemon and honey in it. This can help soothe the pain caused by coughing.
If you do take cough medicines, even over-the-counter medications, read the ingredients and make sure that it they are not the same as those in any other medications you are taking. If so talk to your doctor to make sure that you will not accidentally overdose.
 This occurs when people choke on and accidentally inhale a small object into their lungs. If this occurs, you may need to have it removed.The doctor will put a small scope through your nose or mouth and into your lungs to remove the object. You will probably receive medication to numb your nose, mouth, and airways. You may also be put under general anesthesia or take a medication that will help you relax. Removing the object will enable you to heal.
 You may need to be admitted to the hospital for more intensive care if you are unable to fight off the infection at home and your symptoms are worsening. You may need to stay in the hospital until you stabilize if:You are over 65
You are suffering from confusion
You are vomiting and cannot take your medications
Your breathing is rapid and you need to be placed on a ventilator
Your temperature is lower than normal
Your pulse is abnormally fast (over 100) or abnormally low (under 50)

, Newborns and children under two are most likely to need hospitalization. Severe symptoms in children that indicate that they need emergency care even after starting treatment include:Having trouble staying awake
Breathing difficulties
Insufficient oxygen in the blood
Dehydration
A low body temperature

