 You can choose to attend a four year college or university that offers a degree in Animal Behavior. This type of program would give you the most thorough foundation in animal psychology. It also demonstrates to potential employers that you have invested a lot of time and effort into learning the necessary skills to become a dog trainer.Meet with an admissions counselor at a nearby college and ask for information about their degree program in Animal Behavior. Consider the costs and the time that you will need to put in in order to succeed.
If you do not have the time, money, or desire to get a college degree to become a dog trainer, there are other ways to further your education. One way is to go to trade school. Although these programs are not accredited in the same way that colleges are, there are many reputable programs. Do some research online, and read reviews from former students to learn what the experience is like.
 It is possible to earn your certification as a dog trainer without completing coursework. You can contact the Certification Council for Professional Dog Trainers (CCPDT) for more information. However, you should know that you do need to have prior training experience before you can receive your certification. Also, be aware that the CCPDT charges approximately $400 for certification. Once you are certified, the CCPDT requires you to participate in continuing education, which means that you will need to take certain classes and seminars each year.
 One of the best ways to learn the necessary skills is by working closely with an experienced dog trainer. Some training programs include apprenticeships, and the school will set you up with a mentor. Make sure to ask about this part of the program before you choose the coursework that is right for you. If you are not attending classes, you can still get guidance from a professional. Many larger dog training businesses offer internships. Contact the obedience schools in your area to find out if this is an option.
Be aware that interns/apprentices are often paid very little, and sometimes not at all.

