 Begin with completed boxer braids. Grab the two braids and cross them behind your head. Pull the left braid towards your right temple and pin it against the existing braid. Pull the right braid towards your left temple, and pin it in place as well.








Use bobby pins that match your hair color.
You can cross the tails across the top of your head, or tuck them into the space between the two braids.
 Do a set of regular boxer braids, but stop when you reach the nape of your neck. Gather your hair together into a low ponytail. Split it into three sections, then continue with a regular braid. Secure the braid with a hair tie.








Clip your first boxer braid out of the way when you reach the nape of your neck.
You can also just gather your hair into a loose ponytail and forgo doing a regular braid.
 Do a set of boxer braids as usual, but stop braiding when you reach the nape of your neck. Gather your hair into a low ponytail and tie it off with a hair tie. Twist your hair into a rope, then coil it into a bun. Secure it with another hair tie.
 Start with completed boxer braids. Gather them together and secure them with a hair tie. Twist them into a rope, then coil the rope into a thick bun at the nape of your neck. Tuck the tail under the bun, then secure it with bobby pins.
 Have two boxer braids completed. Twist each one into a mini bun at the name of your neck. Tuck the tails underneath the buns, then secure them with bobby pins.
 Begin doing your boxer braids as usual, but stop when you reach the back of your head, just behind your ears. Gather all of your hair into a ponytail, and secure it with a hair tie.Secure the first braid with a clip while you work on the second one. Remember to remove the clip before pulling your hair into a ponytail!

, Dutch braid only towards the back of your crown. Secure the braids with bobby pins, then let the rest of your hair hang loose.For a more romantic look, use a curling rod to add gentle, loose curls to your hair.








