 If you like long hair, give it layers, texture, and chop it up. If you want it short, chop it up. If you don't like choppy, at least get it dyed. It should be black or blonde (one of the two extremes) with one complimenting neon shade accenting it. Straightening looks really good with these two descriptions of hair styles. Put in a little shine serum to make hair look healthy after frying it with dye and the iron. Absolutely no ponytails.


If you want to fully embody this new style, get used to waking up early everyday to shower, style hair, put on makeup, compile a great outfit, get pumped with music, and eat breakfast :) .
To style, add a volumizing mousse when hair is wet because after its dry and straightened it can look limp. Run texturizing cream in hair to create definite pieces/ it brings out the choppiness if you end up styling your hair that way.;
,


Foundation matches your skin color and blush, if any, is nude (so it doesn't detract from your eyes or lips).
Eyes are done electric choosing two bold colors, like cobalt and lime, and playing them on your eyes with half a lid one color and half another. If only wearing eyeliner on eyes, its loud and colored doing the outer rims of the eyes the brightest. Sparkly eyeliner by Pop cosmetics or Urban Decay is great for only eyeliner looks. (By the way, Urban Decay is amazing makeup for the look you're going for. NARS cosmetics has some funky duo eyeshadow like the cobalt and lime and fuchsias and pinks).
 Lips, like your blush and foundation, are close to natural color. To pull off funky makeup, one plays up the eyes or the lips, but never both. You want to look hot, not like a clown.
 Gunmetal silvers, bright greens, dark blues, tangerine oranges, blinding fuchsias, and any other shade; feel free to express your hands. The thing about these colors is they only look good on short rounded nails and they have to be solid, smooth, and unsmudged to work. If they're glossed and neat they look cool if they're not they look like trashy funk.
 Wear skinny jeans - dark denim or color. For hippie funk days, wear ultra flare jeans in lighter washes. For those normal days, boot cuts in fall and winter and slight flare in summer.
 They are great in blacks, silvers, bright reds, and bold blues.
 Tops with peace signs, tops with cartoons, patterned tops, colorful tops. Cool tops that fit well into your outfit and match your shoes and accessories.
 Shoes are contrast black and white, color, shiny, or sequined.
 The point is to look funky but without clashing statements. Colorful or studded belts are awesome, too. Don't forget a cool, colorful hat to finish the look!

, A designer alongside of them is great.

