 Often times the invitation will give you direct information regarding what to wear and the level of formality. The style or decoration of the invitation is also a clue. Is it colorful and fun or formal and sleek?They may mention hints about comfortable footwear by telling you if the ceremony will be on a beach or a lawn.
Many people are also using websites to give more information about the ceremony. Look for a website on the invitation, then visit the site for directives.;
, Whatever the theme is, if you decide to attend the wedding, you are also agreeing to playing along with the theme. This is their day and you are a part of it. Follow any specific directions given by the bride and groom, whether that is dressing up like a Star Trek character, or sporting a Hawaiian shirt., If a cultural element is involved in the wedding theme, you can wear something in homage to the culture, but be sure that it does not come off as mocking the culture by going too far.Indian formal attire is a sari. You may not have one and don’t usually wear them, but you can match the brilliant colors of saris by wearing jewel tones. You could also accessorize with Indian jewelry.
Scottish wedding parties may be wearing kilts. You could choose a plaid tie to show your support without going all the way with your own kilt.
Keep it conservative and respect any religious traditions. If you are going to a Catholic mass, also consider the fact that you will be expected to stand for a good portion of the ceremony as well as possibly kneel. Wear conservative clothes and shoes comfortable to move and stand in.
 If you are not given any instructions on what to wear, you can still dress to the expectations of the venue. If you are not familiar with the venue, look it up online and find pictures. Dress to match the style of the people in the photos.If the ceremony is in a traditional church setting, you should dress more conservatively. Its a good idea to wear something that covers bare arms and isn’t too risqué., The bride and groom are likely busy planning, prepping and stressing over the wedding. It is best to avoid asking them questions about attire for the wedding. Instead, reach out to people in the wedding party, who will have more information about the wedding.