 The Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) requires employers to provide 12 weeks of unpaid leave to new mothers and fathers.The law applies to government agencies and private companies that employ at least 50 people within a 75-mile radius., Even if your employer is covered under the federal law, not all employees qualify. To qualify:


You must have worked for your employer for at least 12 months. This 12 months doesn’t need to be consecutive, but your employer doesn’t have to count any time you weren’t working towards your 12 months.For example, suppose you worked for Joe’s Bubblegum Factory for three months, then took a break for four months. After that time you returned for six months, then asked for parental leave. You’ve only worked for Joe for nine months, so you aren’t eligible for FMLA.
During the 12 months prior to the start of your leave, you need to have worked at least 1,250 hours or about 25 hours a week.New parents can use FMLA leave at any time within a year of their child’s arrival.FMLA leave is available not only for a birth, but also for an adoption or for the placement of a foster child., The FMLA requires you to provide at least 30 days’ notice.However, it’s in your best interest to inform your supervisors and coworkers as soon as possible, especially if you plan an extended absence.Within five days, your employer must inform you whether you are eligible.Your employer also must provide you with information about your FMLA rights and responsibilities. Your employer may also request a medical certification.
If certification is requested, then you have 15 calendar days to provide it. If asked for medical certification, then your health-care provide is responsible for providing complete and sufficient information about the underlying reason you need to take FMLA leave.In this situation, you will need proof of the birth or child placement.
 It is customary to leave your coworkers with as much information as they will need to stay on top of your job while you are away. Complete as much as you can before you take your leave. Also provide detailed information for those who will be taking over your work.


If necessary, inform clients of your leave and introduce them to the people who will be handling their account in your absence.
Consider making yourself available over the phone or via email on a limited basis during your leave, especially for any emergencies.
 Because FMLA leave is unpaid, it might cause you too much financial strain to take it all at once. However, with your employer’s permission, you can use the time intermittently.


You may work out something with your employer where you work half days, or only work three or four days a week. These options give you more time to spend with your new baby.Other flexible options include coming in later, working a few additional hours in the evening, or working from home.

