 The beginning to a relationship can be full of heady excitement. It's important to keep your head, however, if you want the relationship to go anywhere.


Move slowly. You don't want to jump right in to moving in together, to planning your future together when you've only just started seeing one another. If you find yourself giddily deciding on your children's names only a few months into the relationship, take a step back and remind yourself to stay in the moment instead of jumping ahead.
Avoid getting clingy. It's natural that you're going to want to spend all your time with this new lovely person, but it's not healthy. Don't constantly call and text and hang out with this other person. Not only will this keep the relationship charged, but you won't tire of one another so quickly.
Maintain your own lives. Keep up with your friends, your work, and your own habits. Of course you should do things together, but make time for doing things separately. That way you'll still have lots to talk about, and you won't be overwhelming one another with attention.
 It's inevitable that relationships change. There's nothing you can do about that, but you can cope with the change. This could be anything from your partner suddenly becoming messy, when they used to be neat, or your spouse deciding that they don't want children, even though they used to.Address problems as soon as possible, especially if they are small ones that could become big ones later on. For example: if your partner has become messy and doesn't clean up after themselves, talk to them and use "I statements." Say "I feel like I end up cleaning up all the dishes, despite not having used any of them," or "It's really frustrating for me when I end up having to put all your clothes away."
One key part of adjusting to the change is by reaching compromise or accepting the difference. This might mean going with your partner's feelings on this issue, but your feelings on the next issue, or it might mean meeting somewhere in the middle.
Discuss how the change impacts your relationship and determine how important the issue is to your relationship. If you want children and your partner does not this could mean either you decide that it's okay if you don't have children, or it could mean that the relationship needs to end and the two of you part ways.
 This can be incredibly challenging for people, but it's easier now than it used to be. It can take time and effort to adjust to a long-distance relationship and you need to be prepared to invest time into it.


Communicate with one another. This is the biggest problem that arises in long distance relationships. Make sure that you talk over the things that are important to you, the problems that come up in the relationship and in your life, and what matters to you.
Deal with doubts. You're going to feel fear about what the other person is up to, sometimes you're not going to trust them, sometimes you're going to doubt them. The best thing you can do, unless you've got evidence that something kinky is going on, is to talk about your frustration about the long distance, or complain to a friend about your doubts. This helps get them out in the open where they are less poisonous.
Spend time together. Make sure that you're making time for one another. Send each other funny postcards and letters along with talking on the phone and over the internet. Make specific dates and work towards getting to see one another in person.
 This can be a big change in a relationship and therefore needs to be treated with caution. You should feel comfortable pretty quickly, despite inevitable road bumps. Also keep in mind that you will change your mind about moving in, usually a couple days after you've done so, because the change is scary.One key thing to being comfortable together is that you don't hide the un-sexy and necessary things like tampons and pads, or that pair of really atrocious underwear you have. Your significant other is going to find them anyway and the more you're open about those kinds of things the more comfortable you're both going to be.
Routines are going to change. That's simply something you're going to have to be prepared for. You're going to have to figure out things like who does which chores around the house, where both your things are going to go, and so on. It'll be a lot of negotiation and change.
Give one another space. Part of adjusting to moving in together is to give each other space to deal with the emotions and feelings that are going to arise from this change.
 First off, you're going to need time to grieve the end of the relationship, even if you were the one to break it off. Break-ups are hard on both parties and take time to move on from. There are a few major things you should do if you're looking to adjust to your new single status:


Take space from the other person. This means deleting them on Facebook (or at least blocking their posts), deleting them out of your phone, staying away from their favorite haunts. The more you're talking to them, the more you're going to feel caught by them.
Find yourself. If you've been in a relationship, especially for a while, you start to lose your individual sense of identity and become part of a twosome. When the breakup happens it's time to figure out who you are without them. Do fun things, go out and try new things. This will keep your mind off them and will help you meet new people.
Be careful about rebound relationships. You really don't want to jump immediately from one relationship to another without taking time to fully process and grieve the end of the first relationship. Getting entangled with a new person right away is a surefire way to hurt both you and the new person.

