 If you are a British citizen, have been living in Britain, and are at least 18 years old (or 16, for some councils), you are eligible to get on the waiting list for council housing.If you are a citizen, but you have been living abroad recently, the council will review your information and decide whether your are eligible. If you are not a citizen, you must be a worker from the European Economic Area, a family member of that worker, a refugee, or been granted leave to remain in the UK.It is possible to challenge a council's decision to decline your application, but you may need to find a housing advisor to assist you.
If you are not certain what status you have as an immigrant, contact an immigration adviser.;
, Each council in the UK manages its own housing. While it is required to give priority to people in certain circumstances, as described below, other details of the applications can vary. You may apply through more than once council, but many councils give priority to people who live in the area served by the council.If you're not sure how to contact your local council, enter a postcode at this website to locate the council housing authority for that area. For information on other benefits, or to make a complaint, find the general purpose council website through direct.gov.
 Housing associations are similar to council housing, but are private, non-profit organizations instead of public institutions. You may apply to any number of housing associations. If you do not know any in your area, your local council should be able to direct you to them, or even send them an application for you.These organizations are also referred to as "Registered Social Landlords" or "Private Registered Providers of Social Housing"., The application form often comes with a leaflet explaining how that specific council determines priority on the waiting list. While the details vary from council to council, every council in the UK is required to give higher priority to people in the following circumstances. If any of this applies to you, make sure to mention it somewhere on your application form:You are living in an unsanitary or overcrowded home, a home in severe disrepair, or one without washing or cooking facilities. (If these apply to you, see the section on homelessness to find out whether you meet the government definition.)
You need to move out of your current home for medical, welfare, or safety reasons. This may include mobility issues, mental health issues, or threats of domestic violence or hate crimes in your area.
You need to move to a specific area within the council's authority, or you would suffer hardship. For example, you need to move to take care of a relative nearby, or you need access to a specialized school for your child.
 There are many factors that individual councils may use to determine who has priority on the waiting list. You may have a higher priority spot on the list if you have served in the UK Armed Forces (and especially if you have been injured as an Armed Forces member), if you have resided in the area for a long time, if you have a good tenancy record, or if you have been waiting for housing for a long time.Since this reduced-rent housing is intended for low income people, your income and benefits will be taken into account as well.
 When submitting your application for the waiting list, ask the council how long it will take to hear back. Contact them again after this period if you have not heard from them, to find out where you are on the waiting list. Most councils will assign you a description or a "band number" referring to your priority level, not a specific number on a list.


In certain circumstances, you may ask for a second review of your application, or challenge the council's decision. Contact a housing adviser or the local ombudsman if you are given very low priority, denied a spot on the list, feel you were discriminated against, or the council took a long time to process your application., Some councils allow you to apply to specific housing situations once you are on the waiting list, although you are not guaranteed to be offered one of the ones you apply for. Contact the council or councils whose waiting list you are on for more details.


Typically, if the council allows it, you may find council housing properties advertised in newspapers, online, in council houses, and in libraries. You may "bid" for your desired housing by contacting the council, or as directed in the advertisement. Note that the bidding does not involve money, despite the name., Normally, you only have a short period of time to accept a housing offer once the council makes it. Find out when the deadline is and let the council know your decision at least one day in advance of the deadline. Note that, if you turn down a housing situation, you may lose some priority on the waiting list.


Once you are in a council house, see the section on living in one for information on your rights and responsibilities.

