 A bun works best. This will minimize the feel of knots and greasy hair. Also, many people surprisingly look very good with their hair up. Also sometimes if you have very long hair you can use a ponytail or braids.;
, A scented type is preferable. Every three to six hours (depending on how much you need), put some deodorant on. The smell will also make you feel washed.
 You do not even have to use soap. Even though a shower might not be possible, washing your face is always an easy option. Whether it is in a public bathroom or with a water bottle and tissue, washing your face is one of the most basic ways to feel clean.
 Avoid eyeliners, mascara, heavy lipstick, and eyeshadow. These will most likely smudge during long stretches of time and will make your face feel heavy. Try to stick with a pretty scented or tinted lip balm. You can also use a light foundation. However, too much makeup will smear.
 Here too, scented moisturizer is good. Apply some to your face (without makeup) or your arms and legs. It will relax you and act as a soap.
 On long trips, many people have the tendency to pick or bite their nails. If you keep a nail file with you, not only will you have something to fiddle with, it will keep your nails looking pretty.
 Socks can get dirty easily, so changing them often will make your feet feel pampered. Make use of the socks some airlines give you. You can use moisturizer on your feet in-between changes, too.
 If you brush your teeth after every plane meal, you will feel "minty fresh". However, if a toothbrush is not handy, take a mint every so often. They provide something to chew on and give you good breath. Again, some airlines will provide you with a toothbrush and toothpaste- make use of it.
 It sounds silly, but stretching every five to ten hours (depending on your preference), can make a huge difference to the way you feel. Stretching will make you feel relaxed, but aware.
 If you brush your hair during your trip, it will make it feel fresh and clean. You can also add baby powder to the roots of your hair to minimize greasiness.
 It sounds stupid, but putting a sprinkle of baby powder on a shirt will give it a good smell if you have been sweating. Also, you can put baby powder on your neck or under your armpits over deodorant to feel fresh (like a baby), give a natural scent, and minimize sweating.

