 Cats prefer to have their own space, so you need at least one litter box per cat. However, it helps to have one extra, in case a cat is displeased with one of the litter boxes. Thus, if you have four cats, you should have five litter boxes., If your cats are always near a litter box, they will be more likely to use it. If your house has multiple floors, try to keep some litter boxes on each level. Put your litter boxes in different rooms., Don’t close the door to the room where the litter box is located. Don’t put it where it is likely to be blocked off by desks, counters, or other household furniture. If your cats are having litter box trouble, refrain from using boxes with tops that might make it more difficult for them to enter the box., Kitties need privacy too. They will be less inclined to go if their litter boxes are in a busy hallway or in a public area around unfamiliar guests., Cats can be finicky. Loud noises and strong smells can make them less inclined to use the litter box.Proximity to the kitchen, where you are cooking smelly food, can deter your cat from using the litter box.
A loud washing machine can also distract your cats from their bathroom routine.
 A warm litter box can produce mold that will make it too stinky for your kitties. Thus, keep it away from appliances, like washing machines, that produce heat. If it is near a window, be sure that it is not in direct light for long., Though many cats prefer fine-grained litters, there is no single type of litter that works best for all cats. Consistency, however, is important. If your cat has gotten accustomed to one type of litter, switching it can throw off its bathroom routine., Many cats prefer to be able to feel the litter box underneath them. Very few cats like to use a litterbox with more than two inches of litter at the bottom., Many cats, particularly male cats, urinate outside of the litter box because they have painful urinary tract issues, many of which can be dangerous. If your cat has started to urinate outside of its box for no apparent reason, you should check with a veterinarian to determine if there is a medical cause., Cats often urinate outside of the box because of stressful changes in the house, like new family members. If you can, limit your cat’s exposure to these changes, until it acclimates. If this is impossible, talk to a veterinarian about anti-anxiety medication.If, for example, you are getting a new cat, keep the cats separate for a couple of weeks, slowly introducing them to each other. This will help manage stress and reduce urination outside of the litter box.
 Intact cats are naturally inclined to mark territory with urine. You should have your cats fixed as soon as possible to prevent them from developing this behavior., Your cat is most likely to try to mark new things that it wants to establish control over and things that they have already marked. Items brought by guests, for example, should be placed out of reach. Alternatively, consider piling up items to block an area that has already been marked.


When you clean areas that have already been marked, don’t use cleaners with strong smells. This will only encourage your cat to mark the area again to reclaim its territory.
If you can’t stop your cat from returning to the spot that it marked, change its associations with the area. Feed and play with him at that location so that in its mind it is something other than the spot that it likes to mark., At least once a day, you should scoop up urine and feces in the litter box. Look around carefully for any clumps and carefully remove them. If your cats are having trouble using the litter box correctly, consider cleaning the litter box even more frequently.


Use gloves and a mask when cleaning the litter box to avoid contracting diseases spread by cats.
Toss the litter out into an outdoor trashcan. Do not move it into a trashcan in the kitchen., Approximately once a week you should toss out all the litter in the box and replace it with new litter. Even when scooping out litter, some unsanitary elements remain, making it necessary to periodically toss all the litter., At least once a month, you should perform a deep cleaning when emptying the litter. Fill the litter box with hot water and a cleaning solution, like commercial soap or even bleach. Rub it down with a cloth to remove stuck on litter and sanitize the box., Self-cleaning litter boxes have machines that sense when your cats use the box and automatically cleans the box a couple minutes after usage. This will ensure that that the box is constantly clean, making it more likely that multiple cats can comfortably share a single litter box.


These litter boxes frequently cost more than $100. However, they can save you money if they stop cats from urinating on expensive furniture or reduce the number of litter boxes required for the household.
With a self-cleaning litter box, you will need to remove stored up litter once every few days and replace litter as directed.