 When you use thrift shopping to collect “new” items for redecorating, you have to accept that you won't be able to find all the perfect pieces for your project at once. If you plan to work room by room instead of setting a unified theme for the entire house, you open up many more design options and run a better chance of finding at least one or two things you can use on each trip.


Don't neglect garage and estate sales when shopping for elements. During warm months, these can drastically increase your chances of finding a perfect item.

Sometimes, you can even find good deals at dedicated vintage or antique shops, but don't depend on them for the bulk of your searching. As a general rule, you'll get better deals elsewhere.


Themes don't have to be different for every room, but the more different themes you use, the more items will become viable potential purchases. On the flip side, you don't need to choose clashing themes just to maximize your chances. Themes should always reflect your tastes first.
Although there are plenty of contemporary items available at thrift shops, you might have better luck going for a more vintage or retro theme. Try mid-century modern, with its soft geometric designs and warm color palette, for a timeless look; consider a maritime theme with dark woods, brass and glass accents, and maps or paintings of tall-masted ships for a study or den. Other easy themes to find pieces for include Art Deco, French country cottage, and late Victorian.;
, Come up with two routes for your thrift store shopping. One route should contain the three or four closest thrift stores to where you live; the other should contain all the thrift stores in your area that you think you can handle in one shopping day. (including the stores on the first route). You'll use the first route when you only have an hour or two to spare, and reserve the longer route for weekend afternoons and the like. List stores in your area, then use Google Maps to enter each address and come up with a route that allows you to hit them without wasting time or gas.


You can visit thrift store directories such as The Thrift Shopper to get a list of many stores in your area by zip code (you might be surprised how many there are). Make a note of each store that sounds even a little bit promising; plan to at least drop in at each one you add to your list, and then pare it down based on what you learn.
Not every thrift shop is on The Thrift Shopper or its sister sites. Feel free to supplement your list with a Google search or a look at the Yellow Pages listings for thrift shops in your area.
 For a long trip especially, it helps to have a container of drinking water close at hand. If you plan to visit bin-type thrift stores where you'll have to dig through unsorted bins, pack a pair of leather-palm gardening gloves to protect your hands. Bring a reusable shopping bag, too, just in case no hand baskets are available and you want to buy more than a couple of items. Items such as baby wipes and hand sanitizer are fine, but not usually necessary unless you plan to eat during your trip.


Don't over-pack. It's nice to be prepared, but this is really just another shopping trip. The goal is to keep yourself comfortable enough that you don't get frustrated, not to plan for a thrift store apocalypse.
 Any items you know you no longer want can be loaded into your vehicle and taken with you to any nonprofit thrift store, such as the ARC (Value Village), Goodwill, or the Salvation Army. They'll take your old items off your hands for free, and even provide a receipt, since such donations are tax-deductible. Don't donate anything that absolutely needs to be replaced the same day, since you might not find a suitable replacement right away. Instead, donate such items after you find their replacements.


You can also hold a garage sale for your old items, but donating them is faster, easier, and generally more efficient at getting them out of your house for good. Consider holding a sale first, and then donating whatever is left.
 Give yourself a daily money or time limit, whichever you prefer, and stick to it. Consider setting a second monetary limit that dictates what the absolute maximum is that you're willing to spend on any single item. That way, if you've picked up $45 of goods on a $60 budget, but you then come across something you absolutely have to have for your home that costs $30, you can extend the budget up to your single-item maximum without feeling guilty.


Buy and grab quickly. It's useful to have a slightly flexible budget in part because good items at thrift stores never stay for very long. If you see something you love that would put you slightly over budget for the day, it's better to buy it than come back tomorrow hoping it'll still be there.
A few thrift stores offer discounts that change from week to week on certain items. Goodwill color codes its tags and sells one color of tag at 50% off each week; Value Village often has one day a week (typically Monday) when all used items are 25% off. Learn which stores offer discounts when, and try to incorporate them into your routine.
At garage sales and some small, mom-and-pop thrift stores, you can haggle for a better price, especially on items a bit more expensive than the average. Don't be afraid to make an offer; the worst the seller can do is refuse.
 You can't usually find specific pieces when you shop for used goods, but if you have a theme in mind, you can often spot items that would be a perfect fit for it. The item doesn't have to be period authentic, but it shouldn't look cheap or inexpertly made, either. Cheap items tend to be overpriced at thrift stores compared to their better-made counterparts, which might cost a few dollars more but which are excellent deals by comparison. Don't forget to shop for furniture as well as accent pieces, pictures, and knickknacks.


Thoroughly inspect every item you find before you buy it, even if that means sitting on the floor and lifting or upending a piece of furniture. Often, a deal that seems too good to be true is the result of damage somewhere on the item that isn't immediately apparent. There's nothing wrong with small flaws that can't normally be seen, but be wary of significant damage.
Imagine possibilities. Often, an item with no apparent decorative value can turn out to be useful by making simple alterations or even just approaching it as though it were a decorative item. Vintage cookie presses, for example, often come in old-fashioned boxes that look great on a kitchen mantel. Scrap fabric with an interesting pattern can be stretched and framed for an unusual piece of wall art. Try imagining how items could fit into one of your themes before you pass them by for being a little unusual.
 Start by making sure the room is clean and free of junk or items on the floor you could trip over. Hang wall items using a level to ensure good, clean angles; heavier items should be hung from studs as well, so invest in a stud finder if you need to (they aren't very expensive). Furniture and lighting can be rearranged as you see fit. Don't be afraid to move items you already own and try new configurations to get the best effect. You might even find some change under the couch!


Don't set items on new shelving or table space until you're completely satisfied with its location. Nothing is more annoying than loading up a new bookshelf with books and then changing your mind about its location 10 minutes later.

