 This will help you determine how large to make your planet. While this isn't too important if you're only making one, if you decide to make a whole solar system of planets, you may want to make them somewhat to scale.


For example, you'd want to make Mars or Mercury much smaller than Saturn or Jupiter.;
, Don't blow the balloon up too much, or it will become oval in shape. Try to add just enough air to make it circular, while making it as large or small as you'd like.









Place the balloon tied-end down in a bowl. This will hold it still and make it easier to apply the papier mache., You can use either glue and water, raw flour and water, or flour and water that's been cooked. There are different advantages to each: the glue and water is easy to mix up, the raw flour and water paste is stronger, and the boiled flour and water paste dries clear.









For glue and water paste, use about 1/4 cup of white school glue and add water just till it becomes slightly runny.For raw flour and water, mix enough water into flour until you get the consistency you'd like. Remember that thicker paste will take longer to dry and that you'll need to let your paper mache balloon dry overnight.
For boiled flour and water, whisk together 1/2 cup flour of flour and 2 1/2 cups of water over medium heat until the mixture boils. It will thicken into a gel as it cools., You can use newspapers, brown craft paper, or construction paper. Use whatever you have easy access to and be sure to rip your paper into pieces or strips.









Avoid cutting the papers. The straight lines will be visible once the paper mache dries. The torn edges of your ripped papers will blend in better.
 Dip the strips or pieces of paper into your paste. Be sure to completely coat the paper with the glue, but slide your fingers over the paper to remove excess paste. Lay the strips or pieces over your entire balloon. Add another layer of strips over your entire balloon.









Use your hands to smooth out any bubbles or bumps on the surface of your balloon, unless you want to give your planet a bumpy texture.
 Leave it in a warm place to dry overnight. The paper and paste must be completely dry before you begin painting or decorating your model. If you don't let it dry, it may mold.


In some cases, it may take longer to dry. If your balloon has a lot of paste or layers, it may take more time. Try letting it dry a few days.
 Once your paper mache is dry, pop the balloon using a pin or a thumbtack.Remove the deflated balloon and any bits of balloon that may be inside your hollow planet.
 For a simple model, use acrylic to paint your planet with its predominant color.









For the Sun, use yellow.
For Mercury, use grey.
For Venus, use yellowish-white.
For Earth, use blue-green.
For Mars, use red.
For Jupiter, use orange with white striations.
For Saturn, use pale yellow.
For Uranus, use light blue.
For Neptune, use blue.
For Pluto, use light brown.

