 If you're going to the show, get a ticket. Just because you're going with a group of ten people, this doesn't mean you can try to run in before security or the guys taking tickets and stamping your hands won't notice. They will. That's their job and if you're caught, you'll be out on the sidewalk while your friends stay inside and meet your favorite drummer.;
, This cannot be stressed enough. If you're at a venue which stamps your hand, you're covered, but otherwise, keep your ticket handy just in case you have to go outside and come back in. Otherwise, you're not getting back into the show.
 If something bad does happen (i.e., you get kicked in the face, defend yourself, and then the person who did the kicking acts like they're the victim), you'll have someone to defend you. Most of the time, the other people around you will help you out, but just in case, keep your friends close.
 This will only increase your chances of doing something to get kicked out. Alcohol dims common sense and your ability to judge things clearly. Therefore, you could end up doing something you wouldn't normally do without being intoxicated. And really, really don't do this if you're underage. There could be far more serious consequences than getting thrown out of a show.
 Though this can be tempting, just don't do it, especially if you don't know what you're doing. Security can and will drag you out if you're causing a pit to form when it's clearly prohibited. Plus, you could end up injuring fellow concert goers.
 If someone hits, slaps, kicks, steps on, or violently shoves you, leave them alone whenever possible. This can get you kicked out, depending on the thickness of the crowd and if a brawl ensues. But still, keep a cool head and walk away. If the person continues to bother you, tell security. Don't end up getting thrown out for something you didn't start.
 If you're underage, don't attempt to get a drink from the bar or get a friend to get one for you. Don't attempt to steal merch, vandalize the venue, or harass anyone, especially the bands. All of these can get you kicked out and definitely worse.
 Some venues, depending on who's playing, will not allow SLR (professional grade) cameras or video recorders into a show. Majority of the time, camera phones and regular digital cameras are allowed, but don't try to sneak anything else in. Either you could be thrown out or the item will be confiscated and there's a good chance you might not see it again, especially if you've already taken pictures.
 Just don't. It's insensible (otherwise there wouldn't be security to block you from getting back there) and the bands will probably get annoyed. There's a reason for an area for the general public and a specific area for the bands and crew. Though it could start out as the greatest moment of your life, it could end up horrible.
 This is pretty common sense. Don't bother, pester, back-talk, or provoke a security guard or anyone else who has authority at the venue.
 This corresponds with the rule above. If you're the sort of person who wants to cause a problem and has a fight to pick with anyone within talking distance, don't go to a show. You don't need to be there.
 If you have the courage to go back in, make sure you have the know-how to sneak around security without being seen by the same guys who took you out. Otherwise, you could be charged with trespassing or spend your night in the back of a police car. No show is worth that.
 Know the rules of the venue. Look them up online before you go or if there's a list of rules somewhere within the venue, read them, follow them. Most of the required behaviors are common sense, but if you feel the need, do so because sometimes, there are specific rules which aren't so obvious.

