 You will find that starch comes out of the rice and turns the water milky. This means the rice is opening up and separating, which will give your rice a fuller texture.


If you'd like, rinse the rice with cold running water prior to soaking to make sure the grains aren't clumping together.
 The amount of water should be double the amount of rice if the rice is not soaked. If the rice is soaked (which is best), you can leave off a couple of tablespoons. That's why this recipe is 1 3/4 cup of water and not 2!


Once it comes to a boil, it's time for the rice – you don't want all the water to disappear! Do the next couple of steps as the water is coming to a boil, not while it's fully boiling.
 This is optional, but most people believe that even just a dash of salt can greatly change the taste of the rice, and for the better. However, if you're watching your salt intake, feel free to skip this step.


Add any other seasonings if you'd like, too! Maybe some cumin, cardamom, garlic, chile, or turmeric? Experimenting with seasonings means each time you make rice, you'll be experiencing a completely different dish.
 A splash of oil will give your basmati rice that sheen you see in restaurants. It won't change the flavor too much, unless you use a flavored oil.


Vegetable oil is the most common, but you can use whatever type you like. Olive oil is a common substitute if vegetable oil isn't in your cupboard.
 Once the rice is in, reduce the heat to low. Stir only once, maybe twice while cooking. Opening up the pot may result in the rice hardening and losing its flavor. A large part of making rice is trusting it'll all work out.


Make sure the heat is on low, not medium-low. If the stove is on any higher than that, you risk the rice burning. Turning it on higher will not reduce the amount of time needed; it will just fry your rice and boil out the flavor.
 Take the rice off the heat and let it sit, covered. This allows the grains to soften and steam. Any additional liquid will be soaked up, too.


After this time is up, check the rice is cooked by squeezing a grain between your forefinger and thumb. The rice should break into pieces.
 Fluff with a fork and serve. If you've done it right, you'll see that each grain stands on its own and is a little longer than it was when raw. Now that's how you make rice!

