 A great way to find local restaurants and culinary treasures is to simply wander through a part of the city or region you’re travelling to that is known to have a large number of local, authentic restaurants.


Look for restaurants that are not stuffed with tourists and that seem to be populated by locals. Also try to find places that have their menu written in the local language.
 When looking for restaurants in an unfamiliar place, online searches using sites like Yelp or TripAdvisor will help you find spots of interest, or at least give you an idea of where to start looking. Keep in mind that these sites will often leave out many smaller local restaurants, where local people actually eat., Ask your taxi or Uber driver, the staff at your hotel, or any other local individuals with whom you interact, where they commonly go out to eat on a Friday night. Local people will be able to recommend authentic restaurants that may not have a website or may not show up in guidebooks.Say something like, “I’m only in town for a few days and hoping to eat at some places I couldn’t find back home. Where do you usually eat on a night out?”
Additionally, if you’ve already been to a restaurant that you enjoyed, or heard of one you plan to visit, you can name-drop this to your advantage. Say something like, “I’ve already eaten at (restaurant name) and enjoyed it; can you recommend any other places with similar food?”

, You can easily double or triple the number of restaurants you visit if you split a single meal up among multiple locations. If you’re in a city or region that’s large enough to support several restaurants within walking distance, plan out a route ahead of time, and visit two or three for a meal.For example, start with a cocktail or small plate at one restaurant, then move on to another location for the main course, and finish with dessert at a third restaurant.
If you repeat this process for several meals over a few days, you’ll have tried upwards of 10 new, local restaurants.
 If you’re traveling in a new area, especially internationally, be aware that certain foods may not be prepared as sanitarily as they would be in your home town. Also, certain unfamiliar ingredients in foreign cuisine—including many spicy dishes—may upset your digestive system. As a rule of thumb, order meat well done or medium-well done, avoid dishes with raw eggs or excessive uncooked vegetables, and plan to eat foods that need to be cooked, washed, or peeled (such as fresh fruits).Ordering food from street vendors can pose a risk. Before ordering, look around the food stand: make sure that the food is served hot, and that the cart looks sanitary and well-kept.
If you’re dining outside of a touristy area, observe general traveler-safety guides, even if you’re tracking down a new restaurant. Avoid restaurant-hunting alone, and make sure you can always find your way back to your hotel.

