 As a student, you likely have recurring weekly responsibilities. Further, you will be notified in advance of your most important due dates and exams. Using this information, start a master schedule. Whether you use a paper monthly calendar or an online calendar, enter each weekly commitment and each important date as soon as you are made aware of them.Include other regular activities as well, such as a fixed work schedule and commuting time.
Post a paper master calendar above your desk, or keep an electronic calendar file saved on your desktop for quick access.
Expect to re-create your master schedule each term, as your course load or work schedule changes.
Consider using a weekly planner. Tangible weekly planners, which are usually small enough to easily carry with you, can be great scheduling tools. If you plan to use a weekly planner, which simply add of this information to your planner as well.;
, Your most important reading assignment in each class is the syllabus. Input all of the important information on each syllabus into you master schedule the day you get it. You don’t need to record too many specifics, in part because you’ll want to make more specific plans one week at a time., While you may find it more convenient to keep your master calendar on an electronic platform, you should still carry a weekly paper schedule as well. Ideally, print off each week as a one-page gridded document. This will already have your weekly commitment and forthcoming dates, and will have room for you to write down a more flexible, specific schedule for the week.Your weekly print out will contain your recurring commitments already. You can then add the specifics – such as what pages of which book you need to read before a certain day.
Perhaps the greatest benefit of a weekly planner is that your schedule is always with you – ready to a quick check or revision at a moment’s notice.
 Include meetings, social events, and all of the extracurricular components of your life on your weekly schedule. Simply by writing down all of your commitments in an organized fashion, you’ll improve your ability to prioritize tasks and meet all of your responsibilities.Don’t forget to schedule eating and sleeping time. The life of a busy student can often lead to skipped meals and late-night study sessions. Don’t let these behaviors become habitual by scheduling healthy eating and sleeping schedules every day.
 Each week, dedicate a specific amount of time to study and prepare for each of your classes. The amount of time for each class will likely change from week to week based on your assignments or exams, but make sure to spend a minimum amount of time on each.For instance, block off two hours per week to prepare for easier classes, and four hours to prepare for harder classes, plus additional time for assignments.
Schedule a short amount of time, such as 15 minutes, immediately prior to each of your classes. This will help you prepare for the class by reviewing material and prepping your mind to focus on class content. A similar review session immediately following each class will help you keep up in classes you find challenging.
 Aside from planning ahead and keeping a weekly schedule, keep a to-do list to help you make sure you complete daily tasks. Consider writing your to-do list right on your physical weekly calendar.If you’re using a computer printout of your master schedule, use a landscape layout with a column for each day. At the bottom of the column (or the bottom of the section for each day in a weekly planner), write down all the everyday tasks you need to complete.
To-do list tasks include things like doing your laundry, going shopping, or remembering to get a new three-ring binder.
 Every day, take a few minutes to plan out the next 24 hours. Opt for either right before you go to bed or first things in the morning. Look over the week, fine-tune your daily schedule, and add anything you need to get done to your to-do list., Regular exercise can help decrease anxiety or tension, improve your general health, and even help you meet the demands of a busy schedule. Be sure to exercise at least once a week. Ideally, participate in a scheduled team activity each week. Further, make sure that a chunk of every weekend is devoted to decompression. Pencil in a hike, or a nap on the beach. Heck, getting out on that dance floor one evening may even help you prepare for another busy week., Stated otherwise, be flexible. You’re spending more time researching than you planned, and starting to get stressed about it? Step out for a quick jog. The point being: your schedule isn’t written in stone, and don’t let it keep you doing from what you need to do.For instance, your tasks for the day piled up? Call of the date you scheduled for later. The sooner you do so the better for both your sake and your date’s.

