 Maybe you are already dating someone and you no longer want to be. There are ways to kindly reject your significant other. Your first step is to face the situation head on.Don't try to delay the breakup. If you want to end the relationship, it's best to get it over with.
Don't wait for the other person to break up with you. It can be tempting to try to be mean or avoid making plans so that your partner will end the relationship.
Making someone want to breakup with you doesn't make you the nicer person. It's just a way of putting the burden on someone else.
 Ending a relationship can be painful. It can also be a very awkward conversation. Try to make it as smooth as possible by being as kind and gentle as possible.Don't play the blame game. You don't need to say, "I'm breaking up with you because you're a horrible person!"
It's okay to voice your concerns. Just be honest and constructive.
For example, you could say, "I can't date you anymore. It really bothers me that you repeatedly break plans with me without any warning."
You can also say something nice. You could try, "There are a lot of great things about dating you. However, it's time for me to move on."

, You might be nervous if you have to reject someone. Sometimes it can ease your anxiety if you make a plan. Put some thought into how you will approach the conversation.Think about the main points. For example, if you are breaking up because you don't want to be in a relationship, make sure to say that.
Write down some notes. It can be useful to see your thoughts in writing. It can also help you remember what you want to say.
Think about the other person's feelings. Try out some different variations of "This isn't working" to figure out what feels natural and honest.
 Anytime you have to have "the talk", it's going to be difficult. If you choose an appropriate time, you can make it a little more bearable. Take the other person's perspective into account.Break-up in person. It can be tempting to send a text or e-mail, but you should avoid doing so. It is kinder and more respectful to have a face to face conversation.
Try to avoid having a public breakup. For example, don't choose a friend's birthday party as the setting for an important conversation.
Give some warning. Let the other person know that you need to have a serious talk. Try saying, "I have to talk to you about something that you probably won't like."

, Ending a relationship can feel complicated. You might feel like easing out of dating is nicer to the other person. However, it is more effective to definitively end things.Set clear boundaries. You can try saying, "I think it's best if we don't communicate at all for a while."
Consider blocking the other person on social media. That way, no one will be tempted to monitor Facebook or Instagram statuses.
Don't lead anyone on. After you have broken up, do not flirt with your ex or try to make plans with them.

