 If the average rainfall during the summer is less than 1 inch (2.5 cm) per week, you will need to give the soil a good, thorough drenching once a week. Do so early in the morning or in the evening since watering plants in the middle of a hot afternoon can actually cause them to burn when sunlight reflects off the water.
 Use a thin layer, just enough to give the soil a little added boost of nutrition.
 The first feeding should be in the early spring, around the same time that you apply compost. The second should be about two months later.


Alternatively, you can skip the first feeding if you use compost and simply apply one coating several months later, after the initial benefits of the compost have worn off.
 After applying compost and/or an early spring dose of fertilizer, lay 2 inches (5 cm) of wood chips or another mulch over the flower bed and around the stems of the flower. This mulch helps the soil to retain moisture and also prevents weeds from popping up.
 Coreopsis flowers have thick, sturdy stems, and flowers of a moderate height will not need to be staked. If you have larger varieties and the heads begin to droop mid-season, insert a metal or wood pole into the ground about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) away from the flower and 4 to 6 inches (5 to 15 cm) deep. Carefully tie the step to the pole using twine or thick yarn.
 When the petals of the flower start to wither and drop, use clean shears to snip off the head of the flower. Doing so redirects the plant's energy and encourages it to sprout additional blooms before the end of the season.
 After the first major frost comes, you should trim the stem of the plant back, only leaving about 1 or 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of stem above the soil line.
 Do so in the early spring, when growth is just beginning to develop, or in the mid to late fall, right before the frost comes. Carefully dig the plant up by lifting it out with a shovel. Divide the plant into clumps. Large clumps can be replanted immediately, but smaller clumps may need to be potted and kept indoors until the weaker roots develop more. Weaker clumps that are removed can usually be replanted during the late spring or early summer., Aphids are the most common insect to appear, and leaf spot, rust, and wilt are the most common diseases. If these problems occur, you can treat the plant with an insecticide or fungicide. Only use pesticides as necessary, though. Do not apply preventative pesticides.

