 Tack is the gear you use for a horse. Examples are the saddle, bridle, halter, etc.



 


Walk, trot, canter, and gallop. These four words, as you may already know, are the four natural gaits of a horse. If you're riding Western, it is the walk, jog, lope, and gallop. The walk is the slowest, and the gallop is the fastest.






Some specific breeds have their own unique gaits, other than the main four. As an example, Tennessee Walking Horses can do the 'running walk', and Standardbreds can do the 'pace'.


Aids. Signals used by a rider to pass instructions to his mount. Artificial aids include the whip and spurs. Natural aids include hands, legs, voice cues and weight cues.






Conformation. The structure and general make-up of a horse






Cold-Blooded. Designating any horse or breed of horse without Arabian or eastern blood in its breeding. In practice, since many so-called cold-blooded breeds have been improved by the use of Arab blood, the distinction is based mainly on physical type: broadly, all heavy draft horses and most European native ponies are classed as cold-blooded.






Farrier. A person trained professionally to tend to a horses hooves.






Frog. V-shaped area found on bottom of horses hooves.






Withers. Point at the bottom of the neck. This is usually characterized by a slightly raised area - just above the shoulders. The saddle lays just behind this. A horses height is measured from the ground to the withers






Foal. A horse of any gender that's under one year.






Filly. A female foal.






Colt. A male foal.






Yearling. A horse of any gender that's one year old.






Mare. A female horse over 4 years of age.






Gelding. Castrated male horse of any age.






Stallion. An uncastrated male horse that's over 4 years of age.






Shy. When a horse jumps to the side, being scared by something real or imaginary.





;
, Next time you're around all those horseback riders or horse owners, you'll know what they're talking about!

