 You can make paper bags out of just about any type of paper you want, including: brown kraft paper, patterned scrapbooking paper, and wrapping paper. Cardstock is not recommended, however, because it is too stiff.


If the paper is not the right size, cut it down. Make sure that it's a rectangle.
For an extra-fancy gift bag, consider using fancy wrapping paper with either glittered or flocked designs.;
, If you are working with plain, solid-colored paper, such as brown kraft paper, it would be a good idea to decorate it. This will make it look more like a gift bag and less like a paper sack. Get out some paint and stencils, and add some pretty designs onto it. Alternatively, you can add a simple pattern using rubber stamps and an ink pad or acrylic paint.


For a fancier touch, draw your designs with glue, then sprinkle extra-fine glitter onto them before the glue dries.
Be sure to let the paper dry before moving on.
 Orient the paper landscape style, with the designed or decorated part facing up. Fold the top, long edge down by 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters). Run your fingernail along the crease to sharpen it.


For a fancier touch, trim the edge with a pair of pinking shears first, before folding it., The folded part should now be flat against your work surface. Make sure that it is still along the top edge of the paper.


If you are using plain paper, with neither a front or back, skip this step. The folded edge will be on the inside.
 Overlap them by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). If you'd like, you can run your fingernail along the side edges to make creases. If you'd like a more "oval" shaped bag, however, don't crease the sides.
 Unfold the top flap. Run a glue stick or lay down a strip of double-sided tape along the side edge of the bottom flap. Press the top flap back down. Run your finger along the seam to seal it.


If you used a glue stick, make sure that you don't get any glue on the inside of the bag.
 The more you fold it up by, the wider the base of your bag will be.Aim for about 3 to 5 inches (7.62 to 12.7 centimeters).
 When you folded the bottom part of the bag up, you will have created a pocket. Fold the top part of the pocket down and flatten it. Run your fingernail along the angled sides to create creases. You should have something that looks like a diamond, with the inside of the bag showing as a rectangle at the center., The "diamond" on the bottom of your bag has two tabs or flaps at the top and bottom. Fold them towards the center of the diamond; they will overlap slightly., Unfold the top flap. Run a glue stick along the bottom one or lay down a few strips of double-sided tape. Press the top flap back down and run your finger across the seams to seal them.
 The holes should be about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) from the top edge. They should be closer to each other than the sides of the bag.


If your paper is thin enough, you can punch the holes through both layers of paper at the same time.
Consider inserting eyelets into the holes.This makes them sturdier as well as adds an element of design.
 Measure and cut two equal lengths of ribbon. For a more rustic touch, you can use strong, cording, yarn, or twine instead.


Choose colors that go well with your bag.
Avoid skinny ribbons. The knots won't be big enough to hold it inside the bag.
 Thread each end of your first ribbon through each hole on the front of your bag. Tie the ends of the ribbon into knots on the inside of your bag. Flip your bag over, and do the same for the back.
 If you were to open your bag now, it will be shaped more like an oval sack. If you want to make it a rectangle, like a traditional bag, do the following:Fold left and right side edges down until the base of the bag is the same width as the top.
Run your fingernail along the edges to make creases.
Unfold the edges and flip the bag over.
Fold the sides again, and run your fingernail along the edges to make creases.
 Your bag is now ready to use! Insert some coordinating tissue paper and tuck your gift inside. Add more tissue paper, if needed, and fluff it out.


If you folded the bag to make it a rectangle, like a traditional bag, you may have to adjust the folds you made.

