 This involves preparing your presentation beforehand and listening to your audience during the presentation to find out what they need and don't need. Usually you don't have to involve the audience as you are speaking, but if the talk is more of a;
, Your audience will remember what you were talking about if they can visually construct an image in their heads. Make sure there is a clear beginning and end if you are making a scientific presentation about a complex area of research. However, not all presentations need to be structured this way; for example, if you are making a proposal about a new business plan or idea that you want to develop, it may be interesting to flash images at the audience as you talk about them, giving them a more real and personal understanding of your idea.
 Take the specific and place it in the context of what you have explained to be important or true in the general scientific community.
 If they are not relevant, the audience will lose the greater purpose of what you are trying to talk about.
 Remember, you are the presentation, not the slides or whatever medium you choose to go with. Your presentation is only as good as the way you present it, so let your passion for the subject show in the words you say and the movements you make. If you can make the audience excited about the topic, chances are they won't get lost and stop paying attention. Visual aids should contain all the information your audience needs, but it shouldn't be what helps them understand it. Your purpose is to translate that information and uncover its meaning and relevance.
 If you know you tend to sway back and forth, or clap your hands between each point you make, adjust your style beforehand to minimize anything distracting. The more you practice and give talks, the more you will know yourself and understand your strengths and weaknesses.
 You don't have to! The content of your presentation will stay mostly the same, but how you choose to state it will more or less change.
 Even detail of your work will be seen by a different set of eyes each time you make your presentation, which means that any mistake will stand out to at least one person in the room. Even more important than your grammar is how you handle the structure and organization of your ideas. Remember that if you can't explain how you got from one step to the next, the audience will be just as confused as you are.
 Know your topic well that you can offhandedly create a well executed argument in clear and simple terms. This will not only please those who are well-versed in the subject, but keep the younger and less experienced individuals on their toes and attentive.
 You are less likely to make mistakes in your speaking and more likely to speak clearly if you are completely focused on the subject matter.
 The main reason you should do this is to cut down or lengthen the presentation to the ideal time. When you actually says words verbally, you get a sense for how long it takes to convey a particular idea and when it is time to move on to the next subject. The other reason you should practice is for your own sake, so that you know when your next slide is coming up and what it says, so you can start talking and introducing the audience to your topic before it gets to them. The process of practicing will help you gain more confidence as you speak, as well as familiarize yourself with your topic.
 Conduct a survey or brief questionnaire to see if people really understood the basic concepts of your talk. You might want to ask some questions about your presentation style, but also about the material itself, so you can see which aspects you can stress more and which ones aren't as worthwhile.

