 If you know you're going to want to crowd surf, choose your clothes carefully. It'll help reduce the likelihood of injury to the audience. Less injury to the audience means less backlash towards you.


Wear soft shoes and tie them as tightly as possible. If you accidentally kick someone in the head, they might try to take at least one of your shoes (especially if you're wearing a hard shoe), so you should be prepared.
Don't wear anything with zippers or studs. They can get caught in people's hair or scratch them on the face or hands.
Don't wear loose clothing, such as an unzipped jacket or a cap. They will be taken or dropped.
Keep the jewelry to an absolute minimum. Rings, bracelets, even tongue studs can cause damage to you or someone around you when you're trying to crowd surf, so leave them at home.
Give your wallet and phone to someone that you know and trust. This means someone that you didn't meet the day of the concert.;
, This is probably the hardest thing you will have to do when trying to crowd surf, especially if you're a bit heavy. If the security is allowing you to get close enough, get up on stage and jump off into the crowd. Most of the time, this won't be allowed, though, so have a backup plan. If you are there with somebody else, ask them to pick you up. If you're not, ask someone nicely if they could give you a boost. You'll probably have to ask more than one person. See Tips.
 Look before you dive to make sure the people you're going to land on actually see you. Tense up momentarily as you land on the crowd to make yourself easier to support. Put your feet up higher than the rest of your body to keep from kicking people, and keep the flailing to an absolute minimum. Put your arms out and elevate your head, just in case you fall. It'd be better to fall on your back and get bruised up than to fall on your head and end up with a concussion.
 This will be hard to do, considering you are putting your life in other people's hands (literally!), but it's all you can do. If you're screaming and kicking about, people will get angry at you, and will either steal something off of you, or, if you're being really annoying, actually strike you. You'll probably be in the air for about 5 seconds, but it'll probably be your 5 most exhilarating seconds at the concert.
 In most cases, you'll be carried to a barrier in front of the stage, where security officers will get you on your feet and send you back to the crowd. In some venues, or some specific artists can also demand this, crowd surfing is not allowed, so you may be kicked out of the place. If you see a lot of people (more than 2) crowd surfing, it is probably allowed, but always ask to any security person, or call the venue the day before to make sure you will be able to do it.

