 Though the classic version of spin the bottle is usually associated with teenagers kissing in their parents' basements, there's no rule that says you have to kiss the person that the bottle lands on. To spice things up (or make things more tame), try changing the spinner's "prize" to something else. Below are just a few ideas, listed from tamest to most racy:


Giving a compliment
Holding hands
Hugging
Kissing on the cheek
Kissing on the lips
French kissing
Making out
Playing "Seven Minutes in Heaven"

Removing an article of clothing (for adults only!)

, If you'd like to play a version of spin the bottle with an added element of random chance, grab a six-sided die before you start playing. Designate a specific romantic action to each number 1-6. For instance, you might set 1 as kissing, 2 as hugging, 3 as making out, and so on. When you've assigned six actions, start play as you normally would. When the bottle lands on someone in the circle, the spinner rolls the die. The number that appears on the die determines which action the spinner has to perform on the person the bottle landed on.
 One simple variation of spin the bottle changes who does the kissing each round. Players proceed around the circle, spinning the bottle as normal. However, when the bottle comes to rest, the person that the back of the bottle points to, rather than the spinner, has to kiss the person that the front end of the bottle points at. In this variant, if you spin the bottle and the back end of the bottle ends up pointing at you, you still have to give a kiss — don't spin again.


Because this variant has the people sitting across from each other kissing each other exclusively, it's a smart idea to have everyone take new positions in the circle every few turns.
 One common variant of basic spin the bottle combines the rules of the game with those of Truth or Dare, the classic pranking, secret-telling game played at sleepovers all over the world. To play spin the bottle with Truth or Dare rules, begin as you normally would by having someone spin the bottle in the center of your circle. When the bottle lands on someone, the spinner asks him or her an embarrassing personal question. If s/he decides not to answer, s/he has to perform the dare that the spinner chooses, which can include kissing someone.


A second variant involves the person spinning the bottle announcing a dare to the group before spinning it. The person that the bottle lands on must perform the dare. This includes the person spinning, which adds a unique element of risk to the game.

