 Different catfish are more active during different seasons. In order to optimize your effectiveness, choose the proper season for the species that is native to your local area.


Fish just before or after sunset, as catfish will usually be feeding during those times.
The best time to fish for the largest catfish in the U.S., the blue catfish, you should try to fish during the winter and the spring. Flathead and channel catfish are more likely to be found in the hot summer.
 Catfish have the ability to hear you by sensing the audio waves produced by sound. If you are making a lot of noise or sloshing around in the river, it might swim away. Limit conversation if you are fishing with someone else, or keep your voices very low.
Avoid playing music while fishing for catfish.
 There are several different ways you can fish for catfish. You can jug fish, which means you will cast a number of jugs that act as floats, with fishing line attached underneath or you can try more traditional methods like shore fishing or boat fishing.


Make sure to check your bait if the current is fairly strong. It’s possible that the water can wash your bait off your line.
 Once you hook a catfish, make sure that you leave enough slack for it to fully get hooked, but once it is you need to hold onto your reel tightly. Catfish are incredibly strong fish, and can easily pull your rod from your hands if you aren’t paying attention.


Work the reel up in a smooth motion to bring the catfish closer to you gradually. You want to make sure to sink the hook into it's mouth and not yank it away.
Allow the catfish to tire itself out, and make sure to use the current to your advantage if it is trying to swim upstream. You can allow your line to go out further if it means making the catfish tired, and thus easier to reel in.
If you are battling with a catfish for a long period of time, make sure that there is no slack on your line because it gives it the opportunity to wrestle loose. As long as your hook is sunk into its mouth, you should be able to reel it in eventually.

