 You want to pick a hobby that makes you feel enthusiastic. If you don't go into your hobby feeling excited, you're likely to lose interest. Think about things you find fascinating and stimulating when choosing a hobby.Think about skills you have always fantasized about having. Have you occasionally imagined yourself as a talented singer? Teaching yourself to sing in your spare time may be exciting for you. Have you always wanted to impress people with your art? Try taking up drawing or painting.
Reviewing your past can help. What subjects did you love in school? What extracurricular activities from high school or college were most thrilling for you? This can offer hints on what kinds of hobbies you may enjoy as an adult.
 For some people, a hobby should be more relaxing than challenging. Choosing something you're not already good at may result in you feeling stressed and quitting. Think about what skills you already have if you're looking for something low key.For example, maybe you already enjoy cooking for yourself each night. You're not terribly skilled, but you're a decent cook and have always been up for new recipes.
You could take a cooking class. As you already know the foundations of cooking, it'll be easier to get into the swing of things with this new hobby.
 Some people get bored developing established skills. If you're the type of person who craves a challenge, you may want to find a hobby that pushes you out of your comfort zone a little.For example, maybe you're slightly sedentary by nature and are a bit resistant to going out. You could try running or hiking, both of which force you to get out and move.
 It's important to choose a hobby that reflects your personal interests. You're vastly more likely to stick to a hobby that interests you. Make a list of all the interests you can think of. Then, review the list. Think of what kind of hobby may match with your interests.For example, you may write down things like words, books, language, culture, trivia, and so on. A good hobby may be doing crossword puzzles, which will force you to think logically about words and use your trivia knowledge to decipher clues.

