 In Ohio, as in most states, you have several options for the form of the business that you choose to operate. The corporation is the most obvious, but one of the other business forms may serve your purpose better. This article’s focus is on filing to create a business corporation, but you may wish to familiarize yourself with the other options:Corporation. Most people create a corporation to limit their personal, individual liability that may come from the business. A corporation becomes a separate legal entity, with its own property, tax obligations and other liabilities, separate from yours. A corporation may either be for profit or non-profit.
Limited Liability Company (LLC). A limited liability company (LLC) is a different business form, which gives you some of the protection from personal liability that a corporation provides. You will still report the income of the company as part of your personal tax return.
Sole proprietorship. This is appropriate for a small business that you choose to operate on your own. You are not required to file with the state in order to operate a sole proprietorship. However, you are personally responsible for all the obligations and debts of the business. If the business does poorly, you are personally responsible for the debts. You need to report all profits and losses in your personal tax returns.
Partnership. A partnership is a sort of joint venture between two or more people. Each person shares in the profits and debts of the business. The document that operates the partnership is a partnership agreement or contract, which sets forth the terms for the sharing of the obligations and the profits.;
, The name of your new corporation must be different from the name of any other corporation in Ohio. You are encouraged to use the Ohio online Business Search to check the availability of the name you have selected. The search tool is available at http://www5.sos.state.oh.us/ords/f?p=100:1:0.
 Ohio law allows a new business to reserve its name for up to 180 days. After you search and find that a name is allowable, you can reserve it while you complete the paperwork for your new corporation. To reserve a name, you need to complete the name reservation form, available online at http://www.sos.state.oh.us/sos/upload/business/forms/534B_2015-09-24.pdf, and submit it by mail to P.O. Box 670, Columbus, OH 43216. Include the reservation fee of $39.


If you would like expedited service for your name reservation, you complete the same form, but mail it to P.O. Box 1390, Columbus, OH 43216. The processing fee for expedited service is $100.
If you are submitting the reservation form electronically, you will need a credit card.
If you are mailing in your reservation, you should include a check payable to "Ohio Secretary of State."

, The main home page for the Ohio Secretary of State is http://www.sos.state.oh.us. From that page, you can select the link to Business Filing Forms and Fees, and then from there select the type of business that you are choosing to incorporate.


This article will focus on a for-profit domestic corporation. However, at the same page with Business Filing Forms and Fees, you will find links to forms for non-profit corporations, foreign (out-of-state) corporations, professional associations, LLCs, partnerships, and several other business forms. The process will be similar.
 The Ohio Secretary of State’s office has prepared a standardized form that you may use as the form for your Articles of Incorporation. This form is not required, but it does satisfy the minimum requirements for a filing. You should consult with an attorney to review the form and determine whether it covers everything you need, or if you wish to add more information.The template Articles of Incorporation is available at http://www.sos.state.oh.us/sos/upload/business/forms/532A_2015-09-24.pdf.
 The first item on the Articles of Incorporation is the corporate name. This needs to match exactly the form of the name that you reserved, if you chose to file a name reservation. Otherwise, you need to make sure that the name is available in the same form that you previously searched. If you submit a name that is different, and if it turns out that the name is not available, your paperwork will not be accepted. The name of all corporations must include one of the words “Company,” “Incorporated,” or “Corporation,” or one of the abbreviations “Co.,” “Inc.,” or “Corp.”, You do not need to give a specific street address. You need to designate the city and county where the corporation will have its primary office location., This step is optional. You may skip it if you wish. If you choose to designate a particular date for the corporation to begin its operations, you may do so. The effective date must be after the date that you file the Articles of Incorporation, but must be within the next 90 days. If you choose not to designate a particular date, then the corporation will be deemed to begin operations on the date of filing of the Articles of Incorporation., This is the number of shares that the corporation is authorized to issue. You may choose to issue fewer, or none, if you wish. You must report an authorized number, and designate whether they are common or preferred stock, and the stated par value for each. You may choose to designate the stock with no par value, if desired.


Setting up the stock structure for a new corporation could be the area that most requires the assistance of a lawyer. For help developing a strategy regarding number of shares, types of common or preferred stocks, and how to set the par value, consult with a corporate attorney.
In general, the par value for a stock is the minimum price that must be paid to purchase it. The price may increase. If you choose to designate no par value, then no price is set., You may or may not choose to state your company’s initial stated capital. This is generally the amount of money that would be required to pay dividends or payouts to stockholders. The amount is usually equal to the stock’s stated value times the number of outstanding shares of stock., By law, every corporation must name an agent to accept service of legal process in the event of litigation or other legal notices. This agent must be either an individual or a business with an address and regular business hours within the State of Ohio.You need to provide the name and mailing address of the appointed agent.
The incorporator, or a majority of the incorporators (if there are more than one), must sign to authorize the appointment.
The appointed agent must sign to indicate acceptance of the appointment.
There are professional corporations that serve as corporate agents. You may wish to select such a company, to ensure that service can always be made, and also to separate any legal process from your direct office address.
 When finished, the Articles of Incorporation must be signed by one or more incorporators. The term “incorporator” just means the individual(s) who drafted the Articles of Incorporation.If the incorporator is an individual, then that individual should sign and print his or her name in the space provided.
If the incorporator is another business entity, then provide the name of the business entity, the signature of an authorized individual who is signing on behalf of that business, and the individual’s title.
 The information on the provided form of Articles of Incorporation is the minimum that is required to form a corporation. However, after consulting with an attorney, you may choose to provide additional information.
 You can access the portal for filing business forms online at http://www.OHBusinessCentral.com. This portal is a very useful site, not only for filing your initial Articles of Incorporation, but also for much other corporate business that you will need to do in the future.
 The first time you go to the OH Business Central website, you will need to create a profile before you can begin filing any paperwork. Select the green button on the left of the screen labelled “Log In/Create Profile.”You will be asked for your name and address, email address, and a password of your choosing. When you are finished, select “Create Profile” at the bottom of the screen.


After creating your profile, you will receive a note verifying your user id (which is your email address) and the password you have selected, and you will be given a four letter code for your “Signature Code.” You will need to remember this for future use.
 After you have a profile, password and signature code, you will be able to log in directly to the Ohio Business Central portal to file your Articles of Incorporation or to conduct other business online. To file the Articles of Incorporation, select “File a New Business or Register a Name” in the middle of the screen.Before proceeding beyond this point, you should have your completed draft of the Articles of Incorporation available to expedite the online filing.
 For this purpose, you will choose the “For Profit Corporation (Ohio)” from the drop down menu that appears. The selection indicates that the filing fee for Articles of Incorporation is $99.You may also select a processing time, if you wish expedited service. The Articles of Incorporation are generally processed within three or more business days. If you would like expedited service, you may select one of the options provided: 2-day service for $100 additional, 1-day service for $200 additional, 4-hour service for $300 additional. The expedited service fees are in addition to the initial $99 filing fee.
Select the “Continue” button at the bottom of the screen.
 In case you have not already done so, you will be prompted to search for the availability of the corporate name that you have selected. You may enter the name and select “Search” if you choose to do so. When you are satisfied that your corporate name is available, select “Begin Filing” at the bottom of the screen., The next few screens will prompt you to provide the information for your new corporation. Fill in the blanks completely and carefully.


If you wish to add any additional articles beyond the minimum, you will be given the opportunity to upload them as .pdf files. Therefore, you will need to have any additional information stored as an accessible .pdf file.
 After you have entered all the information for the Articles of Incorporation, you will be shown what you have entered. At this point, you should review it all for accuracy and completeness. If you need to make any changes or corrections, you may select the appropriate “Edit” button. When you are satisfied that all the information is correct, select “Save and Preview” at the bottom of the screen.After you choose “Save and Preview,” you will be shown a .pdf screen of your completed Articles of Incorporation. You need to make sure that your “pop-up” blocker is set to allow pop-ups on this screen.
 The final version will display on the screen. Review all the information for accuracy. If you are satisfied, select “Verify this Document” at the bottom of the screen., If this is your only filing, then only the Articles of Incorporation will appear on the list. This is your last opportunity to open the document and make any changes.When you are satisfied, select “Add Selected Filing(s) to Check Out.”

, The filing fee for the Articles of Incorporation is $99, along with any additional fee you may have selected for expedited service. Provide your credit card and billing information. Then select “Confirm and Proceed” at the bottom of the screen., When you finish your online submission, you will receive a notice that your filing is complete. This is not, however, the formal acceptance of your Articles of Incorporation. You need to wait approximately three to five business days for your submission to be reviewed by the staff at the Secretary of State’s office. You will receive a formal Approval Certificate acknowledging your filing by email.
 The Articles of Incorporation must be typed on standard, white, 8 1/2 x 11 inch paper. You can download the Articles of Incorporation form from the Secretary of State’s website of forms and fees, or you can type a form of your own in substantially the same format., The final Articles of Incorporation must bear the signature the incorporator. Without a signature, the filing is incomplete and will be delayed or returned to you.
 The filing fee for the Articles of Incorporation is $99. If you choose to request expedited service of your filing, you may include additional payment.


If you would like expedited service, you may select one of the following options: 2-day service for $100 additional, 1-day service for $200 additional, 4-hour service for $300 additional. The expedited service fees are in addition to the initial $99 filing fee.
Without the proper filing fee, your paperwork will be returned to you.
If you are filing by mail, include payment by check payable to “Ohio Secretary of State,” or by including a credit card payment authorization statement, along with your credit card number.
If you are delivering your filing in person, you may pay by cash, check or credit card.
 Once the complete filing is ready to submit, you need to deliver it to the Secretary of State.


To file by mail, send the completed package to Corporate Filing, P.O. Box 670, Columbus OH 43216. If you wish to request expedited service, send it to Corporate Filing (Expedited Service), P.O. Box 1390, Columbus OH 43216.
To file in person, take your materials to the Walk-In Client Service Center. The Secretary of State maintains an office to do business with walk-in clients. Take your completed paperwork, along with the filing fee, to 180 E. Broad Street, Suite 103 (Ground Floor), Columbus, OH 43215.
 Filings are processed in about three to seven business days. After that, you will receive an Approval Certificate, by mail, to the address that you indicated in your filing.

