 Certain colognes and fragrances last longer because the notes that they feature have a stronger, heavier scent. For the most lasting power, choose a cologne with a woody fragrance, such as cedar, patchouli, or juniper. Options with spicy notes, such as clove, ginger, or nutmeg, also tend to be longer-wearing.Woody, spicy scents that come in oil form are the best choice when you want your cologne to last all day. That’s because oils cling better to the skin than sprays or mists. They’re not mixed with alcohol either, so the scent isn’t diluted.
Colognes that features fresh citrus notes aren’t going to last as long as heavier, musky scents.
 Many people don’t realize that colognes and perfumes have a best-by-date if they contain a lot of natural ingredients. Over time, those ingredients can start to turn, weakening or changing the scent. Some colognes will include an expiration date on the packaging, so be sure to choose a bottle that’s still fresh.If there’s no expiration date on your cologne, examine its color and consistency. When it starts to get darker and syrupy, it’s likely gone bad.
Colognes made with synthetic ingredients usually don’t go bad, so you don’t have to worry about an expiration date.
 Extreme temperatures and direct sunlight can alter the oils and other ingredients in cologne, so the scent changes or doesn’t last as long. If you want your fragrance to last all day, it’s important to use a bottle that’s been stored in a cool, dark location.The bathroom isn’t an ideal storage spot for cologne because the humidity from steamy showers can affect it even if you keep the bottle inside a cabinet or drawer.
You may have heard that storing your fragrances in the refrigerator can help them last longer, but the extreme cold can affect its composition just as much as heat and humidity. That’s why shouldn’t store it near an air conditioning vent either.
If you want to display your colognes’ attractive bottles on a shelf, make sure that it isn’t near a window where sunlight will hit them.
Always ensure that you recap your cologne bottles securely. If air reaches the fragrance, it can oxidize, changing the scent and decreasing its lasting power.

