 Read books whether they are fiction, like Harry Potter or non-fiction, academic articles are essential in this regard.;
, Use, for example, Penguin Readers Books. These books start from easy and go to to intermediate level.


Remember, it is not about how fast you read. It's on how well you understand what you read, of course in English.
 There are good choices such as news programs such as BBC Worlds which can be viewed in many parts of the world.


While watching shows with words that you may not understand, use a notebook and pen to write the word as you think it's spelled, then find its correct spelling later and find out what the word means.
Do not rely on subtitles in your native language when watching a TV series or movie. If subtitles are displayed in your language, you will not learn the English.
Instead, select English subtitles, if available.
 In order to build both your written and spoken vocabulary, practice saying the words out loud

, Spend some time in writing essays, article contributions, blogs, chat posts, etc.


If writing such works seems a busy thing, try to write journal in English language.
 You will develop confidence in speaking English if you are comfortable to do so. Communicating in English can boost your confidence.
 There are many possibilities to get to know such individuals online. BUT be careful when talking or getting friends with others in the internet.
 Have pocket dictionaries. Or if you find it nerdy when you bring dictionary, install dictionary and thesaurus apps on your phone.
 Preferably learn the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) phonetic notation. The IPA is a set of symbols that represent sounds of letters in English. Be familiar with IPA so that when you don't know the pronunciation of a word, it will be easy for you how to pronounce it.
, If you are not sure about your English, don't hesitate to ask someone if your English is wrong.
 Otherwise, you will remain an average English speaker.
 Listen whenever English is spoken and in the language arts. This will improve your speaking skills.
 This practice is very beneficial.

