 Before you set off on the hike, do some research. Look up the best autumn hikes in your area online. Ask friends who hike often if they would recommend a certain trail or area for a hike during autumn. Many areas have hikes that are known to be beautiful during the fall and are advertised as the best for this season.You can also call the national park service in your area or state and ask them for recommendations. Check their website as well for a list of the best hikes for fall in the park.;
, A big part of going hiking in autumn is taking in the changing foliage on the trees. Go for an area that has a lot of trees or surrounding forest. You may also opt for a hiking trail that leads to a high view of forest or trees. Make sure the area you are hiking in has lots of greenery so you get the best views of the changing foliage.


You may look up images of the hike beforehand online to make sure it has a lot of forest or trees. Compare several images of several different hikes to determine which one will be the most stunning during autumn.
 When you are choosing a hike, you should also consider your skill level and your experience as a hiker. Most hikes will be categorized by skill level, ranging from novice or beginner hikers to advanced or experienced hikers. Go for the hike that will suit your skill level as well as the skill level of those you are hiking with. This way, everyone is hiking at their level and can enjoy the trail.For example, if you are hiking with young children, you may opt for a hike that is recommended for beginner hikers or is family friendly.
If you are hiking with a group of young adults who have done several hikes before, you may go for a more advanced hike that gives you access to a lot of forest and trees.
 Before you head out for the hike, you should always check the weather forecast for the day of the hike. Autumn can be an unpredictable time weather wise, as temperatures can fluctuate throughout the day, depending on where you are located. Check your local weather forecast and note if there are any advisories for poor weather in the area you are planning to hike.You should also look up the conditions of the trail you are planning to hike. Look online for the trail conditions for the hike the night before or the day of the hike. Note if there are any advisories for the trail, such as an avalanche warning for the trail or a trail closure.
You can also call your local park service to check on the condition of a trail before you head out. They can often tell you if you should be concerned about going on a particular trail.
 Hiking in autumn means you may experiences shifts in temperature throughout the day. Be smart and dress in layers so you can shed them as you sweat or put more layers on when you start to get cold. Wear long pants and hiking shoes with socks that go over your pants so your legs are covered. This will prevent tick bites and ensure you stay warm during the hike.You should also wear lightweight, breathable clothing that is made of non-wick material and avoid cotton, as you do not want your sweat to dry on you as this could make you feel cold.
Bring a raincoat just in case it rains during the day and to keep you warm if you start to get cold on the trail.
 Put together a hiking kit that includes all the essentials, such as a firestarter, matches, a first-aid kit, a flashlight, and a pocket knife. You should also bring sunscreen and a compass that you can use in the event you get lost. Put all these items together in your hiking backpack so they are on hand in the event you need them.You may also get hiking poles to help you navigate the trail more easily. Hiking poles may be ideal if you are going on an autumn hike that has steep sections or areas.
You should pack a small camera in your hiking kit to ensure you get good shots of the stunning autumn scenery. Make sure the camera is secure in your bag and on you when you take it out on the trail so it does not get damaged.
 You should also pack a hiking backpack that contains snacks for the day. Bring easy snacks like sliced fruit, sliced cheese, and crackers. You may also pack granola bars and energy bars so you can stay energized during the hike. Try to bring enough food for everyone in your group so you can all sit down at some point during the hike and have a snack.You should also bring a full water bottle with you. Make sure each person in your group has their own water bottle so you can all stay hydrated during the hike.
 You should bring a tarp or a cover that could work as emergency shelter. Even if the weather for the day is supposed to be clear, you never know when the weather can turn during the fall. Having emergency shelter will ensure you are covered in the event it rains hard and you are stuck on the trail.You may also bring some rope or bungee cords that you can use to secure the tarp or cover over some trees to make a shelter.
 Hiking with at least one other person or with a group of people will ensure you are all safe on the trail. Enlist some friends to go with you on an autumn hike or invite your family along. Hiking in a group can also be a fun way to bond and enjoy the stunning views with others.Hiking alone is not advised, even if you are a seasoned hiker.
When you hike as a group, you should all try to go at the same pace. The pace of the hike should be tailored for the slowest hiker in the group. This will allow you to all stay together. You should start and end the hike as a group.
 Tell friends or family who are not going on the hike with you where you are hiking, when you are starting out on the hike, and when you plan to be back. Letting others know will ensure you are covered in the event of an emergency. If you do not contact the person you tell, they can then alert the park authorities and make sure you get home safe.There are Apps on your phone that you can download and use to check in with others before you go hiking. You could then check back in once the hike is over to confirm you are safe. If you do not check back in, the App can then alert others who can check on you.
 In many areas, autumn is the hunting season. You may end up sharing the trail with hunters who are hunting for elk, deer, and other game. Be aware of the presence of others on the trail, from hunters to other hikers. Greet other hikers on the trail and make eye contact. Step aside for hikers who are coming down the trail you are climbing and make room others on the trail.You should also be aware of the needs of those you are hiking with. If you notice everyone in your group is tired and the weather starts to turn, for example, it may be time to turn back. Be willing to turn back and try again another day if you feel it would not be safe to continue.

