 They help you remember important events, books, times, events, and so much more.;
, Always bring the things you'll need, if you have your supplies out you should never have to scramble to find them when the times comes

, Do whatever you need to do to ensure that you give your teacher your full undivided attention: sit away from friends, silence phones, turn music off, don't pass notes, and try not to talk.
 AP classes are very hard; the work load and subject matter are so intense sometimes you wish you shouldn't have taken the class. Don't let yourself fall into that, always remember why you took the class and it will get you through those dark times.
 This is a must, if you don't turn in homework then you're condemning yourself to adversity. Do whatever you need to do in order to ensure you get this done. If you can't keep up with your homework load talk to the teacher about maybe working ahead so you have less homework or about transferring out to a normal class.
 Always read and study every night! This is invaluable, if you spend an half-hour to an hour every night reading, taking notes, and reviewing notes you will find yourself so prepared for that big test that it will be a piece of cake.
 It goes without saying that the only stupid question is the one that is unasked. Don't hesitate to ask your teacher a question about something you don't understand. Some teachers stay after school so take the time for yourself and get help if you don't understand a concept.
 Some teachers require you to form or assign you to a study group. These are great for sharing ideas, improving upon each others ideas, proofreading and editing essays, and for getting help. If you have group projects to do, always assign work and due dates as equally as possible among the members and never hesitate to check on their progress.
 Don't be afraid to do more than what is needed especially if it'll help you later on.
 Think of all the money you'll have saved by not taking the class in college.
 Writing is nearly two-thirds of the exam. It helps to practice your FRQ (Free-Response Questions) and DBQ (Document Based Question) skills, and will help you perform well on that section.

