 You can expect to pay between $100 and $450 for a single keratin treatment at a salon.Doing a keratin treatment yourself won’t give you custom results, since at-home treatments don’t evaluate your individual hair type. At-home treatments tend to be less damaging, but also shorter lasting.For example, if you have a light hair color, a salon professional can adjust the formula so that the tonality of your shade doesn’t change.If you decide to go with a stylist, schedule a consultation first so they can determine the appropriate formula for your hair.;
, Whether you opt for a salon or an at-home kit, make sure to go online and read user reviews before committing. Prioritize quality over looking for a good deal. If you know someone who’s had a keratin treatment, ask them for a referral, including brand of solution and salon/stylist, if applicable., “Keratin” doesn’t actually smooth hair; the treatment will contain chemicals or other smoothing ingredients. Some keratin treatments contain ingredients that release formaldehyde, which can be carcinogenic. Others use alternatives to formaldehyde. Check the product label or ask a salon professional if you want to ensure that the treatment is formaldehyde-free.Methylene glycol, methanol, formalin, and ethanediol all release formaldehyde when heated or combined with water.
Alternatives to formaldehyde contain glyoxylic acid (or derivatives).
Treatments without toxic chemicals are not as effective at softening the curl pattern of hair.
 Massage the shampoo into your hair and work up a lather. Let it sit for three to five minutes, then rinse it out. Apply the shampoo one more time. Make sure to rinse it completely out of your hair afterwards.Anti-residue shampoo is formulated to remove buildup from your tresses, such as from conditioners or styling products. This will prepare your hair to evenly absorb the keratin treatment.
Anti-residue shampoo is sometimes called “clarifying shampoo.”

, Run your hands through your hair as you blow dry on a medium heat setting. Make sure that your hair is entirely dry, unless your product’s directions state otherwise.


A Brazilian treatment requires your hair to be slightly damp (85-90% dry) whereas a keratin treatment requires fully dry hair. Since the terms “Brazilian” and “keratin” (as they relate to hair treatments) are sometimes used interchangeably, it’s important to check with your product’s instructions.
 Using a hair pick or comb, make a part down the middle of your hair. Clip up your hair into four to eight sections (depending on how much hair you have). Make sure to clip each section tightly so that it stays secure during the process., The brand and type of treatment you choose should provide you with precise instructions on how to apply your keratin treatment. Make sure to read and follow all directions and safety precautions.


If your product instructions differ from these instructions, always follow the directions provided by the manufacturer of your product.
 Wear gloves and old clothing or a smock. Take a section of your hair and apply the treatment product, starting with a small amount and increasing until the hair is coated but not overly saturated. Use a fine-tooth comb or a hair coloring brush to work the product into each section, from your roots to ends. Clip up each section when you finish it.
 Cover your hair with a shower cap. Allow the product to remain on your hair as long as the directions require., Remove your hair cap and clips. Don’t rinse out the product unless the instructions advise you to do so. Blow dry your hair with the product still in. Use the hot or cold setting on your blow drier, depending on which one your product recommends., Set the temperature to 450 °F (232 °C). When your flat iron reaches the correct temperature, straighten your hair in small sections (about one to two inches thick). You may want to clip up sections of your hair beforehand or as you finish straightening them., Washing your hair too soon will shorten the life of your keratin treatment. If you can wait a week before getting your hair wet, even better!Try using a dry shampoo if the lack of lathering your locks is bothering you., Avoid using any ponytail holders such as elastics or even hair clips, if possible. Try a fabric bandanna if you want to keep your hair out of your face.Using hair ties or clips may cause a crease in your hair. However, this may not be the case if you wear a hair tie loosely., Your keratin treatment may last longer if you avoid styling or drying your hair with heat. Wash your hair sparingly – as needed – with shampoo only (skip conditioner).Use a sulfate-free shampoo.