 There are a number of web services through which you can find names, addresses, ages, and records: marriage, employment, and legal histories. Some sites are free, and some charge a small service fee. Compare low-cost and no-cost search options, and find something that suits your purposes. You can also run a reverse phone number search if you have a phone number that's connected to your family member.


Try a White Page search through Metacrawler's http://metacrawler.intelius.com/ page. This can be a useful tool if you think you know the town or a few possible towns where your family member might be living.
Use commercial websites such as http://www.publicpeoplefinder.com/Family-Member-Finder.shtml, http://www.ussearch.com/others/consumer/services/findFamilyMembers.html, or http://www.ancestry.com/. You usually need to pay a service charge to use these websites, but they also tend to give you more information than free sites.
Check out free people-search websites like FamilySearch.org, which is a service provided by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Check out the free resources at http://www.myheritage.com/family-tree-builder?gclid=CMGsrLq-_qcCFYS8KgodpGINqQ.
 You can search for people on Facebook, Google Plus, Twitter, Instagram, and most other networks, although you may need to search through long lists of people with common names. You may be able to refine your search if you know the person's email address, their community, or their schools.


If you are looking for a specific person, search for his or her full name. Try searching for nicknames and variations in addition to full legal names. For example, if you are trying to find Bob Shovels, try searching for "Robert" and "Bobby" in addition to "Bob". Search for any variations that you know a person has used.
If you suspect that someone you know might be Facebook friends with the person you are trying to find, try looking through their friend list. It is possible to de-index your profile from the Facebook search tool, so just because you cannot find your family member through a basic search does not always mean that he or she doesn't have a profile.
 If you are reasonably sure that you have found your lost family member, try to find a reliable means of contacting her. Look for a street address, an email address, a phone number, or a social media profile. Reach out to the person with a message explaining who you are, or call the number that you find and ask for someone by her name.


If you cannot find your family member online, it could be a sign that he or she has gone off the grid. He or she may be "illegal" in some way, or wanted by the police, or simply not wanting to be found
Bear in mind that if you aren't "friends" with someone on Facebook, private messages will go to a separate, little-seen inbox. The person may eventually see your message, but he or she will not necessarily notice it immediately.

