 Even if you hate your job, there are always opportunities for you to learn something new. Ask for alternative tasks you can do in place of your current workload. Start taking classes online in areas that interest you. Pick up a new craft or hobby outside of work. Read about something fascinating.Don't give up on your desire to learn. Let your passion be the light that guides you through this time.
 Remember that even an awful job can be a huge learning experience. You may not be doing exactly what you want to be doing – but you can learn a lot about what you don't want to be doing! Identify skills or projects that might come in handy during your next (more exciting) job. Spend your time focusing on improving these skills. Use your current job as a launchpad into the next big thing.


Think about how you got to this point, and assure yourself that you will never get yourself into a job like this again. Focus on getting free.
 How much can you surprise people with your kindness? Even though your situation is frustrating, you can still brighten your coworkers' days! Make your job less unbearable by trying to keep an upbeat attitude. Be the change you wish to see in the office.


Try to avoid accidentally coming off as condescending when you're being kind. Some people aren't used to being treated nicely for no apparent reason!
Keep a journal or start a blog. View it as a social experiment. Write in/on it every day.
 Find a way to look busy at work without really working. Figure out exactly how much work you need to do to keep your supervisors off of your back, and then use the rest of your mental energy thinking about the things that you'd rather be thinking about. Be careful! If you get caught, then you might not have the choice to bear the job.
 In many cases, a miserable job is closely linked to a supervisor that you hate. Try to empathize and understand why your boss is the way he/she is. Figure out whether there is a way for you to work productively with this person. If not, then it might be time for one of you to leave.

