 Many people have trouble sympathizing with homeless people because of the many negative stereotypes that the homeless population is burdened with. Educating others could be as simple as correcting a friend or coworker about a homeless stereotype they express, or it could be talking with your local city or county politicians about the problems homeless people face.If you have children, start by educating them. If you volunteer for an organization that supports the homeless, ask if you can take your child along so that they can see firsthand the hardships of homelessness.
 Many people are unaware that there are homeless shelters in their communities. Contact your local newspaper, religious institution, and the editors of local civic group newsletters and ask them if they would consider running a weekly or monthly listing of local services available to the homeless. That way, more people will know about and utilize these services., Writing letters to the editor of your local paper can help promote greater awareness and understanding of homelessness in your area. You could also write to editors of national papers or publications. Share some information about the number of homeless people in your area (or country, if you’re writing to a national publication). Explain the different reasons why people become homeless. End by suggesting ways that people in your region or nation could help the homeless., Instead of (or in addition to) writing to established publications about homelessness, start a blog of your own to create awareness. Blogs are a great platform for you to share your understanding of homelessness and encourage people to help. Promote your blog via social media and encourage others to provide feedback.Incorporate video and photos on your blog as well as text.
 One of the best ways to help the homeless and create awareness about homelessness in your community is to organize a collection for food and/or clothes. Talk to local businesses, schools and colleges, and religious institutions about leaving a bin or large box in or near their foyer. Place a large sign on the bin identifying the purpose of the drive and list the items that are most needed.Advertise the food or clothing drive by putting up flyers around town and by asking your local newspaper to place a notice about the drive in upcoming editions.
Restaurants are good places to host food or clothing drive bins, since they generate a lot of foot traffic. People will remember to bring along some canned or boxed food next time they visit.
If you’re organizing the drive on behalf of or in conjunction with a particular nonprofit that supports the homeless population, ask them ahead of time what sort of foods or clothing items you should encourage people to donate. Include this information on the sign you attach to your bins or boxes.

