 There are some vaccinations that all dogs need to receive. These vaccinations prevent highly contagious diseases that are a health risk to all dogs. For example, all dogs must get both a distemper and rabies vaccination.The distemper vaccination is called DHPP because it is a combination shot that protects your dog from distemper, hepatitis, parainfluenza, and parvovirus.


Distemper is a serious viral disease that attacks the respiratory, gastrointestinal and nervous systems. It is often fatal.Infectious canine hepatitis (ICH) can lead to illness or death, especially in puppies. It can cause fever, congestion, depression, organ damage, and blood coagulation disorders.Parainfluenza is one of the causes of kennel cough. It can cause flu-like symptoms in your dog for days or weeks and may develop into pneumonia. It is highly contagious.Parvovirus is a serious, highly contagious viral disease that can be fatal, especially to puppies. Symptoms may include lethargy; loss of appetite; abdominal pain and bloating; fever or low body temperature (hypothermia); vomiting; and severe, bloody, diarrhea. Most deaths occur within 48 to 72 hours following the onset of symptoms. There is no cure and treatment is only to support the dog's system while it fights the virus.Rabies is a dangerous and deadly disease for humans and animals, and it is essential that you protect your dog and everyone who might come into contact with your dog. Rabies is usually spread through the saliva of an infected animal, and attacks the central nervous system.There is no cure or treatment for rabies. If your dog contracts rabies, they must be euthanized.
The rabies vaccination is mandatory in a lot of areas. It may be required every year or every three years. If your dog gets out of date with that vaccination your veterinarian may be required to report the lapse in vaccination to local authorities.;
, This decision is usually done by discussing the options with your veterinarian. They should make recommendations for what vaccinations your dog should get and why they should get them. Vaccinations that are given depending on where you live include, but are not limited to:Leptospirosis: Vaccination against a bacterial infection that is prevalent in dogs that live in moist climates, but can also be spread through contaminated water sources like puddles, streams, ponds, and contaminated soil. This disease can be spread from dog to person, putting you and others at risk. It may cause permanent kidney or liver damage.Bordetella: This contagious respiratory infection is another cause of kennel cough. If your dog interacts with other dogs (at the park, at a kennel, etc.), then your veterinarian may suggest this vaccination. It is highly contagious and leads to a persistent dry cough and flu-like symptoms.Lyme Disease: If your dog frequents areas that are prone to ticks (tall grasses, thick brush, marshes, and woods), your veterinarian may suggest a Lyme disease vaccination. Lyme is spread by a tick bite and may cause fever, reduced energy, stiffness, joint swelling, and may lead to kidney failure, which can be fatal., Your veterinarian will tell you when your dog needs its vaccinations and when it should get boosters, which are infections that revive your dog's vaccination immunities. In most cases, vaccination boosters are done at annual checkups. However, not all vaccinations are done annually.This means that you will need to set a schedule that takes into account when a variety of vaccinations need to be administered.
Your veterinarian will be able to keep track of when vaccinations should be done in their computer system. However, in order to stay updated on when dog vaccinations should occur, you should keep track of these dates as well.
 Take your dog to its veterinarian every year for an annual exam that also includes updating its vaccinations. From year to year the vaccinations your dog receives may vary, as certain vaccinations are only given every few years.If you switch veterinarians, your new vet should request your dog's veterinary records from its old vet before the appointment. This will allow your new vet to have all the information they need to keep your dog's vaccinations up to date.
If you are late on getting your dog vaccinated you should still do it when you remember. Tell your veterinarian that your dog is behind in its vaccinations but that you would like to get it up to date.
 When your dog gets its vaccinations you should make an appointment for the next round, even though it is a year or more away. Making the appointment will help to assure that you don't forget to get your dog re-vaccinated.


Some veterinary offices will not want to make appointments too far in advance. If this is the case with your veterinarian, then you will need to keep track of when to call and make an appointment. Put a reminder in your calendar that you need to call and make the appointment.
 Once you make an appointment for your dog's vaccination you can ask for a reminder. Most veterinary practices will gladly call or email you before the appointment to remind you of the appointment.


In order to actually get the reminder, be sure that your veterinary office has your current phone number and email address.
 In order to keep up to date with your dog's vaccinations, you should put the dates for updates in your calendar. While many veterinary practices will remind you when vaccinations need to be administered, it's also a good idea for you to keep track of it as well.


If you cannot make an appointment ahead of time, for instance if you are moving and don't know what veterinary practice you will take your dog to next year, you should be particularly good at writing down the dates when your dog needs its vaccinations. You will only have the reminder in your calendar to remind you.
 If you have an electronic calendar, you can put a recurring item in the calendar that reminds you to get your dog vaccinated. This recurring event will remind you every year that the vaccination or booster needs to occur.


For example, if your dog gets a rabies booster every year, then you can set an event in your electronic calendar to occur every year in order to remind you.
If you have a smartphone, there are also apps that you can use to set a reminder for your dog's vaccinations.

