 Writing about the secret in detail on paper, then destroying the evidence, can be a good way to “get it out.”Be sure you thoroughly destroy the evidence. Consider burning it (safely) or shredding it in a paper shredder.
If you put it in a trash can, tear it into pieces and bury it underneath the trash. Consider putting the pieces in separate trash cans and/or taking the trash out to the curb or dumpster immediately after throwing the paper away.
 There are some forums for posting secrets so you can get it out but remain completely anonymous.


Be sure you are truly in an anonymous environment.
 Telling the secret to a stuffed animal, a pet, or a collectible item may help you feel like you have told someone. If you feel like you’re going to burst because you haven’t told anyone, this may help get the immediacy of your urge to tell out.


Be sure that there is no one nearby to overhear what you are saying.
Be sure your phone and computer are not connected to calls or audio chat before you speak aloud to an object.
You may also consider telling a baby who cannot speak yet. You might feel like you are telling a person, but the danger of the secret getting out would be very low.
 If you need to feel like you are telling another human, try telling yourself the secret in the mirror. Pretend you have a twin brother or sister and talk to yourself. This may seem silly, but it might help.


Again, be sure that there is no one nearby to overhear what you are saying.
 Sometimes, hearing a secret makes you feel like you’re going to explode. There is a physical connection between your body and keeping secrets.Get the jitters out by yelling or dancing around—anything that will get that excited energy out of you so that you don’t run and tell someone the secret instead.
 If you absolutely must tell another human, be sure that it is someone who can keep a secret.


If you are keeping a secret about another person, try telling a third party who doesn’t know the original person.
If you do tell someone, be sure they understand that the matter is a secret and they should not tell anyone.
Know that telling anyone opens up the possibility that the secret will get out, and that people may find out it was you who told.

