 Cutting is a way of self-harming that includes making cuts to the body with a sharp object, like a razor. Common places to cut include the arms, wrists, and legs. Cutting can be a coping strategy, a way to express one's internal pain and suffering through external pain. While it is a coping strategy, it is a harmful one, and people who cut can find healthier outlets than cutting to relieve their emotional pain, such as therapy.Cutting is inherently dangerous. You can end up in the hospital or lose your life if you puncture a vital vein or artery. Cutting should be taken very seriously.
 Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) can affect thoughts and behavior to an extreme extent. While it's normal to double check to see if you've locked the door or turned off the stove, people with OCD may repeatedly check things. People with OCD may also perform ritual behavior over and over. They may have a pervasive fear that runs their life, such as needing to wash hands hundreds of times each day to avoid germs or locking the door several times each day to avoid intruders. Performing rituals is not enjoyable and any variance in the ritual causes extreme distress.Having OCD means you cannot control the thought or urges. Spending one or more hours each day performing rituals that cause immense distress and interfere with everyday life is a marker for OCD.
If you suffer from OCD, seek treatment. It is unlikely the symptoms will subside without intervention.
 If you have experienced a traumatic event or have dealt with trauma in your life, counseling can help.Trauma can include being physically, emotionally, or sexually abused. Rape is a traumatic event, as is experiencing domestic violence. Trauma can also include watching someone die or being present for a catastrophic event like war or disaster.Seeing a therapist can help you sort through the emotions and find ways to cope with the trauma.


Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a real disorder that affects many people after a traumatic event. If you exhibit symptoms of PTSD such as nightmares, re-experiencing, or having intense fears about the trauma happening again, seek help.
 If you have recently begun drinking or using substances at a much higher rate, you may be using them to cope with emotional problems. Sometimes people use alcohol or substances to forget or distract from the pain they feel inside. Increased use may indicate more deeply seated issues that need to be expressed. Therapy can help in finding new ways to cope that are more effective and healthier.Drinking in excess can cause serious problems to your body. It is not a safe or healthy way to cope.
 If you are at risk of harming yourself or others, then getting medical help quickly is very important. If you are immediate danger, Call Emergency Services. Get help if any of these are happening to you:


You have suicidal thoughts/wishes, or have begun coming up with a plan
You think about hurting others, or have hurt others
You are afraid that you might hurt yourself/others

