 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.;
, Doing so takes you to the user screen.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen and takes you to the Settings menu.
 It's near the bottom of the "My Account" section of the menu.
 It's in the "Saving" section of the menu.
 You have three options:



Memories is an in-app gallery that is backed up to Snapchat's servers.You can access Memories by swiping up from the camera screen, and photos saved to Memories can be downloaded or shared at any time.

Memories & Camera Roll will save photos to both Memories and your device's photo storage app.

Camera Roll Only saves photos only to your device's photo storage app.
 It's the arrow in the upper-left corner of the screen. Now when you save Snapchat photos and videos they'll be stored in the location you selected.


Tap Auto-Save Stories if you'd like to automatically save every Snapchat Story you create.
 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.
 Point your device and tap (photo) or hold (video) the larger circle at the bottom-center of the screen.
 It's the square icon, with a downward-pointing arrow, in the bottom left corner of the screen. Your photo has been saved to your default location.
 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.
 Doing so takes you to the Snapchat Stories page.
 It's a button in the upper-right with a downward-pointing arrow. Your Story is now saved to your default save location.
 On iPhones and iPads, press the home button and the lock button simultaneously. Android phones vary, but you will usually have to hold the Power button and the Volume Down button at the same time.On the Samsung Galaxy series, you'll need to tap the Power and Home buttons at the same time.
 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.
 Doing so opens your list of chats.
 This will open the snap; you will have a maximum of 10 seconds to screenshot it, so get ready.
 Do this as soon as your target snap opens.

You can access the screenshot in your phone's camera roll.
The sender of the Snap you just screenshotted will receive a notification that you took a screenshot.
If you miss the screenshot your first time around, you can tap and hold the expired snap to replay it. Bear in mind that you can only do this once per snap.

