 If you know what movie you're going to be watching, look up the trailer online and watch it from start to finish. Trailers are usually no more than three or four minutes long, and they contain highlights from the film. If you can get through the trailer, you'll be familiar with the plot, characters and setting, so there will be fewer surprises when you watch the movie. When it comes to horror movies, the fewer surprises, the better.;
, In this case, spoilers are a good thing! Read all about the plot twists so you won't have to anticipate them when you watch the movie. When you already know how a movie ends, some of the magic and power is taken away. Read about who's going to die, who the killer is and what creepy twists you should brace yourself for.
 Find out what other movies the stars of the horror movie are also in. If the guy who plays the psycho killer played a friendly dad in a different movie, watch clips of the dad character. Do the same for all the other actors in the movie. When it comes time to watch the movie, you'll remember them as they were in their other, friendlier roles, and they won't seem as scary.
 If you're watching a classic horror movie, there are bound to be plenty of parodies. See if you can find a Saturday Night Live sketch making fun of the movie. If SNL didn't do one, look on YouTube to see if another comedy group might have done one. When you watch the actual movie, you'll remember the parody, and the movie will seem silly., One thing that makes watching horror movies so uncomfortable is seeing the blood and gore. The thing to remember is that it's all fake. Fake bones, fake skin, fake stitches, fake blood. Creating bloody costuming that looks realistic actually requires a lot of skill. When you learn about how the costumes and makeup were put together, you'll be able to watch the movie with a sense of fascination instead of horror., Certain things happen over and over again in horror movies, to the point where many horror movies are quite predictable. Learning the tropes can help to take away the movie's mystery and make it much more watchable. Here are a few examples of classic scary movie tropes:A babysitter goes upstairs to check on the kids, only to find a killer up there
There's a murderer on the loose at summer camp
An old, abandoned house turns out to be haunted
A creepy looking child turns out to be a ghost

