 Discuss the idea of a Quinceañera with your parent(s) or legal guardian. You will need their approval, and you may need to plan out a budget for the party’s finances. Try to start planning your Quinceañera (or Quince, for short) as far as 6 months or a year in advance – make sure that you have enough time to take care of all the social and budgetary logistics., This is completely dependent on how much your family has available to spend on a Quinceañera. If you have plenty of disposable income, and the birthday girl wants a blowout, feel free to plan a huge, festive party. If you're strapped for cash, there is nothing wrong with a simple, homey party. Consider whether your family will need to plan a Quinceañera for any other girls within the next few years; if so, make sure that you don't blow all of your savings on the first party!, Many girls plan their Quinceañera around the time of their birthday. Consider the pros and cons of a certain time or season: will people be in town? Will you be able to have your party outside? Will any other holidays, vacations, or obligations conflict with your party? Your friends will probably not be able to attend if they are out of town or otherwise occupied.If your birthday is on a weekday, consider planning your Quince the Saturday before or after your birthday. It is common to plan a Quince on a Saturday., It is traditional (but optional) to have a ceremony or Mass at church before the actual party. This is called the Misa de acción de gracias: the mass of giving thanks for the end of childhood.Consider the following parts of the tradition:


The festejada, the birthday girl, sits at the foot of the altar. She is wearing a formal pink or white dress. Her godparents give her gifts – often jewelry to wear with the dress.
The festejada is surrounded by her damas (maids of honor) and chambelanes (escorts). These are usually siblings, relatives, or family friends. They are arranged by age to signify the phases through which the festejada has passed
The mass is a thoughtful ritual, much like baptism, which welcomes the festejada to adulthood. The mass celebrates the challenges and joys that face the festejada as an adult.
After the mass, the festejada leaves flowers for the Virgen de Guadalupe. Her female friends and relatives hand out bolos—memorabilia—to everyone attending the mass.
 You can rent out a space, set up in a park, or even just host the party at home. Consider using a reception hall – similar to the buildings used for weddings, anniversary parties, and sweet sixteens. Work out your price range for the reception hall, and cross-check your guest list with how many people the hall can accommodate. If you are planning the party yourself, ask your parents for help with budgeting and arranging a venue.


If you want a more modern and intimate party, consider going out for a fancy dinner with a few good friends, then hosting a slumber party afterward. This way, the party is truly just about the birthday girl and her friends.
If you want to involve the whole family and community, it may be more important to honor the church portion of the tradition. Consider having the reception (after-church party) at a large, convenient venue like a park or a reception hall. If your house is big enough, you can just host the party there., If you are having a church ceremony, consider starting your Quinceañera in the late morning and continuing through the afternoon/evening; if not, feel free to start the party in the afternoon or the evening. It can be hard to set an ending time: once the party starts, it may be so fun that you never want it to end. In fact, many Quinceañeras do not have a designated end time – the duration of the party depends on a variety of things, including: how long the church ceremony takes, what time people leave the party, what time the cake is cut, and how early the party starts. Keep these things in mind as you choose your party’s time and date!

