 On a computer or a mobile web browser, visit the Get Uber page. This will take you to a site where you can sign up for an Uber account.


You may receive a notification in your browser that Uber is asking to know your location. Clicking "Yes" on this prompt will allow Uber to use your IP address to estimate your location when you order your car.;
, On the next page, you will see several text boxes asking for a number of details to identify you with. Enter all required fields by clicking on them and entering in your corresponding information.


If you do not see an option to enter your payment information, your browser may have defaulted to https://get.uber.com/sign-up/. Confirm that the page you are on says only https://get.uber.com/. If your browser continues to redirect, don't worry! You can add payment details later.
If you are signing up with a promotional code, tap the "Add Promo Code" button at the bottom of the page and enter the code you have received.
 At the bottom of the screen, look for the blue "Create Account" button. You're all set to start ordering Uber without the app., The Uber site can be accessed here and can be accessed from tablets, computers, and all phones with web access. To visit the site, click on the link above in this step.
 For security reasons, you may receive a "network error" message when you attempt to access the mobile site it. If this occurs:


Compose a new e-mail to support@uber.com.In the e-mail's body, include your name, the e-mail account associated with your Uber account you use, and a message requesting access to the mobile site.
Send the e-mail. You should be able to access the site shortly.
If days go by and you remain unable to access the mobile site, resend your e-mail.
 Type the account details you used to create your Uber account into the boxes that read "e-mail" and "Password". Click/tap "Done" in the top-right corner once you have completed this.
 If you were unable to enter your payment information while signing up for an account, enter it here:


Tap/click the person icon in the top-left corner of your screen.
Tap/click "Payment" in the menu that appears.
Tap/click "Add Payment" in the Payment menu, and enter your card details.
 Depending on your device's settings, Uber may be unable to detect your location automatically. If you receive a message to this effect:


Tap/click on the white box underneath the green "Pickup Location" banner and enter your current location. You should see the black "Set Pickup Location" pin in the middle of your screen move to the location you entered., If Uber was able to detect your location, you may find that the pin it selects is not perfectly aligned with your actual address. Look for the blue dot in the center of your map and its corresponding location at the top of your screen. If it's not quite correct, click/tap and hold the screen and drag it to your actual location.
 At the bottom of your screen, you will see a slidable icon underneath a number of different types of Uber car. Drag this icon to the slot underneath the type of Uber you would like to take.


uberX is the standard service offering from Uber. Click here if you're not sure what type of Uber you should select.
If you see a lightening bolt circled in blue underneath an option, that means there is currently surge pricing for that option. This occurs when there is a lot of demand for a certain type of Uber car and Uber temporarily increases its prices to compensate for the shortage of drivers. This typically occurs during rush hours, and can usually be avoided by waiting a few minutes when the demand destabilizes.
 Once you have selected your Uber type and confirmed that the address of the pin is in the correct place, click/tap on the "Set Pickup Location" banner in the middle of your map. You will be taken to a confirmation screen.
 In the top-left corner of the confirmation screen, you'll see a "Destination" bar that is labelled red. Tap/click on it and type your destination in to set it.
 On the bottom-left region of the screen, tap/click the "Fare Quote" button for an estimate of your journey's cost.
 If you have a promotion code, tap/click "Promo Code" next to the "Fare Quote" button and enter it into the box that appears.
 Tap/click on the black button at the bottom of the screen to request your Uber. It's on its way!

, You will see the icon of a car traveling towards you (a blue icon) on the screen as well as a picture of the driver, their name, and an image of their car at the bottom of the screen. As the icon approaches your address, look outside for the car as it pulls up.


Do not close the browser, as it may log you out and cancel your trip in the progress.

