 If the silent treatment is a chronic behavioral style of your loved one, this person may have narcissistic traits. Narcissism is frequently used to describe the personality disorder in which a person naturally exploits and manipulates those around them for their own benefit.If you find yourself constantly apologizing for things you didn’t do or begging your partner to communicate with you, they could be using your response to gain the upper hand in the relationship.
It can be emotionally draining and confusing to be in a relationship with a narcissist. However, there are some strategies you can implement to improve your interactions with this person.Individual therapy may also help you learn how to cope with their behavior.
 If you are interested in becoming a better communicator—and your loved one is also invested—seeking professional counseling can help. You can do individual, couples, or even family counseling. Whether you are dealing with a family member or spouse, participating in therapy can help you identify the roles both parties are playing in the silent treatment and break the cycle of emotional abuse. For example, therapy might teach you to find healthier ways to express your demands like using "I" statements, sandwiching criticism, or requesting specific time to discuss grievances.
On the other hand, it can teach your loved one how to be more verbal about their thoughts and feelings and learning how to manage frustrating in better ways than stonewalling.
 If you are frequently the victim of the silent treatment, this relational pattern can take a toll on your health and well-being. In addition to working on your communication with the perpetrator, it’s integral that you spend time with people who communicate in a healthy way.Reach out to friends and loved ones who support you and value who you are as a person. Simply say, “My relationship has been sort of rocky. I could use some time with a friend. Want to hang out this weekend?”
Another option is to participate in a support group for those who have encountered narcissistic abuse. You can ask your therapist for a recommendation or search for support groups online.
 The silent treatment is one of many tactics employed by emotional abuses. It makes one partner feel intimidated and powerless to the other. If you have tried to improve your communication with your loved one and they refuse to acknowledge their part in the silent treatment, you may have to go your separate ways.You might say to your loved one "I can no longer be in this relationship because it makes me feel controlled and powerless. I have tried to work with you on this issue, but you refuse. I need to do what's best for me."
Practice what you will say with a friend or therapist. Doing this can help you feel more confident breaking up with an emotional abuser.

