 Early in the pretrial process you will take part in discovery, which gives both parties the opportunity to collect information about the case in order to prepare for trial. During discovery you will collect facts, interview witnesses, determine the strength of your case, and see what the other side is going to say at trial. In order to accomplish these things, you will use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal in-person interviews with witnesses and parties. The interviews are conducted under oath and the answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to witnesses and parties. The responses must be written under oath and can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests for physical items related to the case. This tool helps you get your hands on documents you may not be able to find otherwise. For example, you might ask for text message exchanges, phone records, email threads, internal memos, and written contracts.
Requests for admissions, which are written statements the defendant will have to admit or deny. These admissions help narrow the focus of litigation.
 Once discovery concludes, the defendant will usually try to end the litigation immediately and have the judge rule in their favor. The defendant will do this by filing a motion for summary judgment. To be successful, the defendant will have to prove that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the defendant will have to persuade the judge that, even if every factual assumption was made in your favor, you would still lose.

To defend against this motion, you will file a response. Your response will contain evidence and affidavits proving that there are factual disputes that need to be resolved during a trial. You will be successful, and the litigation will continue, if you can persuade the judge that there is a chance (no matter how small) that you will win at trial., Trials can be incredibly expensive and time consuming. Before you go down that road, try to settle your dispute with the defendant. This is an ideal time to try because you will have collected evidence during discovery that will help you negotiate. In addition, you will have a good idea of what the judge is thinking based on how they responded during the summary judgment proceedings. Start settlement discussions informally by sitting down and talking with the defendant. If the negotiations are unsuccessful, try alternative dispute resolution methods.

For example, ask the defendant if they will take part in mediation. During mediation, you and the defendant will sit down, together, with a mediator. The mediator will try to find common ground and work out unique solutions to your disputes. The mediator will not inject their own opinions and they will not take sides.
If mediation does not lead to a resolution, try non-binding arbitration. During arbitration, a judge-like arbitrator will listen to each party present their case. After the presentations are done, the arbitrator will draft a written opinion, which will lay out who has the stronger case and what remedies might be available to the winning side. If both parties agree with the arbitrator, they can bind themselves to the opinion.
 Due to the complex nature of price fixing lawsuits, you will most likely need to hire expert witnesses to help make your case in court. Expert witnesses present opinions about the facts of your case. These witnesses will help the judge and/or jury understand the case and rule in your favor. Expert witnesses are different from lay witnesses because of their qualifications based on experience, knowledge, skill, education, and training., If you and the defendant end up going to trial, you will have to present your case to a judge and possibly a jury. As the plaintiff, you will be given the opportunity to present evidence first. Your lawyer will do this by examining witnesses and presenting physical evidence. Once your lawyer has rested, the defendant will get to present their case. At the conclusion of the trial, the judge, and jury if you have one, will deliberate and come up with a resolution to your case. The resolution will be read in court. If you win, you will receive a remedy that might include injunctive relief and/or monetary damages.

If you lose, you might be able to appeal the judge's decision to a higher court. Appeals are only available if the judge made a legal mistake that affected the outcome of the case. If you think this might be an option, talk with your lawyer as soon as possible. In most cases, you will only have about 30 days to file your notice of appeal.