 Put the female bovine to a squeeze chute or head-gate with gates on either side that prevents her from moving side-to-side.;
, An OB (obstetrical) suit or coveralls are best for this job. However, if you have old clothes that you don't mind getting dirty, then those will work fine as well.
 Put on fingered latex shoulder-length gloves on the one arm (preferably your strongest arm) you will use to do rectal palpation with.
 Apply a handful of OB lubricant to your hand, and rub it so that it gets above your hand as well as the inside.
 Grab the tail with one hand (the one not gloved up), hold up above your head (see photo above) and with the gloved one, form a kind of closed-puppet mouth configuration with your hand (thumb tip connecting with all four tips of your fingers), and with the point of the top of your fingers forming a 45 to 60 degree angle, push into the rectum of the cow.


You will have to push hard because the cow will be straining against you to push you out. Keep your wrist rigid and in-line with the rest of your arm, and keep your elbow flexed slightly so you have enough strength to push into the cow's rectum.
 If the rectum is full of feces, then carefully scoop the loose fecal matter with your hand and retract your hand enough so that you can expel the feces for the cow. Expel enough of the feces that you have room enough to work, so you can reach and find the cervix.
 It will be below your hand, as will the rest of the female bovine's reproductive tract. You should be able to feel a hard cylindrical shape part of the way in. If you are up to your shoulder in the cow and still can't find the cervix, you're too far in. Move back until you can feel the cylindrical object below your fingers.
 If you have short arms, you may either need a stool to stand on, or have to go in right up to your shoulder to feel for anything in the fallopian tubes or uterus of the cow.
 If you feel anything that feels like the uterus is distended, with a small oval ball of liquid floating inside it or something that feels like a fetus, then you have found that the cow is bred. If you don't feel anything of the sort, just a uterus, then she may be open (not bred.)


It takes a lot of practice to know what you're feeling for. Often it's best to preg-check 2 to 5 months into the cow's gestation period, so that you know you are feeling for something larger than a golf-ball sized ovary. The sizes you should be feeling are according to how far along the cow is:

2 months - size of a mouse
3 months - size of a rat
4 months - size of a small cat
5 months - size of a large cat
6 months - size of a small dog
7 months - size of a Beagle

These size comparisons are useful if you have a dead premature calf that may have been aborted.




A vet or bovine practitioner who has had more experience and has preg-checked more cows will be more accurate than one who has done only a few cows. Thus saying, the more practice you get or the more chances you get to preg-check cows, the more accurate you'll become.
 Once you've determined if the cow or heifer is pregnant and how far along, pull your arm out of the cow, and release her back into the herd, and repeat with another cow or heifer.
