 Contested motions for modification can be every bit as elaborate as the original divorce trial, so a legal representative could be in your best interest, particularly if your ex-spouse already has one.


If you can't afford an attorney for the entire proceeding, you should at least consider getting an attorney to review your motion once you've finished drafting it to make sure it's complete and follows the court's desired format.
Modification of a divorce decree can be complicated, and legal expertise may be necessary during trial and discovery procedures if your ex-spouse intends to fight the modification., The order may have included particular circumstances in which alimony would automatically end or be reduced. If one of those things has occurred, you would only have to notify the court of that fact.For example, your decree may stipulate that alimony payments will end if you lose your job due to no fault of your own. If you were recently laid off, this would fulfill the stipulation in the decree that would trigger an automatic termination of alimony payments.
 Your motion will have the same case number and caption as your original divorce decree, and will be heard in the same court.


If you want to change your alimony payments and your ex-spouse won't agree to the change, it's up to you as the paying party to make a motion to the court and show that there has been a substantial change in circumstances since the decree was entered that justify an adjustment in alimony payments.Include a certificate of service, notice of hearing, and any other forms required by your court.
 If you're filing your motion on your own, sign your motion in front of a notary public.


Once you've signed your motion, attach a copy of your original divorce decree and any other exhibits you've attached as evidence of your substantial change in circumstances. Make enough copies of the entire packet for your ex-spouse and your own records., You'll have to pay a nominal fee when you file your motion with the clerk of the same court where your original divorce was heard., After you've filed your motion, you must serve a copy of your motion along with a notice of hearing to your ex-spouse., Once served, your ex-spouse has a brief period of time within which to file a response. If a response isn't filed by the deadline, you can request a default judgment on the motion.


While your motion to modify is pending, you must continue making alimony payments, or at least make good faith partial payments if you can.Even if the judge rules in your favor, the order only applies going forward and not to any past due payments., At your hearing you must prove that the modification you request is necessary because your circumstances have changed substantially since the original decree was entered.


Pull together and organize any documents or witnesses you may have that tend to prove your case.
You must prove a substantial change of circumstances on the part of either you or your ex-spouse. After you've filed your motion, you have a period to conduct discovery before your hearing. During this period you can request information from your ex-spouse, including asking questions or requesting copies of documents.For example, if you heard that your ex-spouse has recently gotten a promotion and no longer has the financial need she did when your divorce was finalized, you can request documentation of her current rate of pay to help prove your contention that your alimony should be reduced.
Keep in mind that judges can exercise broad discretion in deciding whether to modify or terminate an alimony award. Courts often look at your ability to pay in comparison to your ex-spouse's need. If your ability to pay has decreased only slightly while her need has stayed the same or marginally increased, the judge may be disinclined to approve your request for modification.If you've filed the motion because you recently lost your job, keep detailed records of your job search so the judge knows you're actively looking for work and didn't just quit your job to avoid paying alimony., Appear in court at the date and time your hearing is scheduled. Try to arrive early, so that you have plenty of time to park, go through security, and find the courtroom.


Dress professionally and conservatively, and treat all court staff with respect. Have all of your papers and exhibits organized so you can find what you need quickly without shuffling papers.
Since you filed the motion, the judge will allow you to speak first. She may ask you questions, or she may allow you to present your case freely. Regardless, keep your statements brief and stick to the facts – resorting to blatant appeals to emotion or courtroom theatrics will only hurt your case.
Make sure you have your pay stubs and any other proof of the change in circumstances that serves as the basis for your request., Once the judge has signed the order, get copies for your own records and to show to any interested parties.

