 That's how everyone will begin liking you, and maybe even call you "posh".;
, If your hair isn't brushed, teeth yellow or with food between them, bad breath, smelly, or sweaty and greasy, there is no way to be posh unless these problems are fixed.
 Aside from good hygiene, you have to dress classy/posh. T-shirts and sweatpants will not cut it. A golf shirt and plaid shorts will work at the least, or some designer. If you cannot afford a lot of designer clothes, get some "minor designer" clothing. Some examples are Isaac Mizrahi, Massimo, etc. A bit cheap sometimes, but some will work.
 Excellent presentation is half of the battle. Wear clothing and accessories which flatter your body and never wear anything you feel uncomfortable in. It is important to remember that modesty is key in earning the respect of others. A bit of cleavage may be fashionable, but true gentlemen will appreciate modesty more than exposure.
 A serious, dull person is about as posh as a plank of wood. How exciting. Always be charming and outgoing to people you wish to be friends with.
 If you cannot think of anything, the insults will come depending on the person. Always be nice to other people, unless you have something against them.
 When necessary, voice your opinions appropriately and constructively. This encourages your audience to listen carefully when you speak.
 Extremely low necklines, too short skirts, belly-bearing tops and revealing clothing can make a girl look like she does not respect her body and herself. Shirts with inappropriate sayings, logos or sexual innuendos can make a girl look like she's desperate for attention. The posh are not desperate for attention.
 It will annoy people and cause friend loss.
 Even if you trust someone, you never know if they will go and blow it out of proportion.
 It can be hard, but think of how you would be rather posh than snobby. Plus snobs aren't as well rounded as the posh clan.
 This is very important. Posh people have good manners and know the boundaries in human relations. They know not to tread on toes but equally they know how to upbraid people who do tread on toes. Manners are a form of currency for the posh person and the more you know of them, the better. Start with Emily Post if you haven't a clue yet.
 Posh people are not materialistic - that easily becomes garish and common. Rather, posh people seek out quality and style whatever it may be - a handbag, a house, a car. Buy the best that your money can afford and go without the trinkets.
 The same for your body - buy good quality food to nourish yourself. Posh people respect themselves.
 Never over-eat and never over-indulge. Posh people know their limits and respect them; especially since respect in the eyes of others is also very important for a posh person.
 Don't copy them precisely but do allow their way of being, their style and attitudes have some influence on yours. That way, you can build a strong foundation on which to become a posh person in your own right.
 It is wise to become politically, culturally, and religiously aware. Even the most basic knowledge can save a person from embarrassment and awkwardness. If you know in advance that you will be spending time with someone of an unfamiliar background, it is a good idea to do more in-depth research to avoid embarrassing aux pas.
 Do not berate yourself, but be receptive to constructive change. In our world, change is inevitable. Be a positive and flexible part of it and show others the way as well. Face life rather than burying your head in the sand and others will know instinctively that you are someone whose opinion counts.
 As difficult as it can be to heed the advice of those more experienced than yourself, it is a necessary step at times. No matter your age or ability, allow yourself to learn from the mistakes and victories of those older or more experienced than you. You will win their favor and be available to pass on your own wisdom or advice.
 Posh girls leave their surroundings in a condition at least as good as they found them. Unless they are in a restaurant with wait staff whose job it is to do the clearing up, classy people insist on taking care of their own trash and baggage, not expecting others to pick up after them. And when others do favors for them, while stuck-up or spoiled people assume it's only to be expected and ignore others' assistance, truly posh people are quick to notice and to express their gratitude and their appreciation. Also if you drop a silverware, don't count on the waitress to pick it up and replace it. Simply pick it up and put it to the side If you want or need a new one politely ask for a clean one. If the waiter asks you why, then explain why.
 These serve to confirm that one "seeks wisdom", that one is "open to personal development" and "knowledgeable and aware" . However, it is also posh to get bad grades when one spends ones time pursuing a posh pastime instead of studying. But be careful as that can also make one spoiled. Appearing spoiled cancels out poshness quicker than one can possibly imagine.
 An appreciation of popular culture is important but a knowledge of gossip and rumour surrounding famous people only serves as confirmation that one is so far from being posh that one has wasted ones time reading this much of the article.
 Posh people have a large vocabulary and know when to employ it. However, posh people never force words into sentences that don't belong.
 Truly posh people instinctively recoil at the thought of inconveniencing others, offending them, getting in other peoples' way, or in any way making nuisances of themselves. The posh are all about minding their own business when among strangers and putting others at ease when in social situations. Truly posh people are gracious and affable to everyone, whether the CEO, the mail carrier, or the custodian. The posh know others' names and use them when greeting people they see regularly, whether the doorman, the security guard, or the boss' wife. The posh treat everyone the same - with courtesy and respect.

