 The safest way to make fog in a bottle is to simply use ice cubes and warm water. To start, fill a bottle with warm water. The water does not need to be boiling. Just try to run tap water as hot as it goes. Fill the bottle to a little below the brim and set the bottle aside for 60 seconds.Fog is formed when warm water vapor comes into contact with cold temperatures. By heating up the inside of the bottle with hot water, you are creating warm vapor inside the bottle.;
, While you're letting the bottle sit, prepare your ice. Take some ice cubes from the fridge and place them in a plastic bag or a strainer. Whether you use a bag or strainer depends on the container you're using for your project.


Some people use jars instead of bottles for this experiment. If you're using a jar, it's a good idea to set the ice in a strainer, which you should be able to find at a grocery store. The strainer's circular shape makes it fit more easily over a jar.A strainer may not fit easily over the smaller opening in, say, an empty soda bottle. As you want to cover the lid completely, a plastic bag, which is more malleable, can sink slightly into the bottle. This will cover the opening. Use a plastic bag if you're using a bottle.
 Once 60 seconds have passed, pour most of the water out of the bottle. Leave about one inch of water on the bottom of the bottle.Now, the air inside the bottle is warm. When it's exposed to the cool temperatures caused by the ice cubes, fog will form inside the bottle., Take the plastic bag or strainer. Place it over the covering of your bottle or jar. In a few seconds, you should expect to see fog form inside the bottle.A strainer should fit fairly easily over a jar. However, a plastic bag may need to be secured. If your bag slips off the bottle, try to secure it with a few pieces of duct tape.
 In the event fog does not form, review your process. It's possible the opening of the bottle is not completely covered, preventing the cold air from the ice cubes from interacting with the warm water vapor in the bottle. You also may not have gotten the water hot enough to cause fog. Try repeating the process, using hotter water and a bigger bag or strainer.

