 Online diamond sellers can provide a wide selection often at competitive prices. However, it's unlikely you'll be able to inspect the diamond before purchasing, which in some cases can lead to diamonds of unsuitable quality being purchased. For this reason, you should prioritize stores you can visit in person.If you do decide to go with an online diamond retailer, make sure the seller is well established and has a good reputation.
You'll also want to check that any online diamond seller you are considering sells diamonds from a certified diamond authority.
To evaluate online sellers, you may want to us a diamond report, like the Rapaport Diamond Report, the Troy Diamond Report, Ajediam Antwerp Diamonds Monthly, and the Gem Guide., Franchise diamond sellers are oftentimes held to corporate policies that make it more difficult to bargain. Smaller, family owned stores will likely be more willing to budge where price is concerned, or may throw in extras, like free polishing or a deal on insurance.
 As with most products, popular brands will likely be more expensive than others. Two diamonds could be extremely similar except for the name attached to them, and this may be the only factor making one diamond ring more expensive than another., Some stores may specialize in certain kinds of diamonds. In some cases, certain diamond rings may be one of a kind or only available at some stores and not others. To get the most extensive selection, you'll need to visit several diamond retailers.


You should also ask about the ability of a potential diamond seller to accommodate special requests. For example, you may want to use a combination of metals in the band to cut down costs. Some stores might not have the facilities to do this., As previously mentioned, franchise sellers may be held to rigid corporate policies that make it difficult to bargain, and upscale diamond sellers might consider it in poor taste. However, even stores that adhere strictly to no bargaining policies still might offer other freebies to get your sale.


If you're shopping for a diamond ring with your partner, be wary of diamond sellers trying to convince you to spend more on a ring by upselling your partner.
Stick to your budget even when a "special" deal is offered. Specials are often a gimmick to increase sales.
If you miss a sale, inquire if its still available after the fact. Many times these kind of sales will still be available.
Don't let an emotional or pushy salespeople deter you from asking questions or taking your time. A diamond ring is a major purchase, and you should take your time so you end up with the right ring for you.