 List everything from speaking a foreign language, to computer programming to solving complex mathematical equations. Once you know where your strengths lie you can begin to figure out how to use these skills to your financial advantage.


Try asking yourself questions like, "What are my three favorite accomplishments?" or "What activities make me the happiest?" This exercise will help you to identify both what you're good at doing and what you enjoy doing.
Sometimes it can be hard to think of what skills you possess off the top of your head. Try finding a list of skills online then highlight the ones that apply to you.
Don't be afraid to think outside the box. Even the most unusual skills can be harnessed for monetary gain. Can you twist balloons into animal shapes? Advertise your services for a children's birthday party!

, Everyone needs a helping hand from time to time. Why not take advantage of that fact and offer your services to those in need?


Offer to help an elderly relative or neighbor. They will appreciate you taking on some more physically challenging tasks such as mowing the lawn or doing the grocery shopping.
Offer your babysitting skills. Busy moms and dads need some time to themselves every so often, so why not take the kids off their hands for a couple of hours?
Offer to help people move house. Moving house can be a pain. So many boxes to pack, lift, stack, then unpack. Help ease the workload by offering your services.
 A ghost or mystery shopper is a person hired by a company to pose as a potential customer in a shop, hotel or restaurant. The ghost shopper will evaluate their experience based on the customer service, product quality, presentation and other details. If you fancy yourself as an undercover agent, this can be a fun way to make some extra cash.


You can apply become a mystery shopper on any number of websites, such as Secret Shopper or Market Force.
Make sure to only accept assignments in your local area. Spending too much money on gas would defeat the purpose of getting paid to shop!
If you are only looking to make money, avoid assignments involving eating at restaurants. In this case, the cost of your meal will be reimbursed but you won't make a profit.
 Can you think of a better way to make some extra cash than spending some quality time with an adorable baby or puppy?


Sign up on baby-sitting or pet-sitting websites. Here you can create a profile and match up your interests and requirements with potential employers.
Taking care of children or pets is a big responsibility. Only sign up for this if you are willing to be fully responsible for those in your care. Many parents/owners will want to see evidence of your qualifications for the job, so having some previous experience helps.
 If you're a whiz in the cuisine, put those culinary skills to good use and cook up a money-making scheme.


Organize a bake sale at a local school or community center.
Sell some wholesome, home-cooked dinners to families whose parents work full-time.
Arrange a fancy dinner party which your guests must buy tickets to. Aim to use low-cost ingredients to maximize profit.
 Advertise your cleaning services to those who are too busy/lazy to do it themselves.
 If you're a math whiz or fluent foreign language speaker, take advantage of your skills and become a tutor. Advertise on community bulletin boards, local newspapers and nearby schools.
 Investing can be a good option for someone who is currently jobless but still has a decent amount of money stashed away. Make sure to do your research and aim to find an investment opportunity with low risk and guaranteed returns.

