 This is recommended to remove henna dye and more permanent colors. It may not remove the color as much as lift any excess faster than washing does.


Choose an oil type (olive oil, coconut oil, Argan, etc.) or purchase a hair specific oil. You may be able to make your own mixture or purchase something premixed. You also may want to purchase enough to do the treatment twice.
Apply an ample amount to your entire head.
Let it sit for as long for a few hours. If you can, cover your hair and keep the oil on overnight, it could give you better results.
Remove the oil with shampoo. Remember, oil and water don’t mix well so you may need to wash it a few times to get the oil out.
This method reduces the chances for damage as the oil should be conditioning your hair while it strips the dye.
 Much like removing other hair dyes from your hair, a Vitamin C treatment could lighten your black hair a shade or two. However, this works best with semi-permanent dye as the acid will work more like lemon juice to lighten your hair.


Make a paste of Vitamin C tablets and water.
Apply the paste to damp hair
Let it set for about an hour
Wash the paste out of your hair

, It is normally used just to lighten your hair so it may not strip dye as much as turn it a lighter color. The treatment is known to produce peroxide and we know this as a form of bleach.


Mix four parts honey with one part water
Let mixture sit for 30 minutes to an hour
Apply mixture to damp hair
Cover and let sit for at least for 2 hours
Rinse and repeat as desired

, It will be harsher on your hair than shampoo, so you'll need to follow it with a deep conditioner.


Mix five drops of dish soap with a quarter drop of shampoo
Massage into damp hair
Let sit for a few minutes
Rinse and repeat as desired

, Using a color-removing shampoo is by far the easiest way to lighten your hair. It will act faster than normal washing.


Clarifying shampoos designed to get chlorine out of hair help with removal of black hair dye.
Anti-dandruff shampoos have been known to strip some types of hair dye from your hair. This effect can be enhanced in some cases by mixing with equal parts baking soda. Keep it on your hair for a few minutes and then rinse to check the results.
This may require multiple washes to get the desired results. Washing your hair multiple times will see more hair color go down the drain each time. Keep trying!

