 If you are buying coins, you can expect such coins to be in respectable condition, even if it is over 500 years old. Of course, as the age of the coin increases, the condition, if very good, will add more value.;
, This does not mean that you have to buy fancy coin holders (although this would keep them in better condition). Coin holders can be fairly cheap or you can use an old shoe box or peanut butter jar.
 If you are buying expensive coins, invest in a safe-deposit box and containers that will not destroy the numismatic value of your coins.



You might like to collect foreign coins or your home country's currency.
You might like to collect smaller denominations or larger denominations
You might like to collect circulated coins in coin folders to try to complete a series such as your own life span.
You might like to collect uncirculated coins which have been available in the United States since the 1950s.
You might like to collect proof sets which are uncirculated coins prepared especially for collectors.
You might like to collect silver proof sets which are very beautiful (more affordable than gold) and their value will increase (or decrease) as the value of silver increases (or decreases).
, Many will sell you rolls or bags of coins at face value.
 You can also visit your local coin dealer for buying coins and almost all the time there's a cheap coin bin that is suitable for kids and adults alike.
 Once a modern coin has been in circulation, it is typically only worth its face value, although there are notable exceptions.
 Grading coins is often difficult and there is a tendency for people to over grade their own coins. Also beware that the UK grading system grades coins more strictly than the US system. For example a US graded "mint state" might not be as good as an "extremely fine" coin in the UK. You should learn to grade coins "by the book." The American Numismatic Association has established standards for each of the US series. There is a tendency for the grading of actual coins for sale to be market graded or graded more leniently based on what the market will bear. If you keep in mind the strictest grading and use that when pricing coins for purchase, you will seldom go wrong.
 Coins with damage or deficiencies that go unnoticed at the time of purchase will sell for substantially less to a sharp-eyed coin dealer or numismatist.


There is another saying in numismatic circles, "“The bitterness of poor quality remains long after the sweetness of low price is forgotten,” a statement generally attributed to Benjamin Franklin (though not about coins). These deficiencies will always stick out like a sore thumb once the coin is in your collection and will serve to diminish your pleasure of an otherwise enjoyable hobby. Keep in mind that coins with deficiencies (such as having been cleaned using mildly abrasive cleaning methods, being slightly bent, gouged) will be worth substantially less than a coin without problems. Such coins might be valued at 5-35% of the price of a problem free coin.
, It is best to realize that what you like about coins, others will as well. Therefore, the numismatic value of your collection should grow over time, though not necessarily. Coins are often good investments, growing in value faster than the rate of inflation and, if you buy and sell carefully, there is money to be made.
 This is an oft-used saying in numismatics that means learn about the coins before spending a lot of money on them. One of the best ways to "buy and sell carefully" is to read the book before you buy the coin. There are many books on the market. First the catalog with basic information and price estimates. Then there are books available on individual series (the Lincoln Cent), types (ancient coins, mint errors, gold coins, tokens and medals etc.) There are books on grading coins which is important to determine value. Books are available on most any topic of coin collecting or Numismatics as it is more formally known. Knowledge is how we tell the difference between a rare coin and one that is common.
 Numismatic associations provide a range of opportunities to get information or buy and sell coins: Members of an association will meet regularly, young collectors can get advice from their well-versed colleagues, some of the members sell coins at comparatively low prices, and one will be informed about upcoming events. So, joining a numismatic association can help you quite a lot to further your hobby.

