 Since it will probably be harder to get your hands under everything from a chair, you can start by putting your hands underneath his arms. If the baby is under four months, make sure to support the head as soon as possible. Make sure to keep your wrists as straight as possible to help your wrists.When picking the baby up out of a high chair, make sure to remove the tray first. This will let you get closer to the baby for better support, and make sure the baby doesn’t get caught in the chair as you lift.The baby shouldn’t be in a high chair until he can sit up on his own, which should come at about 4 to 6 months.
 When you’re taking a baby out of a car set, make sure you are firmly set in the car. Get into the car, and avoid twisting your body. If that means climbing into the car to make sure your weight is in there, the do that. You don’t want to be twisting your back or extending your arms as you lift the baby.Remember that the safest place for a car seat is in the middle of the backseat, it will be quite a reach for you without getting in the car first. That of course means a lot of weight on your arms and upper back if you aren’t careful.While it may be easier to tote the car seat around with the baby already in it, you should leave the seat in the car once the baby reaches 15 pounds. At that weight, and beyond, the baby and the seat will be too heavy to carry without creating too much extra strain., Even if they aren’t heavy, picking up babies can put stress on your back, especially if you lift improperly. Whenever you pick up a baby, kneel down, bring the baby close to you, then stand up with your legs. Tighten your stomach muscles when you lift to keep the strain in your core, not your back.Another place you can protect yourself from back pain is to sit carefully when feeding a baby. Pull a chair up close to the baby and sit in it while feeding in a high chair. This will put you on the baby’s level, and prevent you from bending over while doing it.
You can take other steps when carrying to reduce back pain. Don’t carry the child on your hip, and if you are walking, consider using a “front pack,” which will keep the baby in front of you.
 Newborns cry because they don’t have any other way to communicate, and for the first few months can cry for around 3 hours a day (and sometimes longer!). It is okay, even natural, to pick up a crying baby. If you are picking up a crying newborn, help soothe the baby by gently swaying or making shushing sounds.When you pick up the crying baby, try to figure out what is causing his discomfort. Once you determine whether he needs to be fed, is gassy, has a dirty diaper, or is hurting, you can make sure the baby gets what he needs.
However, some babies, especially really young ones, might cry for no reason. So, if you check out those things and everything still seems okay, then just do your best to soothe the baby.
The regular crying can be frustrating, but it is important to keep your cool during these times. While you may want to get the baby to calm down quickly, it can be okay to let the baby fuss for 5 minutes while you figure out what might be wrong or allow the baby to calm down.

