 Raw video files, especially HD video, can run several gigabytes in size. While you can upload large files to YouTube and Vimeo, this can take a very long time. Also, these services will compress your file once it is uploaded, and often the results are not very high quality. Compressing your video yourself allows you to control both the size and the quality.
 There are free solutions available online, as well as professional products such as After Effects, Final Cut, and more. The specific menus will vary between programs, but the settings are universal across all programs.
 In order to start the compression process, you will need to export the video. This will convert the video into a format that is playable on all systems and devices, including formats supported by YouTube and Vimeo.
 The file format will change depending on what you plan on doing with the final file. Most systems and devices will play MP4 files, making it the most universally accepted file type. This includes game systems like the PlayStation 3.
 H.264 is the most widely used codec and is supported by the most systems. This is the preferred codec for uploading videos to be streamed online. HD video should be encoded in High Profile H.246.
 For SD video, use a bit rate between 2,000-5,000 kbps. 720p video should have a bit rate between 5,000-10,000 kbps. 1080p video should have a bit rate of 10,000-20,000 kbps.
 Try to keep it the same as your raw video. Streaming websites will add in their own resolution options after the uploading process.
 Encode your video in the same frame rate that you recorded it in. If you recorded above 30 frames per second, encode in half that (for example, a 60 FPS video would be encoded at 30 FPS). Keep the keyframe the same as the frame rate.
 In general, go for multi-pas (Best) encoding. This will take longer than a single-pass, but will result in a noticeably higher-quality video.
 Choose AAC-LC as the audio format, as this has the widest support and the best quality. For data rate, select 320 kbps. If you have music, choose Stereo. If you do not have music, select Mono. Your output sample rate should be 48.000 kHz

