 As soon as you realize that you're starting to lose focus, you can use one of the mental techniques in this section to start regaining control. It's easiest to get back on track if you catch yourself losing focus as early as possible, so be vigilant for the following signs that your attention is slipping:


You begin thinking about what you'll do later in the day when the task you're working on is done.
You start focusing more on your physical behavior (fidgeting, etc.) than on your important task.
You find yourself preoccupied with other things around you and are no longer looking at the task in front of you.
You start to daydream or have thoughts completely unrelated into your important task.
 Completing a 15-page research paper all at once can be a monumental task. Finishing just one page, on the other hand, can be a relative walk in the park. In general, long-term important tasks are much easier to complete if you take a piecemeal approach, tackling each segment on its own before moving on to the next. In addition, the satisfaction you get from finishing each "chunk" of your task can give you a steady stream of motivation that will help keep you focused and on-task for hours.This strategy works best when you have a long time to complete a task. For instance, for a 15-page paper, it's easier to write one page per day for 15 days than it is to write 15 pages in one night. However, you can still apply this strategy even when you're forced to tackle large problems all at once. Try to think of completing each piece of your task as its own goal separate from the entire task itself. This way, it's mentally easier to keep moving than if you tackle the entire task at once, even though you don't have the benefit of taking breaks between each "chunk."

, Some people with ADHD find that the hardest part of getting an important task done is understanding what exactly needs to be done so that they can get started.In this case, it's often useful to take the time to re-think (or even re-write) the task or question that you're struggling with in your own words. Though this can delay the start time of your task slightly, it's likely to save you time in the long run by keeping you from misunderstanding your instructions and having to redo your work.


As noted above, re-thinking someone else's question or instruction in your own words can also help you understand the task you need to accomplish more completely. The brain learns by doing. Re-forming the question or instruction in your head essentially forces your brain to break it down and process it, improving your comprehension.
 Believe it or not, some people with ADHD find that it's useful to repeat a key focusing phrase or "mantra" in their head when they feel their thoughts start to veer off-track.This mantra can be as simple as a firm command to stay focused, like "Finish your test. Finish your test. Finish your test..." However, there's no "right" way to use a mantra as long as it's positive and self-affirming, so feel free to experiment here. You might, for instance, try mentally repeating to yourself your motivation for staying on-task: e.g., "Work hard to earn a 4.0. Work hard to earn a 4.0. Work hard to earn a 4.0..."

, What's more frustrating than getting distracted from one important task because you can't stop thinking about how you need to get started on another important task? In this case, it can help to identify points in the task you're working on where it will be convenient to stop ahead of time. This way, it's much easier to make a clean mental "switch" from one task to another, ensuring you don't break your attention.

