 A handful of fresh berries in your batter will give your pancakes a delicious fruitiness. Virtually any berry will work well here: blueberries, blackberries, strawberries, raspberries, and other berries all make good choices. You can also get away with adding berries that are slightly over-ripe — once the pancakes are cooked, they'll be unrecognizable.


In a pinch, you can use frozen berries in most pancake recipes. As long as your pancakes are fairly thin, they'll thaw completely.
 Adding chocolate chips to your batter will give you a rich, cookie-like treat. Choose whichever type of chips you like: milk chocolate will give you the sweetest taste, while semi-sweet and dark chocolate chips will give a flavor that's a little more complex.


These pancakes go well with ice cream or whipped cream as a dessert dish.
 If you're a fan of breakfast muffins, try these deliciously unique pancakes. Add lemon zest and juice to the batter along with a handful of poppy seeds for texture. You may need to compensate for the extra liquid by adding a small amount of extra flour. Try adding it 1/8 of a cup at a time until you achieve a good consistency.


To zest a lemon, use a fine grater or microplane to grate the outer layer of the peel into your mixing bowl. You won't need much — if the peel gets white, you're going too far.

Simple syrup with lemon juice makes a great syrupy condiment for this dish.
 If you're trying to get another serving of vegetables into your daily diet, try these treats by adding shredded carrots, onions, long beans, and garlic to your batter. These pancakes aren't sweet, but they taste great with a little butter or olive oil. Salty fish (like whitebait) also make great companions.


If you like spice, try adding a little red pepper to the batter with the vegetables. Plain greek yogurt is a great side in this case — its rich smoothness counteracts the spice.
 If you suffer from Celiac disease, never fear — you can still enjoy your favorite pancake recipe. Just substitute gluten-free flour for all-purpose flour in the "Basic Pancakes" recipe above.The taste and texture may be very slightly different, but you may even prefer these differences.


There are many kinds of gluten-free flour available. Examples include buckwheat and almond flour. Try checking your local health food store or specialty grocer if you're not sure where to buy gluten-free flour.

