 Click this link in the Chrome browser, then click the blue + FREE to install AdBlock. A new tab should open and quickly install the extension.


If this does not work, you can try AdBlock Plus instead using the section below. The two services are made by different people, but are almost identical apart from their business model. AdBlock is run entirely from donations, and blocks all ads by default.;
, A new icon should appear to the right of Chrome's address bar: a red octagon with a hand in the center. Click it to access the controls described in the steps below.


The number on the icon shows how many ads are disabled on the site you are currently viewing. You can disable this at the options by unchecking "Show on AdBlock button."

, Adblock is now automatically enabled on all pages, and should catch almost all ads. If you see an ad, or if you want to block something on a page to speed up load times, you can block it immediately by following these instructions:


Click the icon and select "Block an ad on this page" or right click the ad and select "AdBlock" → "Block this ad."
Move your mouse until the ad is highlighted in blue, then click (unless you already selected a specific ad).
Move the slider until the ad disappears. This slider appears on a pop-up window, which can be dragged around the screen if you need to see beneath it.
Click "Looks good" to permanently block that ad.
 Click the icon to bring up the options menu again, then click "Options" to open a new tab. You can change several options from here. Some are self-explanatory, while the more complex options are described below:


To support specific YouTube channels, enable the YouTube whitelist option, visit any video on that YouTube channel, click the AdBlock icon, and select "Whitelist."
Check "advanced options" for a list of features that are not fully functional, such as bypassing Hulu.com ad-blocking detection, and synching your settings to other computers with Dropbox., If many ads are getting through, you probably need to update your filters, or list of ads that AdBlock uses to identify what to block. Click the icon and select "Options," then click "Filter Lists" at the top of the screen. You can click "update now" to use the recommended filters, or check additional filter lists for "above and beyond" blocking.


Extra filters include "Antisocial" to block social media buttons, "Fanboy's Annoyances" to block social media buttons, in-page popups, and other non-ad "clutter," and others.Look up a description of the filter list before you use it, as it may block something you use or (slightly) slow down your browsing.
The "Customize" link at the top of the screen lets you add your own filters yourself. Do not do this before reading the instructions in the section on filters, or the adblock plus tutorial (which uses the same syntax).
 Click the icon and select "Pause AdBlock" to turn the extension off until you click the icon again. To permanently enable ads on a site you regularly visit, instead select "Don't run on this page" (for a specific URL) or "Don't run on pages in this domain" (for all web pages on the same site).

