 Pulling out a tooth before it's ready can cause unnecessary pain, bleeding, and infections. Before attempting to remove a tooth, test it thoroughly by moving it around. If it wiggles easily, this indicates that the tooth may be ready to remove.First, encourage your child to wiggle the tooth with their tongue. Make sure the child can move the tooth back and forth, as well as side to side.
You or your child can also wiggle the tooth using your hands, but make sure they are thoroughly clean before doing so.
If the tooth does not easily move around, it's too early to pull it.;
, A sufficiently loose tooth is only attached by a small thread of gum tissue, and shouldn't cause any pain when it moves around. When wiggling the tooth, ask repeatedly if the child feels any pain. There may be some mild discomfort, but if moving the tooth around causes pain, it's too early to think about pulling it out.Do not worry if you see the permanent tooth appearing near the temporary one. It is absolutely normal, and as one grows the baby tooth will slowly have the root resorbed and become easily to remove.
 Like with pain, a loose tooth shouldn't bleed when you move it around. While there will be some blood when you pull the tooth, there shouldn't be any when you're testing it. While wiggling the tooth, observe and see if there is any blood. If so, it's too early to pull the tooth., Abruptly pulling out a tooth can scare your child and cause unnecessary pain if they struggle. Sometimes children will want to wait until the tooth falls out on its own. If this is the case, don't pull the tooth. If your child wants the tooth out, then you can proceed., Dirty hands should never enter your or your child's mouth. This can cause an infection or illness. To avoid complications, always start by washing your hands thoroughly.



Click here for a how-to guide from the CDC on the proper hand washing technique.
If you have a pair of sterile rubber gloves, it might be good to wear these as well to further reduce the risk of infection.
 Your child will have to hold still while you take out the tooth, so make sure they are calm before proceeding. This is a very formative time for your child, and you don't want to do something that will cause your child to associate the experience with fear, pain, or panic.Remind your child that the tooth fairy is coming — this might help keep them calm.
You can also promise a treat like ice cream after you're all done.
 Children's mouths tend to be full of saliva, so it'll be much easier for you (and easier on them) if you wipe down their tooth before you pull it.


If you don't have a cotton ball or gauze available, a tissue will work, too. Anything that will dry off the tooth so you can grip it easily, like a cloth, is fine.
 To further reduce the risk of infection, you shouldn't pull out the tooth with your bare hands. Instead, use a sterile gauze pad so you don't touch the tooth or gums with your skin., Using the gauze pad, grasp the tooth and pull. You can also add a slight twisting motion as you pull to help break the tooth away from the gum. Perform this action quickly so your child doesn't get anxious and start squirming.If the tooth is loose enough, it should pop right out with little trouble. If it doesn't come out after a firm pull, it isn't ready yet. Don't continue or you could hurt your child. Try again in a few days.
Another method is to loop a 20 cm piece of floss around the loose tooth and try to get it as high up as possible. Make the loop as firm as possible and use a quick, firm motion to pull on the ends of the floss, popping the tooth off painlessly. If your child wishes to do it themselves, that is okay, too., Even if the tooth was very loose, there will still be some bleeding. Take a fresh, sterile piece of gauze and compress the tooth socket with your forefinger and thumb. Have the child bite on the gauze piece for 10 minutes or so. This will help to control the bleeding and promote quicker wound healing., Losing a tooth will leave an open wound in your child's mouth. To prevent infection, use a salt water rinse right after you pull the tooth. It would also be helpful to use this rinse for a few days after the extraction.Dissolve 1 teaspoon of salt into a glass of warm water.
Have your child swish this mixture in their mouth for 30 seconds.
Have your child spit the salt water out. Make sure to tell them that this will make them sick if they swallow it.

