 If you cannot quite pinpoint what is causing you pain, suffering, confusion, or what is blocking you from letting go, spend some time writing about your experience and how you feel. You may realize that certain thoughts or beliefs keep you from letting go of something. You can also learn to identify and express your emotions through journaling.Be completely honest in your journal and share your thoughts and feelings. Write about what might be stopping you from letting something go or what factors make it difficult.
Don't be concerned about spelling, neatness, format, or even making sense. Start writing when you feel like it, and stop when you feel like you're done.
Remember that you don't have to process everything in one sitting. You may work out your feelings over multiple entries over a period of time.;
, If you find your thoughts becoming negative or holding onto something, use mindfulness to help let them go. Sit down and ask yourself, “What is it that I’m feeling?” Notice your thoughts, feelings, and bodily sensations. Notice these things without responding to them or interacting. After a minute or so, bring your awareness to your breath. Notice how it feels to bring air into your body and exhale it. Continue to let your entire body breathe and let whatever feelings come up be felt, but always return to your breath. Breathe through each experience.If you get sidetracked in your own thoughts, always come back to your breath.
Don't sabotage yourself by expecting meditation to come easily right away. Practicing mindfulness and meditation can be very difficult at first, but becomes easier the more you do it. Stick with it, even if you are initially frustrated by your drifting thoughts.
 Find an affirmation or mantra to repeat to yourself when you’re having problems letting go. This serves to remind you to avert your attention and accept that letting go is okay. Choose a mantra that resonates with you such as, “I surrender” or, “Letting go is okay.” When you start to feel stuck or uncomfortable in holding onto something, repeat the mantra in your mind.Some other examples may include, “I am not in control and that’s okay” or, “Letting go frees me.”
It may be helpful to write these on sticky it notes and posting them where you will see them frequently, like on your mirror or on your computer monitor. You can even have your phone send you alerts with these affirmations.
 You may want to choose a time to let something go and make it a sacred or meaningful ceremony. For example, write all of your thoughts and feelings about what you cannot change. Once you finish, burn the paper to symbolically represent you letting go and moving on. Invite a trusted friend or family member to join you if you feel you need support.


You can also draw a picture or gather items you wish to burn, throw away, or donate. Release whatever you associate with what you cannot change as a way to let go.
For example, if you’re ready to move on from an unhealthy relationship, remove anything that reminds you of the person or the relationship. Write a letter saying that you’re ready to let go, then burn it.

