 You can customize this homemade gift by using printed paper or photographs to make a set of unique tile coasters. For a set of 4, you will need four 4” x 4” pieces of paper (or printed photographs of choice).Head to your local hardware store and pick up: four 4.25” x 4.25” plain white tiles, Mod Podge Gloss, Rustoleum Crystal Clear Enamel, a 3” foam brush, and a pack of ⅜” self adhesive felt pads.
Use the foam brush to apply a light layer of Mod Podge Gloss to the tiles.
Place your piece of patterned paper or photograph in the center of the titles and run your finger over the sides of the paper to remove any air bubbles. Allow the titles to dry for 15 minutes.
Apply three coats of Mod Podge Gloss over the top of the paper on each title. Allow for 15 minutes of drying time between each coat.
An hour after you have applied the third coat of Mod Podge Gloss, spray each title with the Rustoleum Crystal Clear Enamel spray in a well ventilated area, preferably outside. Apply two or more light coats in a steady back and forth motion, slightly overlapping each coat. Wait 30 minutes for the titles to dry.
Finish the titles by adding the felt pads to the four corners of each title.
 This is a great way to turn pretty, decorative teacups into a practical, homemade gift. Look for teacups at thrift stores or second hand stores.


You will need candle wax flakes or paraffin wax, several wood kabob skewers, scotch tape, sharp scissors, candle dye or food dye (optional), a double boiler or bowl and access to a stove.Lay two skewers side by side on the top of the cup. Slide the wax wick into the center of the cup, so it sits between the two skewers. Then clamp shut the opposite ends of the skewers by taping them together. This will help the wicks stay straight as you pour in the wax. Repeat this step until all the teacups have a supported wick.Fill a shallow pan or double boiler with water and place it over medium to high heat on the stove. Place a bowl into the water and pour in your wax flakes. Because the wax is broken up into flakes, it will melt faster and more evenly than a solid block of paraffin wax.
As the water and bowl heats up and your wax flakes start to melt, add in any candle scent or a small amount of color (via food dye or candle dye) to the wax. Use a skewer to stir the flakes and mix in the color.
Once the wax has melted completely, use oven mitts to lift the bowl out of the water and carefully pour the wax into your teacups. Try to avoid getting wax on the skewers laying on the top of the cups. Fill the teacups up until about a quarter of an inch of the cup is still showing. Immediately wash your bowl to stop the wax from drying on the bowl.
Wait at least three to four hours for the wax to dry completely and then remove the skewers and trim your wicks as desired. Once the wax is dry, it will look cloudy, smooth and hard to the touch.
 Tea is a great antioxidant for your skin, especially when it is used as part of a bath scrub. To make a green tea scrub, you’ll need three ingredients: granulated sugar, green tea, and grapeseed oil. You can find grapeseed oil online or at your local health food store. Substitute olive oil for grapeseed oil if you’re looking for a cheaper, easier to find alternative.In a large bowl, add 1 cup of granulated sugar.
Add ⅛ cup of your chosen natural oil. Mix the oil and the sugar together with a spoon or with your (clean) hands.
Brew and cool ¼ cup green tea. Then, add the tea a little at a time to the oil and sugar mixture.
Stir well and check the texture of the scrub. Ideally, you want it to resemble applesauce. Adjust the texture by adding more green tea or sugar, depending on your preference.
Pour the scrub into a mason jar or jar with a tight fitting lid. If you want to add a bit more scent and texture to the scrub, cut open a bag of green tea leaves and mix it into the scrub.
Spruce up the presentation of the scrub by adding a label or ribbon around the jar.

