 If you have orthostatic (or postural) hypotension, the mechanisms which under normal conditions will prevent blood from pooling in your legs fail. You might experience dizziness, fainting, or feel light-headed. Limit these effects by standing up slowly after lying down.


Practice deep breathing before rising. Breathe in for four seconds, hold it one second, then breathe out over three seconds. Repeat for a minute or two to increase your blood flow before rising.
 You can achieve this in several ways. A simple solution is to stack bricks below the head of the bed frame. You could also purchase a mechanized bed which allows you to adjust the level mechanically.
 Don’t bend at the waist. Bending at the waist can cause your blood pressure to become imbalanced and drop. For instance, if you drop a piece of candy, bend at the knees and slowly lower your body down near the piece of candy. Grasp the candy with your hand when it is within reach. Push off from the floor with your heels slowly and return to a standing position. Keep your head above your shoulders during the entire process.
 Lying down for a prolonged period can lead to hypotension.Try not to surpass the recommended six to eight hours of sleep each night. When you wake in the morning, get up to brush your teeth, eat breakfast, and engage in your morning routine. Do not lie on the couch reading or watching TV for hours on end.
 If you’re on a long plane ride where you’re immobile, get up to walk down the aisle at least once each hour. Do the same if you’re on a bus. If you’re stuck in a car for a long ride, pull off the road once each hour in order to walk around a gas station or rest area for a few minutes.
 Physical activity will keep your blood pressure from dropping excessively.


For instance, suppose you are a dishwasher at a fine restaurant. After standing in front of the sink for thirty minutes or so, you could begin lifting your legs one at a time. Bending at the knees, bring the heel of one foot back and up toward your butt as far as it will go. Hold the position for three seconds, then do the same with the other foot.
You could also place one foot on an elevated object like a chair or low ledge, then lean forward for a count of five. Switch to your other foot and do the same.
 Warm temperatures can lower your blood pressure.If you’re spending significant amounts of time in a warm environment either inside or out, take time to rest occasionally. Move to a cool place by a fan or beneath a tree where you can lower your body temperature and increase your blood pressure.

