


For your friend, set his shot aiming to "Manual", and the Aiming Icon "On", just so you can see where the shooter is aiming.
Set the difficulty to "Beginner" so the computer won't try to take the puck or body check so often, then take the rules off. You need a flowing game.
Set your controls options and cameras up. When the game itself starts up, pause it, and go to "Rules & Options". Check the team you are playing for, but press the square button once to lock the cursor on the goaltender.
For the camera, make it "Action" so you run up and down the ice, and if your team is at home, set the home team perspective as "Always Down" so that you can see the goaltender and the shot coming towards the goaltender.
Set the control type. Well, it doesn't matter if you are a hybrid or a classic controls, but what matters is the control orientation. Set it as "Always Up" rather than "Screen Relative" so that you won't have to flick the stick right to go to the goaltender's left if you are going down while the forwards are moving up. In simpler words: To eliminate mirror direction effects.
Now that it is set up, tell you friend to go move the player towards the left corner (goaltender's right). When you see yourself, press L1 & R1 to move across the crease. This is the most basic way to save a shot, too. If you are at the right place, you can deflect a shot off the pads, your glove, or even your helmet.;
, With you covering the near post, flick the right analog stick Up to attempt a save. Your goaltender should make a pad save or toe save. If done correctly, the commentator should say something like "Turco makes the save" or "Osgood stoned him cold".


Again, same place, aim it high. Most goaltenders will make a stick save. Jose Theodore or Tomas Vokoun will make a glove save because they catch with their right.
Flick the right stick down to see a poke check made.
Now use the left analog stick to move the goaltender outside the crease. But make sure you return back to the crease to avoid being spiked. Press L1 & R1 again to make sure he is back near the goal.
 The animation is based on positioning and the flight of the puck.

