 If you feel you're in a relationship rut, chances are your partner feels the same. Sit down and have a talk with your partner about what you want and need from the relationship.


Schedule a specific time for the talk and go in prepared to listen. If you want the spark in your romance back, you have to be willing to change. Rarely is a relationship rut completely one-sided. Remain calm and listen carefully to your partner's needs and wants.Talk about the times where you feel your partner loves and cares about you. Do you feel loved when your partner brings you flowers? Asks about your day? Holds your hand during movies? Let your partner know.Talk about anything you would want to do more often. Would you like to spend more nights of the week together? Go out on more dates? Try new things together?Are there any things you used to do together that you no longer do? Early in a relationship, you may feel compelled to engage in grand romantic gestures. Sending emotional texts, bringing your partner flowers, and staying up late talking are activities that we sometimes do less of the longer we've been with someone. If you're missing these types of gestures, talk to your partner about trying to engage in them more often., Small gestures can go a long way. If you feel the spark in your relationship is lessening, consider doing some of the following:


Surprise outings, like dinner dates, concert trips, and going to museums
Tell your partner one thing you like about him or her every day. For example, "I love how you yawn in the morning" or "I love how the coffee's always ready because you remember to set up the pot before bed."If your partner is busy at work, do something to make things easier when they get home. Do the dishes or laundry. Take out the trash. Cook them dinner., Flirting is a fun way to feel sexy. Oftentimes, we flirt at the beginning of a relationship to convey interest. Once mutual interest is established, flirting tends to taper off. Try to occasionally flirt with your partner via body language and verbal communication. Flirting can revitalize a relationship and increase feelings of attractiveness in both parties., Oftentimes, we forget that fun is a vital component to a romantic relationship. Try to make time for fun, romantic activities together.


Plan date nights. Oftentimes, the longer you're with someone the less you date. Try to find fun new things to do together on dates. Take a pottery class. Go dancing. Take a day hike. Visit a neighboring town.You can also reach out to others. Make plans with other couple friends. Join a club together where you can meet new people. Exploring a social life together is a great way to have fun in a relationship.Have fun at home as well. Break out board games for nights in. Find a funny television show to watch. Do Mad Libs., Your sex life is an important factor in your romantic relationship. If things are beginning to feel stale, find ways to reignite your sexual passion. You can try some of the following:Exploring new sexual positions.
Watching pornography together.
Role playing.
Talking about sexual fantasies.
Using sex toys.

