 Missions are a wide variety of tasks for your horse to do to earn money. Horses can start missions at the age of two years and can continue them throughout their lives. Missions typically earn you between 20-60 equus.

Missions not only earn you some extra money but also benefit your horses skill with extra training and special items. Do missions with all your horses two years and older to increase the income of Equus. Missions do drain some of your horse's energy, so care for it after it has done a mission. You can do missions once a day.;
, To find the free passes, simply click passes then click the free tab. Here you will find a meter. Every time this meter reaches 300 points, you can earn a pass. To earn the free pass, you must successfully complete a mini-game. After you have completed the game, you will get a free pass.

You can earn up to 10 points a day, so it will take you an estimated 30 days to get a free pass. Points vary depending on what you did throughout the day. Save your passes to buy the things you want to buy.
 If you bred a few good foals, sell them. To do this, click the green plus sign on the horses' profile page, then click sell. Choose the type of sale and the price. Your horse will stay up for 30 days. If you have a really good foal, you can sell it for a pass or two. The pass costing horses can take longer to sell, as most players don't have a lot of passes. In order to sell as many horses as possible, keep prices reasonable.

Price the horse according to its skills, excellence stars, genetics, and BLUP. Do not overprice your horse, for most players won't buy it. This also helps expand your reputation as a breeder, attracting more buyers. You can sell a horse for up to a million Equus and up to 20 Passes.
 If you have a good stud stallion, offer a covering. To do this, click offering a covering, then click public. Choose a price, then click confirm. This helps expand your reputation as a breeder and also earns you Equus. Do not overprice your horse! Covering a mare can earn you up to 7,500 Equus., Equestrian centers are boarding centers for horses. You do need a certain number of Seniority days, so do the other things in this list until you have enough days. Players can board they"re horses at your center for a fee and a certain amount of days.

Offer a few benefits (such as food and riding gear) to attract players. Do not overprice fees! Try to buy good quality boxes, bedding, and enough meadows for the horses to roam in.
 To do this, go to the store and click sell items. If you have a few unneeded/unwanted items, you can sell them for a few extra Equus.