 Try to wake up at 6 am everyday and maintain this. Even on holidays. 6 am is the best time to wake up since it refreshes you and gives you plenty of time to do various activities throughout the day.;
, Early morning meditation helps increase concentration which is the key to success in studies. Just meditating for 5 minutes everyday is enough. Or you can opt for an early morning jog which increases blood flow and keeps you fit. Even this helps to be focused on studies.
 Attending school everyday helps you keep track of all happenings, projects and tests so that you don't have to stress about getting caught up and keeping your grades high.
 Keep one where you can note down all the upcoming tests and project dates and start well in advance to prepare for them. Do a little everyday so that you don't have to hurry the night before and make it a mess.
 If you haven't made one, make it right away! It is extremely helpful as it keeps a track of what you have studied. Moreover it prepares your mind for studying during the study hours.
 Keep your phone on silent and not vibrate and away from you. Face away from your laptop and computer. If the distractions are mental, such as relationship problems or you can't stop thinking about your crush, tell yourself that you'll think about it while going to school because thinking about them won't fetch you marks.
 Don't expect yourself to complete a huge chapter in a day. You'll eventually get bored and lose interest. Instead break it up in small chunks and read them everyday. In this way you'll complete a lot of chapters at the end of the week.
 Most of the time homework really helps you get a deeper understanding of the subject. This also prevents you from getting into trouble at school. As you finish your homework in a timely manner, your grades will start rising and your stress will start falling.
 Going to sleep beyond that time is harmful for teen girls as it causes hormonal problems, lack of concentration and failure in studies.
 If you're enjoying, don't think about studies. And when you're studying, don't think about enjoyment.

