 The Model UN (MUN) is an extra-curricular activity run by schools and colleges across the US. Generally, participants will take on roles representing different countries and interests, and debate ideas and policies with people representing different countries.Taking part in the MUN can be a great way to help you develop confidence in public speaking and debating.
It encourages you to broaden your horizons and engage more thoughtfully with global issues and problems.
It can be a great experience and is a chance to meet new people and make new friends., Your first task is to find out whether or not your school or college has a MUN program that you can get involved in. Talk to friends and teachers to find out what is going on and how you can get involved. Be sure to be prepared before the meetings so you can make the best possible argument.
 If your school or college does not have a MUN club already, you can try to set one up with some help of friends and teachers. Talk to people who you think might be interested and work out a proposal to show to a senior member of staff at the school. You will have to decide when you will have the meetings and how they will be organised.Create a flyer and promote the club to get people interested.For each meeting everybody will be assigned a country to represent.
Then you will debate an issue, with everybody arguing the case of their nominated country.
For example, in a debate on climate change, somebody representing a Pacific Island country such as Fiji, would argue strongly in favour of measures to tackle rising sea-levels.
 Once you have a thriving MUN club at you school, you can think about taking the next step and signing up to attend a larger MUN conference. These conferences take place all over the country and at all times of the year. There are regional, national and international MUN conferences you can attend. To find out the dates of the different conferences, visit the MUN website: http://www.unausa.org/calendar/blog.


It’s usually best to start with a smaller conference in the first instance, so you can get an idea of how everything works, before you progress to larger ones.
Some conferences will cover the costs of attendees, but you need to make sure you know how things like travel and accommodation will be paid for.
Before you attend you will have do a lot of preparation to make sure you have a good knowledge of the country you are representing and all the pertinent facts.
You will normally be required to write a position paper before the conference to demonstrate that you have properly researched the country you are representing.