 Your babies will rub their eyes, droop their eyelids, and behave in a fussy fashion when they're getting tired. Put them to bed when they first begin to show signs of drowsiness. The longer you wait, the fussier and more frustrated they'll get. A crabby, stressed attitude can make it harder for the twins to sleep., To make sure your twins sleep safely, place them in a safe position when putting them down for a nap. Clear the crib of blankets, toys, and other soft items. Make sure you put the twins down on their backs to sleep., When twins are very young, you may want to place them in a single cot. This saves space, and may also help your twins sleep. They can soothe one another, regulate each other's body temperatures, and it can help to get them on the same sleep schedule.You should follow the same sleeping safety guidelines you would use when placing a single baby in a crib. Clear the crib of items and place the twins on their backs. If you choose to separate your twins, use a crib divider sold for this purpose. Do not use a blanket or other household item.The twins faces should be facing one another, with their feet at opposite ends of the crib., As your twins get older and bigger, they'll be unable to share a single crib. The crib will get crowded, for one, and twins will move around more in their sleep, increasing the risk for one twin hurting another. After a few months, put the twins in separate cribs.


It's recommended twins sleep in the same bed, with their cribs facing each other. This way, they can provide each other comfort and support during the night.However, one twin may disturb another. If one baby seems to sleep through the night, while the other fusses a lot, you may want to consider separate rooms.You may be able to tell which twin is the lighter sleeper based on behavior. If one twin is crying loudly when you enter the room, while the other is only lightly fussing, the crying twin may have been awake longer. This indicates he's the lighter sleeper of the two.
 Like adults, babies and children respond well to ritual. Engaging in a calming activity just before nap time can signal to a child that now is the time for rest. Just before you put the twins down for a nap, engage in a relaxing ritual.


Pick something that will encourage your twins to sleep. Try a warm bath, a bedtime story, singing, or quiet talking.Be consistent with your ritual. Your twins will learn to associate a particular activity with a time for rest. This may encourage them to sleep easier during nap time.
 Swaddling babies involves wrapping them in blankets. If your twins are still infants, wrap them each in a light blanket before putting them in their cribs. This will help your twins feel safe and secure. It may encourage them to fall asleep more easily., Bright lights can stimulate brain activity, making sleep difficult. Keep the bedroom dark at night and during nap time. This can help with sleep.Always close the door behind you when leaving the twins to rest.


If your twins sometimes sleep in the living room or another room in the house, turn the lights off and draw the blinds.
Many young children are afraid of the dark. To help combat this fear, consider plugging in a dim nightlight. While even a small light can potentially cause sleep disturbances, if a child is scared or uncomfortable, this can make sleep even harder. The benefit of a small nightlight may outweigh the drawbacks.

