 If you plan on reactivating your card in the future you might want to consider deactivation. Cancellation will permanently disable your credit card. Deactivation will render it unusable for a certain length of time, allowing you to use it once again at a later date.Deactivation allows future use of your card.
Cancellation is permanent. You won't be able to use your card again.;
, If your Discover card offers rewards that you have accumulated over the life of your card you may want to redeem these rewards before cancellation. If you cancel your card before redeeming your rewards they will still be credited to your account., Before you call to cancel your card you will want to gather any relevant information that you might need. Having this information ready will allow your representative to help you quickly and accurately.Have account and card numbers ready.
You may need to have your social security number ready to present to your representative.
Know which billing address is connected to your card.
You may need to know the amount of your last bill.
 Canceling your card can be done even if you still have a remaining balance. Any debt leftover after the cancellation can be paid off as if it were a regular credit bill.If you still have a balance, you can still cancel your card.
Any payments made after your cancellation will be made as if it were a regular payment.
Balances may be transferable to other credit sources.
 Canceling your Discover credit card can have an effect on your credit score. Before you cancel, you should understand what effect the cancellation might have and how you can minimize any negative impact.Canceling your credit card will not erase a credit score.
If your card is one of your oldest held credit cards, canceling it can make your credit history appear shorter and lower your credit score., In order to cancel your Discover credit card you will need to call Discover directly and speak with a representative. When you make your call, you will work with the representative you are connected with to finalize your cancellation.Call (800)-DISCOVER if you live in the United States to contact customer service.
You may also find customer service contact information on the back of your credit card.
 If you are unable to cancel by phone, you may also cancel your Discover credit card by mail. This will require you to send a written request for cancellation, along with your account information, to Discover through the mail.Include your account number with your request for cancellation.
When canceling a personal credit card, send your information to: Customer Service - General Inquiries, Discover Financial Services, P.O. Box 30943, Salt Lake City, UT, 84130-0943.
 After you have canceled your Discover credit card successfully and you have received confirmation that it has been canceled you will want to destroy the card. Shredding the card and disposing of it will help protect your identity and avoid credit card theft.


Using a cross-cutting shredder to destroy your card is ideal.
If you don't have access to a shredder, you can cut the card with scissors. Make sure the pieces are as small as you can get them.

