 If you are a member, some good ideas for a business are a restaurant, a zoo, a big orphanage/daycare/kindergarten school, a party at your den, or a big fashion show. For a non-member, some good ideas are a small orphanage/daycare/kindergarten, a class of some sort (drama classes are great), shops (pizza parlor, Starbucks, etc), a small fashion show or a party at somewhere other than your den (like Club Geoz). Set up your event/business, and advertise by saying, "*Insert name of event here* at *insert location here (it's usually your den)*!" Then, start the event!

, Go to the Town Square and see if anyone is advertising a restaurant or saying that they need employees. If the are, go to their den and say that you want to be an employee. Tell them if you want to advertise, be a chef, or be a waiter/waitress. If you can't find anyone advertising a restaurant, go to the Aquarium, the Hot Cocoa Hut, or the Smoothie Hut and work there. If you are at the Aquarium, give tours of the Aquarium to the animals who come in. of you are at the Hot Cocoa Hut or Smoothie Hut, pretend to get the animals a drink. If someone is already working at your potential workplace, ask to be hired and prepare for a job interview because they might give you one. If nobody is there, just start working!

, Go to the Town Square and say, "Advice Center! Follow me to get free advice!" Then, if anyone comes, give them whatever advice they need. Or ask them their biggest dream, for example, ask "What is your biggest dream?" They may say something strange like "I want to be eaten alive by a giant". Be respectful and ask them why that is their biggest dream and you could for fill that dream by helping or roleplaying.
 Or yell, " Come to my den if you want a tour! Buddy your tourists (AKA followers) and start touring the beauty of Jamaa!

, Buy a stethoscope and doctor's bag. Have a hospital or doctor's office at your den, or go to the Medical Center. Wait for patients


Ask your patient what's wrong.
Tell them to sleep.
Say "Helps patient".
Tell them they can get up, then say goodbye.

