 These can be purchased over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore. Examples of antihistamines include Zyrtec (certizine), Claritin (loratadine), Allegra (fexofenadine), and Benadryl (diphenhydramine). Follow the dosing instructions on the bottle.


Note that many antihistamines, like Benadryl, can have a sedating effect, making it difficult to function. Look for non-drowsy antihistamines, such as Claritin, Zyrtec, or Allegra (fexofenadine).
 If your nasal symptoms are out of control (such as a runny nose and ongoing congestion), you can try using a decongestant.Look for an over-the-counter medication containing phenylephrine or pseudoephedrine, which are decongestant ingredients, and follow the dosing instructions on the bottle.


Your best bet is to opt for an over-the-counter pill form of decongestant if you are suffering from symptoms of congestion due to your winter allergies.
 A nasal spray will usually work faster to treat your allergies than taking a pill.You can get prescription or over-the-counter nasal sprays to treat congestion, runny nose, itchy eyes, and itchy throat. You can try a saline spray, which is safe for daily use and can be used by adults and children. Other options include antihistamine sprays, corticosteroids, or decongestant sprays.

Antihistamine sprays, such as Astepro (azelastine) and Patanase (olopatadine), are available by prescription. They are effective but may cause drowsiness.
Corticosteroid sprays are available over-the-counter or by prescription, and include brands like Flonase (fluticasone proprionate) and Nasonex (mometasone). They reduce swelling and are good for long-term use — you may wish to begin using them at the start of season, as it can take a few days or weeks to notice the full effects of this treatment.
Alternatively, you can also use a decongestant nasal spray like Afrin or Dristan (oxymetazoline hydrochloride); however, this is only recommended for short-term use of less than three days, as any longer can lead to "rebound" symptoms of worsened congestion.
 They do not provide immediate relief from your symptoms, but rather, work towards a long-term solution where you eventually become desensitized to the allergen. Your doctor will first determine what allergens, specifically, trigger you by testing you for each one. You will then be administered shots with gradually increasing doses of the allergen so that your body adapts to it and no longer reacts in the same way.


Allergy shots require a time commitment as well as a financial one. It can take as long as six to twelve months to develop tolerance/immune response to specific allergen and then an additional three to five years to maintain.Allergy shots do not work for food allergies.

