 If you can't drive yet (and even if you can), it's fun to bike to a cool local coffee shop. Bring along a game to play, or magazine full of fun quizzes you can do together while you drink some tasty coffee.
 If you like shopping but don't have a lot of money to spend, play the mall game with your friends. Go to the mall and have a contest to see who can collect the most free stuff, like free perfume samples and free makeup samples. Whoever collects the most after two hours wins.
 When you don't have extra cash to take yourself out to a nice dinner, but you want to get out of the house with your friends, diners are your answer. Find a place that's open 24/7 and has cheap menu items you can all afford. You and your friends can hang out, gossip and get free coke refills for hours on end. Just don't forget to leave a tip.
 Ready to try something mature and different? Get your friends to go to an art gallery opening. Look in your local alternative weekly newspaper for listings about upcoming openings. They're usually free, and you'll get a chance to see cutting edge art. If nothing else, it will give you and your friends something new to talk about at the diner later that night.
 This is easiest in the summer, when parks host to all kinds of free outdoor events. Pack a picnic with your friends and take advantage of all the fun stuff your town has to offer.
 Get your friends together and treat yourselves to a $10 manicure in a real salon. Home makeovers are fun, but it's a little more exciting to get a professional manicure and choose from hundreds of different colors. Most towns have nail salons with manicure specials for $10 or so.
 Cheer on your school's sports teams, or save up to go to a college or pro game. If you like baseball, look for summer deals; you can often find cheap seats for just a few dollars (especially if you're seeing a team that needs as many spectators as possible to fill up the seats).
 If you and your friends are outdoorsy types, explore the natural areas near where you live. Go to local beaches, state parks, waterfalls, and more. Some of the best conversations you'll have with friends might take place in nature, where you'll feel less inhibited and more carefree.

