 Phone records and call logs can be checked. Computers’ browser histories can be traced. You can try erasing your call log or internet cookies and history. Some browsers also allow you to set them to “private” mode. But if you are worried that your abuser is monitoring your communication with others, you might want to find another computer or phone to use.Most public libraries offer computers with internet access to community members. This could be a good place to start.
You may want to get a prepaid cellular phone. This could come in handy while looking for help and later, when you actually leave.
You could also use a friend or neighbor’s computer or phone. If necessary, make an excuse such as your own computer or phone being broken.;
, Most areas have local resources to help victims of abuse. If you are not sure where to start or if you want to talk to someone about planning to leave an abusive relationship, begin with the following resources.


In the US: National Domestic Violence Hotline 1-800-799-7233(SAFE)

Men in the US can contact The Domestic Abuse Helpline for Men and Women


In the UK: Women’s Aid 0808 2000 247

Men in the UK can contact ManKind Initiative



In Australia: 1800Respect 1800 737 732

Men in Australia can contact One in Three



Worldwide: The International Directory of Domestic Violence Agencies


, If you are a woman who is a victim of abuse, find a battered women’s shelter in your area (or a nearby town). Be aware that the physical location of such shelters is usually kept secret for the protection of the women in the shelter, but you should be able to call a hotline or go through a screening in a physical location. Then you will be referred to the shelter.Most shelters allow for a safe place to live for both women and children. They are designed to offer safety and support while you get back on your feet, but your stay there will be for a limited amount of time., This often leads victims to believe that they have no one to help them escape their abuser. However, friends and family, even if you have been out of touch, may pull through and help you get out of a bad situation. Reach out to someone you trust and ask for help.


Try to be specific with what you would like for them to do for you (such as let you stay with them, keep your “escape bag,” call the police for you if you give them a “code word,” etc.)

