 The text citation is parenthetical, which means the source reference is surrounded by parenthesis after you have used a quote, or after you have paraphrased something from a book.


, The quotation or phrase you use in the text of your paper has to appear first on the left-hand margin of the corresponding entry on your Works Cited Page.
 The MLA format follows the author-page method of in-text citation. Only the author of the book, and the page number or numbers that refer to your quote or paraphrased passage must be in your text, but your in-text citation must also be completely referenced on your Works Cited page.


Kingsolver stated that his prose was considered by many to be "at times, pedantic" (Kingsolver 125). This informs your reader that the remarks by the author named Kingsolver can be found on page 125. Your readers can find the name of the book and other pertinent details on your Works Cited page, which will cite the corresponding reference to this in-text citation:
Kingsolver, Ronald. Give Me a Moment. New York: Random House, 1932. Print.
 Again, page numbers are required, but it is important to provide detailed information about the edition of the book you are quoting, since someone reading your paper will need to know which edition to refer to. (This rule almost always applies to classic and literary works.)


The corresponding reference on your Works Cited page (for a work that has two or more editions) must include the page number of the edition you quoted from followed by a semicolon, and the the volume, part, chapter, section or paragraph. Use the required abbreviations without capitals:
Volume (vol.)
Book (bk.)
Part (pt)
Chapter (ch.)
Section (sec.)
Paragraph (par.)

, If you are citing a book that has more than 1 author, you must include the names of all authors in your citation:


Berger, Mitry, and Neilson state that tougher gun control laws need to be passed (176). The authors state "Tighter gun control in the United States in no way violates the Second Amendment rights to bear arms" (Berger, Mitry, and Neilson 176).
 If you use quotes from 2 or more books by the same author, you must reference each book in your text and on your Works Cited page:


Lipton states that daily writing practice is “critical to a writer’s success” (Practice, Practice, Practice! 5). However, Lipton also states that “one must sometimes walk away and do anything but write for a week at a time” (A Writer’s Advice 7). These citations inform the reader that quotes are being used from 2 different books by the same author.
 If you quote from different volumes of a multi-volume work, you must include the volume number in your citation. That number is followed by a colon, a space and the page number(s):


…as Tangener wrote in A History of the Universe (1: 87-101). This tells the reader that the quote can be found in volume 1 between pages 87 and 101.

