 Often, Salsa is peppy and can be danced in a club. While you may be dancing with someone technically, they are not holding you or you are not holding them. If that's the case, do a solo turn.









Let's say we're doing the "On 1" style of Salsa dancing. For both men and women (there is no "lead" when you're dancing solo):
On the first beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the second beat, turn around (180 degrees), moving your weight to the ball of your right foot.
On the third beat, turn to face your original direction (completing the circle), bringing your feet together.
On the fourth beat, hold.
Beats five through 8 are a normal "On 1" step.

This can double as a leader's turn to the right, if with a partner.
 For an underarm turn to the right, have the leader only hold his partner's right hand. He should raise it to head height on 3, creating a "J" in the air (swings out on 2). That's his only job. For the follower (presuming an "On 1" beat):









Beats 1-5 are as normal.
With your left foot brought forward on 5, turn to the right on 6.
Bring your left foot to your right foot on 7.
Hold 8.
 For the man, all you have to do is take the woman's right arm and move it to her left, cuing her to turn left. She will turn on 7. For the women (or the follower):









Beats 1-6 are as normal.
With your right foot forward on six, turn 180 degrees to your left (in other words, turn around) on 7. Your right heel should be up, with most of your weight on your left.
Hold 8. You will be facing backwards.
On 1, complete the turn, bringing your right behind your left. This is your natural 1 position.
 If you're bored with moving back and forth and back and forth, the cross body lead can get you to different parts of the dance floor.









For the leader, back away from your partner to the right on 5 (presuming an "On 1" step), allowing her to cross in front of you (hence the name). You would normally just step back -- with a cross body lead, step back and to the right. All other steps are as normal.
For the follower, step forward on 6. Your left goes forward on 5 as normal. Then, instead of bringing your right back on 6, step forward. Then on 7, bring your left to meet it, resuming the step and holding on 8.
 This is the move where the woman comes in front of the man (not facing him) and they trade spots. Here's the footwork for the two parts:









For the leader:

Step with your left foot back on 1. You both will be going back.
Cross over with your right on 2.
Bring your left to a natural position on 3. At this point, the woman should be in front of you (not facing you).
Cross behind you're left with your right foot on 5.
Bring your left next to your right on 6.
Step with your right in place on 7. Resume a normal step.


For the follower:

Step with your right foot back on 1. This is normal.
Step forward with your left on 2. This is also normal.
Step forward with your right on 3, turning 90 degrees to the left. The lead will behind you.
Cross behind your right with your left foot on 5.
Pick up your right and set it back down on 6. You don't need to move it very much.
Bring your left to your right on 7. Hold 8.



