 Start helping the parents one step at a time. Knowing that there is help on the way and that you are on their team can help the parent feel secure and supported.Depending on what the concerns are, try to address each of the stressors individually and cohesively.


For example, if their child is acting out at home, address what can be done from your side as the caregiver or teacher, and what the parent can do at home to complement the actions you are taking when the child is in your care., Ask the parents to create a log of the issues and concerns that they are having and how the child is involved. Ask the parents to try to notice times, events, situations, and people that are causing the stress and emotions. This way, you can get a better idea of what types of services and interventions will best fit what is going on with the family. This exercise can also help you to notice similar events with the child when the parent is not around.
 If the parents are stressed because of housing, economic, or financial concerns, use the resources you have in your community or place of work to help support the family through this time. Give the parents as many options as you can about services, welfare programs, and school programs for families struggling with poverty.This may not offer an immediate solution, but it can help decrease their stress in the long run.
 If there are clear instances of family loss, abuse, substance abuse in the household, divorce, or other stressors that are directly related to the current issues, be proactive in finding programs and counseling that will benefit the child. Contact the school counselor for suggestions, or ask your supervisor for referrals for counseling.


Most urban communities have free programs for children who have been victims of abuse. As a youth worker, you should have access to resources for when family situations such as trauma arise.
Assure the parent that you are on their side and will make every effort to find the resources to get their child the help they need.
Involve the parent and listen to their perspective. By developing a team-like environment, not only will the parent benefit by feeling involved and empowered, the child will also benefit by having multiple perspectives and strategies at home as well., Keeping the parents involved will help them feel less powerless, and in turn this will help reduce the feelings of stress and lower the emotionality. Present yourself as a part of their team, and as a someone who wants to support them and cares deeply about the wellbeing of their child. 