 A diamond has many different characteristics, including color, clarity, and carat. The most important characteristic when purchasing a diamond is its light performance, which makes a diamond outshine others in every sense of the word.;
, Everyone has a budget and it is important to understand where you are with your money. Explore your options and see what color, clarity, and carat size you will feel most comfortable buying, then proceed.
 As more information about diamonds becomes available to consumers, more and more companies are addressing these issues directly. Stores are starting to provide their own stats to customers in order to help them make decisions; find a dealer or store that understands what light performance is and can explain why it is an important part of the diamond purchasing process. This will also enable you to compare diamonds from various stores more easily.
 Reflector-based visual scopes are a great way to test for the cut proportions of a diamond. The Firescope, for example, clearly shows you the difference between a diamond that is poorly cut and one that is cut perfectly without any light leakage. (Keep in mind, a diamond with light leakage will not perform as well as one that does not have any light leakage.)

, Verification should come from an independent company that can verify the light performance level of a diamond. Companies such as ImaGem, GCAL and GemEx take actual measurements of light performance under different lighting conditions. Be careful of fake reports or companies that quote “light performance” without any proof of diamond testing. Always look for direct measurement reports; these give you an accurate portrayal of a diamonds performance.
 A diamond that has high light performance will look more brilliant, have more fire, and exhibit more scintillation compared to a low performance diamond. It’s easy as that. Your knowledge of light performance should lead you to the best looking diamond, and if it doesn't, keep looking.

