 The kit includes strips of mesh or tightly-woven fabric in different widths and colors. It will also include a hook that looks a little like a crochet hook or a latch hook. Plan on using the narrower strips for this method., This method is suitable for all hair types, including curly. It is a gentle way to curl straight or wavy hair. If your hair is already curly, you can use it to help further define the curls.If you have natural or kinky hair, consider starting with a blow-out., Gather all of your hair, except for the bottom section. Pile it on top of your head and secure it with a claw clip or scrunchie., Select one of the narrower mesh strips from your curl former kit. Slide the hook through one end until it comes out the other. You will need to scrunch the mesh down to get it to fit on the hook.The mesh curl formers are shaped like flat tubes. If you gently squeeze on the edges, they will open up.
 Take a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) wide section of hair from close to your face. Spritz it with water until it is damp, but not soaking-wet. You can start from the left or right side., Bring the hook close to your scalp. Slide it over the base of the strand that you just dampened. Make sure that you catch every hair in that strand., Hold the curl former at the base of the strand. Use the hook to pull the strand of hair through the curl former. Pull the hook out of the curl former, trapping the hair inside., When you let go of the curl former, it will spring back into its corkscrew shape. Repeat the curling process on the next strand., When you finish curling the bottom row, let down another layer of hair, and curl that as well. The thicker your hair is, the more layers you will need., This is very important. If you don't let your hair dry, the curls won't hold and will come out.If you are in a hurry, you can use a blow dryer and a cool setting to help speed the process up., Begin with the bottom-most layer and work your way to the top. Resist the urge to brush or comb the curls out, otherwise the curls will turn fluffy and lose their shape. If you need to, you can gently loosen them with your fingers., Use your fingers to apply a shine serum to the curls, focusing on the ends. If you want, you can use the handle of a rat-tail comb to create a side part. Finish with a light misting of hairspray to set the style, if needed.