 Place the rice in a fine mesh strainer and rinse for 30 seconds under cold, running water.


The strainer absolutely must be a fine mesh strainer. If the gaps between the wires are too large, you could end up losing an unfortunate amount of rice as you rinse it.
Note that you may not always need to rinse the rice, and this is somewhat of an outdated practice. Rinsing is a cleaning process and is a necessary step if you suspect that the rice has been imported or handled roughly in bulk storage. If the rice is a fortified, domestic product, however, you probably will not need to worry about rinsing it.



Soaking is not necessary for making brown rice porridge. Since the cooking time is already lengthy, soaking the rice will not make much noticeable difference in the amount of time it takes. Moreover, rice porridge needs to hold together, so removing the starches that cause stickiness through soaking will not be of any benefit.
If you prefer a more flavorful rice porridge, you could substitute some or all of the water with chicken broth or vegetable broth in equal amounts. The broth works well for the recipe suggested here, but if you plan to add sweet garnishes like dried apricots or raisins, water is still your best option.
 If your rice cooker has a porridge setting, use that. If it only has a timer, set the timer for 6 to 8 hours.


The rice cooker must be covered throughout the entire cooking process. Some high-tech rice cookers will not even let you set the timer if the machine senses that the lid is open.
If you plan to serve the rice porridge in the morning, throw the rice and water into the rice cooker before going to bed and let it cook overnight. It should be ready by the morning.
Know that each rice cooker varies by make and model. Some have specific settings for porridge while others do not. Regardless of the rice cooker you use, follow the instructions meant for your particular machine to determine the accurate way to set it and cook the rice porridge.
 Pour the oil into a large skillet and heat over medium-high heat until the oil becomes glossy.


If you do not want to add any of the optional vegetables, this step is not necessary.
 Add the vegetables to the skillet and cook for about 3 to 4 minutes, or until the mushrooms and carrots are tender-crisp and the garlic is fragrant.


Stir the vegetables continually with a wooden spoon or heat-resistant spatula.
 Once the porridge has finished cooking, open the rice cooker and add the cooked vegetables. Stir well so that the vegetables are evenly distributed throughout the porridge.


You may want to consider draining the oil from your skillet before adding the vegetables. Doing so will make the dish healthier, but letting the oil remain could add extra flavor to the porridge.
 Spoon the brown rice porridge out into serving dishes and garnish with soy sauce, chopped green onions, or hard-boiled egg slices, if desired.


Divide the eggs into halves and give each of the four servings a half an egg.
If you would prefer a sweeter rice porridge, you could skip the above-mentioned stir-ins and toppings and garnish the porridge with honey, dried apricots, or raisins, instead.

