 Studies have shown that weighing yourself on a daily basis can help you maintain your weight loss goals. It gives you a regular method for being accountable to yourself.Try to weigh yourself every day so you can get a sense of which forms of exercise and nutrition work best for you.Another option is to weight yourself once a week, which is still effective if you don't want to weigh yourself every day. Some studies have show that weighing yourself daily is not an effective motivator for weight loss.You might become frustrated if you do not see the results you wish to see at the rate you would prefer.If you have a history of eating disorders such as anorexia or bulimia, do not weigh yourself daily as this can trigger a relapse of your disorder.;
, Most doctors recommend weighing yourself in the morning as your weight is more likely to fluctuate over the course of the day.Do it first thing, right after you use the bathroom.


Do not eat or drink anything before you weigh yourself. Even drinking a glass of water can have an effect on your weight.
Wear the same thing when you weigh yourself. It's best if you can weigh yourself while you are naked as heavy shoes, sweaters and other pieces of clothing can contribute to an inaccurate number on the scale., If you want to weigh yourself every day at home, you need to own a scale. The most common forms of scales are digital scales; these are scales that will produce a numeric value on a tiny screen once you step on them.There are also balance beam scales, but you will find that these are taller and bulkier in nature. They might not be the most convenient choice for the average-sized home bathroom.
You can purchase scales at most home good stores or from websites like Amazon.
If you do not want to purchase your own scale, you can also find them at a gym if you have a membership and at some grocery store or drugstore pharmacies.
 Step onto the scale. Stand tall with your feet placed parallel, under your hips. After a few seconds, the scale will read the number that represents your weight in pounds.Record your weight immediately after weighing yourself so you remember it accurately. You can plot it into your weight loss chart or simply write it down in a nearby journal or piece of paper.