 As many as 90 percent of migraine sufferers come from families that have a history of attacks. If one or both of your parents suffers from migraines, there is a chance you will as well., The prodrome is the first step to getting a migraine, and can let you know one is coming. You may notice subtle changes in your health or mood one to two days before your headache that signal an oncoming migraine. About 60 percent of migraine sufferers will see certain symptoms before their headache.Some of the symptoms for prodrome can include:Constipation
Depression
Food cravings
Hyperactivity
Irritability
Neck stiffness
Uncontrollable yawning

, Anywhere from 10 to 30 minutes before an attack, you might begin to hallucinate certain symptoms. This is called an aura, and could mean that a migraine is coming. Only about one in five migraine sufferers experience an aura, and women far less so than men.If your aura symptoms last more than an hour, that could be a sign of bleeding in the brain — a stroke. If that is the case, you should see a doctor immediately. Symptoms of an aura can include:Flashing lights, bright spots, or blind spots in your vision
Numbness or tingling in your face or hands
Aphasia, which is speech or language problems

, By recording information about your headaches, you may be able to notice patterns to your suffering. This information can help you and your doctor figure out what is triggering your migraines, and how to stop them.Your diary should include information about when you had the headache, how long it lasted, what kind of pain you felt, any other symptoms you noticed, and any treatments you tried. This information can help you and your doctor discover triggers and figure out the most effective treatments.
This can also to help you identify the migraine early, which is beneficial because response to treatment is more effective during the prodrome or aura.
Make sure to keep the diary after visiting your doctor and starting treatment. Not every treatment will work on you, so you’ll want to make sure you find the best ones for you.
 If you still aren’t sure if your headaches are from migraines, your doctor can help you figure it out. There isn’t any test for a migraine. Your doctor will just be asking about your symptoms. To help your doctor, make note of a few things to tell him:Information about your headaches, including when and how often they happen, where the pain is, and how long they last.
Other symptoms, including nausea or blind spots.
Additional information, including a family history, any medicines you are taking, and any side effects those medicines may have had.
If your headaches are particularly severe, your doctor may recommend other tests to rule out other potential causes, including blood tests, a CT scan, an MRI, or a spinal tap. These tests can’t confirm that you have a migraine, but they will be able to prove other things are not causing your headaches.