 Ask your friends to each suggest one restaurant. Their suggestion should take everyone’s dietary, time, and budget constraints into consideration. Once everyone suggests a restaurant, make a list of the proposed dining options.
 Once you make a list of proposed restaurants, you can then take a group vote on where to eat. Each person gets one vote. Tally up the votes to see if there is a clear winner. If there is a tie between restaurants, you can break it with another vote or by flipping a coin., If your group of friends is having trouble deciding where to grab lunch or dinner, you can simplify the process by appointing a decision-maker. After making the list of suggested restaurants, the group can give a single person the responsibility of deciding which of the restaurants you will eat at.If deciding where to eat is a common issue with your group, you can set up a rotating list of decision-makers. When a particular person comes to the top of the list, they make that night's decision.
 If you can't decide where to go, you can always rely on a tried and true restaurant. Does your group have a favorite Italian restaurant or burger joint? Fall back on these favorites in moments of indecision.
 It's always fun to go someplace new when eating out with friends. Try asking everyone in the group if they have heard of any new restaurants they want to try. Take a vote on which one you'll visit if there are multiple choices.
 When you’re having difficulty choosing a place to eat, you can enlist the help of an app. Apps like Zomato, OpenTable, EatStreet, Grubhub, and Yelp can show you what restaurants are nearby, link you to menus, and provide you with reviews from other hungry people., If your group still can't figure out where to eat, you can use an old fashioned method to choose. Write down at least three choices of restaurants on slips of paper. Place the slips of paper in a hat or other receptacle, like a bowl. Appoint someone to pick a slip of paper from the hat. This is where your group will eat.

