 Just like clothes, lingerie needs to fit your body perfectly to look the best. If you have ill-fitting lingerie, it may be poking or pinching you, or it might be causing unsightly lumps and wrinkles. If you've been wearing the wrong size bra (like lots of women do), you'll be amazed what a difference properly fitting lingerie will make., To find out what band size you should be wearing, wrap a soft tape measure around your body, placing the measure directly beneath your breasts. Round up to the nearest whole number.If you get an even number, add four to your measurement to find your band size. For example, if you measured 32 inches (81.3 cm) across, you have a band size of 36.
If you get an odd number, add five to your measurement to find your band size. For example, if you measured 31 inches (78.7 cm) across, you have a band size of 36.
 Wrap the flexible tape measure around the fullest part of your bust, being careful not to tighten it too much so that you compress your bust. Round up to the nearest whole number.
 Once you have both of your measurements, use some simple math to calculate your cup size. Simply subtract your band size from the measurement around the fullest part of your breasts. For example, if your band size is 36 and your breasts measured 38 inches (96.5 cm) around, your number would be 2.A difference of 0 is an AA cup.
A difference of 1 is an A cup.
A difference of 2 is a B cup.
A difference of 3 is a C cup.
A difference of 4 is a D cup.
 When shopping for bras and camis, choose pieces with necklines that will show off some skin and flatter your smaller bust, like scoop necks and v-necks.If you really want a really sexy look, opt for a super deep v-neck.A low-cut cami looks great if you want to emphasize your chest while covering up your stomach., Strapless lingerie like bandeau tops look great on women with smaller busts. Not everyone can wear these styles, so take advantage of it!, If you want to enhance the size of your bust a bit, choose a push-up bra or a cami with a built-in push-up. Try it on and look at yourself in the mirror to make sure that it gives you the look you want. Some women feel that push-up bra lingerie makes them appear too unnatural, while others love it.You can buy bras with padding to give yourself a little a extra volume, but only if you want! Make sure to keep it natural by not going overboard with padding., As a woman with a smaller bust, you don't need a ton of support from your bra, so you have a lot of different style options available to you. This means if you dislike underwires, you don't have to wear them! If you want to add a little roundness to your breasts, you can opt for a style with an underwire., The more of your chest and neck you show, the bigger your bust will look. Avoid full-coverage bra cups and choose styles that show a little more skin.Select bras with flattering cup shapes, like the triangle cup, or any shape that minimizes the amount of fabric between the cups.
 Use lingerie as a way to highlight the parts of your body your love the most. If you have long, slender legs, for instance, look for lingerie that shows them off and do not worry as much about emphasizing your bust.
 If you want to make your top half look bigger, try choosing a bra with a wider band.You can wear low-cut panties to balance the look if you have wider hips.
 Lace, bows, and other embellishments will help draw attention to your upper half and make your bust appear larger., Bold patterns like horizontal stripes will add visual weight to your bust.Look for pieces that have horizontal stripes on the top and a solid color on the bottom for best results.
 Black slims down everything, including your bust. Choose bras in pastels or other light colors to create a fuller appearance.You can wear black panties to give the illusion of less weight on the bottom half of your body.
 If you're comfortable showing a little extra skin, go for some lacy or sheer material on top. It will add more visual interest and you will look amazing.A sheer chemise will give you some added tummy coverage while still allowing you to show plenty of skin.

