 The best way to consider yourself a legendary figure is to put yourself in situations where it is appropriate to behave in such a manner. This may sound absurd and the sort of situation nobody gets into in real life, but consider this: In the modern world there are people who lead exciting lives comparable to Jack Sparrow's. These modern adventurers are different from the domestic tourist. These modern day beatniks travel from port-to-port, town-to-town living on whatever they can get their hands on.;
, The best way to avoid ending up like this is to start with a good sum of money and to use it conservatively. If possible, trade for a profit before moving on. In smaller countries, where people have little money and can't afford replacements, if you've got skills in mending broken pots or pans you could do it for these people at a small, reasonable, price. If you stick with your Jack Sparrow lifestyle you will have countless tales of heroism to impress your friends.
 If you're planning on getting to another place and somebody wants your help, think of how you could get that person to help you in the future. A good way of doing this is considering who they associate with. How can these people benefit you? Consider their worth and plan ahead based on that.
 When getting someone to help you, explain your problem in a complex manner to make yourself sound more reliable! Flicking through a thesaurus every now and again can help you to achieve this if you don't have a particularly large vocabulary.
 Just use the fact that nobody is sure as a way of getting what you want. This can become especially useful in normal life. However you should probably know (but not let anyone else know) where your loyalties lie, or at least know who your enemies are.
 Talk like an old fashioned Englishman to improve your accent. Also, talk with slightly slurred speech.
 The more girls you can have, the better! Orlando Bloom and Jack Sparrow are known for their infamous flirting!

, Use the vigorous gesticulating of the hands.

