 If you want to prevent anxiety, then the first thing you need to know is to recognize when you're having anxious thoughts so that you can try to stop them as soon as possible. Once your heart rate is racing, you start pacing around or tapping your foot, and your thoughts turn to potential disasters, uncertain outcomes, and obsessions over the worst thing that can happen, then you're in full-on anxiety mode, and you need to cut off the problem at the source ASAP.


Develop a routine that helps you fight these thoughts before they're fully formed. Do whatever works for you, whether it's running, listening to Wilco, or raking your zen garden.
 "All or nothing" thinking is when you tell yourself that if something doesn't go perfectly, that you're a complete failure and that nothing will ever go right again. For example, you may be thinking that if you don't get an A on your next bio test, that you'll never be a doctor.To avoid this kind of thinking, just think of all of the many scenarios that can happen -- you can get a B, or even a C, and still pull up your grade. One grade won't influence your entire life.
 Overgeneralizing is when you draw from one negative experience and think that it should dictate the rest of your life. For example, if you go on one bad date, you may think, "I'll never get married." Instead of having this anxious type of thinking, you should remind yourself that you're drawing from a small set of data and that one bad date or one bad experience will have little impact on your entire life.Tell yourself that you will have plenty of opportunities for something in your life in the past.
 Catastrophizing means thinking that the worst possible thing in any situation will happen. For example, if your boss asks you to spend a bit more time on one report, you may think that you're going to get fired. If your plane is experiencing turbulence, you may think that it's going to crash at any minute. Avoid catastrophizing by writing down all of the possible outcomes, of varying degrees of positive or negative consequences, and see that it's likely that the worst thing ever won't happen.Combat catastrophizing by expecting the best possible thing to happen instead of the worst.
 Another type of anxious thinking is focusing on the negative aspects of a situation instead of the positive. Let's say you had a really great date with a guy, that you really hit it off, but that at the end of the date, you spilled some wine on his shoe. If you tend to focus on the negative, then you'll completely discount the great night you had and will instead tell yourself that you ruined everything by spilling the wine.To avoid focusing on the negative, make a list of all of the positive things that happened. You'll see that the positive aspects far outweighed the negative.
 Personalization is when you take a situation out of your control and blame it on yourself. Telling yourself that it's your fault that your best friend is suffering from depression because you haven't spent enough time with her, or that it's your fault your son has been falling behind in school because you've been a bad mother is your way of trying to deal with a sad situation. Unfortunately, blaming yourself for everything that goes wrong in the world will only increase your anxiety.


To avoid personalization, think of the actual cause of the problem, and realize that it's not you. Make a list of all of the things that could have contributed to the situation that have nothing to do with you.
 Knowing what you can and can't control can go a long way in preventing your anxiety. Make a list of all of the things that are worrying you, and mark the ones that you can and can't control. Tackling the ones you can control will make you feel more productive, and realizing that there are some things outside of your control will help you let go of your anxious thoughts.


Tell yourself that you're not helping anyone, not yourself, and not anyone around you, by wasting your time worrying about things you can't fix.
 When you've recognized any of these anxious thoughts or any others, you can go a long way in preventing further anxiety by challenging your anxious thoughts and finding a more optimistic and productive way of looking at the situation. When you're faced with a new worry, ask yourself some of the following questions:How likely is it that the thing I'm worried about will actually happen?
If the chances of the thing happening are low, what are some more probably outcomes?
What evidence do I have that any of this is true?
How is it helping me to worry about this thing? How is it hurting me?
What would I say to my best friend if she was worrying about the same thing?

