 While you do not want to mow when there is morning dew still on the grass, it's a good idea to avoid the hottest times of day if you live in a warmer climate. Heat exhaustion can be incredibly dangerous and should always be taken into account.
 Different types of grass require different heights of cut. Identify your type of grass before you set your mower height. People can be very picky about how their grass is cut.
 This should include a lawn mower, weed whipper, edger, and leaf blower., Most mowers require you to choke it. (Let air flow travel by pulling a handle) once done push back in and turn up the speed, also don't forget to take the brake off when ready to move.,, This is done so when you make your lines you can turn around and not worry about missing any patches., When mowing it's suggested to use a different direction each time. Switch up how you are cutting, whether it's vertically, horizontally or overlapping rows, until you are sure that all the grass is even. One thing that's important to remember is to always push your mower forward not backwards. Mowing backwards could be dangerous and unsafe. When beginning the cut, for quality preference, make your lines in a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal., You have to come in turn whatever way your next strip is, back up and then follow through so there is no rough turning. When making your lines, stay as straight as possible to make it look good., Before mowing it is important to check for any debris that may be on the lawn, any debris can damage the lawn mower. Firstly, make two passes around the edge of the lawn. Remember to overlap the passes, there will be uncut areas of lawn if there isn't enough overlap.
 Even when you are not using your lawn mower it is important to keep your mower well-maintained all throughout the year. Just like your car you need to be sure that all of the parts of your mower are working correctly before you start the cutting process. If the blades of your mower are not sharp, it could damage you lawn; leaving areas brown and susceptible to disease., After 2 passes go back and forth in any direction, it is important to alternate the mowing direction each time the lawn gets mown. If you do not alternate the direction you can cause excessive wear, or damage the lawn.
 Once you have cut your area(s), just to make sure, take a look to see if it may be need to cut twice if there are clumps of grass or doesn't look good, put the mower back on the trailer and grab an edger (If not blacktop because blacktop does not get edged). An edger is a tool that cut the grass that comes over the concrete on the sides of the driveways and walk ways. It also needs to be choked when started along with the rest of the tools.

Cut the grass around flower beds, trees, and any areas the mower was unable to mow at approximately the same height as the mower. Be careful not to damage the bark at the base of the trees, and do not cut the grass too low or damage will occur.
 Weed Whip over the edged grass because after you edge it, the grass tends to stand taller, which becomes noticeable. Also weed whip areas which the mower could not get which could be: sides of houses, around trees, sheds, beds, etc…., Grab a leaf blower and begin to blow off any unwanted grass and remaining dirt from the street, sidewalk, drive way, walk ways, or beds. Place all the equipment back properly so nothing gets broken or any fluids don't spill over.