 Based on past toothbrushes, you should have some idea of the general shape of your mouth. Some mouths are more narrow or wide than others, and you need a toothbrush that works for your mouth and teeth.You want a brush that can comfortably reach the back of your molars. The shape of your mouth, and whether it's wider or narrower, will affect how easily a given brush can reach your molars.
Go for a brush with an appropriate sized handle. If you, for example, have a very narrow, somewhat long mouth, you will need a toothbrush with a wider handle. You will probably feel more comfortable with smaller toothbrushes, but make sure the handle also has a good grip.;
, Mouths vary in size. If you have an average-sized mouth, most conventional toothbrushes will probably work for you. However, if you have a very big or very small mouth, take this into consideration when selecting a toothbrush.Most people can use a toothbrush with a head that measures 0.50-inch wide and 1-inch high. This can reach the back of most people's mouths without problem. However, if you've had issues with toothbrushes being too big or too small in the past, take this into consideration.
If you have a bigger or smaller than average mouth, opt for a slightly bigger or slightly smaller toothbrush.
 Some toothbrushes are designed to be held at a particular angle. Some consumers find a slightly tilted toothbrush allows them to more easily hit certain areas of the mouth. However, you should not purchase a toothbrush you do not know how to use. Unless you have a strong preference for an angled brush, and have used one before, opt for a standard toothbrush. The ideal toothbrush is always one you can easily use.Also, keep in mind that the more plastic bristles you can see, the better the cleaning will be. This is because rubber bristles are less effective when brushing a tooth surface.
 You're less likely to brush your teeth effectively if you dislike your toothbrush's handle. Go for a toothbrush with a soft handle that's easy to hold. If you struggle to hold your toothbrush, you're likely to stop brushing your teeth prematurely and also to use bad brushing technique, which can damage your teeth.Unfortunately, you usually cannot remove a toothbrush from the package to examine it. However, you can inspect the toothbrush's handle closely from inside the box.

