 While most Orientals are shorthair, they still shed all the time. Thus, you’ll have to comb them frequently. By combing them, you’ll remove loose hair, dirt, and ensure your cat has a healthy coat.


Use a soft bristle brush. You can also use a stainless-steel comb.
Comb your cat a few times a week. This is important, as you’ll want to prevent your cat from having tangles and knots.;
, Like other cats, you should trim your Oriental’s nails relatively often. This is especially true since most Orientals are indoor cats and do not have the opportunity to scratch and wear their claws down outside.


Trim their nails every 10 days to 2 weeks.
Be careful not to cut your cat’s quick – the fleshy top part of their nails., Most vets today highly recommend that you brush your cat’s teeth regularly. Without regular brushing, cats could suffer from periodontal disease – something that Oriental cats are highly susceptible to.


Try to brush your cat’s teeth daily, if possible.
Use a toothpaste formulated for cats. This is important, as human toothpaste often has ingredients that are dangerous to cats.
While you can use a toothbrush intended for small children, you can also buy one specifically designed for cats.
Consult your vet about regular teeth cleanings done in your vet’s office., Because of their build and metabolism, Orientals are very susceptible to rapid weight gain. Thus, you need to be careful not to give them too much food at one time.


Watch to see if your cat is becoming overweight. One of the best indications of this is the development of a potbelly.
Be careful about your Oriental’s weight, as their body type is not amenable to supporting extra weight. Overweight Orientals could develop a wide variety of muscular-skeletal problems.
Consult your vet about proper portions for your Oriental., Because many oriental cats are indoor cats, you should provide your Oriental with a diet suited to an indoor lifestyle. This is important, as just feeding your Oriental any cat food could have a negative effect on their health.


Indoor cat food usually has a lower caloric content.
Some indoor cat foods are formulated to be easy on your cat’s GI tract, aiding in digestion, and decreasing the odor that emanates from their litter box.
Popular foods for Oriental cats include: Royal Canin Feline Health Nutrition, Hill’s Ideal Balance Canned Cat Food, and Royal Canin Feline Health Nutrition Kitten Instinctive., While many foods that people eat are safe for Oriental cats to eat, specific foods or methods of preparation (like frying) may cause issues for your furry friend. Thus, don’t give your Oriental cat human food unless you are sure it is safe. Some common food that your Oriental cat should not eat include:


The seeds of fruits
Grapes
Fried foods
Many types of nuts
Tomatoes
The sweetener xylitol
Chocolate, As relatively active and energetic cats, you need to provide your Oriental cat with stimulation. This is important, as cats that aren't stimulated could become antisocial or destructive.


Interact with your Oriental cat as much as you can. Try to reserve play time before work, after work, and at night. Even five minutes of interaction before you leave for work will be beneficial to your cat.
Consider adopting a second cat, if you don't already have one.
Purchase toys like a scratching post, stuffed mice, or a fishing pole teaser toy., Since Oriental cats are slim and very often have short hair, you’ll need to be extra sensitive about the temperature in your home and your cat’s exposure to cold. This is important, as shorthaired cats have a severe sensitivity to the cold.


Try to maintain a temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius) or warmer in your home.
Avoid letting your Oriental cat roam outside during the late fall or winter months.
Consider providing your cat with a sweater during the cold winter months., Oriental cats are bred primarily to be indoor cats. As a result, you should keep them inside to protect them from a variety of dangers. Some dangers include:


Predators, like birds of prey such as hawks and eagles.
Cars.
Theft., Microchipping is an increasingly popular way that pet owners can attach contact and medical information onto their pet. This way, if your cat gets lost, a veterinarian or animal shelter worker will be able to contact you.


Talk to your veterinarian about implanting your cat with a microchip.
Microchips typically cost between $10 and $50 dollars to implant.
You'll also have to pay either a lifetime or annual fee so you can update your contact information with the microchip company., Orientals share many of the health conditions that afflict Siamese cats. Thus, you should learn about the many conditions that your cat could develop and make sure to keep regular vet appointments. Common conditions your vet may be able to catch in the early stages include:


Asthma or bronchial disease
Congenital heart problems like aortic stenosis
Gastrointestinal problems
Lymphoma
Progressive retinal atrophy
Neurological disorders like hyperesthesia.