 Traditionally, black starts first.


Stones can also be placed on the edge, where there is a T-intersection.
Once a stone is placed, it cannot be moved (unless captured and removed).
 This can be done in one of two ways:


Territory is empty intersections that are bordered or surrounded by stones of the same color. Each empty intersection that is completely surrounded is worth one point, or moku. The bigger the territory you surround, the more points you gain.

Corners can be used as a border as well.


You will lose a point if you place a stone inside your own territory.
 Connect your stones together to capture your opponent's pieces.


Stones of the same color on immediately adjacent points are said to be connected, or joined. The connection can be horizontal or vertical, but not diagonal--the connection is along the lines.
Fill all the adjacent points around your players pieces to capture them. Once captured, remove them from the board and keep them in a separate pile.
No empty spaces can be within the border.
 Both players pass and the game is over. Count up how many points (or intersections) each color guards.


Place all captured stones in the opposing players territory. Thus, their score is reduced due to lost intersections.

Therefore, a captured stone is worth two points. One point negated from your opponent's score and one point for the new empty space surrounded upon removal.


Capturing is what makes this game a battle of wits. While gaining territory is the main goal, one must think defensively at all times.
 As this is an ancient Chinese game adopted by the Japanese, there are many words to know.


Liberty - an adjacent intersection
Atari - a state in which a piece can be captured in the next move

For example, "Your white stone over there is in Atari! Haha!"


Eye - a single empty space inside a group

If there is an eye, capturing is not possible, as not all the empty space is filled


Suicide - placing a stone where it can be captured
KO - a situation in which a stone about to make a capture can be immediately recaptured, which would repeat the situation endlessly. Capturing cannot immediately take place after a KO.

