 Hair dye can be regarded as the point-of-no-return. Even if you can dye it back to your natural color, it won't feel the same. If you're trying to lighten your hair a whole bunch, consider the fact that your hair will become much dryer and coarser than you're used to. Be willing to change your hair care routine for the very best care and results for your hair.


Do you have to dye all of your hair? The ombre look allows you to play around with dyeing only some of your hair and getting a unique look as a result.;
, For the very best results, get your hair professionally dyed by your favorite stylist or a professional colorist. Most stylists love having some funky, challenging style to do and will love to create it with your hair!

, You can save yourself the high amount of money professional hair dyeing involves by purchasing a home dyeing kit. Always read the instructions thoroughly and follow them closely.


You may like to consider using vegetable dyes. These won't leave your hair as dry or coarse as other dye types, even after bleaching.
 Once the hair is freshly dyed, make sure you or your stylist goes over it with a flat iron after it's dried. This helps lock the color into the hair shaft.
 Don't wash your hair for at least 48 hours. This is a mandatory step for anyone wishing their hair-color to last more than a week. Ideally, wait as long as you can. If you're only dyeing a small section of your hair (bangs, streaks on top, tips, etc.), avoid hitting this with your shampoo as much as possible.
 Most shampoos bottles will state if they are designed for color treated hair.
 Dyed hair tends to be dry and straw-like. Don't hate your hair for it; nurture it.


Use conditioner on the length of your hair first, then shampoo only on your scalp.
 Not just the first time, but all the time. Hot water dries out hair and skin, leaving it dull. Cold water will not only help you keep your color but also helps you keep your hair's health and shine.
 These hair care products are also dye-sucking vampires.


If your hair is particularly vibrant and unnatural (bright reds, purples, blues, greens, pinks, etc.), try to keep away from spending extended periods of exposure to sunlight and water. Sunlight has been known to work somewhat as a natural bleach, so be careful if you have any long beach trips or life guarding stints planned.
 Your hair shaft is delicate, and should only be dyed once a month or so. Any sooner than that and it will be prone to breaking, splitting, tangles and straw-like texture.

