 Try to be kind to them as you would want to be treated if you were that person.


You probably wouldn't want to be gossiped about. Don't gossip about that person.
If you are feeling a bit sad, you may want to be cheered up. Try to cheer that person up but leave them alone if they want to be left alone. A good joke almost always works to make people laugh and forget about sadness.;
, It is very courteous to make sure that you don't annoy someone. You probably thing it is very fun to annoy people, but nobody said being righteous will be easy, so try your hardest not to annoy people.


If you don't know how you are being annoying, kindly ask the person that is annoyed what it is that is annoying him/her. This will resolve that issue.
 Remember that they will have respect for you. This can be applied in conversation.


Don't cut people off when they are speaking. Don't you hate it when you get cut off by someone and then you forget what you were saying? It is very annoying , and when you follow this step, you are also following the step that says that you shouldn't be annoying.
Try not to get into an argument or fight. That usually leads to anger and hate which makes you and the other person/people sad and angry.



You need to inform that person respectfully so that they won't get angry by the way you informed them. Maybe they did it accidentally? If you never inform them you would never know that they did it accidentally and they might not even know that they did something to hurt you.
 Remember that every penny counts. You could save someone's life by giving even a small amount of money.
 If you're not happy, are you truly a good person?

,


If you're in college and you see a fellow classmate carrying many books and is having trouble carrying them, offer to carry some of them.
 Maybe you can have a day where you spend most of the day outdoors.


A great place to take your family would be a national park.
 It will lead to a fight and fights lead to anger and hate.
 It will make you feel that you need something that someone else has.

Try to think of all the things that you have that the other person that you feel jealous of doesn't have. You will probably feel better.
Never brag or boast. That will make people feel jealous of you and then they will be sad that they don't have what you have.
 You will help the environment which will save water. In certain countries, there is a very small amount of water and they need help. Conserving water will save water all over the world meaning there will be more water accessible. Water is what feeds plants and animals. If plants don't get enough water, they will die and that destroys the Food Chain. Certain animals need to eat those plants but instead they'll die because of starvation. Then their predators will starve because they will starve.
 If it is a peaceful argument, it's okay. Be sure not to allow hatred to come in from it., They will hate it especially in school in front of many people. In fact, over 7 percent of High School students attempted suicide as an effect of bullying, and over 14 percent have considered it. If you bully in school you may be the cause of someone's death. 