 It is very easy to lose sight of the goal or final outcome you wish to reach in this long and arduous process. There is no short cut and what you do and say now will ultimately determine your final outcome. Take a step back, breathe, and then put your peripheral blinders on and focus!;
, This can not be stressed this enough, especially if the opposing party has legal representation. If you are organized you will afford yourself a bit more respect by the courts and the opposing council. Bumbling around for papers that are torn and tattered will impact your success. Purchase a three ring binder and dividers. Whether you are just starting the divorce and custody proceeding or you are revisiting a custody/visitation matter, you will need to have a section for all matters that come before the court. For instance, Child Custody/Visitation and Child Support are separate matters. Keep all financial matters like W-2's, Bank Statements etc separate from documents and evidence supporting your ability to hold physical custody of your children.


In your binder, have labeled sections for each category of material you have. For example, the labels might look like this: Divorce; Custody; Child Support/Finance; Evidence; Misc Documents.
 Although you feel like the only one on the earth going through this, there have been many before you and there will be many after you that will endure the pain of family court. Therefore, there is endless amounts of information out there to prep you for what's ahead. There are sites like Avvo that provide you with legal advice directly from attorneys that will guide you on how to handle each matter.  MassLegalHelp is also another useful site to provide steps and forms you will need to navigate through the system. There are also many personal stories and experiences out there in forums, which can provide direction, assurance, and moral support along the way.
 If it is in your court file it should be in your binder! You can go to the court in which your case is being heard and request your file. Make sure all the papers in this file match what you have and if they do not, make copies. Depending on who you are in the case, "Plaintiff" or "Defendant",  you will need to file motions and responses accordingly. The Plaintiff is always the one filing the motions petitioning the court for assistance in a matter against you or that involves you.  If you are the Defendant you will need to file responses to the motions filed by the Plaintiff.  If you are the one seeking the divorce or change of custody etc you will need to file motions to modify or initiate court proceedings.
 There is a saying that goes, "If it is not in writing, it is not of this world". This is especially true in court. Hearsay may hold weight in court in some instances but more often then not it is what you can support through documentation that goes the furthest. Whether it be a text, email, or police report this will hold more weight than what you think someone said three months ago. The courts do NOT have time for petty arguments and games of he-said-she-said.
 People are often all too quick to yell, point fingers, and lose sight of the goal. Especially when children are involved your ultimate goal is to reach an agreement that is in the best interest of the child. Remember it's not about how the other party wronged you or how bad you can make them look. Stick to facts that you can support with evidence. A judge wants to hear your plan to reach an agreement. Be reasonable! Find a way to show you're open to ideas and agreements that include ample parenting time with both parents.  If it's divorce, cut your losses and find a happy medium. In court, no judge will entertain a tirade. Intelligent and thought-out responses and actions gain the most attention.
 Read up on it and examine past cases. If you're not familiar with all relevant laws and the consequences they've had for cases similar to yours, it will be hard for you to follow all necessary procedures and win your case.
 In your courthouse there is most likely an attorney of the day. If not, find an attorney or online service that will allow you to discuss your case for free. Consult them. Stick to the facts and your goal. When you can not afford an attorney this is often the next best option as they can give you a path or direction to follow.

