 Children may be eager to spend money, especially if you've just started giving them an allowance. In order to teach them to budget and save, try to teach contentment. When your child wants to spend money at the store, remind them to be grateful for what they have now.Encourage your children to strive for more in ways that don't involve spending more. For example, your child wants a new hockey stick. Tell them something like, "You would enjoy hockey more if you practiced with your friends more often. Why don't you try to use your current hockey stick now and see if you enjoy playing more?"
Ask your children whether they really need items they want. Explain to them that ads work to create a sense of want. For example, say something like, "I know those kids on the commercial are having fun, but they're paid to act like that. You could have a lot of fun with the toys you have now."

, When young children are trying to budget, they may struggle to know the difference between needing something and wanting it. You should step in and help your child understand the difference between need and want so they can learn to budget effectively.Remind your child every dollar they spend on one thing is one dollar less from their weekly budget. For example, "If you spend $2 on that candy bar, you will only have $8 left of your allowance this week. Do you really need that candy bar when we have treats at home?"
When you're in the store, have your child spend some of their own money on supplies for school. This can help teach them to budget for money they need. For example, you can have your child pay for their own pencils or pens.
 Throughout the day when spending opportunities arise, remind your child of their budget. This will help cut back on impulse purchases. For example, if your child wants to buy a stick of gum, ask them, "How much of your food budget is left? That gum costs a dollar fifty.", Children look to their parents as models. Each time your'e shopping with your kid, show you're adept at budgeting. Say "No" to impulse purchases and make a list when you're shopping. If something is not a good deal, say so. For example, "We could get this name brand cereal, but this one is much cheaper and has the same ingredients. This will help us save on our food budget."