 Take short breaks from tough assignments on occasion. Sometimes when you're sitting in your dorm room working on that 15 page paper for your Lit class, you need a mental break. If you find yourself drooling while blankly staring at the cursor on your Word document, it may be time to take that break. Taking a quick look at Facebook can be a good way to feel like you're connected to the outside world after being locked up doing whatever task you may be doing. However, don't forget that Facebook isn't the only way to break your mental block:


Sometimes taking a 5 or 10 minute walk outside can help.
Or maybe drop in on a friend to say a quick "hello." Have a coffee and browse through your friend's summer vacation album you've been meaning to flip through... then, back to the grind!;
, If you need to clear your mind so that you can stop procrastinating and get to business, using Facebook to achieve more procrastinating won't fix things. It is all too easy for your five minute Facebook break to turn into a half hour to an hour Facebook "break". Don't let that happen; do whatever it takes to make sure your mental break doesn't turn into procrastination:


Set a timer if you have to.
Schedule reminder updates to land on your Facebook page five minutes into use with messages like "Time's up dude!" (You can use a third party program to do this.)
Have a roommate, colleague, or friend tap you on the shoulder--if you're both trying to break the habit, this can be a shared routine until you both break the habit.
 Beware of "time-swallower" Facebook applications. Many applications of the like are a pandemic! Not only are these applications a waste of time for you, they are for your Facebook friends as well. No one wants their mini-feed filled with "Emma just found a lost cow on her farm!" and few friends appreciate application suggestions sent to them that say "Greg just added goldfish to his tank in Fish Life and needs your help!"


Don't waste your own time and don't waste your friends' time. Mindless Facebook applications such as these are addicting and can have you spending more time than anyone needs to be spending on a social networking site.
 You can use Facebook for "evil" by commenting negatively on your friends' posts. It is extremely tacky to start fights at all over petty things, but please refrain from starting fights over Facebook. If for no other reason, remember that Facebook world can see every detail of your fights (unless you put it into a private message, but that's beside the point...).
 Even if you only tag a few friends in the note, people are still able to look under the "recent notes" tab and read all their friends' notes and even notes that their friends were tagged in, even if not written by a Facebook friend. Remember, anything you post on the internet is subject to viewing eyes, so be selective with what you write. For example, don't write hate-notes about your ex, or notes about how awesome last Friday's party was (particularly if you know of people who weren't invited).
 We've all gotten friend requests from people that make us say "Do I know this person?" It seems a bit creepy and even superficial to friend people you barely know or don't know at all. Whether you friend them to start talking with them or viewing their information, or you just want more Facebook friends, this isn't the best way to use Facebook. It isn't quite "evil" until you start creeping on people.


Under certain conditions you can 'friend' people you don't know or barely know. Why? If you know you're going to meet someone at a party that day/night it is OK to friend them. Party guest lists are viewable on whatever party invite site the host happens to use. Friending allows the party guests to see your profile and that can be a great icebreaker. It also shows that you are thoughtful in that you have done something that few people do, i.e., take the time to look over the guest list.
So the person you friend isn't surprised by your invite you should send a note with the invite saying you will be at the same party that night and you have temporarily friended all the guests and they may delete the friendship tomorrow with no hard feelings.
The next day go to your friend page and delete the party friends. Also visit your invite history page and delete the unaccepted invites.
This is certainly unconventional so at the party expect attention. That is the goal, i.e., this will break the ice and start conversations that you might not have had and, who knows, you might make a real friend.

