 Don't say anything that is not true or cover up the truth (unless the truth is hurting the other person for no reason). You can confront the person if you want but be prepared to face denial.;
, You don't have to admit that you overheard them, but you could ask something like, " did I hear you or someone else say this about me?" Or "I may not have heard this right, but did I hear you say ...?" But don't reveal the other person's name. It would just end up being a blame game so better keep the source out of the conversation
Don't approach them with an accusation. Go and try to understand what they were saying. It is always possible that you didn't get the story exactly right. This takes some guts to do.
The success will be primarily through your attitude. If you honestly go to them and desire to hear the truth, they will see that. However, not everyone has the guts to accept their faults. But if you approach them like a lion ready to pounce on them, they will sense that too and maybe become even more defensive about their stand!

, You can tell them what you feel, but don't tell them how they are or what kind of a friend they are (or are not). It is MUCH more powerful to tell a friend that "you hurt my feelings when you said..." than it is to say, "you are a horrible friend for saying ..." They cannot argue with the way you feel, but they will become more defensive and hurtful to you (both at that moment and in the future) if you begin to accuse. All this does bring anger to you when you come to know that your friend reacted in a manner which was not acceptable to you, but staying calm is probably the best for you( mentally and physically)

, They wanted to look and feel better than you. It must also mean that they felt you were better than them. Don't fall into the trap of doing the same to them in future. If you are able to forgive them and understand that they are not perfect, you are more likely to forgive yourself and realize that you are not perfect either. Or maybe they were also irritated my your attitude/action in the past which probably provoked them to take such steps or react. The best possible thing is to forgive them. Easier said, forgiving enemies is easier than forgiving a friend who back stabbed.

