 Jumping can place a lot of strain on your dog’s muscles and the joints, so it is important to begin training your dog when it is fully grown. Puppies and young dogs can more easily damage their developing bones and muscles while jumping.Wait until your dog is fully grown and ask your veterinarian about whether they think it’s appropriate to begin training.


If you have a senior dog, check with your veterinarian to make sure it is safe for your dog to jump poles.;
, Before you begin training your dog to jump, decide what command or cue to use while training your dog. Select a word such as “over” or “jump.” Use your chosen command or cue consistently throughout the training. Switching between commands may confuse your dog, so decide which one to use early on.
 Training with lightweight, easy-to-assemble jumping poles are great for training your dog to jump, but you can use a variety of objects around your home, too. Teach your dog to jump over your legs, or use a broom handle, a PVC pipe, a hula-hoop, a tree branch, a box, or a taut rope.
 Place your dog on a leash and bring it toward the jumping poles (or whatever other object you're using for your dog to jump over). If it seems hesitant about approaching this new fixture, allow it to sniff around the poles.This will help the dog become familiar with them and realize that they are not a threat.
 Place the pole on the lowest rung. With your dog on a leash, bring your dog toward the jumping pole and have it walk over it.Say your command word as it walks over. Bring your dog across several times and continue to repeat the command word. This will help the dog acclimate to the pole and the command word. Reward your dog with praise or a treat.


If your dog does not want to walk over the jumping pole, do not force it over by pulling on the leash.Instead, try placing a treat on the other side of the lowered pole, or throw a treat over to encourage your dog to jump after it.
 Once your dog has successfully walked over the pole several times, make it a little more challenging by raising the pole to the next rung.Place a treat on the other side of the pole. Bring your dog toward it and, as it approaches, say your command word. As the dog jumps over, reward it with praise and a treat.
 As your dog becomes more comfortable jumping at a lower level, remove the leash and raise the bar little by little. Be sure that the jumping pole does not to exceed the height of your dog.Performing these incremental jumps will help your dog feel more comfortable in its abilities.
 Once your dog is comfortable jumping over one object, introduce another obstacle for your dog to jump over in succession. Be sure that the second obstacle is lower than the first jump and is set at its lowest possible height.Continue to add more obstacles as your dog’s abilities improve.


Let your dog explore and sniff around both jumping obstacles.
Place your dog on a leash and lead it over the first obstacle. Continue to lead your dog toward the second jump, making sure to state your command word as you approach. If your dog hesitates as it approaches the second jump, pause, and place a treat on the other side of the jump.
When your dog completes the second jump, reward it with praise and a treat.
 During the initial stages of training, do not encourage your dog to jump over the poles quickly. It is important to proceed slowly and with caution. If your dog begins its training at high speeds before it builds its foundation, it may injure or strain itself.Work slowly and watch to see that the jump is not too high for your dog. Look at your dog’s legs to ensure that they are not catching or hitting the pole as they jump over. If this is happening, lower the jump.
As you approach the jumping obstacles, do not run with your dog on a leash. Walk toward the obstacles to ensure that your dog is aware of the upcoming jump.
If you dog is approaching the jump at a speed that you feel is too fast, lead the dog away from the obstacle and do not stay the command word., Rewarding your dog with praise and treats will make your dog more likely to repeat desired or correct behaviors. Rewards can include offering your dog treats, petting or praising your dog, or providing it with its favorite toy. Treats are the most effective for training since dogs are motivated by food.The treat should be something your dog enjoys. Buy a few different treats and see what it most appealing to your dog.
The treats should be a small, soft piece of food that your dog can quickly and safely swallow., Timing is crucial when you are using positive reinforcement. After your dog completes a jump correctly, you should reward your dog immediately. If there is a delay, your dog may not realize that it is being rewarded for completing a jump.
 Your dog will associate the sound of the clicking with the correct behavior and with a treat or praise.Be sure you are using the clicker during the jump and not afterward.Clickers can cost anywhere between $2 and $20 and can be purchased online or at your local pet store.
 Once your dog has learned to jump consistently, you may wish to cut back on the number of treats it receives. Continue to verbally praise your dog after it completes a jump. Reward your dog with a treat 4 out of every 5 times it completes a jump, and slowly reduce the rewards until you are only providing a treat on occasion.Vary how often you give your dog a treat, and don’t establish a pattern. Establishing a fluctuating reward system will ensure that your dog will keep performing the jumps each time., In the U.S., there are several major agility organizations, including American Kennel Club, the United States Dog Agility Association, and The North American Dog Agility Council. Each organization sets forth a set of rules and guidelines for the sport, hosts sponsored competitions throughout the year, and has varying heights for the jumping portions of the competition. If you have a small dog or a senior dog, you will want to be sure that your dog can safely reach the required heights.The American Kennel Club only offers membership to purebred dogs, while the United States Dog Agility Association happily includes mixed breed dogs. Research the requirements and expectations of each organization to see if it is a good fit for you and your dog.
 Find a local dog trainer in your area to see if they offer training sessions geared toward jumping and other agility moves. These classes offer great introductions to agility training and they can help improve your dog’s abilities in a short period of time.Classes typically have 6 to 10 owners and their pets, which allows the trainer to focus on each dog’s abilities, skills, and areas for improvement.


Classes meet once or twice a week for 4 to 8 weeks. The entire course can cost around $200, depending on your location., There are two types of agility events, matches and sanctioned trails. Matches are more relaxed and typically allow mixed breed dogs to participate. The fee to enter the competition is typically much lower than sanctioned trails, which are often hosted by national agility organizations. These obstacles typically include a variety of jumps, including bar jumps, double-bar jumps, tire jumps, and panel jumps.Subscribe to an organization’s newsletter or ask your agility trainer to learn about upcoming events in your area.