 Try to set aside at least 25% of your monthly income for savings.


You should have at least six months’ worth of income saved to cover periods of potential unemployment.
Be sure to set beneficiaries on your retirement and insurance plans, too.
If you separate from your partner, don’t forget to change your beneficiary list.
 Are you still both increasing your savings? Do you have enough saved to cover an emergency? Are you both still comfortable with the way expenses are being shared? Talk to your partner about these and other related issues.


Make budgeting and financial planning an activity you do together. This can be more successful or even exciting if you are both working towards a common goal, such as a vacation or purchasing a home.
Always be honest about your finances. If you are struggling financially, you should admit to your partner that you’re having money problems. That way they can help you out by either loaning you money, helping you find another job, or taking other action that can help.
Encourage your partner to be honest with you about their spending habits and their happiness with your current financial arrangement. If your partner lies about money matters, you should seriously consider ending the relationship.
Don’t let your partner push you into a purchase you can’t really afford.For instance, if you can’t afford a new car but your partner really wants you to have one, stand firm and insist that you will not make such a purchase. If they love you, they will respect your decision.
 Only move in together if you’re truly in love with the person and ready to be in close proximity to them night and day. This will make splitting finances just one part of your relationship, and not its entire basis.
 It’s okay to borrow money in an emergency situation, but don’t make a regular habit of it.


If your partner regularly asks to borrow money, you should inquire as to why they constantly need money. They may have lost their job or have unpaid debts you don’t know about.
 The last thing you want to do is end up saddled with debt that you did not personally incur. Only make a large investment with your partner like a house or car if you are in a stable, long-term relationship.You should ask your partner about any debts or liabilities that they may hold. Be honest about your own debt as well. Keeping these secret can ruin a relationship when the debt is discovered by the other partner.
Always put both your names on the lease, mortgage, or loan. This will allow you some degree of protection in the event you and your partner separate.
For mortgages, consult a real-estate attorney to help you figure out the best way to negotiate your local real estate laws as they relate to your relationship. A married couple has different options for taking out a home loan than an unmarried couple.
For auto loans, too, you (and your partner) should talk to a financial officer at your local bank or credit union. There are many variables that could impact whether you and your partner decide to take out an individual loan or cosign the loan. Seek advice relevant to your living situation in order to get the lowest interest rates and avoid shared debt.
 Common assets include bank accounts as well as big-ticket items. Typical material assets include houses, cars, and boats. These items should never be purchased using both your names. Otherwise, you might end up wrangling over ownership in the event you separate.


Bank accounts, likewise, should never be shared between you and your partner. These accounts can be a source of tension should one partner decide to use the money for themselves.
If you want to set up a shared account with your partner – for instance, an account either of you can use to pay bills – keep it completely separate from your personal account. Put a small amount of money in it each month along with your partner, and use it only to pay the bills you intended it for.

