 Introduce yourself by name.If your position within the company is going to be directly related to the person you’re talking to, let them know how. For instance, if the other person is in the shipping department and you’re going to be filling orders and dropping it off with them, go ahead and let them they’ll be seeing a lot of you. However, if you’re going to be their supervisor, leave that unmentioned. Most likely they’ll already know this through other superiors, so avoid coming across as being “superior.”

, Keep your grand tales of past success and future plans to yourself at first. Learn as much as you can about your company and fellow staff by allowing other people to fill you in. Ask questions about how things are done and how they think things should be done. Show that you value them as a source of knowledge and guidance based on their experience.


"How does the average workday/workweek break down here, schedule-wise?"
"Is there anything I could do to improve communication between our two departments?"
"Would you find it more helpful if I turn in my signed invoices for the week all at once or one by one as I sign them?"

, Don’t bluff your way through situations where you find yourself lost. Show your superiors that you mean to do the best job possible by wanting to know exactly how to do things. Pay your fellow coworkers a compliment by relying on them as trusted guides who can teach you.Be sure to do this even if–or especially if–you’re in a supervisory role in a new setting. Even if you have plenty of experience in your particular field, expect to be unfamiliar with odd details that are unique to this new company. Earn respect from your team by showing respect for their years of service and knowledge.
 If you screw something up, alert people to the fact so it can be remedied as quickly as possible. When you’re debating about the best way to accomplish tasks, offer your opinions, but concede when someone else offers a better plan. Prove to your supervisors and colleagues that you’re worried less about looking good than about getting the job done.Practice this honesty with workers under your supervision as well. Gain their respect by freely admitting that you too are capable of mistakes. If they know you screwed up but hear you deny it, they’ll trust you less.
 Show everyone that you’re more concerned with performing your job well than receiving attention for it. Even if you’re largely responsible for a successful project, stand back and share credit with those who assisted you. Build a team spirit while demonstrating that your primary goal is to help the company as opposed to yourself alone., Refrain from speaking ill of others. If someone’s slacking off on their job, speak with them directly about how it’s effecting others and how their performance can be improved. Otherwise, keep your negative opinions about coworkers to yourself. Show by omission that you don’t need to tear other people down in order to build yourself up.