 Use news sites to distribute press releases concerning your business. This begins with writing a press release in which you discuss something newsworthy about your company: a new product launch, a special event, a co-branding initiative, charity work, or a high-level change in management. Use terms and language optimized for search. Also be sure to include a press contact’s name, email address, and phone number in the release.
 PR Newswire and Business Wire are well known press release distribution services. Some services charge a fee, and others are free. Look for general distribution platforms like PRWeb and Newsvine,and also industry-specific distributors or “Microlists” that deal with niches such as tech, healthcare, lifestyle, and finance., After sending out your release over the wires, you may have gotten some attention from the press already, and may now be comfortable reaching out to the press directly. Search for reporters and editors that have written stories you like about similar articles. Reach out with an email, and follow up a day or two later with an email or phone call.
 You should obviously announce the launch of your company itself, but you can announce other launches as well. For example, you can promote the launch of a new product or service, and you can announce a re-launch, the launch of a new website, a prominent new hire, a rebrand, or the opening of a new location or office.
 It’s okay to brag. If you’ve gotten great media coverage, or even a mention, you should proudly share your success. Even before you get press, it can be good to alert key followers that it’s coming.Have a press tab on your website that includes copies of or links to your full articles. Pull out the best quotes from articles that speak highly of your business. You might also to an “As seen in…” graphic.
Use press mentions in signage, handouts, and other paraphernalia you bring to trade shows. Include press hits in your email newsletters and social media posts too. Print out and frame your favorite articles to hang them on your wall.

