 Baitcasting reels feature a centrifugal braking system, or drag, and a tension knob. Before casting, you want to adjust the drag and tension so that line will peel off the reel smoothly as you cast.


Set the braking system to zero. If you don’t know how to do this, an expert at a fishing tackle store can show you how on a demonstration reel.
With a practice weight on the line and the rod pointing at 10 to 11 o’clock, press the reel spool release button while keeping your thumb on the spool. The weight should remain in place.
Jiggle the rod tip. The weight should fall slowly and smoothly. If not, adjust the tension until it does.
Set the braking system to about 75 percent of its maximum. You may either have to adjust a dial or take off the side plate and adjust them directly. ,, Baitcasting rods are designed the same as spincasting rods, and as with spincasting rods, most fishermen cast with them same hand they retrieve with, so if you prefer to hold the rod behind the reel when you retrieve, you’ll need to switch hands when you cast.


You may want to rest your thumb at a slight angle on the spool instead of pressing the very flat of it on the line. This will give you more control over the flow of the line during the cast.
 As with spincasting gear, this lets you use your wrist when you cast. If you cast with your opposite hand, the handles point down.
 Baitcasting reels made since the 1970s have a mechanism to disengage the reel spool from the handles so they don’t turn during the cast, allowing for longer casts. The first such models had the button on the side of the reel; most models today feature a release bar behind the spool that you press with your thumb when you rest in on the reel spool. , As you do, raise your rod until its tip goes slightly past vertical.
 As you do, lift your thumb off the reel spool enough so that the weight of your bait or lure pulls line off the spool as it is propelled toward the target.


If you are casting with a long-handled baitcasting rod of the kind used in saltwater fishing, you’ll want to use your opposite hand as a fulcrum from which to pivot the rod as you cast.
 This is similar to pressing the button on a spincasting reel to brake the line; however, not applying your thumb soon enough leads to the spool continuing to turn after your bait hits the water, creating an overrun or “bird’s nest” that you’ll have to straighten out before you can retrieve your lure. (The reel’s braking system is designed to help prevent this, but you must still apply your thumb to bring the reel to a stop.)


Casting baitcasting tackle is very similar to casting spincasting tackle. Baitcasting tackle offers more precise control than spincasting tackle, because your thumb rests directly on the line when braking. However, baitcasting reels are not designed to handle lines as light as spincasting or spinning reels are. You should use lines no lighter than 10 pound test (5 kg class) with baitcasting tackle, and thicker lines such as 14 to 17 pound test (7 to 8 kg class) handle even better.Likewise, baitcasting tackle is best suited for casting baits or lures weighing 3/8 ounce or more, while spincasting tackle is best suited for lures weighting 1/4 ounce or less.If you like to take several rods with you when you fish, carry a rod with a spincasting reel for the lighter weight lures and a rod with a baitcasting reel for the heavier lures.

