 Go to the website of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) to find out about the minimum level of required coverage for your state. Most states requires that you have liability coverage that includes both property damage and bodily injury. The coverage amounts vary depending on your state.Many insurance industry professionals suggest getting the standard “100/300/100” liability coverage package, at minimum. This gives you bodily injury coverage of $100,000 per person and $300,000 per accident. It also covers property damage up to $100,000.You can reduce your premiums by lowering your liability coverage right up the state limit, but remember that it can backfire if you get into an accident and the costs exceed your coverage. Find the best deal by looking at the liability coverage cost alongside the cost of a year or six-month of premiums.
 Your premium will go up if you choose a lower deductible or down if you choose a higher deductible. The deductible is the amount of money that you must pay before your insurance company will take action on a claim. So, if you go up, you want to make sure that you have that cash on-hand in the event of an accident.


Try different deductible numbers to see how they impact your overall premium costs. This is especially easy to do if you are working with a website first.
If you know a particular deductible is just too high for you, make a goal to save up some money in an emergency account and then re-shop for insurance at a later date.
 These are extra layers of protection that you may or may not want. Comprehensive coverage pays for damage to your vehicle from a variety of means. Collision coverage protects your vehicle cost in the event of a collision. You will want to compare how these features impact your premiums and what individual deductibles they carry as well.Be aware that if you are currently paying off a loan or leasing a vehicle your lender will probably require that you have comprehensive and collision coverage. Talk to your lender to see what exact levels of coverage that they require.
Since these are extra coverages you can lessen the impact on your premiums by raising your deductible up higher. For example, a $1,000 deductible will cover you in the case of a significant accident.It is generally a good idea to get rid of these extra coverages on older vehicles. If the annual cost of your premiums for a certain car exceeds 10% of that car’s value, then consider removal. The Kelley Blue Book is a good source for car value estimates., There are a number of additional coverages that you can add to your policy or even just to the policy for a particular car. Each of these add-ons will, however, raise your premiums so you must counterbalance cost versus potential reward in the event of damage.


Rental reimbursement coverage partially, or totally, pays for a rental car while yours is in the shop. If you have another vehicle you could use instead, save the money by skipping this. Ditto with roadside assistance coverage. If you are already covered via AAA, etc., then don’t consider it here.Uninsured/underinsured motorist protection is often a good investment. It is estimated that one out of every eight drivers is not covered by insurance. Add this to your policy at the same levels as your liability coverage.