 CFOP is an improvised version of Beginner's method, which can be very powerful and fast once learned. CFOP is what world records are set by. If you are familiar with Beginner's method, learning CFOP should not be a difficult task. Some tutorials can be found on YouTube to learn CFOP.;
, Once you are able to solve a Rubik's cube without looking at the algorithms, you must practice all of the algorithms and be able to recognize any of the cases without much problem. This can take a bit of getting used to and practice. Once getting used to seeing the cases, they will be associated with the algorithms.
 When you can do all the steps above, you can finally start decreasing your solving time. After practicing for a bit, your time would've probably decreased a bit. Decreasing your solving time first starts off with learning finger tricks.


Finger tricks are basically turns that don't use your whole hand. After learning this, you must practice doing it, even when your not solving the cube, just turning it. You will see a decrease in your times after getting used to doing so. This way, you can flick the layer with only one finger to turn the layer.
 They essentially do the same things (exception to a lot of them) but with less turns. Don't go super crazy on learning them. You're better off with learning F2L (first 2 layers) before branching out into OLL (orientation of the last layer) and PLL (permutation of the last layer)

, It will also affect your times the most. It is simply just practicing. Just practice whenever you can and want. This may take a while but it is definitely worth it. Just practice and practice and practice.
 Speedcubes are Rubik's cubes that have a different mechanical design and smoother turning to prevent things like pops and make turning faster. If you want a cheap speedcube, you can go for brands like MoFang, and if you want a more expensive but incredible quality, brands like Moyu and Gans are perfect.


Do not get speedcubes off of Amazon, eBay, etc. Speedcubes off Amazon are normally ripoffs, overpriced, and bad. Sometimes you can get scammed there. Some great speedcube websites are TheCubicle and Speedcubeshop.

