 Fruits contain natural sugars that boost your energy, and are also high in fiber and other vital nutrients. For example, eat a bowl of mixed berries or pineapple for dessert to satisfy your craving for sweets throughout the day or after meals.;
, Processed food often contains preservatives and other artificial ingredients that can alter your hormones and the other natural chemicals in your body, causing you to crave sweets and junk food on a regular basis. For example, cook pasta using organic noodles and marinara, instead of cooking frozen pasta loaded with processed ingredients.
 Eating healthy foods such as whole grains, nuts, chicken, fish, and leafy green vegetables will naturally boost your energy and naturally eliminate your cravings for sweets and sugary foods. For example, if you insist on eating pizza, eat pizza loaded with fresh vegetables instead of sausage or pepperoni.
 Skipping breakfast and other meals can cause your blood sugar levels to drop to dangerously low levels, which in turn, will cause you to crave and overindulge in sugar and other sweets.


Purchase organic or all-natural breakfast bars, granola bars, or other ready-made foods to eat in the morning if you feel that you lack the time to cook or eat breakfast.
 Exercise will naturally regulate your body's hormones and also boost your serotonin levels, which will help reduce your cravings for sweets. For example, perform at least 30 minutes per day of aerobic activity such as walking, running, or swimming.
 Just like exercising, getting the amount of sleep you need on a daily basis will also regulate your hormones and increase your serotonin levels to reduce cravings for sweets in a natural way.


Sleep at least 8 hours per day on a consistent sleep schedule. For example, if you normally wake up at 8 a.m. to get ready for work, continue to wake up at this same hour on your days off, and go to bed at an hour that allows you to receive at least 8 hours of sleep.
 Drinking water is another natural way to curb cravings for sweets, especially since dehydration can sometimes trick your body into craving sweets.


Drink between at least 6 to 8 cups (1.42 to 1.89 liters) of water per day. For example, carry a bottle of water with you at all times, or keep a full glass of water on your desk at work throughout the day.







