 If you find yourself in trouble for doing something wrong, the best thing to do is to admit what you did and apologize for it.It will be much less stressful for you if you make amends than if you try to deny it or act rebellious.


Be honest about what happened. You will feel better about not lying and your teachers and principal will respect you more.
For example you might need to say, “Yes, I did cheat on my history quiz.”
Apologize and try to repair any damage that may have been done by your actions.
For example you might need to say, “Brandi, I’m sorry I spread that rumor. I didn’t mean to hurt your feelings.”
Or, for instance, “Mrs. McEntee, I’m sorry I wrote my name on the desk. I’ll clean it off.”

, If you are working and going to school at the same time you may find yourself extra stressed. You may be having difficulty getting enough sleep, getting your schoolwork done, or trouble getting to school and work on time. Taking the time to figure out how to balance work and school can save you a lot of stress.


Sit down with your parents or your supervisor and create a plan for how you can work but also complete your school assignments without a lot of stress.
Consider alternative ways of going to school if you have to work to support yourself. For example, explore taking online, weekend, or night classes.
Be sure that you give yourself some time off from both work and school so that you don’t burn yourself out. Try to save a half hour each day for you to do something you enjoy, like read a magazine, watch a TV show, or play a game.
 Sometimes it’s not just your schoolwork, friends, and other activities that are stressing you out. Sometimes your teachers or parents are the ones causing you stress.If an adult is doing something that makes you stressed, you should talk to someone you trust about it.


If it’s a situation of typical adult nagging or being annoying, then venting to someone can make you feel better.
For example, you might tell your friend, “My mom is really on my case! She said until my grades improve, I can’t hang out after school!”
If an adult is doing or saying things that make you feel bad about yourself, threatened, or unsafe, you should definitely tell another adult you trust.
For instance, if your coach made a sexual comment around you, you could tell your dad, “Hey, I need to talk to you about something Coach said.”
Or, for example, if your mom calls you names when she gets angry, you might say to your teacher, “Can I talk to you about some things going on at home?”
If your school has a counselor, try making an appointment to talk with them. They can teach you how to communicate in a productive way, how to deal with stress, or just be an ear to listen when you need to talk.
 There are many people who are invested in your wellbeing and can support you when you're struggling. Parents, other family members, teachers, friends, counselors, coaches, and religious leaders are all people you can go to with your problems. Know that when you are stressed, confused, or feel alone, there is always someone who can help and support you. If your parents aren't supporting you, a grandparent, teacher, friend, or even a friend's parents may be able to pick up your parents' slack.

