 Topical flea treatments, such as Advantage, Frontline Plus, and Revolution, can be applied to your dog on a regular basis each year to help prevent fleas from making a home on your dog’s body. This topical treatment is usually a cream or thick liquid that you drop onto a spot on your dog’s back, between his shoulder blades.Check with your veterinarian as to which flea treatment you should use for your dog and what dosage to give. Boxes of these topical flea treatments usually come in different amounts based on the size of your dog.
The reason why the topical treatment is applied to the spot between your dog’s back is so he cannot reach it once it’s applied. It takes a little time to soak in and start working, so you do not want your dog washing it off too soon.
Some topical flea treatments include something called “permethrins.” While this is safe to use on dogs, it is toxic to cats. Do not use this product on your cats.
Alternatively, you can use a few drop of lavender essential oil on your dog to help prevent and repel fleas.;
, Flea collars are another method to help prevent fleas from taking up residence on your dog. Flea collars, however, need to be applied properly in order to work effectively. Once on your dog, you should be able to get two fingers in-between the collar and your dog’s neck. The collar should not be any tighter or looser than that. Most flea collars are longer than you’ll need, so cut off the excess portion of the collar once you’ve fit it on your dog.If you aren’t sure which flea collar to use, ask your veterinarian or vet tech for a recommendation.
Make sure to read the collar’s instructions. Some collars become less effective if they get wet. This means you may want to take the collar off or replace it if you dog goes for a swim.
If the collar starts to irritate your dog’s neck, take it off. You may need to try another type of collar instead.
Never use flea collars with any of these ingredients on cats — Amitraz, permethrin, organophosphates.
 In addition to store bought flea collars, you can make your own using natural ingredients. All you need is: a bandana or your dog’s regular collar; 1 to 3 tablespoons of water; and 3 to 5 drops of either cedar or lavender essential oil. Mix the water and essential oil together to dilute the oil. Use an eyedropper (or something else that works in a similar way) and put 5 to 10 drops of the mixture on your dog’s collar or a bandana. Rub the fabric together so the mixture covers all the fabric. Put the bandana or collar on your dog.You will likely have to reapply the mixture once a week to keep it effective.
You can also put a mixture of 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil and 1 to 2 drops of this mixture near the base of your dog’s tail. This way the fleas are being prevented at both ends!

, There are currently several oral flea preventative treatment products on the market for dogs and cats. One such treatment is called Program. For dogs, you can get the product in pill form that you give to your dog once a month. The pill contains an insect development inhibitor that doesn’t allow fleas to form on your dog, but it won’t kill adult fleas already on your dog. Other products are also available, such as Capstar, Comfortis, and Trifexis.Capstar only stays in your dog’s system for 24 hours, so it better for situations where you need a quick solution.
Trifexis also helps prevent heart worm and can help if your dog has a hookworm, roundworm, or whipworm infection.
 You can add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of apple cider vinegar (or distilled white vinegar) to your dog’s water bowl. One tablespoon should be used for every 40 pounds (18 kg) your dog weighs. For example, if your dog weights 80 (36 kg) pounds, then add 2 tablespoons (30 ml). If you dog weighs 20 pounds (9 kg)), then add only ½ tablespoon (7.5 ml) of vinegar.Note that apple cider vinegar is also good for your dog’s skin and coat.
 There are several supplements that can be added to your dog’s diet that may help prevent and repel fleas. Not all supplements work on all dogs, so if you’ve tried a supplement for one month and nothing has changed, it probably isn’t going to work.Garlic — Giving your dog garlic, either in raw (crushed) form or via a capsule, can help prevent fleas. Large dogs can get 1 glove of garlic, medium dogs can get ½ clove, and small dogs can get ¼ clove. The dosage of the garlic oil capsule can be estimated based on the assumption that a human dose is for a 150 pound (68 kg) human.
Vitamin B Complex — A plant-source of vitamin B complex can be given to your dog on a regular basis. The amount to give your dog can be adjusted based on your dog’s size and the average human dose. You can also consider giving your dog brewers yeast as it contains B1.
Note that some dogs are allergic to brewers yeast. Check with your veterinarian before giving your dog brewers yeast.
 To make this preventative flea comb, all you need is 1 fresh lemon cut into slices, 1 pot of fresh water, and a comb, brush or sponge. Put the lemon slices and the water into a saucepan and bring the water to a boil. Once boiled, take the saucepan off the heat and cover the pot. Allow the pot to sit overnight with the lemons in the water. The following day, use a brush, comb, or sponge to dip in the water and then apply to your dog’s fur.Whether you want to use a brush, comb, or sponge may depend on the type and length of your dog’s fur or hair. Use whatever option works best for you.
 The nice thing about this spray is that it not only repels fleas, it makes your dog’s coat look great! All you need is: 1 cup (250 ml) of distilled white vinegar or apple cider vinegar; 1 quart (approx. 1 litre) of fresh water; 2 to 3 drops of cedar or lavender essential oil; and an empty spray bottle. Combine the three liquids together in the spray bottle (e.g. vinegar, essential oil, and water). Shake the spray bottle to mix everything together, then spray the mixture on your dog.The type of vinegar used in this mixture is not important. You can use either white vinegar or apple cider vinegar, although apple cider vinegar does tend to smell more pleasant. You can also use a combination of the two types of vinegar if you do not have enough of each — as long as the final measurement is 1 cup or 250 ml.
The essential oil isn’t a requirement of this spray, but does make it smell nicer.
Make sure you don’t spray the mixture in your dog’s eyes, nose, or ears. It’s better if you avoid spraying your dog’s face at all and just use a cloth or sponge to apply the mixture to his face.
You can also spray the mixture on your dog’s bedding to help prevent fleas.
 To create this bag, you’ll need: two 6 inch (15 cm) squares of breathable fabric; a handful of cedar chips; 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 ml) of dried lavender buds; and 1 lemon peel. Sew the two 6 inch (15 cm) squares of fabric together on three side to form a bag. Fill the bag with the cedar chips, lavender buds, and lemon peel. Tie the top of the bag with a ribbon or piece of string. Place the bag near your dog’s bed or other places your dog frequents. Replace the mixture inside every one to two months.If you want to try this option, but aren’t much of a sewer, you can also look for a pre-made bag of breathable fabric.

