 High-intensity cardiovascular exercise can actually suppress your appetite. Studies show that this effect may last up to two hours after your workout.


On average, roughly 60 minutes of high intensity exercise can reduce your appetite. Exercise helps reduce ghrelin which is a hormone signaling your body that you're hungry;.It may help even further if you perform the exercise in intervals. Perform short bursts of intense exercise for five to 10 minutes, taking five to 10 minute rests in between.
Even moderate amounts of exercise at lower intensities may help suppress appetite. Try going for a short power walk in between meals to help cut down on your hunger pangs.;
, People who chew gum for at least one hour every morning consume an average of 67 fewer calories compared to people who didn't chew gum.Chewing gum also burns roughly 11 calories per hour.


The chewing motion tricks the nerve pathways connecting your jaw and your brain into believing that you've eaten more than you really have. As a result, your brain feels less hungry.Sugarless mint gum could be your best option. Peppermint is believed to suppress the appetite, and sugarless gum contains fewer calories than its sugar-rich counterpart.
 Drink a glass of ice cold water the next time you feel a hunger craving. Water puts weight in your stomach without adding calories.


Also, if you're dehydrated, your body may send thirst signals which feel and seem almost identical to hunger signals.Stay hydrated by sipping water all day long.
Aim for about eight to 13 glasses of hydrating fluids daily.Anything from water, decaf coffee or tea and flavored water will help keep you hydrated throughout the day.
If you need something with taste, consider adding a lemon wedge, lime wedge, or orange wedge.
Decaf peppermint tea can also work well. Peppermint is commonly believed to help suppress the appetite.
 While you might feel hungry due to a physical need for food, oftentimes, you start feeling hungry when you start feeling bored. Keeping your brain distracted can prevent it from believing that your body is hungry.There are a variety of ways to distract yourself from being hungry. Try: cleaning, reading a book or magazine, taking a hot shower or bath, calling a friend or watching a movie.
Physical activity is often best since it prevents your mind from over-thinking and triggering emotional responses that could evoke hunger. The activity does not need to be especially strenuous, though.
Avoid activities that include food or remind you of eating. For example, skip cooking shows or TV programs featuring food. This may only increase your hunger or food cravings.
 A mantra is a line or saying you can repeat to yourself as an effort to push through a difficult situation. Find one to encourage you through your hunger and repeat it whenever you sense your resolve weakening. A few examples include:"A minute on the lips, a lifetime on the hips."
"Nothing changes if nothing changes."

"Nothing tastes as good as healthy feels."


"Eat to live. Don't live to eat."
"You can't wish yourself healthy."

, Brush your teeth with mint-flavored toothpaste when you get a craving, especially for something sweet. The sweet, minty taste can trick your mind into thinking that your body has consumed something sweet.As previously noted, the taste of mint can also act as an appetite suppressant for many people, which is another possible reason why this practice can be helpful.
Many foods taste "off" or not good after you've brushed your teeth.
Brushing your teeth also may symbolize the end of your day and "bedtime" routine. Your mind may be more focused on getting ready for sleep rather than eating.
 Most cravings only last between five and 20 minutes.Timing your cravings may help you manage them more appropriately.


Counting down the minutes until a craving disappears can remind you that it is only a temporary thing, which may make it easier to resist.
Engage in your other distracting activities during this time. Pick up a book, give your friend a call or go for a walk. When you're done, you may notice the craving has diminished, has become more manageable or has gone away completely.

