 A number of common household products can be used to polish the CD, but 3M rubbing compound and Brasso are probably the most tried and true. You can also use fine-grit polishing compounds designed for cars or hard finishes.If you're using Brasso, make sure to do so in a well-ventilated area, and avoid breathing in the fumes. Always read the safety instructions and warnings on any chemical product as many (such as rubbing alcohol) are flammable and/or can cause skin, eye, or respiratory irritation., Put a small amount of 3M compound or Brasso on a soft, clean, lint-free cloth. An old shirt or an eyeglass-cleaning cloth will both work well., Use a gentle, radial motion, to rub the compound into the scratch. Start at the center and rub out to the edge, like spokes on a wheel. Do this 10 or 12 times all around the CD. Try to focus your efforts solely on the scratch or scratches that you have identified.


When polishing the disc, make sure to lay the disc on a flat, firm surface that's non abrasive. Data is stored on the foil or dye layers on the top of the disc (label side) and the protective top layer can easily be scratched or perforated. Pressing a disc on too soft a surface may crack it or cause it to de-laminate.
Rubbing in a circular motion (as opposed to a radial motion) can cause small scratches that throw off the laser tracking system in the player.
 Rinse the disc thoroughly with warm water and let it dry. Make sure to remove all of the compound and let the disc dry completely before trying to play it. With Brasso, wipe off excess product and let the rest dry. Then, using a clean cloth, gently wipe the disc again.
 If the problem persists, polish again for up to 15 minutes, or until the scratch is almost completely buffed out. The surface around the scratch should begin to look shiny with many tiny scratches. If you still do not notice any difference after polishing for a few minutes, the scratch may be extremely deep, or you may be polishing the wrong scratch.


If the disc is still not operational, take the disc to a trained professional at a gaming store or CD repair shop.

