 Go to a hobby shop and buy a doll head, body, arms, and legs. Be sure everything is roughly matched size-wise. Some hobby shops may sell kits that take care of such considerations for you. You'll also need paint and thinner, a small paintbrush, and some doll clothes.


Doll heads range from pre-painted vinyl heads with synthetic hair to simple base elements that can be combined as you see fit. Be aware that if you buy a doll head, eyes, and a wig all separately, you'll need to do a bit more work to put the doll together.
Wigs can be made from any type of fabric you like. Specialty yarns like alpaca, mohair, and bouclé make great-looking hair, but Raggedy Ann-style colored yarn is fine, too.;
, Softer plastic doll parts can usually be pressed into pre-fitted holes on the body to make a doll with moving joints. Alternatively, use an appropriate type of glue (plastic cement or wood glue) to fix the doll's limbs in position, or to make a doll from simpler or harder parts.


If you use glue, wipe away excess glue from around the joint when you're finished.
 If your doll's head doesn't come pre-painted, it's time to paint makeup (and eyes, if needed) onto it. Acrylic paint should work for most materials. Use a small brush when painting, and start with the base colors first (for instance, white, then color, then a black pupil for the eyes). Let each layer dry before starting the next, and let the doll dry for a few more hours once you're finished.


Consider adding blush to your doll's cheeks by using pink paint thinned with some paint thinner.
If your doll's face is featureless, you may want to paint a nose onto it, in addition to the eyes and mouth. Use a U or sideways U shape to make one easily.
 If your doll requires a wig, now is the time to add it. You can make a simple and permanent wig by gluing pieces of yarn densely to the top of the doll's head with a strong adhesive, or you can make a switchable one by embroidering yarn into a piece of cloth cut to sit on the doll's head. Pre-made doll wigs are also available to purchase.
 Using whatever doll clothes you purchased, dress the doll however you like. If you weren't able to find any good doll clothes, set the doll aside for now and make it a project to find some. Once your doll is assembled, painted, and sitting in an outfit, it's done!

