 Both civil annulments and divorces are formal legal proceedings that must be filed with, and granted by, a court with jurisdiction over your case. To have jurisdiction to file for civil annulment or divorce in a particular state, you must meet their legal residency requirements. Most states, for example Delaware, require that you live in the state for at least 6 months immediately preceding the filing of divorce or annulment.However, some states do not have a residency requirement for annulments. For example, in Nevada, you can file for an annulment so long as you were married in Nevada. Neither person needs to be a resident. On the other hand, to get a divorce in Nevada, you or your partner need to be a resident.;
, If you meet your state's residency requirement for either a divorce or civil annulment, the next consideration is whether you have a valid marriage at all. In most states, marriages that take place under certain circumstances are not recognized at all. For example, in California and Massachusetts, a marriage is automatically "void" if it took place between two close relatives (e.g., brothers/sisters), or if the marriage took place when one of the partners was already married to someone else.If you have a "void" marriage, you are usually not required to file for annulment because your marriage was never properly entered into. However, to be on the safe side, a lot of states will recommend that you file for annulment regardless.Doing so will help ensure that the marriage is never recognized as valid on accident.
 If your marriage with your partner is not void, you and your partner will next need to consider whether your marriage is "voidable". A voidable marriage is one that qualifies for annulment. However, unlike a void marriage, a voidable marriage is not invalidated until the court declares it so. Therefore, in order to get out of a voidable marriage, you must file a petition with the court. In general, voidable marriages occur when:One spouse lacks the mental capacity to marry (e.g., one spouse is not of legal age to marry)
One spouse is impotent (e.g., one spouse is physically unable to have sex)
There is fraud involved (i.e., one spouse entered into the marriage to avoid deportation when the other spouse did not know about it)
One spouse is under the influence of drugs or alcohol during the ceremony, and it impaired their ability to consent

, If your marriage is neither void nor voidable, you will usually not be able to get a civil annulment. If this is the case, you and your partner will have to get a divorce. In order to get a divorce in most states, you will have to have a valid reason for doing so. Valid reasons usually include irreconcilable differences, abuse, adultery, impotence, nonsupport, desertion, and going to prison.If you have a valid reason to ask for a divorce, you will have to file a petition in court and have the court grant your divorce.
 If you believe an annulment is the right choice for you and your partner, you will have to file your annulment petition within a certain period of time. If this time period has passed, you will no longer be able to file for annulment. At that point, divorce may be your only choice. If divorce is the best option for you and your partner, you will not have to worry about time limits. You can ask for a divorce at any time because there is no deadline. Examples of annulment time limits include:Four years after reaching the age of 18 if you were married while under the age of 18
Within four years of discovering the fraud that led to a voidable marriage

, Divorces and annulments can be contested or uncontested. If you and your partner choose to go down a certain path together, your petition will usually be uncontested. When a divorce or annulment is uncontested, you and your partner will file a joint petition, or one partner will agree to not file an answer. Either way, the petition will lay out whether you want an annulment or divorce, why your request should be granted, and how the legal separation will take place.


If you and your partner can not choose a path together, you will have to ask the court for an annulment or divorce on your own. In this scenario, you will choose what you believe is the best option and petition the court by yourself. Your partner will likely file an answer asking the court to do something else. At that point, it will be up to the court to decide which option is best suited to your situation., Civil annulments and divorces are granted for very different reasons. Before you talk with your partner and determine which route to take, you need to think about the source of your relationship problems. For example, civil annulments are usually only available when your marriage was in some way invalid to begin with. This could be the case because you or your partner entered into the marriage fraudulently, or because you or your partner are already married to someone else. On the other hand, divorces are available when a marriage is valid but you or your partner do not want to continue the legal relationship. Your reasons for wanting a divorce might include infidelity, abuse, or desertion, to name a few.Think about the reasons for wanting to go to court before you sit down with your partner. Write down your thoughts so you can remember them later. For example, if you look back at your relationship and determine your partner is actually your brother or sister, a civil annulment might be the bet route. However, if you look back at your relationship and determine you and your partner are simply incompatible, you might want to seek a divorce.
 The financial consequences stemming from divorce and annulment are very different and need to be considered before you talk with your partner. If you need financial support from your partner even after the relationship is legally ended, you need to ask for a divorce. When a court validates a marriage and ends it (i.e., grants a divorce), the court can use certain laws to require ex-spouses to support you financially. These laws generally include spousal support (a.k.a., alimony) and property distribution.


When you ask the court to grant an annulment, marriage and divorce laws generally do not apply. Therefore, if an annulment is granted, you will not be able to ask for financial support from your ex-partner, because it will be as if no legal relationship ever existed., After you consider your reasons for wanting to end a relationship with your partner, take some time to brainstorm how you want a talk with your partner to go. Be prepared to take charge and lead the discussion. Doing so will allow you to discuss what you consider to be important. To prepare for a talk, write out a list of questions you want your partner to answer. Some good questions might touch on the following:


Your partner's feelings about not being together
The financial support you or your partner may be willing to provide the other
What choice your partner prefers (e.g., divorce or annulment)

, When you feel prepared, ask your partner if they have time to discuss your future. Do not get into details at this point but simply tell them you want to have a serious discussion. Be honest with your partner, however, so they have time to prepare as well. For example, consider telling your partner, "I would like to sit down and discuss options for ending our marriage. I would like this to be a mutual decision so do you have some time to talk?" The more prepared both parties are, the better the conversation will be. When you schedule a time to talk, make sure you do it in person. Choosing to annul a marriage or divorce is a serious decision to make and you do not want to do it over the phone or through an email.


However, if you are afraid of how your partner might respond during your talk, think about meeting at a public place or having the discussion over the phone. You do not want to jeopardize your safety.
 When you sit down with your partner, be respectful but confident. Take control of the conversation and be honest. If your partner is doing something in the relationship that has caused you to consider ending it, let them know. Tell them how you feel. For example, if your partner is physically unable to have sex, which is a valid ground for an annulment in some states, tell your partner how this makes you feel.You might say, "I am sexually frustrated and was not aware when we got married that you would not be able to have sex."


While these conversations may be tough to have, they will lead to an honest discussion and may even help you and your partner avoid the choice between civil annulment and divorce altogether. For example, once your partner knows about your sexual frustration, they might open up about the source of their issue. This might lead to you and your partner working to fix the issue as opposed to ending a marriage.
 When you talk with your partner about annulment and divorce, do not blame them for the situation you are in and do not get angry. When anger becomes a part of the conversation, it leads to irrational discussions that lead nowhere. If you feel as though you are getting angry during the talk with your partner, tell them you need a second to step away. Go for a walk or take a moment for yourself and come back when you are ready to continue.


Just like anger, blaming your partner for everything will not allow for an honest and open discussion. When you blame your partner for something, they get defensive and react emotionally. Keep the conversation factual and calculated.
If you feel the conversation starting to go downhill, tell your partner that you will have to finish the conversation another time.
 The initial conversation between you and your partner does not have to resolve every issue you both have. This initial talk is supposed to allow you and your partner to open up and discuss options for ending the marriage. Use this first discussion to make a choice about annulment or divorce. Once a choice is made, set up another time to talk about specifics.


For example, focus your first talk around what an annulment is, what a divorce is, and what the best choice between them is given your factual situation. Discuss how your marriage was entered into and whether it may have led to a marriage that is void or voidable. Talk about your reasons for wanting to end the marriage and whether your state will allow a divorce for those reasons.
 Use what you learned while evaluating your choices, both alone and with your partner, and come up with an informed decision. If you qualify for annulment and you and your partner think that would be the best choice, file for annulment. If you do not qualify for annulment, or if you think getting a divorce will offer more benefits than an annulment, then you will need to file for divorce.


Remember to try and file a joint, uncontested petition whenever possible. Doing so will make finalizing your arrangements with the court much easier. However, in some circumstances, a contested petition for divorce or annulment may be the only option. This usually happens when one partner disagrees with the choice made between getting an annulment or divorce.
 After you talk with your partner, you will have a pretty good idea of whether you want to ask for an annulment or divorce. Regardless of that choice, and regardless of whether the choice was made independently or as a couple, it is always a good idea to hire a lawyer. A family law lawyer will help you through the legal process of filing for divorce or annulment. In addition, a lawyer will counsel you on whether your choice was a realistic one.


For example, you and your partner might decide that an annulment would be best, but a lawyer might be able to tell you that an annulment will not be possible in your situation.
 To find a qualified lawyer, start by asking friends and family if they know anyone. Chances are, at least one person you know will have someone in mind. Even if those close to you do not know a family law lawyer, ask if they know any lawyers in general. Chances are, even if you contact a criminal defense lawyer, they will know a family law lawyer to refer you to. Lawyers rely heavily on these recommendations and referrals. They can be a great way to find well-qualified representation.
 If you cannot get any good referrals or recommendations from people you know, visit your state bar's lawyer referral service website. After answering a few general questions about your legal concerns, you will be put in touch with various lawyers in your area.
 Once you have a list of three to five qualified lawyers, contact them and set up initial consultations. During an initial consultation, you will have an opportunity to discuss your case with the lawyer to determine if the lawyer will be a good fit. On the other side, the lawyer will be able to assess the strength of your case and determine whether they want to represent you. When you attend an initial consultation, bring all the paperwork you have regarding your marriage and the circumstances surrounding it. This might include a marriage license, birth certificates, videos, letters, and anything else you think might help.


Once you arrive for your meeting, answer the lawyer's questions about your case. During this period, assess the lawyer's understanding of your situation and whether you think they can help.
Do not be afraid to ask questions back. In addition to asking questions about your case, you should also ask about the lawyer's professional background, history of legal troubles, and ability to practice law where you need them to practice.
Initial consultations can be free or the lawyer can charge you for them. Check with the lawyer's office prior to the meeting to determine if the lawyer will charge.
 Before you leave the initial consultation, make sure you talk with the lawyer about their fee structure. Most divorce lawyers, who will also handle annulments, charge by the hour. In an hourly fee structure, your lawyer will charge you for the amount of time they work on the case, usually in fifteen minute increments. The average hourly rate for a divorce lawyer is around $250. A lawyer's fee may go up or down depending on the complexity and amount of work you require.In some circumstances, a lawyer might charge you a flat fee for doing some divorce or annulment work. For example, some lawyers may charge a flat fee of $2,000 to file a joint petition for annulment.
In other circumstances, a lawyer might accept property in lieu of cash. If you do not have enough cash to pay your lawyer, they may take real estate, cars, or even paintings, in order to recoup the expense.
 Once you have interviewed possible lawyers and compared their strengths and weaknesses, you will need to make a decision. Call the lawyer you are most comfortable with and let them know you would like them to represent you. Before the lawyer starts working for you, make sure you sign a representation agreement, which will set out the type of work the lawyer will do and how much the lawyer will charge.
 Once the lawyer starts working for you, they will assess your choice between a civil annulment and divorce and work to accomplish your goals. If you want to Get a Civil Annulment, your lawyer will assess whether you qualify and will file the proper paperwork. If you want to Begin a Divorce, your lawyer will help you choose the best path and will help you file the proper paperwork.

