 Mixing drinks is your worst enemy when it comes to hangovers. This is because different alcohols contain various additives, flavorings, and other elements which, when combined, can give you the mother of all hangovers as your body struggles to process everything at once. Choose beer or vodka or wine or rum, but whatever you do, don't have them all in one night. Choose your drink and stick to it.


Cocktails are particularly lethal, as they usually contain two or more alcohols mixed together. If you can't resist the bright colors and tiny umbrellas, try to at least limit yourself to a maximum of two Cosmopolitans!

, Dark liquors - like brandy, whisky, bourbon and some tequilas - have a higher concentration of toxins called congeners, which are formed during the process of fermenting and distilling alcohol. These toxins can contribute to the severity of your hangover, so if you're going to drink the hard stuff, stick with light colored liquors like vodka and gin to lessen your intake of toxins., Alcohol is a diuretic, which means that it makes you urinate more, leading to dehydration. Dehydration is one of the major causes of hangover symptoms like thirst, dizziness and headaches. Therefore, the more water you drink to rehydrate before, during and after drinking, the less severe your hangover is likely to be the next morning.Have a big glass of water before you start drinking, then try to drink a glass of water for every alcoholic drink that you have over the course of the night. Your body will thank you for it in the morning.
Drinking water in between alcoholic drinks will also slow the speed of your alcohol consumption, preventing you from drinking too much too quickly.
 Mixers such as diet lemonade or diet cola are not a good idea when you're drinking. This is due to the fact that diet mixers contain no sugar or calories, without which the alcohol shoots directly into the bloodstream. Sticking with the regular version of mixers keeps a few calories in your system, which should work in your favor once morning rolls around.Even though regular mixers are better than diet versions, fruit juice is a better option than either. Juice is uncarbonated - which is good as any carbonated beverage increases the speed of alcohol absorption - while it also contains a certain amount of vitamins, which certainly doesn't hurt.
 Champagne and sparkling wine can literally go straight to your head. Studies have shown that the effects of bubbles in alcohol increases the delivery of alcohol through your system and cause you to become intoxicated faster.


If you're at an event such as a wedding and you can't resist a little bubbly, try drinking just one glass of champagne during the toast and drink a different alcohol for the rest of the evening.
 Know your limits and stick to them. The hard reality is that if you drink too much alcohol, some form of a hangover is inevitable. A hangover is your body's natural way of clearing the toxins in alcohol from your body, so the more you imbibe, the nastier the hangover will be. The number of alcoholic beverages it takes to reach a state of intoxication varies from person to person and knowing your own limits is important. It's usually recommended that you don't have more than three beverages in any one to two hour period, and no more than five beverages in one night.Pay attention to how different types of alcohol affect you. No matter what the studies say, every person's ability to metabolize alcohol differs and you'll know by experience which beer, wine, spirit, or liqueur works for you or plays havoc with your body. Listen to your own body's reactions and take care accordingly.
Keep in mind that regardless of all the preventative measures you can take, the only surefire way to avoid a hangover is not to drink at all. Failing that, you should pay close attention to quantity - the less alcohol consumed, the better your chances of avoiding a hangover. Simple as.

