 People who are under the influence tend to have sleepy or droopy eyes. Make a conscious effort to keep your eyes open and fight the urge to let them start closing. Blink quickly and often. When you are drunk, your eyes can become easily irritated. Use eye drops to reduce redness.;
, If you start walking around, you will draw attention to yourself and likely trip or fall. People will probably not notice how drunk you are if you hide your lack of coordination. If you must walk, move briskly to your destination. Forward momentum will keep you from staggering. Placing your hands on a solid objects (railings, tables, backs of chairs) as you move to help your brain compensate for your lack of balance.
 People often space out when they are drunk. They get lost in their own thoughts and ignore everything around them. Remain engaged with your environment. Listen to friends’ conversations, watch what is happening around the room, and respond if someone tries to get your attention you.
 Slurred speech, bragging, repetition, and inappropriate statements are tell-tale signs of drunkenness.Alcohol impairs your judgement, so you won’t hear how drunk you sound. Don’t let your crazy talk give you away. Limit your end of conversations to short answers.
 Complicated thoughts are hard to express when you are intoxicated, and trying to explain what you mean could be a giveaway that you have had a few (or several) to drink. Fight the urge to express any "fantastic thoughts" you just came up with: a new business idea, your desire to marry a woman you met fifteen minutes ago, etc. They may sound mind-blowing right now, but chances are they aren't.
 Natural fatigue often resembles intoxication. If someone asks if you are drunk, provide plausible excuses for your behavior. People will likely give you the benefit of the doubt.
 Oranges, potato chips, peanut butter, curry, garlic, onions and breath mints will mask alcohol (and smoke) on your breath. These smells are powerful and potentially unpleasant, but they are common enough that people will not suspect you are trying to cover up the smell of booze.
 When you are drunk, your entire body smells like alcohol, not just your breath.Until your liver has finished metabolizing the alcohol, your body will emit that somewhat sweet, identifiable drunk smell. Use cologne or a strong deodorant like Old Spice to hide the scent.
 Alcohol dries out your mouth and encourages bacterial growth.People have come to associate the smell of an unhealthy mouth with the smell of alcohol. If you can’t mask the smell of alcohol with strong foods, clean your mouth instead. Brush your teeth, rinse with mouthwash, and drink plenty of water to rehydrate.

