 While panty liners aren’t meant be used to absorb sweat from your armpit, they are designed to absorb liquid. You can buy a batch of panty liners for much cheaper than predesigned underarm shields. You can cut a panty liner in half and use one for each armpit. Use some scotch tape or a safety pin to connect the pad directly on the clothing.


You could alternatively fold the panty liner in half and place the fold over your clothing’s armpit.;
, You can create your own underarm shields out of your old socks. Salvage the sock that formed a hole by transforming it into a underarm pad. Use scissors to cut out a thin oval from the sock’s fabric. Attach the pad directly to your clothing or let the pad hang over the pit crease.


If you don’t attach the sock shield, it helps if your shirt or dress is tight.Athletic socks will give you the most control of sweat. Cotton socks will also handle liquids better than a synthetic, polyester blend.
 Acquire muslin fabric from a textiles store, or from a crafts supplier. Fold the muslin about three times. Draw a thin oval, about the size of your armpit, onto the folded muslin. Take a pair of scissors and cut along the outline. You can sew these together in a couple of different ways:


Use loose flannel to cover the muslin. Use a spare strip of flannel fabric and wrap the layers of muslin.Cut the flannel so that it matches the cut out design with a little bit of overlap for sewing. Sew the flannel together using standard thread.
Sew the muslin together using a thread and needle. The sew doesn’t need to be perfect, but it should hold each layer in place.
The more layers of muslin that you use, the more absorbent the shield will be.
 Buy an absorbent fabric from a fabrics supplier or from the internet. There are a few types of fabrics that are notoriously absorbent like: zorb, hemp cotton, bamboo cotton, and polyurethane laminate. These are the types of fabrics that commercial underarm pads are made from. Use the raw supplies to create your own pads at half the cost.


If you need help measuring the fabric, place the uncut fabric to your armpit. Use a mirror and a pen to outline your armpit.
Outline an oval that fits your armpit using a marker. Then cut out the outline with scissors.
The absorbent fabric can be layered like the muslin pads were. You can alter the pads based on your personal needs.

