 Loving yourself never means that you are a selfish person. In fact it helps you to always think positive about yourself. Whenever you feel down it will help you to boost up your confidence again. If you love yourself you will be able to believe in yourself.;
, That surely doesn't mean you don't need your other friends. At the time of your danger you may have your other friends but you will also need to go through it, so it's better to also make yourself one of your own best friends. Remember that you will always know what is best for yourself more than anyone else does.
 By doing this you will have time to think about the problems you are facing. When you spend time alone, ask yourself some questions which will help to solve your problem. What is the problem? How can you solve the problem? What the worst that can happen? How can you handle the situation? Ask these to yourself at that time. You will certainly get the confidence to solve your problem by yourself.
 This can really help. There are three advantages that you can get from keeping a journal:


You can speak about topics which you can't discuss with anyone else.
If you write in your journal, you won't hold on to bad emotions. For example if you are feeling angry, your anger will build up more and more if you don't release it somewhere, and if you write your thoughts in a journal, you can get them off your chest.
Papers never reveal the secret! You can get a real true friend by writing a journal, who will never speak about your secrets to others. Thus you can be happy mentally which is very important.
 No matter how hard the situation is, you can always be happy from heart. It is the good work which can keep your heart happy, so do at least one good deed a day, whether you're just helping an old lady to cross the road or donating a dollar!

, Even if what you have is very little in amount you should always be grateful. It's very hard to think about the things you're grateful for when you're having a hard time but turn this into a habit and you will see amazing results. Because when you think about the things you are grateful for, it instantly changes your mood. Understand that there are so many people who have a lot less than what you have, so appreciate what you have and be grateful.