 Instead of sniping or trimming your cuticles, try to push them back gently with a nail pusher, sold in the beauty sections of most stores. Try shaping your cuticles directly after getting out of the shower when they are pliable. It is important to keep the cuticle intact when possible, as it your finger’s natural barrier against germs.It is okay to clip any hangnails or large pieces of excess skin with a sanitized pair of small scissors. Just be careful to not nick the healthy skin and avoiding clipping when possible., After you’ve pushed back the cuticle, apply a liberal dose of cuticle cream to the nail and surrounding skin. Many people prefer to incorporate this as part of a post-shower ritual. If your cuticles are particularly damaged, you might want to apply a healing cream multiple times each day, especially after washing your hands.If you want to spend a bit more, look for a specialty product, such as rose hip oil, which contains additional vitamin A to promote healing., The chemicals in nail polish can irritate your cuticles and nails. Try to let your nails go bare for a few weeks if you notice that your cuticles are irritated or damaged. When you decide to go back to polish, talk to your manicurist about choosing a type that is good for sensitive nails and cuticles., Add moisturizer to your nails at night before going to bed. Put on a pair of cotton gloves or socks afterwards. This will keep the moisture close to your skin and will also keep you from getting everything else oily that you touch. Covering your hands or feet protects them from dry air as well, which can cause cracking.If you bite your nails, wearing gloves or socks can help prevent you from biting in your sleep. This is also effective with children who bite their nails.
Don’t be afraid to go a bit heavy on the moisturizer, as some of it will wipe off on the gloves or socks., Get a bowl and mix together aloe vera juice, olive oil, and raw honey. Place your fingers in the bowl and coat your hands with this mixture. Keep them soaking for five minutes or so. Repeat three times a week for the best results.Get a bit creative with the soaking ingredients, if you like. Place your fingers in orange juice, milk, or even coconut oil for healing.You can purchase a paraffin wax bath at most pharmacies. For this treatment, you will heat up the wax, and soak your hands until the wax hardens again. Peel off the wax when you are done for softer, smoother skin and nails.

