 Having a good sense of humor is also a good way to attract women and be a chick magnet. However, you don’t want to be a clown. Instead, find the right mix of humor and seriousness that will let women know you’re fun and easy to be around, but are also strong and serious.


Tell a joke every once in a while.
Avoid being funny all the time. Don’t make it your goal to make people laugh.
Use humor to fill potentially awkward silences or to break the ice with a girl.
Make sure your humor is always appropriate for the setting. For instance, don’t joke about death at a funeral or a wedding.;
, Work on being approachable and easy to talk to. Often people who are shy turn girls off, for they appear boring and uninteresting. Instead, be approachable so people can sense that you're engaged and open to new relationships.


Don’t be afraid to chit chat. Be friendly and talk to people.
Look well-adjusted and happy. In order for girls to approach you, they need to sense that you’re a well-adjusted and happy person. As a result, try to smile and respond to people in a positive way.
Smile and look at girls in an inviting way. Make sure you make eye contact with girls in a positive way. However, don’t be creepy and don’t stalk them with your eyes. Just let them know that you’re friendly and interested.
Let others know you like to have a good time. Show others that you are interested in having fun. If girls know that you’re into having a good time, they’ll likely gravitate to you., To be a chick magnet, you need to constantly show respect to the women and girls around you. Respect speaks volumes. Women who know you respect them will want to be around you.


Show respect to the girls and women around you. Don't speak for them, assume you know what they want, or bully or push them into doing something they don't want to do. As for all people you come in contact with, you should respect their opinions, listen to them, and engage them as equals.
Show respect to everyone around you.
Be polite to women and to everyone you come into contact with, not just women you want to date. Women and girls can tell when you're faking it to impress them, and most of them will not be attracted to a guy who is disrespectful of anyone.
 For many women, maturity is an extremely attractive quality. By acting mature, you'll show the girls around you that you stand out in front of the rest of the guys they know.


Don’t goof off with your friends in front of girls.
Don’t act out at school to get attention, if you go to school.
If a girl shoots you down, politely thank her for her time and move on. Nothing is less appealing to other girls than a person who can’t take rejection. Letting a rejection roll of your back with ease will show everyone around you how confident you really are.
Do your work and do it diligently. Success is an important part of being mature. Women often gravitate toward successful people., When people perceive you as someone who is relaxed and does not get excited over small things, they’ll likely see you as someone worth being around. Because of this, you should act as cool and calm as you can. This will compliment your confident demeanor and help you attract women.


When you’re meeting a girl, don’t show that you are anxious about the details like what or where you are going to meet up. While it’s okay to be clear and direct about important details, don’t show that you are anxious about them.
Avoid acting over-excited about getting a date with a girl or anything similar. If you show you are over-excited, you may seem desperate.
Don’t let your emotions get the better of you. Always act calm and cool, even if you’re excited about something., Avoid vulgarity at all times. When you're vulgar you demonstrate that you lack class and don't respect the people around you. Consider the following:


Don’t curse.
Avoid saying inappropriate things. For instance, don’t joke about sex or sexual relations. This could be a major turn off.
Never make inappropriate gestures to your friends or to anyone else., Even though you want to let all of the girls know how cool you are, bragging or boasting may undermine your entire game. Bragging or boasting might turn girls off. It might also signal to some people that you are actually insecure about yourself or your position.


Let your coolness or ability speak for itself. If you’re super awesome, people will talk about how you are super awesome.
Invite girls to events you take part in, rather than bragging about them. For instance, if you’re a star baseball player, invite them to your game.
While it may be okay to talk a little about the cool things you’re doing, you’ve done, or other achievements, never go into detail and just mention them briefly., Perhaps the most important part of being a chick magnet is exuding confidence. Confidence helps draw people to you. This goes for women, too.


Tell yourself that you are a competent, capable, and attractive person. Trust in this and trust in yourself.
Non-confident people tend to make other people question themselves. , Thinking positively will not only help you build confidence, but it will also help you create a positive mind frame that others can sense. Such a mindset will give you motivation and put you in the right place to gain the attention of girls.


Thinking positively will translate into being positive to other people. Positive people are more fun to be around.
Focus on the good in everything. If something bad happens to you at school or at work, like you receive a poor grade or you are passed over for promotion, try to find good in it. View it as a learning experience. Others will see this and may be impressed., Staying focused on your goal of being a chick magnet is very important. If you lose focus, you’ll likely make a bunch of mistakes that will undermine your ultimate goal of attracting women. Make sure you:


Don’t lose your cool if you’re angry or frustrated.
Don't treat anyone with disrespect, especially girls or women. Your reputation will affect how other girls view you.
Get in the habit of having a chick magnet-related routine. Make sure you do the same stuff every day to prepare yourself for the world and for meeting women. Allocate enough time for grooming, for exercising, and for everything else you need to do.
 An important element of being a chick magnet is positive body language and good posture. Positive body language and good posture will show women that you are confident, put together, and approachable. It may also put people at ease when they are around you.


Smile when appropriate.
Avoid crossing your arms.
Never walk or stand slumped over. Your shoulders should be high and chest should be out a little bit., One great way to be a chick magnet is to make sure you are in shape, attractive, and appealing to women. While you don’t have to have six-pack abs or giant muscles, you should try to be relatively fit and healthy.


Consider toning up. Toning up your body might be a little work, but it will pay off. Try some light weight training and a cardio activity like running or swimming.
Don’t go overboard on the weight lifting or muscle building. Many women are intimidated or turned off by a person that is completely ripped.
Watch what you eat. Make sure you don’t overeat. Overeating may cause you to pack on the pounds and ruin your chance of being a chick magnet., When dressing, you should be comfortable yet look sharp. This is important because comfort will make you appear confident and laid back, but looking sharp will let girls know that you are put together and conscious of your appearance.


There's no need to put on a fancy outfit that doesn't feel like you at all. Instead, try to build a wardrobe of decent clothes that feel comfortable.
Girls will swerve to avoid slobs, so make sure your comfort does not trump looking sharp. If you’re comfortable in jeans and a t-shirt, this is fine. Just make sure that your clothes are clean and free from stains or unintentional rips or tears.
Avoid wearing the same shirt you already wore a few days ago. While you may think no one notices, some girls do., While comfort and sharpness is important, you also need to wear clothes that look good on you. Put a good bit of thought into this before changing your wardrobe.


Avoid clothes that are either too small on you or too big on you. Clothes that are too large are especially dangerous, as you might look slobby or larger than you actually are.
Choose shirts that complement your figure and skin tone. If you’re not really trim or built like an athlete, avoid clothes that are too tight. They may not be flattering.
Try clothes that compliment your hair and eye color. If you’ve got green or blue eyes, wearing other green or blue might draw those colors out. This might help attract women.
If you're wearing a shirt that is supposed to be tucked in, tuck it in. Leaving the shirt untucked will make you look sloppy, but tucking it in too much will give you a not-so-cool appearance. Make sure you pull your shirt out just a little bit so it hangs over your belt a little bit., Keeping good physical hygiene is key in being a chick magnet. If you’re unhygienic, this will probably turn girls off. As a result, make sure you always clean and groom yourself appropriately.


Shower every day. Make sure to use soap and shampoo. It will leave you smelling and looking clean. Also, make sure to wash behind your ears.
Brush your teeth twice a day (or after meals). Brushing your teeth regularly will help ensure you’ve got white teeth and good breath. It will also help prevent tooth decay and gum disease.
Use deodorant.
Shave and/or trim your facial hair.
Treat acne or skin problems appropriately.
Trim your nose hairs.