 In most instances, sleeping pills are safest and most effective when used "as needed" due to specific circumstances. If, for instance, you have traveled across multiple time zones or are recovering from a painful medical procedure, using a sleep aid for a night or two may be worthwhile. Unless under the direct guidance of a physician, do not use sleeping pills on a nightly or even consistent basis.If you consistently have trouble falling or staying asleep at night, especially when there are no extenuating circumstances (a sick child, a big meeting the next day, etc.), you should contact your doctor for a checkup.
If you have a history of diagnosed sleep disorders, depression, or substance abuse, definitely contact your doctor before using a sleep aid. They can have a powerful impact on the body and can be quite addictive.;
, While you will be required to seek your physician’s recommendation in order to use a prescription sleep medication, it is good practice to consult her before using any type of sleep aid. At very least, you should consult your pharmacist about possible interactions between your chosen prescription, over-the-counter (OTC), or herbal remedy and other medications you take.Remember, sleep aids of any type are essentially a temporary “band-aid” that can mask a range of conditions that may be causing your sleeplessness, without doing anything to help these underlying issues. Such underlying conditions can range from depression to sleep apnea, and it is therefore wise to discuss your persistent sleeplessness with your doctor., Whether you’re dealing with sleeping pills, heart pills, cold pills, or any other kind of pill, it is essential that you fully understand and follow the dosing instructions provided by your doctor and/or the medication package. For your health and safety, you need to take the right dose at the right time, every time.Don't take a sleeping pill your friend hands you out of her purse because it works for her. You will not have the necessary information to determine if that pill is safe for you. Never take a prescription sleep aid that is not prescribed for you, or an OTC or herbal sleep aid that does not come from a legitimate, legal source or have the required packaging and informational literature.
 Certain sleep medications, if stopped abruptly after a period of regular use, can cause "rebound insomnia." This condition creates an even more severe sleeplessness than you’d experienced before taking the medication.Always ask your doctor before stopping a sleep aid you've been taking consistently. Likewise, don't increase or decrease your dosage without consulting your doctor or pharmacist first. You could increase your risk of dependency or harmful side effects such as depression.
Sleep aids taken only occasionally are not a significant issue in regards to "rebound insomnia" or other problems with starting and stopping; however, never "double up" on any sleep aid halfway through the night because you decide the first pill wasn't enough. Follow the dosing instructions precisely., Perhaps not surprisingly, persistent morning drowsiness can be a side effect of taking a sleeping medication, especially if you do not dedicate an adequate block of time for sleep. Beyond this, however, the side effects of sleeping pills can vary widely depending upon the particular medication, and can occasionally be severe or even life-threatening. Refer to the packaging and talk to your doctor or pharmacist so that you are prepared to recognize possible side effects.Prescription sleeping pills in the “sedative hypnotics” class (which includes the most common choices) can cause “complex sleep-related behaviors” — that is, sleep-walking, sleep-eating, sleep-driving, etc., with no recollection of doing so the next morning.
Some sleeping medications can also cause severe allergic reactions in some people, and sometimes increase depression or suicidal thoughts., There is no way to know how a particular sleeping pill will impact you until you actually start taking it. It may make no difference, knock you out for half the next day, or cause an allergic reaction that sends you to the ER; therefore, it is best not to start a new sleeping medication the night before a big exam, an important meeting, or any other time when being 100% alert and ready to go is essential.For instance, if you have a “lazy Sunday” coming up, Saturday night would be a good choice for starting a new sleeping medication. Make sure you can dedicate at least eight hours to sleeping that night, and don’t make any major plans for the next morning. Give the medication a chance to work (or not) in a low-pressure environment first.
If possible, play it safe and have someone check up on you the next morning by calling, texting, stopping by your house, etc.
Of course, if your doctor advises you to start a medication immediately, follow his advice.
 It may be a bit obvious to say that the safest sleeping pill is the one you don’t take, but it is simply true that only taking sleeping medications when you need to is normally the healthiest, best option. That said, use your doctor’s instructions as your primary guidance about when and for how long to take a sleeping medication.Several types of sleep aids — and especially many prescription medications — run the risk of becoming addictive, so it is preferable to take them for limited or defined periods of time (for instance, for two to four weeks straight or two to three times per week as needed).
If you need to take a sleep aid every night in order to get any decent sleep, it is important that you see your doctor to determine what is causing your sleeplessness.
 Some people have trouble sleeping at night due to a medical condition, and others for unknown reasons. Many of us, however, have sleepless nights because of poor preparation for sleep. Before resorting to a sleep aid, try making some simple lifestyle changes and adjustments to your nighttime routine and see if these improve your sleep patterns. Check out this wikiHow article for more tips on improving sleep, and try:Avoiding caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine for four to six hours before bedtime; avoiding exercise 2 hours before bedtime; avoiding large meals two hours before bedtime; taking any naps before 3:00 in the afternoon.
Choosing a dark, quiet, comfortable room; “winding down” for 30 minutes before bedtime by reading, listening to music, etc. (and not by watching TV or looking at your phone, computer or another type of screen device); getting up if you haven’t fallen asleep within 20 minutes of bedtime and doing another “wind-down” until you are sleepy.
 Some herbal or traditional sleep aids, like chamomile tea (two to three bags steeped for ten minutes, typically), have been used for ages and are almost always safe. Other herbal or similar supplements, however, even if marketed as “natural,” may be just as prone to dangerous side effects as over-the-counter (OTC) or prescription sleeping pills. They may also do nothing to actually help you sleep.Valerian is an herbal remedy that is generally safe and non-habit forming, but is of unclear usefulness in aiding sleep. Unlike most sleep aids, it works best when taken nightly for at least two weeks. Consult your doctor about possible interactions with statins and other medications.
Melatonin is a hormone naturally produced by the body at night. It is best to stick to low doses (usually 1-3 mg), and to take special care if you are on blood pressure or diabetes medications.
Tryptophan is an amino acid famous for being in your Thanksgiving turkey, its sleep-inducing effectiveness is inconclusive.
Kava is a traditional remedy that may help with stress-related insomnia, but can cause severe liver damage. It is best taken under a doctor’s supervision.
Whatever your herbal sleep aid choice, follow the dosing instructions carefully. If there are not clear instructions provided, don't take the medication. Your safest move is to contact your doctor before taking any sleep aid, herbal remedies included.
 There are more options than ever before in the sleep aid section of your local drugstore, which may improve your likelihood of finding a pill that works for you. Remember, though, that just because a medication is over-the-counter does not mean that it is safe to take for everyone. Possible drug interactions and side effects must be accounted for, and it is best to consult your doctor or pharmacist first.Despite the brand variety available, most OTC sleep aids are antihistamines, either diphenhydramine (such as Nytol) or doxylamine (such as Unisom). The sedating effects of antihistamine-based sleep aids can often bleed into the next day, causing a sort of “hangover” — especially if you do not give yourself eight or more hours to sleep.
 If other options have failed to help, your doctor may advise and prescribe one of several sleep medications, all of which require careful monitoring for possible side effects.Some options include:


Benzodiazepine sedative hypnotics. The oldest variety of prescription sleep aids, these are controlled substances with a high risk of dependency, as well as risks of dangerous allergic reactions and episodes of sleep-walking/eating/driving, etc.
Non-benzodiazepine sedative hypnotics. These include popular medications like Ambien, and work on the same area of the brain with less risk of dependency; however, there is less information regarding their long-term effects, and they carry the same risk of sleep-walking, etc., along with a possible risk of depression and/or suicidal thoughts. Sedative hypnotics may increase the risk of fetal malformations during pregnancy and should never be taken with alcohol.
Melatonin receptor agonists. These are a new variety of prescription sleep aids, and work primarily to help you fall — but not necessarily stay — asleep. They can cause dizziness, worsen depression, and exacerbate existing liver damage, among other possible side effects.
Antidepressants. While not intended for use as sleep aids, these are sometimes prescribed for “off label” use by physicians. Regardless of why they are being used, they carry the risk of worsening depression or suicidal thoughts.
Orexin receptor antagonists. These new drugs target orexins, which are chemicals that help keep you awake and alert. These medications block the orexin receptors in your brain, which will hopefully make you tired.