 It shouldn't be too stiff because it needs to fold easily. Also, if you are new to folding origami, you should start with a larger piece of paper.;
, The pretty side of the paper should be facing the table. It doesn't matter if you're using a plain sheet of paper, though a two-sided sheet can make the folds easier to see. Also, begin with the paper making a square in front of you, not turned like a diamond., Match the top corners with the bottom corners, and then make a crease in the middle. Unfold the paper again., Match up the left side corners with the right side corners. Make a crease down the center. Unfold again.At this point, the paper should be the same size you started with but with creases down the middle going horizontally and vertically.
 The pretty side should now be facing up., Fold it down from the top left corner to the bottom right corner, matching up the sides. Create a diagonal crease. Unfold it., Fold the paper from the bottom left corner up to the upper right corner, creasing along the diagonal again. Unfold it.At this point, you should still have the original square but with vertical and horizontal folds on one side and diagonal folds on the other.
 Turn the paper 45 degrees so that one of the points is facing up. You should have a diamond facing you now., Fold in each side of the diamond until the outside corner is touching the center of the diamond. Crease them, and keep them folded.You now have a small square in the center with a triangle on the top and bottom.
 The backside should be facing up now., Make a vertical crease that pulls each side into to the center line. You're making the whole shape skinnier.The points of the side triangles should flip around as you fold in the sides.
 The points that flipped around with the fold should be sticking out. Fold them into the center point, creasing along the side.You should now have four diamonds surrounded by triangles pointing inward.
 Tuck the bottom under the top rather than the other way around, called a mountain fold., Pull out the bottom half, and halfway between the crease you made in the last step and the bottom of the same diamond, fold the paper the other way. You are creating what's called a valley fold. You are essentially making a small tuck in the paper., For the handle, you make a squash fold.You'll make valley folds from where you tucked the paper down to the bottom of the paper. Next, make small mountain folds that run diagonal from the side tips of the small diamonds at the tuck to the outer edges; these should only be as long as the bottom tip of the small diamond created by the tuck. You'll also be unfolding part of the tuck. Pull in the sides of the handle along the valley folds, using the mountain folds as a guide to flatten out part of the tuck. Flatten the creases. You should have a passable handle now.,, Fold up the small triangle at the bottom of the handle to create a straight edge., Above the handle, you should see a small diamond. Create a mountain fold at the top of the diamond horizontally and a valley fold horizontally at the middle. You are making another layer above the handle through folding, so the bottom of the fold should line up with the top of the handle. Crease the fold., Fold vertical valley folds along the blade that line up with the handle. Create small diagonal mountain folds at the bottom corners of the blade that fold down the corners. Folding in the valley folds to meet in the middle, flatten out the triangles at the bottom as part of the crossguard of the dagger., The dagger is done.