 To help combat hair loss, you can make a garlic hair salve. Start off with six to eight cloves of garlic. Peel the garlic cloves. Use a garlic press to get 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of garlic juice from these cloves.


If you don't get enough juice from these cloves, juice more cloves until you do.;
, Once you've juiced the garlic, set it aside. Grab some honey and measure out 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml). Mix the honey into the small bowl of garlic juice and put the mixture in the refrigerator. , While your mixture chills in the fridge, you need to brew some tea. Take two bags of chamomile tea or three tablespoons of loose leaf tea. Add it to a pot of water and place it on the stove. Let it simmer in 24 ounces of water for 30 minutes.


Once the tea has brewed for the right amount of time, pour the mixture into a cup. If you used loose leaf tea, strain the tea as you do so. , Once the tea is done, take the honey and garlic mixture out of the fridge. Mix one egg yolk into the mixture. It may take a minute to get it combined because the honey will be thick and stubborn. Next, add one tablespoon of aloe vera gel and mix together well. , Once all the ingredients are combined, go to a place where you can easily apply it to your hair without making a mess. Gently massage the mixture into your scalp, not all of your hair. Since the hair grows from the scalp, you want to concentrate the garlic salve here. After it is all on your scalp, wrap a clean, cotton towel around your head.


Leave the mixture on your scalp for 20 minutes., After you've waited long enough, wash the mixture out of your hair with baby shampoo or another very gentle shampoo. Rinse it out thoroughly. Next, take a second egg yolk and massage that into your scalp. Rinse this off with warm water.


Make sure you get all the egg yolk out of your hair. Do not wash it again, just keep rinsing the yolk out., Once the yolk is out of your hair and off your scalp, you need to use the chamomile tea. Take the cup of tea and pour it over your scalp, rinsing your hair once again with it. Do this two to three times a week until hair re-growth begins or shedding stops.


Repeat the treatment twice a month.