 All members of the legislative branch must run for office. The members of the legislative branch of government, who are responsible for creating laws, must be elected by the citizens of their states or districts. This includes legislators for the federal government and the governments of the state.The legislative branch of the federal government consists of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
There are 100 senators, two from each state, who are each elected to six-year terms. Candidates for Senate must be at least 30 years of age and a resident of the state they are running to represent. They also must have been U.S. citizens for at least seven years.
Senate terms are staggered so that every two years, voters have the opportunity to elect approximately one-third of the members of the Senate.
Seats in the House of Representatives are apportioned based on the populations of each state. While some states only have two representatives, more populous states can have as many as 40.
Representatives in the House serve two-year terms. The citizenship and residency requirements for representatives are the same as those for senators, but a candidate for the House only has to be 25 years old.;
, Representatives propose bills that they would like to see made into law. These bills may respond to the needs of the constituents they represent, or address problems in the state or country at large.Just because a bill is introduced by a particular member of congress doesn't necessarily mean that member wrote the bill.
While anyone can write a bill – even an ordinary citizen – it must be sponsored by sitting members of congress who can introduce the bill during a regular session.
Members of the executive branch, such as the President of the United States, also can author bills, but only a member of congress can introduce them.
 Once a bill is introduced, it is evaluated by a committee who specializes in that particular of law – for example, the bill may address economic or security issues. Each representative serves on committees according to their interests and areas of expertise.The number of committees, as well as their size and form, may change with each congressional session. The committees are organized to make the process of passing legislation more efficient.
Bills typically are first reviewed by a smaller, more specific subcommittee, which works on the bill before passing it up to the full committee along with their report on the bill.
Committees may accept a bill as it is, but they also have the ability to amend the bill or reject it entirely. As part of their deliberations, committees often engage in extensive investigations as to the costs and benefits of the bill as introduced.
If the committee approves the bill, it is forwarded to the majority party leadership, which decides whether and when to place the bill on the legislative body's calendar for consideration.
 After a bill makes it through the committee, it is debated on the floor of the legislative body in which it was introduced. These debates are a matter of public record and can get quite contentious, going on for several days.Many of these debates are broadcast free of charge. Watching a debate on television or online can give you a good understanding of a legislator's job and help you distinguish the legislative branch from the other two branches of government.
Debate is very structured in the House of Representatives, and many limits are imposed on how long a representative can speak, either for or against the pending legislation. Types of amendments that can be proposed from the House floor also are limited.
In contrast, Senate debate is a much looser process, with little to no restrictions on who can take the floor and for how long.
Senators also can introduce any amendment to the pending legislation, including those that would effectively nullify much of what the legislation attempts to do.
 When debate on a bill is closed, the bill is submitted to a vote. If a majority of the members vote to pass that bill, it is submitted either to the other legislative body or to the executive branch for signature into law.The Constitution requires bills to be passed by both the House and the Senate before they are submitted to the President.
Even though the bill will pass through committee and voting in both congressional bodies, the President is only supposed to have one bill on his or her desk – not two. However, both senators and representatives have the power to introduce amendments independent of each other.
In most cases, this means a joint committee must work with a version of the bill approved by the House and another one approved by the Senate to merge the two bills into one bill that represents the will of the majority of both legislative bodies.
Once the joint committee works up a report, both the House and the Senate will have the opportunity to vote on that final joint bill. If approved by both houses, this is the text of the bill that will be sent to the President for approval.
 Legislators confirm executive appointments and investigate wrongdoing by public officials. The legislative branch holds these powers as part of the checks and balances among the three branches that are built into the federal government by the Constitution.While the executive branch, through the office of the President, has the power to appoint judges and executive officials, these appointments must be confirmed by the Senate.
Most appointments are routine confirmations with little to no debate. However, confirmation hearings for certain positions, such as a seat on the Supreme Court, can last for weeks.
The legislature also has broad investigatory powers which may end in impeachment proceedings. An impeachment is a trial-like procedure in which the House takes on the role of prosecutor and the Senate becomes judge and jury.
Two-thirds of the Senators must vote to impeach an elected official. However, this is not a trial, and the only penalty imposed for impeachment is removal from office.
If the impeached official has violated civil or criminal laws, the judicial branch takes over to evaluate those violations and impose civil or criminal sanctions, which may include fines or jail time. However, this is separate from the impeachment process, which is fundamentally a legislative process despite its trial-like characteristics.
 After a bill is passed by the legislative branch, it is submitted to the executive branch – the President of the United States or the Governor of the state – for approval. The bill may be signed into law or vetoed.When the President signs a bill into law, their often is an elaborate ceremony which may be televised. The President typically gives a short speech explaining the benefits of the law.
The President doesn't have the authority to change the bill approved by Congress. Although he or she can suggest changes, those changes must be passed by the legislature.
The President also doesn't have the power to only veto portions of the bill – which would be tantamount to changing the bill that was passed by the legislature. He or she must either sign the entire bill into law, or veto the entire bill.
Some governors, however, do have the ability to veto specific portions of a bill and sign the remainder of the bill into law.
If the President vetoes a bill, Congress may attempt to override that veto and pass the bill into law anyway. Doing so requires the votes of two-thirds of the members of both houses.
 As the chief executive of the government, the President is responsible for nominating executive department officials and federal judges. Governors have similar responsibilities in their state governments.The President and vice President are the only members of the executive branch of government that are elected officials. Other high-ranking executives, such as the heads of departments, are appointed by the President.
Employees of the various departments are hired through a process similar to that of any other job. At some level above each employee in the hierarchy, however, there is someone who was appointed by the President.
While the President technically can nominate anyone for these offices that he or she wants, these appointments must be confirmed by the Senate. This is one of the "checks" the legislative branch has over the executive branch.
For this reason, the President typically chooses individuals who have a proven record of expertise and experience in the area the department governs, and who are more politically neutral.
However, keep in mind that only the executive branch can appoint these officials. While the legislative branch can deny confirmation, legislators cannot appoint someone else in their place.
 While the legislative branch is responsible for writing laws, various executive departments are responsible for enforcing those laws. This may include passing specific regulations that individuals and businesses must follow.In many areas, federal agencies work together with their state counterparts. For example, the Department of Education administers federal funding for state schools, and works together with state and local education authorities to regulate educational quality.
Other federal executive departments, such as the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense, deal with issues of national security, including domestic security as well as military actions.
Agencies such as the Department of Commerce and the Department of Labor handle business activities and employment relations. These departments frequently issue regulations that may have the force of law in terms of dictating the actions of business owners and other individuals.
The fact that executive departments can issue regulations can be confusing. However, you can distinguish this from traditional legislative activities in the sense that executive departments can only create regulations if they have been granted authority by a specific law passed by Congress.
In other words, executive departments can't just create any regulation they want – it must fall under the authority specifically granted to them by Congress. Laws may provide a general mandate, but Congress leaves it up to the executive departments to issue regulations to implement those general mandates in a specific way.
 State and federal law enforcement agencies, from the FBI down to local police departments, are considered a part of the executive branch of the government. These officers investigate and enforce criminal laws.To distinguish law enforcement officials in the executive branch from the legislative branch, remember that they are charged with enforcing the law as it stands on the books – not creating new laws or interpreting the law.
For example, if a police officer believes that a particular state law is unconstitutional, he still is duty-bound to enforce that law. It isn't his role to refuse on the grounds that the law is unconstitutional.
He could lobby to have the law repealed or changed, but this would be in his role as a private citizen and not considered part of his duties as a law enforcement officer. In fact, such activities may be restricted in some jurisdictions.
In some states and counties, sheriffs are elected by the population of the county in which the sheriff serves. However, the sheriff remains a law enforcement official – in many cases the highest law enforcement official in the county – and is not considered a member of the legislature.
While high-ranking officials in federal law enforcement may be appointed by the President, they typically serve longer terms than the President does to lend them independence from political motivations.
It's important to distinguish the investigation and prosecution of criminal activity through the executive branch from the legal activities of the judicial branch.
While prosecutors are lawyers, they are not judges, and they don't enter verdicts in criminal cases. Rather, they argue before the judge that the defendant is guilty.
 Executive departments administer various public benefits programs that have been established by law. This includes assessing eligibility of individuals as well as distributing those benefits.Public benefits such as Medicare and Social Security are distributed by government agencies under the executive branch.
Some benefits and services, such as food stamps, are administered by federal agencies, but distributed by comparable state agencies. The federal money is dispensed to the states, which are responsible for the ultimate dispersal to eligible individuals.
Eligibility for these programs is defined by laws, and the executive department that administers each program reviews applications and determines which individuals meet the eligibility requirements on a case-by-case basis.
 While some local judges are elected, most judges are appointed to serve by an executive official. In the federal judicial system, these are lifetime appointments made by the President and confirmed by the Senate.The lifetime appointment of federal judges is designed to shield them from political whims that may infiltrate both the legislative process and even enforcement of laws within the executive branch.
Once appointed, a federal judge can only be removed from office through the congressional impeachment process. Of course, a federal judge can opt to retire rather than serving until death – and many often do retire, although typically at a much older age than most people in private enterprise retire.
Congress also has the power to shape the size and structure of the federal judiciary, including establishing new courts as necessary.
 Trial court judges hear civil and criminal cases that are filed in their courts. This distinguishes the judicial branch from both the executive and the legislative branch, because they have no control over the facts that come before them or the issues they can decide.Courts typically are open to the public, and you can sit in on a court case if you want to observe a trial in session and learn more about the judicial process.
A judge can only make a decision on a case if someone files a complaint alleging that they have been wronged in some way. In contrast, the legislature can pass a law regardless of whether the issue they are legislating actually has any impact on anyone's life specifically.
Generally, federal courts hear cases involving federal law, while state courts hear cases involving state law.
Federal courts also may hear cases involving state law if the litigants involved are residents of different states, or if the amount of money in controversy is extremely large.
 After hearing evidence in a case, judges in the judicial branch identify the legal issues involved in the case. For jury trials, a jury made up of citizens makes a decision on the facts of the case.While the legislative branch enacts the laws, and the executive branch enforces the laws that have been enacted, the judicial branch interprets those laws and applies that interpretation to the facts of individual cases.
In jury trials, the judge provides that interpretation to the jury in the form of jury instructions. These instructions explain to the jury what their ruling should be based on the facts that either side has proven.
In this respect, juries don't make any legal decisions – they merely decide whether either party has met their applicable burden of proof.
For example, if a jury decides a criminal defendant is guilty, this means the prosecution has proven beyond a reasonable doubt the facts necessary to show a violation of the law.
 Appellate court judges examine the legal issues presented in lower court cases, where one of the parties alleges the lower court judge made a mistake in the law when the original decision was handed down.Judicial interpretation generally is governed by the legal principal of "stare decisis," which is a Latin phrase meaning literally "to stand by things decided." This means courts generally adhere to their own precedents, or prior decisions.
If the court has already made a decision regarding the application of the law in question to similar facts, the court will follow that decision in the new case before it.
Much of the work of an appellate attorney consists of distinguishing their case from other cases the court has already decided. The attorney will point to ways in which the present case is different, and argue that those differences indicate the case is not governed by precedent.
The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest court in the country, and primarily reviews decisions that implicate issues of Constitutional interpretation.

