 Be alert for signs that your cat has a problem with its eyes. Symptoms can include one or a combination of the following:Winking or holding the eye closed: This is not normal and is a sign the cat has pain in that eye or is uncomfortable. This could be the result of trauma (a scratch to the eye) infection, increased pressure within the eye, a foreign body trapped under the eyelids, or inflammation within the eye.Swollen eyelids: This speaks for itself but swollen, puffy eyelids are a sure sign something's not right - usually trauma, infection, or allergy.
Discharge from the eye: All cats develop gloop in the inner corner of the eye, especially when they wake and haven't yet washed themselves. Normal gloop is usually clear or rust-colored. Indeed, as the clear gloop sits in contact with the air it dries out and becomes rusty looking - this is normal. A yellow or green discharge is a sign of infection.
Inflamed whites of the eye: The white of the eye should be just that - white. If is is a rosy pink or there are angry blood vessels snaking across it, this is abnormal and can be a sign of allergy, infection, or glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye.)
Loss of a shiny surface: The healthy eye has a highly reflective surface, and when you look carefully any reflections are have smooth edges and are unbroken. If you look at the surface and it appears dull so it is difficult to see reflections, or the reflections are broken up and jagged, this is abnormal. This can be an indication of dry eye (not enough tear fluid is present) or an ulcer on the surface of the eye.;
, Having noticed there is a possible problem, check the cat in good lighting. Decide which eye is the abnormal one by comparing one eye with the other, and make a note of which one it is. Study the sore eye carefully and make a mental list of what you see, such as the color of discharge, any inflammation on the whites of the eye, soreness, and so forth., Some infections need to be treated by your vet, instead of at home. If you see the following signs then the cat should be checked by a veterinarian:Visible discomfort (closing the eye)
Yellow or green discharge
Dull surface to the eye
Enlarged blood vessels on the surface of the eye.
 If your cat has runny eyes or a discharge, use dampened cotton wool to wipe away the gunk. Do this as often as is needed, which for some cats with a heavy infection could mean hourly.


Pat the eye dry afterwards.
As the cotton wool become soiled, switch to a fresh piece. Use separate pieces for each eye.
 It is not uncommon for kittens with an eye infection to have their eyelids stuck shut by discharge. It is important to clean their eyes because the infection could build up behind the eyelids and then cause blindness.If the eyelids are gummed shut, soak a clean ball of cotton wool in some previously boiled (and cooled) water. Repeatedly wipe the damp cotton ball over the eye, wiping from the inside corner to the outside. At the same time use the finger and thumb of the opposite hand to apply gentle pressure to the upper and lower lids in order to pry them open., Trim long hair away from the eyes and keep its face clean. It is also a good idea to avoid using aerosols near a cat, as its eyes are very sensitive and may weep as a result.
 It may be surprising but vaccinations can prevent some eye infections. Cat flu and chlamydia are two common causes of eye infections that vaccination can prevent., Eye infections are commonly caused either by bacteria or viruses. Viral infections are self-limiting and the cat's own immune system will fight the infection. Bacterial infections are treated with topical eye ointments or drops that contain antibiotic.


Viruses which affect the eye include herpesvirus and calicivirus. Some veterinarians will supply topical antibiotics even if a viral infection is suspected, this is because these infections could be mixed with complicating bacteria that cause secondary infections.The bacteria that may colonize the eye and cause infection include Staphylococci, E.coli, Proteus, and Pseudomonas. It is very important to always wash your hands thoroughly after handling a cat with sticky eyes, as these infections can spread.
 Depending on the formulation antibiotic treatments are applied anywhere from twice a day to hourly. Oral antibiotics are not usually given for eye infections unless it is not possible to use an ointment because of the cat's temperament.


Treatment is usually given for a minimum of 5 days, and should not be discontinued before this because of the risk of inducing antibiotic resistance.