 OK, so you see a police car pull up and a cop step out. He hasn't seen you yet, so you have two options, run home, or run to a hiding spot. Whatever you choose, it will probably consist of some running. The main goal, however, is that the cop doesn't see you. When the cop leaves, it's up to you whether or not to continue with the operation. If the cop calls in for backup to look around, it's probably not a good idea to continue with your mission after they leave. If the cop does see you, it's a completely different situation. He will probably chase after you.


So you decide to run home. You need to lose this cop quick. Jump over fences, go through back yards. You may even want to hide for a few seconds just to get this one cop off your tail. One thing to consider while running is that you want to zig-zag your direction so when the cop calls in for backup he won't know what direction you're going so his backup can't cut you off.
If you decide to get a good hiding spot and let things cool down before going home(or continuing with your mission), your number one goal once again is to lose the first response cop. Run like hell, and get to a hiding spot. Most criminals are stupid, so the cop won't expect you to go from running at full speed to stationary hiding. So you're in a hiding spot(this is why planning is so important, so you'll know where all the good hiding spots are), the cop just lost sight of you and he has slowed down to try to find you. One little tactic I've come up with if you're hiding from a chasing cop is to pick up a few rocks off the ground, and when the cop isn't looking in your direction throw one of the rocks at a fence away from you. The cop will hear it and think it's you accidentally banging against the fence, and he'll go check it out. This will give you the chance to get to your car or get home, get to a better hiding spot, or just plain throw the cop off if you decide to stay in your current hiding spot. When it comes to hiding spots, some of the best spots are elevated positions. Trees, and on top of houses are great, because of something I call the 3-D Hiding Theory. This theory takes into consideration that humans are naturally 2-D animals, we live on the ground. Therefore, it is unnatural for us to look for each other hiding in elevated positions. If you decide to take this approach to hiding, remember that you need to be able to get down quickly in case you are spotted, and never get on top of a house with lights on inside. If you decide to get on top of a house, always go very slowly and quietly so as not to wake the occupants.
 Some cops might think you're dangerous when they see you in your ski mask and camouflage. If they pull their gun on you, throw your hands up in the air and scream something along the lines of "DON'T SHOOT, I'M JUST A KID!!!!". This will hopefully keep them from shooting you or at least make them hesitate enough to let you get away.
 It's good to have a few rolls of toilet paper in the back of your car, so if a cop catches you, you can just say you were going to toilet paper someones house(I'm young enough for that to believable). And if you run into a civilian on one of your ops, have some excuse like "Hey, have you seen a dog around here? I'm looking for my lost dog."

