 Keep a sort of diary, or a log, for just a day or two, record the times of day and catch the fluid, measure and record the amount that you urinate, and record each time you have an accidental "leak" of urine each day. Record your fluid intake, also. Your doctor may suggest taking a medication and limiting fluids to no more than 6–8 cups per day from all sources while you’re learning to control your bladder better.;
, Average the number of hours that you go between trips to the bathroom during your day?

, Using your average interval of time between needing to urinate, set your interval for beginning your training with one that is 15 minutes longer than the average. So, if you usually had made it for one hour before you need to use the bathroom, now add 15 minutes to make your training interval one hour and 15 minutes.
 Each day during you training, empty your bladder first thing in the morning, and then don’t go again until you reach your desired time interval. If the targeted time comes before you feel the need to go, still go anyway to empty your bladder. This includes learning to urinate on a schedule.


If the urge hits too early, remind yourself that your bladder really is not full, and use whatever techniques you can such as to sit or lie down to delay going. The mistaken urge to urinate should taper off after about a minute. Try to wait five minutes or longer before slowly walking to the bathroom.
 Try doing pelvic-floor (muscles) exercises (also called Kegels). This by clinching/contracting the muscle that hold back urine flow, muscles which you can find by trying to stop or by stopping flow of urine or passage of gas. Do 6 to 10 contractions in a session, by holding each exercise -- tensing and clinching for about 3 seconds each time and relaxing for about 3 seconds between (holding the Kegels tight feels odd, but do it to get results). Do this once or twice per day. It takes weeks to build some muscle and months to get much stronger.
 Once you are successful with your initial interval between going to urinate, try to increase it by 15 minutes. Over several weeks or months, you may find you are able to wait much longer and feel the urge less often.
 Do this record after four to eight weeks (1 to 2 months), to see how much you have improved. Compare your initial list/diary to your second diary to note the improvements in urinating (voiding) intervals and voided volumes (amounts)—this process reinforces the bladder training process.

