 This will search for the Windows Activation tool.;
, This will check your current activation status.


If the program displays the message, “Activation was successful,” your copy of Windows OS is genuine. This entitles you to receive all the updates from Microsoft, including the free upgrade of Windows 10.If the program crashes and shows an error of any kind, or displays the message as “Activation failed,” your copy of Windows is not genuine. Users of pirated versions or inauthentic versions of Windows are not eligible for the free Windows 10 upgrade. You will need to purchase a product key for your version of Windows in order to receive the upgrade to 10.
 This is one of the quickest ways to open the System panel.
 The System window will display all the details about the hardware and the operating system installed on your computer.
 The first list will display details about the Windows operating system that is currently installed on your computer.


Windows 7, Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 are eligible for a free Windows 10 upgrade.
Enterprise Editions of any version do not qualify for a free Windows 10 upgrade.
Windows Vista, Windows XP, or any other older version does not qualify for a free Windows 10 upgrade.
 The Windows 10 update icon will be displayed in the system tray on the bottom right corner of the screen.


If you don't see this icon and your version of Windows is genuine, make sure that you have the latest updates installed. See How to Update Windows for more information on installing Windows updates.
 The Get Windows 10 app will ask you to reserve your free upgrade of Windows 10. You will be asked to enter your email address so you can receive an email confirming your upgrade reservation., The Get Windows 10 app will notify you once your reserved Windows 10 upgrade is ready to be installed. The upgrade notification may take a few days or even weeks to be received , depending on the number of systems in queue and your region.
 If you aren't receiving a notification to reserve your upgrade, or just want to skip the wait, you can download Windows 10 directly using Microsoft's Windows 10 Media Creation program. You can download it here. Run the program and select "Upgrade" to upgrade your computer to Windows 10.


This still requires a genuine copy of Windows 7, 8, or 8.1.

