 In order to enable monetization, your account must be in good standing. This means you have not violated the community guidelines or uploaded copyrighted content. Log in to YouTube and navigate to your Channel Settings page. Under “Features” click the “Enable” button next to monetization. You will have to read and agree to the terms of service.
 Each video you monetize has to be reviewed before ads are placed in it. Be sure to follow these guidelines to make sure that your video passes review and your account stays in good standing.


You must own the rights to everything in your video, including music, images, and text.
Anything you don’t have the rights to, you must have written permission from the creator to use it and make money from it.
Your videos must follow the Community Guidelines set down by YouTube. Sexually explicit content, gratuitous violence, shock videos, hate speech, and more are all prohibited from being posted. The complete list can be found here.
 If you’ve uploaded videos in the past and want to start showing ads in them, follow these steps.


Once logged in to YouTube, navigate to your Video Manager.
Find the video you want to place ads in.
Click the “$” icon next to your video. This will open the Monetization tab.
Check the “Monetize my video” box.
Select the ad formats you want to have appear. Overlay in-video ads are pop-up text ads that appear at the bottom of the video while it is playing. TrueView in-stream ads are streaming ads that can be skipped by the viewer after a few seconds. Standard in-stream ads are ads that have to be watched the entire way through before the video begins.
Click “Save Changes”. Your video will now undergo a review process to make sure that it doesn’t violate any terms of service. You may be asked for information about your rights to commercially use any content in the video.
 While your video is uploading, select the “Monetization” tab and follow the steps above. Your video will still need to be reviewed before ads are added.
 In order to receive payments, you must have a valid AdSense account associated with your YouTube account. To get an AdSense account you must be 18 years old and have a valid physical mailing address.


Under Channel Settings, click the Monetization tab. Select “How will I be paid?” then click “associate an AdSense account.”
The AdSense site will open, asking you which Google account you want to use. Confirm the association.
Enter your correct billing information. Without correct billing information, AdSense cannot pay you.
If you are under 18, you will need a parent or guardian to create an AdSense account. They will then receive monetization payments on your behalf.

