 These require no special equipment, increase your balance, and strengthen your leg muscles.Begin in a standing position.
Sit back as if you are sitting on a chair, but don't actually use a chair.
Keep your knees from moving too far forward. Don't let them go past your feet.
Keep moving back until you feel your muscles begin to strain.
Stand back up. Repeat until your muscles start to tire, and then take a break.;
, Jumping rope can build muscle and help increase speed.Begin with jumping with both feet. Stand with the rope behind you, bring it over, and lightly jump. You don't need to make an exaggerated jump, just enough to let the rope go under your feet. Continue increasing speed until you have a steady rhythm that you can maintain. This type of training builds endurance.Move on to alternating feet as you jump. Each time the rope comes around, switch to the other foot. You're basically running in place with a jump rope. This technique uses the same stride and muscles as running, so it helps to build a good rhythm for later running.Begin with a minute, and break for 30 seconds. As your endurance builds, you can add time between breaks, up to 3 minutes. Repeat as many as five times., Cycling requires you to have flexible hips for rotation, just like running. It also works on your pacing.Cycle instead of one of your weekly runs. Since cycling uses the same muscles and rhythms as running, it can help you increase your strength and speed over time. Choose a flat area or one that only has a slight incline. Try to mimic the same speed you normally would running, such as 90 rpms on the bike if you normally run at 180 steps per minute.Incorporate sprints that mimic your runs. That is, if you normally alternate between sprinting for a minute and slowing for a minute, do the same on your bike., Dead lifts help balance and build muscle, increasing your speed.Bend forward with a weight in each hand.
At the same time, lift one leg backwards. Keep the knee of the other leg bent.
Lower the weights to slightly below your knees, then slowly stand back up. Repeat for a set of 8, then move to the other leg.
 Yoga can increase flexibility, which can help you go faster. Try incorporating it into your morning routine to make you more flexible throughout the day.For example, use the cow-face fold. While sitting, pull one heel around your body so it's touching the other hip.Place the other leg on top of the first one, pulling the heel around towards the other hip. Your heels should each be touching the opposite hip, and one knee should be stacked on the other. This position stretches your leg muscles and increases flexibility., Core exercises strengthen your body as a whole, sustaining you when you're running.Try planking. Lay face down on the floor. Raise yourself up on your elbows and toes with your body straight. Hold the position. To increase difficulty, lift your right arm and left leg at the same time, then do the opposite.Switch to a single-leg glute bridge. Lay on one side. Balance on your elbow and the foot that's on the ground, keeping your body straight. Raise your other leg up and down. Do the same on the other side.