 Generally, mortgage fraud occurs when an institution or person misleads or deceives you into entering a misguided loan so that they can make additional profit. The institution or person can be a bank, lender, appraiser, mortgage broker, real estate broker, or other individual. Common examples of illegal lending practices include:Encouraging you to include false information on your mortgage application in order to get a loan.
Pressuring you to accept high-risk loans, such as balloon loans or those with interest-only payments or steep prepayment penalties.
Convincing you to refinance a loan several times and increasing the monthly payment amounts each time.
Charging excessive fees or fees for nonexistent products and services.
Asking you to leave signature lines blank.
Not providing you with certain statements, such as Truth in Lending information, Hud-1 Settlement statements, and Good Faith Estimates.
Using false appraisals to sell properties for more than they are worth.;
, You should pay particular attention for lending schemes which frequently are fraudulent. If you have fallen victim to one, then you can sue for mortgage loan fraud:


Foreclosure rescue schemes. A lender might have identified you as someone at risk of foreclosure. The lender then promises to help keep you in your home if you transfer the deed to them. They then sell the home for an inflated price and disappear with the proceeds.
Home equity conversion mortgages (HECM). The Federal Housing Authority provides reverse mortgages to people over 62 who have no loan (or only a small loan) on their property. With the reverse mortgage, you get a lump sum payment in exchange for the mortgage. Some fraudsters recruit seniors to apply for an HECM but then disappear with the lump sum payment.
Loan modification schemes. Someone might contact you if you are in danger of losing your home to foreclosure. They then promise to help you negotiate a new mortgage—but only after you pay a hefty fee upfront. After you pay the fee, the person disappears or negotiates unfavorable terms for you.
 In order to bring a lawsuit, you need evidence of any illegal activity. You should hold onto all paperwork and communications related to the fraud. To help organize your evidence, create a file and include the following:a copy of the police report, if you contacted the police
a copy of your credit report
a copy of your loan agreement
emails and letters from the perpetrator of the fraud
any other relevant document related to the fraud

, You should also document any face-to-face conversations that you had with the perpetrator. Your written memories might be the only evidence of what was said between you and the perpetrator.


Write down what the person told you. Were promises made? What did the person say?
Write down your own response. Were you hesitant to take out the high-interest loan? Did you ask questions?
Write down the names of all people you spoke to about the mortgage loan, including the days and times. If you had telephone conversations, record the phone number.Also create a timeline of all contacts and conversations. This timeline will help you organize your evidence.
 Mortgage loan fraud lawsuits are very complicated so you should think about hiring a lawyer if you want to sue.At a minimum, you should meet with a lawyer for a consultation in which you will discuss the strength of your case.


To find a real estate attorney, you can visit your state’s bar association, which should run a referral program.
You can also contact the National Crime Victim Bar Association for a referral. Their phone number is (202) 467-8716 or (844) 529-4357. The referral line is open Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 5:30 pm.Once you have a referral, call the lawyer and ask to set up a consultation. Also ask how much the consultation will cost. Although many lawyers now offer free consultations, others may charge a reduced fee.
 A “remedy” is what you will ask the court to give you should you win your lawsuit. Depending on your state, you might have many different remedies available. Your lawyer also will have advice on what documents you need to prove your injuries. Common remedies include:A court order not to sell your house. You will be able to keep your home and halt the sale.
A court order for a second home inspection.
Monetary compensation. If you were defrauded of money because of high interest rates, then you can get back whatever you paid.
Punitive damages. These are meant to punish the perpetrator of the fraud and can be quite high.
Consequential damages. Depending on the facts of your case (and your state), you might be able to get “consequential” damages in a fraud lawsuit. Consequential damages are any injuries suffered as a consequence of the fraud. For example, if you lost your job because your house was foreclosed on and you had no place to stay, then you might be able to get compensation for these injuries.
 The attorney general is responsible for protecting consumers and being the chief attorney for the people of their state. In California, for example, the attorney general expanded the prosecution of mortgage-related fraud after the debt crisis in 2008. They also established a task force to investigate these frauds. California also reformed their mortgage and foreclosure system to restore transparency and fairness (The California Homeowner Bill of Rights).To file a complaint with the attorney general, visit their website and navigate to the complaint form. In general, you will need to include information about yourself, the business you are complaining about, and an explanation of the complaint. Once submitted, the attorney general's office will review the complaint and respond accordingly., If you worked with an attorney and you feel they defrauded you, you can file a complaint with your state bar. Every attorney is regulated by their state's bar association. They are responsible for investigating and pursuing complaints about lawyers. To file a complaint, visit your state's bar website and navigate to the section on filing a complaint. You will need to provide your information, the attorney's information, and a statement about what the complaint entails.You cannot file a complaint simply because you think the attorney did a bad job. The state bar can only field complaints if the attorney acted unethically and/or against the law., If you worked with a real estate agent or broker who you feel defrauded you, you can file a complaint with your state's agency that regulated real estate. In California, for example, it is the Bureau of Real Estate within the Department of Consumer Affairs. When you file a complaint, the bureau will investigate your claim and, if valid, they will hold a hearing that may lead to the broker's or agent's license being revoked.


To file a complaint, most states will have a paper form or online form for you to fill out.You will need to provide your information, information about the person you are complaining against, any documents that substantiate your claim, and a description of your problem., The federal government also provides a forum for you if you have been defrauded on a mortgage. The FTC will field complaints and will investigate them for you. To file a complaint with the FTC:Visit the FTC Complaint Assistant website
Select the category of complaint you will be filing (i.e., Credit and Debt)
Click on the correct sub-category (i.e., Credit and Loans)
Answer the on-screen questions regarding who you are complaining against and what you are complaining about

, You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. In the complaint, you identify the defendant (the mortgage lender, real estate agent, etc.) and explain the facts that led to the lawsuit. You will also request what you want the judge to do (for example give you money).If you hire a lawyer, then he or she should handle filing the complaint, as well as all other aspects of the lawsuit.
Many courts now have printed “fill in the blank” forms. These make filing a complaint relatively easy. If you are representing yourself, then you should stop into court and ask the clerk if one is available. Often, blank complaint forms are also published by the court online.
If no form is available, then you will need to draft your own complaint. You can see a sample complaint published by a federal court at http://www.moed.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/moed-0032.pdf. You can use this as a model as you type up your own complaint.
 Print neatly in black ink. You can also use a typewriter. Each complaint form is different, but they generally ask for the same information:your name and address
the names and addresses of each defendant
what you want the court to do (such as give you money)
the facts surrounding the lawsuit

, After you complete the form, make several copies. One will be for your records, and the other will be for the defendant. If there are multiple defendants, then each gets a copy of the complaint.


Take all copies and the original to the court clerk and ask to file. He or she will stamp your copies with the date.
 You will probably have to pay a fee to file the complaint. You should ask the court clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment. These will vary by court.


If you can’t afford to pay the filing fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
The fee waiver form might ask for detailed information about your monthly income and expenses.Be prepared to pull this information together quickly. You will need bank statements, bills, and pay stubs to serve as proof of your income and expenses.
 Each defendant should get a copy of the complaint and a summons. The summons is a document which commands the defendant to respond to the lawsuit. You can get it from the court clerk. Ask the clerk what methods of service are acceptable.


Generally, you can have someone hand-deliver the notice to the defendant. You can hire a private process server or sometimes pay the sheriff to make service.You can usually have someone over age 18 make hand delivery, so long as this person is not a party to the lawsuit.In some courts, you can also mail the notice using certified mail, return receipt requested.Check with the court clerk.
If you don’t make notice in the proper way, your lawsuit could be dismissed., The person who makes service will need to complete a form stating that they made service. This form is often called a “proof of service” or an “affidavit of service.” You can get it from your court clerk.


The server might file it with the court or return it to you.Be sure to file it with the court if it is returned to you.
Keep a copy for your records in case the defendant claims that he didn’t receive notice of the lawsuit.
 After you file your complaint, the defendant will have a certain amount of time to draft an “answer.” In this document, the defendant admits or denies each allegation you made in the complaint. You will receive a copy.


If you have a lawyer, the answer should be sent to him or her. Ask your lawyer for a copy of all court documents filed in your case.
 After the defendant files the answer, the lawsuit enters a fact-finding stage called “discovery.” In discovery, you can request information from the defendant.Your lawyer will have a good idea what information to request to strengthen your lawsuit.


For example, you should get a copy of any communication in which the defendant talks about you. This could include emails the defendant sent to other people in his or her company.
Discovery is extensive, and its purpose is to find evidence that might help you with your case. You should cast a wide net because you don’t know what evidence the defendant has in his or her control that could help you prove fraud.
Your lawyer can also ask the defendant questions under oath in a “deposition.” A deposition is usually held in a lawyer’s office with a court reporter present. Your lawyer can ask any question so long as it is related to the lawsuit.
 You will probably need to tell the defendant before trial who you intend to call as a witness.In a mortgage fraud lawsuit, you might not have any witnesses.


However, if someone else met with the defendant, then this person might testify. For example, you might have met with a mortgage lender along with your boyfriend or girlfriend. This person could testify about what the defendant said at the meeting.
You also will undoubtedly testify, since you have personal knowledge of the defendant’s conduct.
 You will probably want to introduce documents at trial as evidence. In order to make a document an exhibit, you need to make sure you put an “exhibit sticker” on the document, usually in the bottom right-hand corner of the first page. You can get these stickers from the court clerk or from an office supply store.Common exhibits include:


a copy of your loan agreement
any emails or letters that contain relevant information

, Over 90% of lawsuits settle.If you have a strong case, then the defendant might be motivated to offer you a settlement. You should talk it over with your lawyer.


When evaluating a settlement offer, you should consider how much is offered as well as the strength of your evidence. If you have a strong case, then you might not want to settle unless the defendant offers you close to the amount you are suing for.
For example, if you sue for $10,000 and have a strong case, you might not want to settle for less than $9,000. However, if you have a relatively weak case, then you might want to settle for $5,000.
Your lawyer should be able to gauge the strength of your case. You should listen carefully to his or her advice. However, the decision to settle is ultimately yours to make alone.
 If you are representing yourself, then you would benefit greatly from sitting in on a trial. Courthouses are generally open to the public, and you can sit in on any trial or hearing being held. Be sure to pay attention to the following:


How people dress. You want to look professional during your trial, so look to see what is standard court attire.
Where the people sit. Look where the plaintiff sits and where the defendant does. Does each have a table?
How they talk to the judge. Do they call the judge “Your Honor” or by the judge’s last name (such as “Judge Smith”)? Do they talk to the judge while standing at their table, or do they approach the judge’s bench?
How they question witnesses. Where do the lawyers stand when they ask witnesses questions? Do they stand at a lectern? Sit at their table? What tone of voice do they use when asking witnesses questions?

, A trial begins with opening statements. As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will go first. Your attorney will handle the trial if you have one. If you don’t, then you will need to do everything, including delivering a brief, focused opening statement.


Give the judge a preview of the evidence you will submit. Try to outline the evidence in the order you will present it.
Always use the phrase “as the evidence will show.” The opening statement is not the time to argue what the evidence means.For example, you can say, “As the evidence will show, the plaintiff met with the defendant on March 22, 2015 in the defendant’s office at Acme Mortgage Company. And as the evidence will further show, the defendant asked the plaintiff to agree to the loan without signing the document and without explaining that it was a balloon loan.”

, You should present documents and testimony that supports your case. You will probably need to testify as to what the defendant told you and how the defendant treated you.


For example, if you are claiming mortgage fraud because the defendant encouraged you to take out a high-interest loan, then you will testify as to what the defendant said and how you responded. You can also introduce supporting documents, such as a copy of your loan agreement.
If you have a lawyer, then he or she will ask you questions. If you are representing yourself, then you will probably give your testimony in the form of a speech.The defendant’s attorney can then cross-examine you.
 The defendant gets to present evidence after you. The defendant will probably testify, so your lawyer can cross-examine him or her.


The purpose of cross-examination is to undermine any witness who presents evidence that harms your case. For example, the defendant might get on the stand and falsely claim that he adequately described the details of the mortgage and that you were well aware that your repayments would balloon after three years.
You can undermine a witness by pointing to inconsistent statements they have made. You can also use documents which contradict the testimony. For example, a witness might have summarized a meeting with you in an email to a colleague. If the substance of the email contradicts the witness’s in-court testimony, you can confront the witness with the email.
If you are representing yourself, then read Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for tips on how to effectively cross-examine a witness.
 After all evidence has been presented, your lawyer will make a closing argument. The purpose of the closing argument is to tie together all of the evidence and show how it supports your case.


You should refer to specific pieces of evidence in your closing argument. The judge might have forgotten some of the earlier testimony.
For example, you can argue, “We have mountains of evidence that the defendant set out to defraud the plaintiff. For example, there was the loan document itself, which was very confusing. The explanation of repayment was buried deep in the document, on page eight.”

, The judge should deliver a verdict from the bench. However, if your case is complicated, then the judge might take the issue under consideration and issue a ruling at a later date.


You might have to fill out the “order” if you win the lawsuit. Ask the clerk for where the order forms are. Write down the substance of the judge’s oral ruling and show it to the defendant. You then submit the order to the court for the judge’s signature.
Generally, the court’s judgment doesn’t become final until it is signed by the judge and filed with the court clerk.This might not happen the day the judge delivers the oral ruling.
 If you lose, then you might want to appeal. If so, you need to get a Notice of Appeal form from the court clerk. You can fill it out and then file it.


You have only a certain amount of time to file for an appeal, so don’t delay.
For example, in Missouri, you only have 10 days from the date final judgment is entered to file for an appeal.Other states will give you up to 30 days, but you shouldn’t wait too long regardless of your state.

