 Because it is easy for kids to become dehydrated, making sure that your child gets enough fluid is the best thing you can do when she is suffering from a bout of diarrhea. Do not hydrate her with water alone — your child will need to replenish sodium, potassium, and other nutrients lost through diarrhea.Instead, look for oral rehydration solutions (ORS), such as Pedialyte.Make sure you speak to your doctor about how much and for how long you should give your child an ORS.ORSs are available in most drug stores. Do not try to make your own solution unless your pediatrician gives you a precise recipe.Do NOT use sports drinks, sodas, or even juice. The high sugar content in these beverages can make diarrhea worse.;
, Stick to foods that you know won’t cause a problem for your child and do not try to introduce your child to any new foods while he has diarrhea, either.The main things to avoid are high sugar foods and beverages because these can make diarrhea worse.
Avoid giving your child anything that has caused problems for him in the past.
If you feed your child something and it seems to make his diarrhea worse, then do not offer your child that food again.
 To stop diarrhea, it is also important to increase your child’s fiber intake.Fiber helps to solidify the stool. One good way to ensure that your toddler is getting enough fiber is to use the BRAT diet. BRAT stands for Bananas, Rice, Applesauce, and Toast (use whole grain bread to make the toast).


BRAT diet foods are unlikely to cause a problem unless your child has a food allergy or sensitivity to one of them. In that case, omit one of the foods or modify the food so that your child can have it. For example, if your child has a sensitivity to gluten, then give your child gluten-free bread instead of wheat bread.
 Yogurt may also help stop diarrhea in your toddler by rebalancing the bacteria in your child’s gut.Give your child whatever flavor of yogurt she will eat, just make sure that the yogurt contains “live cultures.” Live cultures provide the healthy gut bacteria that your child needs to maintain normal bowel function.


You can also use popsicle forms to make frozen yogurt popsicles if you think your child will like these better.
 In some cases, increasing your child's fat intake may help stop diarrhea. Try offering your child some more healthy high fat foods. Some good options include:Olive oil
Butter
Cheese
Whole fat milk (however, you may wish to avoid dairy products if your child is having a lot of diarrhea)

, If your toddler’s bowel movements suddenly increase or change consistency, then he probably has diarrhea. Diarrhea can often be treated at home, but it is a good idea to make an appointment for your child to see a pediatrician. Some forms of diarrhea may be caused by food sensitivities, infections, or other conditions that require medical treatment.
 Acute diarrhea is a bout of diarrhea that lasts for less than two weeks. Acute diarrhea is the most common form of diarrhea in children and it may be due to:Bacterial or viral infections or inflammation
Antibiotic use
Food sensitivities
Food allergies
Food “poisoning”

, If your child's diarrhea is prolonged or the result of antibiotics, ask your doctor about probiotics. It may be necessary to rebuild the good bacteria in your child's intestines to prevent further illness. The type of probiotic depends on why your child has diarrhea, as not all probiotics can help diarrhea, and not all types of diarrhea are helped by probiotics.Your doctor may recommend strains such as Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus reuteri, or Saccharomyces boulardii, or possibly even a combination., Chronic diarrhea is any bout of diarrhea that lasts for more than two weeks. Chronic diarrhea may be caused by:Dietary factors
Infections
Celiac disease
Inflammatory bowel disease

, If your child does not improve within two to three days, call your physician. If your child is showing any signs of dehydration, call your physician right away. If you can’t reach your physician and you see these signs, take your child to urgent care or the emergency room. Call 911 or emergency services only if symptoms are severe. Signs of dehydration in infants, toddlers and children include:Sunken-looking eyes
Weight loss
Infrequent urination or dry diapers
Vomiting
Fever over 101°F (38.3°C)
Crying without any tears
Dry or sticky mouth or tongue
Lethargy or excessive sleepiness
Increased irritability

, There are a few other “red flags” to watch for if your child has diarrhea. If you notice any of these symptoms, then take your child to the emergency room right away. These serious symptoms include:Bloody stools
A high fever along with vomiting or diarrhea
Extreme vomiting
A distended, enlarged, or tender abdomen
Pale skin and/or tiny red, round spots on the skin
Severe or persistent pain in the abdomen, especially on the right side

