 Celery has a mild, watery flavor that blends well with most things. Experiment with your favorite soups, dips, sauces, and butters, and see what keeps you coming back for more.If you aren't sure whether a particular sauce will go well with the flavor of celery, dip a small chunk of celery in and see how you like it. It never hurts to try.
 This thick, garbanzo-bean based dip has been used in Mediterranean and Middle-Eastern cuisine for centuries, and it's the perfect compliment to the Mediterranean-grown celery.


You should be able to find pre-packaged hummus in most grocery stores. Plain hummus is great, but it can also come mixed with garlic, eggplant, red peppers, avocado, and other ingredients.
Experiment with other Middle Eastern sauces, such as tahini (a sesame seed dip) and toum (a garlic paste). Be aware that these dips tend to taste stronger and saltier than standard hummus.
 This is a classic move, and it's a great way to add protein to your snack. Most peanut butter is thick enough that you can spread it directly onto the celery stick.


Choose chunky or smooth peanut butter, to your preference. You can find peanut butter in most U.S. grocery stores, and some some stores allow you to grind your own from fresh nuts.
Spice up this classic choice by using other types of nut butter: almond butter, cashew butter, or walnut butter, for instance. These are more difficult to find in stores, but many upscale healthy-food retailers may offer them.
Make "Ants on a Log": Pimp out your peanut-butter celery stick with raisins, seeds, or even M&Ms. This is a great way to make celery exciting for kids.
 Ranch is a popular choice, but any creamy dressing will do: thousand island, blue cheese, Italian, Caesar, etc. Serve the dressing in a small bowl or tray for easy access. Be judicious; you can always pour more!,


Greek or plain yogurt may blend most smoothly with the flavor of the celery, but feel free to experiment with other flavors.
Plain cream cheese is fine, but consider trying any number of herbed or flavored cream cheese dips.
 Fondue, nacho cheese, or any melted cheese sauce will do. You may be able to find cheese sauce in some grocery stores; but consider making your own fondue.
 This works best with creamy soups: clam chowder, potato leek soup, or even celery soup itself.


You can use celery as a low-calorie replacement for saltine soup crackers or oyster crackers. Celery will not absorb soup in the same that crackers do, but the grooved channel in the stalk will provide a scooping mechanism.
Keep 3-4 inch long chunks alongside your soup for scooping, or chop the celery directly into the soup.

