 You'll need some fake flowers from the craft store, green floral tape, wire cutters, and a pen (or however many you're looking to make!). If you’re looking to make a bouquet or give a variety to different people, it’s best to buy a bulk pack of cheap pens are your local dollar store., If your fake flower has a wire in it, use a wire cutter to clip it or it may be brittle enough to just wiggle back and forth and break.If there are leaves attached to the stem of your fake flower, you can cut them off with scissors or keep some for your desired effect. Leaves can easily be pulled off the main stem or cut off but be sure to leave a bit of stem at the end of the leafs if you plan on wrapping them back up into a bouquet., Before cutting the ink cartridge, measure how deep you want to place your flower stem and leaves. Using your wire cutters or sharp scissors, cut off about 1 inch from the ink cartridge (long enough for the flower stem to fit after it in the pen).
 Using green floral tape, make sure you wrap any leaves with your fake flower stem as tightly as possible to ensure that they will fit down the shaft of the pen.If you want to include a lot of leaves or the shaft of the pen is too small to fit the wrapped flower stem, you can also use the green floral tape to tape the flower stems outside the shaft of the pen. The green floral tape will be wrapped along the entire shaft regardless where you place the flower stems., Use scissors or the wire cutter to adjust the length of either the ink cartridge or flower stem. You may also place the tape flush against the pen as you wrap tape to bind them together. Hold the bottom of the pen to make sure your wrap is as snug as possible., Tape slowly and make sure to tape over the drop of the stem to create the illusion of a single stem. Keep a consistent wrap pattern as you make your way downward. Also, be sure to keep your wrap as tight as possible as you cover any sign of the pen shaft.


If you have the time and skill, you may also attempt a pattern with your stem wrap. For example, you can create a zig zag or layers of parallel lines.
Use double sided tape if you find that your floral tape is not sticky enough.
You may leave space for your grip if you intend to use the pen for writing rather than display.

