 Another way to convert competitive people to allies and build a cooperative environment is to look for ways to work together. If you happen to find another parent at your kid's school too competitive, you could try finding a project you can work on together, such as building a better library.For instance, you could say, "I see we both care deeply about our kids' education. What would you think about working on a library book drive together to improve their educational environment?"

, When you're dealing with a competitive person at work, it can make you feel isolated and frustrated. Be sure to work towards building friendships with other people in your office, the ones who aren't trying to compete with you. By being yourself and working hard, you will find that people will realize your value, despite the fact that someone is always trying to look better than you. Additionally, building networks helps the whole environment, making it more cooperative and team-focused.Besides helping people value you, building friendships can help give you the support you need when you have a competitive person in your life., When new people arrive on the job, make sure you go over and introduce yourself. You can take it even further by introducing that person around to other people in your department. That way, the person already starts to get to know people and doing so promotes good working relationships.If you can, try to go beyond just "Hello!" and "Welcome to the company!", In a workplace environment, it can be easy to shut out opinions that don't conform to the majority. However, often dissenting opinions can help make a project better. Try to encourage others to speak up, and if someone gets shut down, take it upon yourself to defend the person., Like most relationships, work relationships are built on trust. Just like those other relationships, building trust takes work and time. However, doing so can help make your workplace more cooperative.Tell the truth. Being honest about your work helps to build trust with others.Do what you say you're going to do. Another way to build trust is to first say what you will do, and then follow through with it.Work towards the benefit of the group. Not only will this step help thwart the competitive people, it will also help create an environment of cooperation. That is, instead of always looking for personal acclaim through the work you do, make sure you are trying to make your team or the company as a whole shine.