 Drink plenty of water to clear up your skin and aid your kidneys in excreting toxins from your body. If your acne is severe, see a dermatologist. If your acne is mild and sporadic, use a concealer when you get spots. Remember, pat in the concealer. Find out what skin type you have, and buy facial cleansers for your specific skin type. Always remove make-up at the end of the day, and wash your face twice (morning and night). Use a good moisturizer so your skin is hydrated. Try to use a moisturizer with sunscreen during the daytime. If you tend to have oily skin, carry oil-absorbing pads with you to blot your skin with every few hours.


You can squeeze some fresh lemon onto your fingertips and apply it to any spots you may have on your face. Wash your face twice a day. In the morning, splash your face with cold water for about 10 seconds. Then pat dry with a washcloth or facial sponge. This helps stimulate blood flow and is really good for the skin.;
, Since your feet will be exposed a lot through wearing sandals, make sure they're pleasing to look at. You can have a pedicure done, or give yourself one. Just make sure your feet are clean, hair-free, nails aren't too long, nails are filed, and your feet are moisturized. Be sure to use sunscreen on your feet, too. As for your hands, try putting a clear polish on your nails and keeping them well groomed. If your hands tend to be dry, apply a moisturizer at night and wear white cotton gloves while you sleep (this also works well in the winter). You will wake up with softer, more beautiful hands.
 Always use sunscreen. You will still tan but you will cause a lot less damage to your skin. Use self-tanning lotion or cream. Many people get skin cancer, even if they just get a tan, not a burn. It is just like regular cancer, and can be fatal, unless surgically (or with a laser) removed.


Remain physically active. Go to the gym 3 to 4 times a week. If a gym is not accessible, go swimming, biking, rollerblading, walking, etc.
 Do whatever works for you and suits your face. If your hair is curly, use a product to define your curls. If you're looking for a new style, go to a hairdresser and ask for his or her opinion. A professional will be able to help you pick a style and color that will suit your face and skin tone.


Wash and dry your hair regularly. French braid your hair on both sides of your head before bedtime, then remove the braids in the morning and you'll have instant waves. It's so quick and easy!

, This is not necessary but if your parents allow it, it could be useful. Use a mascara that is waterproof, which is best for summer and it's likely that you'll be sweating, swimming, etc. Curl your eyelashes before you use mascara, it will make your eyes pop. Apply bronzer to your cheeks, forehead, nose and chin; this will give you a nice summer glow. If you have pimples, dot on concealer and seal it with powder. Now, although makeup can improve the way you look temporarily, you mustn't forget that if you wear it continuously you may not be satisfied with the way you look without it on.
 Wear whatever you feel like. You will always look better when you're wearing something you're comfortable in. And because it's summer, you can always go and buy new clothing, especially if you are in school. Always want a new great look!

, Don’t shy away from all the dark colors because they can look very trendy! Your wardrobe should contain some Plain tank-tops in the colors: white, black, pink, blue and lavender. A variety of short shorts in different styles and colours. With a cropped blazer or paired with a pair of funky Chuck Taylor All Star Converse. Including anything denim, followed with some cute jeans and dresses.

