 Selecting a faction that best suits you is the first key step in controlling the known world. All factions have a certain advantage over others. England, has superior heavy infantry and the devastating Longbow. They lack a diverse selection of Heavy cavalry, yet their English Knights are the most destructive cavalry stat wise in the game.


Many factions prefer swords over spears, or make excellent use of Calvary, but lacks infantry.
Always go into custom battle, and preview the army list before selecting a faction and starting a game.;
,


ALWAYS be building SOMETHING. Having a turn not building a structure, is like a wasted turn.
 These add significantly to your economy and the roads boost your ground movement speed. With Castles, build roads, hold off on the ports, and go straight into military buildings. Try ground infantry and get your Barracks to a decent level, before moving onto economical/religious structure.


Take a look around your starting area, make note of the factions around you. Look for nearby rebel settlements, for these will be your targets for the turns to come.
Take your starting forces from cities (leaving peasants or other fodder to keep the happiness up) group them up with my Military leader, and strike the rebel factions. If you are wary of your neighboring factions, mercenaries are a sure way to acquire the superior troops in order to counteract other factions. Use them if you are attacked early on or decide that you wish to Blitzkrieg the game.
 While pillaging and conquering is a key component to M2TW, 95% of war is fought behind an elegant oak desk, with parchment and quill.


Politics are THE key mechanism to M2TW. As with real life, politics win and lose wars.
At the start of your turn, use your diplomat if you have one, and acquire trade rights. Always. Trade rights increase your income, thus allowing you to conquer.
If you're looking for a "Best-Friend" alliance, follow the next opening to win their politicians. This works around 90-95% of the time.

Note: Do not EVER trust the Holy Roman Empire, for they are very unforgiving. They tend to strike up alliances, then invade when you are the weakest. If beaten back, they tend to offer a ceasefire, alliance, trade rights...then they backdoor Jenkins rush you. Then wash and repeat. My advice, always keep your eye on the Holy Roman Empire, for they will pull a 3 war turn on you, and win.
 The "sinews of war are infinite money." Who ever said this never had to pay upkeep for a Crusader army of thousands! Gold, above all else, is the most important. Winning over strategic military battles and conquering Crusade targets mean nothing if you can't pay the bills. Every unit group has an upkeep, brought up by selecting the unit information, showing statistics, upkeep, etc. Now this is not drawn from one city, but pulled in fractions from multiple cites, your capital (From what I've seen) being the most heavily taxed. As in First Steps, build up roads and ports to begin. After that, for cities, build up markets, then churches for the happiness bonuses (Mosques for the Islamic factions) By the time your cities hit large and huge cities, squalor from taxes will rise, that is what the churches are for. Happiness increases with churches, thus allowing you to further tax and reap more income. There is a lot of talk saying that agricultural buildings have very little effect on the total economical expenditures during each turn. Farms significantly raise growth, thus counteracting of the population penalty for taxes. However, reserve agricultural buildings last in my build queue, for ports and merchant wharves provide oh so more gold-per-turn.

