


Instead of designating a single part of speech as the focus, instruct players to only spell words that can be used for more than one.
Have each player identify as many parts of speech as they can for each word they play.
Allow others to identify any parts of speech that the player might have missed.
 Allow everyone to play whatever words they are able to spell out. However, to keep this from devolving into a regular old game of Scrabble, make identification a key component of the game. Only accept words if the player is able to correctly identify the part of speech they belong to. Since some words satisfy more than one, decide whether to:


Accept each word as long as one part of speech is correctly identified.
Insist that all possible parts of speech for each word are named.
Allow others to identify parts of speech that the player left unmentioned.
 Establish one part of speech as the foundation of the game. In addition to this, also permit other parts of speech that describe or modify it. For example, say you select adjectives as the foundation. Once an adjective is on the board (let’s say it’s the word “written”), permit players to build on it with adverbs that modify or describe that adjective (like “well” or “hastily”).


Only accept additional parts of speech if they connect directly with the word they’re describing. For instance, if both “wide” and “written” are on the board, accept “well” only when it’s built off of the word “written,” since the phrase “well wide” doesn’t make any sense.
Have each player identify the part of speech for each word they play. Avoid confusing other players who may not realize when an adverb is played instead of an adjective.
 Designate a single part of speech to focus on, as you would with a game for beginners. However, instead of immediately accepting any word that satisfies that part of speech, only do so if the player can correctly identify its subtype. For example, say you pick conjunctions. These are broken into three main types:


Coordinating conjunctions join words, phrases, and clauses together (“The boy and girl ran up the hill;” “The boy ran up the hill and walked back down;” “The boy ran up the hill, and then he walked back down.”)Subordinating conjunctions link a dependent clause to an independent clause (“If it rains, I’ll stay inside;” “When it rains, I’ll go inside;” “Because it rained, I went inside.”)
Correlative conjunctions consist of a pair that only work with each other. For example, “whether” only works with “or” (“I don’t know whether we’ll go or stay”), never “and” or “but.” Depending on which word you play, it may satisfy more than one type (“or,” for instance, is also a coordinating conjunction).

