 Cash in reward points from your credit card and use up any miles towards flights or hotel stays.


Look for additional discounts for AAA members, students, veterans, seniors and families.;
, Online travel agencies such as Expedia, Orbitz and Hotwire have competitive prices on flights, rental cars and hotels.


Look for package deals. You can often save money when you book an entire vacation package from online travel agencies.
 Go to sites such as TravelZoo and sign up for their e-newsletters. You will get frequent information on travel specials, including cheap beach vacations.
 Stay close to home in order to save on long flights, passports, currency exchanges and rental cars. Your tan will look the same.


Consider family-friendly locations that most people find affordable. Local beach destinations might include Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, coastal locations near Tampa Bay in Florida, Cape Cod and resorts in Mexico and the Caribbean. On the west coast, there are affordable beaches near San Diego and Santa Barbara or even in Oregon.



Compare gas prices to the cost of airfare. Consider how long you are planning to travel as well, and whether you will need a rental car in your beach destination if you fly.
Consider train travel and bus travel as well. Greyhound bus lines now have WiFi and Amtrak goes up and down both coasts. It might be cheaper than driving or flying.
 Some beach resorts will charge you a single sum for hotel, food and non-alcoholic beverages. This can be a good value if you do not drink.


Remember that gratuities and activities are often not included in all-inclusive packages.
 You do not have to stay at a hotel right on the beach. There are houses, condos and apartments for rent at most beaches within walking distance to the sand and surf.


Check out classified ads for timeshares people are willing to sell or rent. Look for websites that advertise alternatives to hotels. You might have to clean up after yourself, but the savings will be worth it.
 When you rent a beach house or condo, you will likely have a kitchen. Instead of eating expensive meals out, stay in for meals and snacks.
 Summer is considered the off season for beach destinations in the Caribbean because it is so hot and the threat of hurricanes is higher.

