 The position of the power button will depend on your model. Usually you’ll find this button on the left or right side, in one of the corners of the keyboard. Volume knobs or buttons are usually labeled and are positioned off to the left or right as well.

Many Casio keyboards have a small LED near the power button. When the keyboard is on, this light turns on to indicate it has power.If your keyboard isn’t turning on, check the power cord. The keyboard won’t turn on if it’s unplugged or the cord is loose.
If your keyboard is battery powered and it won’t start up, you may need new batteries. Replace these and see if the keyboard turns on.;
, The default for most keyboards when they’re first turned on is piano, but electronic keyboards can synthesize many different sounds. Use the number pad (usually to the right) to change the sounds made when you press a key.

Most keyboards will have an instrument directory written somewhere near the keypad. This will list instrument names (like organ, trumpet, and so on) and their number.If your keyboard doesn’t have an instrument directory, look up the instrument numbers in your manual. If your manual is missing, Casio offers free electronic manuals online., The features your Casio has will largely depend on its model. Older keyboards may have few features, but newer ones may have programmed lessons, auto-chord features, a metronome, and more.


Programmed lessons often make use of a keyboard light-up feature, where keys change color to indicate which you’re supposed to press to play a song.
Auto-chord features will make simple chords off a single note. This can be a fun way to learn simple chord structure.
 Especially in the beginning, you’ll be focused on hitting the right notes, hand position, and so on. You’ll be coordinating a lot of new motions, so it may be difficult to get a good sense of how it all sounds together without listening to a recording.


The record button on most Casios is red and will be labeled with "Rec.” Generally, press this button once to start recording and again to stop.
Recording features will vary from model to model. Your keyboard may even have memory so you can save songs you’re really proud of.