 One of the big problems with organized religion is that oftentimes, believers feel compelled to convert non-believers. Atheists are not immune from this. When you meet a person who believes in God, don’t try to explain to them why they shouldn’t. Instead, listen to them when they talk and try to understand where they’re coming from.Remember that your choice to not believe in God is not being challenged by another person’s choice to believe in God.
Use humor to connect with one another and diffuse conversations when they get too confrontational.
 Attending church helps people with their mental health by providing them with a sense of community. While you may not personally believe, understanding that believing in God improves other people’s quality of life may help you understand their choices.Many religions preach forgiveness and forgiveness also correlates with increased mental health.
Believing in God may help your mental health when recovering from medical conditions like cancer and traumatic brain injuries.
Believing in God may also help you when receiving treatment for depression., Religious ideology definitely plays a role in creating conflict and war, but it's not the only perpetrator of violence. Poverty, social inequality and employment stagnation also play major roles.Don’t let your personal biases get in the way of you learning and connecting with people who have different beliefs than you do. Do not let your biases against religion affect the way you feel about religious people.Stop making sweeping generalizations when you talk about people who believe in God. Choose your words carefully and hold yourself accountable for what you say.
Treat people who believe in God with the same respect that you expect as someone who doesn’t.
 There are many different religions out there, and even people who practice the same religion share different beliefs. Be respectful of everyone’s point of view and do not tar different people with the same brush.Remind yourself that just because some people in a religion believe in something doesn’t mean that everyone in that religion believes in that thing.
Don’t use religious extremists as the basis for your arguments. When it comes to believing in God, they are the exception, not the rule.

