 The hole should be 4 x 2, and 2 blocks deep. This is where we will start to build our redstone elevator.;
, Put cobblestones that is arrow-shaped on one of the corner. Add another block on top of the “point” end of the arrow.
 Put a red stone torch on both of the blocks at the end of the 4 x 2 where there are cobblestones.


Put a red stone dust above the remaining block.
Put a repeater on the space after the cobblestone with the red stone torch and another repeater on the space after the block with the red stone dust. Make sure that the repeater after the block with the red stone dust is higher than 1 block (on the left), compared with the other one.
Connect both repeaters with red stone dust.
 Add a block beside the repeater and above the cobblestone; you will notice that the repeater you just placed will light up.


Place another cobblestone on the other side of the repeater that you just recently placed then add two cobblestones placed right beside each other on the side of the red stone torch.
 Add them up as high as you want the elevator to be. Make sure that they are of the same height.


Put a cobblestone on top of the red stone torch that is on ground level.
Add another repeater on the side opposite from the side with the previous repeater. You will see that the repeater you've placed will light up.
 Place another two blocks above it and repeat it until you reach the top end of your elevator.


Repeat it on the other side but on alternate place compared with the opposite so that it looks like a giant zipper.
Add repeaters on the spaces facing outward.
 Place blocks on top of it until the two blocks are the same height as what you want the elevator to be.
 Do this on the back side of the tall wall that you've just built. Fill the spaces on the topmost layer of your elevator with cobblestones.


While still on the back of the wall, put in red stone torches directly on the wall on the spaces that are left, which are supposed to be also in zigzag pattern.
 After that, put red stone above those cobblestones that you've just placed. Put it on all of the openings on that side of the wall.


Put blocks beside all the spaces that has red stone on it.
Lastly, put red stone torches on the remaining spaces that don’t have red stone on top of it. Make sure that it is placed directly on the wall and not on top of the cobblestones.
 Put any pressure plate above that block. Fill in the rest to cover up the dug up ground.


Put any type of stair beside and facing the pressure plate.
Place two blocks across both beside the pressure plate and the stairs.
 Place it until it’s as tall as what you want the elevator to be. Do the same on the other end of the structure.


Place any type of stairs on the sticky pistons. Test by stepping on the pressure plate. You will see that the stairs will move.
Destroy the stairs that won’t move and as well as other excess cobblestones. Remember that the repeater needs to be on a one tick delay.

