 Click the link provided to do so.


If you're using the Amazon app, tap the app to open Amazon. You'll need an internet or data connection to access your account.
 This is below and to the right of the search bar.


On mobile, tap the three horizontal lines in the top left corner, then click "Sign in" at the top of the menu.
 When you're done, press "Sign in" to access your account.
 Click the link provided to do so. If you just want to add more money to your existing gift card balance, this menu lets you choose a dollar amount and a checking account; when you're ready to reload your balance, simply click "Reload $Now".


For mobile, you'll need to open the "Your Account" menu, scroll down to "Manage Gift Card Balance", enter your password, and tap "Reload Your Balance". Once you're in your balance menu, choose a dollar amount and the account from which you want to withdraw funds.
 Click the link provided to do so.


On mobile, this option is accessible by tapping the three horizontal lines at the top left corner of your screen, then tapping the "Gift Cards and Registry" tab.
 There are several ways you can purchase an Amazon gift card online:


Select the "eGift" option to purchase a claim code. From this menu, you can select a dollar amount for the gift card, a recipient email address, and payment options. Click "Proceed to checkout" when you're ready to purchase your eGift.Select the "Print at Home" option to customize a gift card. From this menu, you can select a dollar amount, write a message, and choose a design. Click "Proceed to checkout" when you're ready to purchase and print.Select the "Mail" option to have a physical gift card mailed to your address. From this menu, you can select a dollar amount for the card and choose a design. Click "Proceed to checkout" when you're ready to purchase your card., If you don't want to buy a card online, you can find Amazon gift cards in most popular retail stores such as Fred Meyer, Walmart, and Best Buy.


Turn in your coins into a Coinstar machine (where available). Without a fee for this type of redemption method, you can "purchase" an Amazon gift card receipt/code that you can later enter at Amazon.

