 There are a lot of reasons why people self-harm, and most of them have to do with psychological trauma. If you are using self-harm as a way of coping with something else in your life, identifying the real problem can help you find ways to stop.


Some people turn to self-harm as a way to cope with current or past abuse.If you are using self-harm to cope with current abuse, talk to a counselor or police officer and get help. You can also read this wikiHow article for tips on how to deal with abuse.
There are lots of other reasons people self-harm, ranging from being bullied and feeling rejected to feelings of low self-esteem, guilt, or numbness.Sometimes, self-harm is linked to drug use, since certain drugs can cause depression and feelings of worthlessness.
 It is incredibly difficult to tell anyone if you have been hurting yourself. But if you are struggling with self-harm, telling someone can be the first step in recovery.


If you're in the United States, call the 24-hour National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK.
Talk to your parents or other loved ones. Telling someone you trust can ensure you get the help you need.
Talk to your doctor. If you have no one else to talk to, tell your school nurse, doctor, or school counselor. These people can get you a referral to a therapist or psychiatrist for an evaluation., Most people who self-harm do it as a way to get a quick rush of endorphins, a feel-good chemical that helps to combat issues like depression and anxiety. This can be soothing, distracting, or a way to vent. It is a coping strategy to deal with anything from awful life circumstances to mental illness. Finding other ways to cope can help you overcome.Talk to a therapist. A therapist can help you think of strategies to cope with stress and also to deal with the root cause of your self-harm, such as a traumatic past or bullying from your peers. You can find a therapist by talking to your regular doctor or school counselor and asking for a referral.
Exercise. Doing daily aerobic activity like using the elliptical or rowing machine or just going for a run can give you a similar burst of endorphins and is a great way to cope with stress and anxiety.Try eating something with a strong flavor. If you self-harm because you feel disconnected and numb, eating hot peppers or peppermint can help you have the same sensation of being alive without the risk of hurting yourself.Talk to your therapist about trying music or art therapy to help you deal with stress and replace your need for self-harm. Expressing yourself is an important part of recovery.