 Deep tears that expose the substrate under the leather require a "sub patch" to form a strong backing for your repair. A leather repair kit is a convenient way to purchase sub patch material, since it will also include the other tools needed for this repair. If you don't have a repair kit, you can use any strong, flexible mending fabric, or another piece of leather or vinyl. Cut the sub patch so it is slightly larger than the hole or tear. Round the corners for easy insertion.
 Use a pair of tweezers to insert the sub patch into the hole, then to flatten out any wrinkles or folds. Make sure that the sub patch completely covers the hole and sits smoothly between the substrate and the leather.
 Using a large needle or toothpick, apply a flexible fabric or leather glue to the underside of the leather. Spread the glue in a thin layer wherever the leather will contact the sub patch. Press the leather onto the sub patch, gently pulling the tear back to its original shape. Wipe away excess glue with a paper towel.
 Place a block of wood or heavy book over the entire area to apply even, firm pressure. Wait for the glue to dry for at least twenty minutes, or according to label instructions.









Check your glue label to see if it suggests using a hairdryer to speed up drying. Even if it does, keep the heat low and avoid holding the blow dryer directly against the leather. Excess heat can dry out or damage leather.
 Before you apply leather filler to repair the hole, you'll need a clean surface for it to bond with. Lightly dampen a clean rag with leather cleaner or 70% isopropyl alcohol, then gently clean the damaged area.









Alcohol is usually more effective than leather cleaner at removing excess glue or grease-based stains., This helps the leather filler create a flush surface with the edges of the tear.Carefully trim away any loose or stringy fibers around the edge of the hole.
 If there is still a small gap between the two edges, use a palette knife to spread a small amount of leather filler into the gap. Use the flat side of the palette knife to smooth out the filler and to scrape away any excess.You want to leave the filled area flat and flush with the rest of the leather surface. Use a paper towel to remove any excess filler and feather the edges where it touches the undamaged surface of the leather.









Leather filler is included in leather repair kits.
 Refer to your product instructions for an estimate of drying time. Once dried, you should be able to press the repaired area gently without it shifting or feeling squishy.You may have to apply a second coat of filler if the surface still feels uneven after drying.
 You can mix your own color by hand following the instructions in your repair kit, or send a sample of the leather to a custom leather dye company to make an exact match. Once you have the right color, dab a small amount of dye over the repair with a damp sponge. Once the area is mostly concealed, wait for it to dry. Repeat as necessary, gradually blending outward for a natural appearance.








Test the mix on an inconspicuous corner of the leather first if you're not confident it's the right shade. If the color seems wrong, wipe it away quickly.
 Some leathers have a more lustrous finish than others. If the dye looks too flat and dull, dab a coat of clear finish over the top, and wait until it dries. The clear finish will help protect the color and match the luster.







