 Finding internal peace begins with identifying what makes you feel calm.Consider activities you enjoy that leave you with a sense of peace and calm. Make time in your schedule to practice calming and centering activities on a regular basis.Some peaceful activities may include:


Reading a book.
Enjoying quiet time or silence.
Engaging in creative arts.
Listening to calming sounds such as ocean waves, weather sounds, or sounds of animals.;
, A very successful way to calm your mind and find internal peace is to practice meditation. Meditation will help you train your mind to be peaceful and more clear.When you meditate, make sure you are in a quiet place free of distractions, such as in a room by yourself. Sit in a position that is comfortable for you; either in a chair or on the floor.Try and keep your back straight for better breathing.


Close your eyes and turn your attention to your breathing.Notice the sensation of the breath as it comes in and goes out. Don't try to control or change your breath, just focus on it.
Thoughts may surface with a strong temptation to follow the train of thought as it comes up. If you notice your mind wandering, gently refocus on your breath. The more you practice this the easier it will be and the fewer distractions will occur.
Try setting an intention. You can meditate on any intention that resonates most with you, such as gratitude, the beauty of nature, the love of your family, and so on. Anything that makes you feel warm and fuzzy inside when you think about it would make a good intention. Having something to focus on can be helpful for beginners.
Try additional guided meditations, guided imagery, loving kindness meditations, or even attending meditation classes., Stress and anxiety will interfere with your sense of calm and peace. Counteract it by addressing anything that is causing you stress in your life. If financial management or money issues are causing you stress, make a plan to deal with them right away. Take control of your stress management in order to be more peaceful in your everyday life. Choose a stress management technique and plan that work for you and makes the most sense in your life.Try the following coping skills.For 10 to 15 minutes a day, write about things that are bothering you and how you are feeling about them.
Find a way to let your feelings out such as talking, laughing, or crying.
Spend some time around animals such as extra time around your pets, or going to a petting zoo.
 Certain types of exercises or sports have been shown to provide a sense of peace in the person who practices it.Try engaging in a physical activity that allows you to release your stress, and find relaxation afterwards. Regular physical activity helps promote balance in your life and peacefulness of your mind and mood.


Exercises like running have proven to be almost meditative in the sense of peace they provide.Physical activities like tennis, batting cages, or golfing at a driving range, will allow you to work out extra energy, stress, or aggression.
More meditative exercises like pilates and yoga will help you focus your mind and have a more peaceful relationship between your mind and body.
 In a society where it is easy to be labeled and judged, it is hard not to judge yourself based on what others think. Living this way will only cause you stress and and a decreased sense of peace and happiness. Instead, practice self-reflection.Determine what you think and how you feel about yourself. Use your self-reflection to provide yourself with the sense of peace that comes from being the person you want to be.


Pay special attention to the internal judgments that you are inflicting on yourself. Work towards replacing the criticism with more peaceful thoughts., Change is often difficult to accept and can be very stressful.It is common to become comfortable and be resistant to change. The difficulty here is that change is constantly occurring, and that by being resistant to it, you will just be causing yourself unnecessary stress.To be more peaceful begin to accept and allow changes to occur without resisting them in the following ways:Accept change by realizing you and your life are always growing and changing. Accept change as a learning process to a better life.
Let go of fear. A great deal of the time we are resistant to change due to a fear of the unknown. Letting go of that fear allows you to accept change.
Recognize that resistance causes more turbulence in our lives and uses more energy than acceptance., If there is something you identify as a “bad habit” it is going to cause you stress and interfere with your peace. Breaking a bad habit can be extremely difficult, but can also lead you to the path of improvement of a peaceful and balanced person.Do not discontinue multiple bad habits at once. This sets you up for failure for trying too much at once. Try working on one bad habit at a time.
Put it in writing. Write down what bad habit you are quitting and when you are quitting it by. This holds you accountable and helps solidify your commitment.Switch out your bad habit for another activity. For example, if you are a smoker, try chewing gum instead.

