 Before you can start any kind of treatment for lung cancer, you need to get a biopsy of the lung. A biopsy will let your doctor know that you have cancer and what type of cancer you have.During a biopsy, the doctor will get a small tissue sample of your lung. They can do this through a needle, a tube sent into the lungs, through the chest wall, or through an incision. After they get the tissue sample, they check the sample under a microscope for cancerous cells.;
, Lung cancer is divided into four different stages. Stages refer to the severity of the cancer. The stage of lung cancer you have may influence your treatment options.Stage I cancer is when the area affected by the cancer is small. It is usually only in one area of the lung. Surgery is often used to treat this stage of cancer.
Stage II and III is when the cancer has progressed and infected a larger area of the lungs. The cancer may have spread to surrounding tissues. The cancer may also be in the lymph nodes. A combination of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation is common for stage II and III cancers.Stage IV is the most advanced stage of cancer. This means the cancer has spread beyond the lungs into other parts of the body. For stage IV lung cancer, all treatments are options for helping you live longer and reducing any symptoms., If you have lung cancer, you can have either a carcinoid tumor, small cell lung cancer or non-small cell lung cancer. Most lung cancers are non-small cell lung cancer. Small cell lung cancer grows more quickly than the other type.Small cell lung cancer generally responds better to chemotherapy. Non-small cell lung cancer is treated with various types of treatments, such as surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy, among others.
Carcinoid tumors are rare and slow-growing and often show no symptoms until the late stages.
 After you are diagnosed with lung cancer, you will work with a multidisciplinary cancer care team to come up with your treatment plan. This team consists of different doctors, oncology nurses, pharmacists, physician assistants, dietitians, counselors, or other health care professionals.Your doctors will work together to come up with a plan of care for your treatment. You may decide to use a combination of treatments, depending on your specific case.
Your treatment plan will be based on the type and stage of lung cancer you have, the location of the cancer, your overall health, and what you approve to be done.If you do not feel your doctors are working together or communicating, speak with them. If you feel uncomfortable with your team, go get a second opinion or find a new set of doctors.

