 You will want to avoid being too direct or hurtful to your partner. Avoid saying things like: “You know, you’re really fat” or “You really shouldn’t eat that.” Instead, start a general conversation about health.This will be a good way to broach the topic without being too hurtful. Try to say things like:


”Did you hear about the study about weight gain and heart disease?”
”Wow, this article about this new workout looks really fun.”
”Wouldn’t it be neat to go to that dance class? I hear it is really good cardio.”

, Once you have planted a seed in your partner’s mind, she might start to open up to you about her own fears and goals.Be an active listener to her worries or complaints; it is not easy to identify shameful or hurtful things. Encourage your partner to talk to you by responding kindly. Try saying things like:


”I hear you say that you are struggling with your weight. Do you want to talk about it?”
”I agree, having the motivation to work out can be difficult. Do you want to hear what gets me going in the morning?”

, It can sometimes be difficult or daunting to an overweight person to hear a fit person talk about being healthy. Provide empathy to your partner by providing what you have struggled with.


”It took me two years to lose 70lbs. It was so difficult and I wanted to give up all the time.”
”All I wanted to do last night was go home and eat a big bowl of chocolate ice cream. But, I realized that would just make me feel worse.”
”Losing weight is so hard. I kept getting so discouraged by the number on the scale.”

, It is difficult to talk about faults and it can be hurtful to talk to someone you love only to be judged harshly. If your partner is talking to you about a problem, be kind and do not judge. They are reaching out to you because they respect your opinion. Avoid saying things like:


”Yeah, I noticed you were getting chubby.”
”I can’t believe you live like this!”
”Wow, you can eat that?”

, This breeds resentment and your relationship to suffer. Instead, focus on being supportive. Avoid pointing out when your partner fails or struggles. Be encouraging!

