 There are many branches and philosophies within socialism, but one major focus is cooperation and opposition to many hierarchies, such as those based on money, class, or race. Seek out people you wouldn't normally get a chance to meet, especially people employed in low-paying jobs or struggling at the bottom of these hierarchies. This doesn't make you a socialist, but it may teach you a more realistic and detailed understanding of the social experiences socialism seeks to eliminate.


Understand that most socialists desire to restructure society to eliminate this type of suffering, not just alleviate it with private charity.;
, Socialism has long been associated with fighting oppression of all types, not just those types based on economics or class divides.


Consider learning about and involving yourself in movements that work to end anti-immigrant hatred, racism, and discrimination based on sex, gender, or sexuality.Even movements that are rarely discussed in mainstream society, such as the campaign against inhuman prison conditions, have been championed by socialists for over a century.Consider joining an organization that educates people on these topics, protests them, and/or helps oppressed people.
Speak out when you witness discrimination occur. File a discrimination charge against employers when appropriate, following these guidelines for the U.S. or the E.U.
 If you work at a small business or are well-respected at your workplace, you may be in a position to argue for a more equal payment structure, or for giving lower-status employees a chance to contribute ideas and assist in decision-making. Even if you are not in a position to accomplish this, you may be able to start a petition or lawsuit against oppressive management decisions, such as mistreatment of employees or discriminatory hiring practices.


Small business owners looking to retire or move on may be convinced to sell their business to their employees. While this can take on several different forms depending on the legal path the owner decides to take, this can be the basis for a full worker cooperative, or at least a more equal system in which the current employees share the profits between them., Historically, the relationship between trade unions and socialists has been controversial, with a long history of both cooperation and strife.However, even if you join an anti-socialist labor union, you may find non-socialist allies for certain common goals, such as workers' rights.
 Many unions, ironically, are organized in top-down, privilege-based hierarchies, or are ineffective at defending their members' labor rights. If you are working on the union staff, and demonstrating that you are a serious and effective union member, you may be able to alter this situation. Note that arguing socialism may be less effective than training all union members in union operations, and encouraging them to involve themselves in meetings and strategy discussions.


Some socialist organizations recommend working in the rank-and-file of the union staff for six months before trying to make big changes., There are many types of cooperatives, but the basic idea is a community that makes decisions and shares benefits on an equal basis. This could be a group of friends who distribute income and resources evenly, or a more worker cooperative in which all workers have equal decision making power in a business-like entity.

