 You want a deep enough, and large enough, bowl that you can submerge the entire nail into the bowl. Ideally, you want a bowl large enough to dip all of your nails at once.


Pick a bowl that can stand up to freezing or chilling. Metal bowls will hold in the cold and be cold to the touch. Plastic will insulate the water but may be easier to handle.
Consider dedicating a bowl just for beauty regiments. You probably do not want to accidentally get nail polish on your favorite mixing bowl.;
, After you’ve picked the right vessel, fill it with cold water. You want the coldest water possible without freezing everything in the bowl. This will help the ice not to melt so quickly., You want to add a cup of ice (cubes, not crushed) to the bowl. This will create cold enough water to help instantly dry your nails. Once you’ve added the ice, return the bowl to the fridge if you intend to paint your nails right away.If you think you it will take at least an hour for your manicure, consider returning the bowl to the freezer so the ice does not melt. Be warned, wait too long and the entire bowl will freeze.
 Once the bowl is chilling, now it is time to put on your favorite manicure. You can use whatever type polish you would like. Paint your nails as you normally would.
 Remove the bowl from the fridge or freezer, carefully. Be careful not to smudge your wet nails doing this! If you can, have someone assist you with this.


Place the bowl on a flat surface. If you are putting the bowl on wood, place a towel or trivet underneath the bowl. This will prevent water rings on the surface.
 You can place both hands at once, being careful that your fingers do not touch each other. Or, you can place one hand at a time.


You will want to submerge your hands slowly as not to cause the water to ripple and damage your nails.
 This is going to be cold. It might be a little bit painful. But, the longer your nails are submerged, the drier your nails will become.


Once your hands have been successfully submerged, remove them from the water and place them on a towel.
You can test the dryness of the nail polish by lightly touching your nail. It should be hard to the touch. As odd as it sounds, after removing your hands from the water, your nails should appear dry.
 Cold water can damage your hands, so pat down your hands to dry them.


Consider applying your favorite lotion to your skin, after your nails are successfully dry of course, to stop skin damage.

