 You will be prompted to scan a QR code with WhatsApp.
, The dots are located in the upper right corner, “Settings” is in the bottom menu bar. This will open the options menu.
 WhatsApp will prompt you for permission to access your device’s camera.
 WhatsApp will launch the camera on your device with a box in the middle of the screen to scan the code.
 Align the scan box with the QR code and you will automatically be logged into your WhatsApp account in your browser and taken to the WhatsApp Web service. Chats are listed in the left panel and their contents are displayed in the right window.


The code will expire after a few minutes of waiting. If that happens it will appear greyed out and prompt you to refresh. Click the refresh button in the middle of the code to get a new one (no need to refresh the whole page).
This process only needs to be performed once unless you clear your browser data.
 A dropdown arrow will appear on the right side of a chat.
 A menu with various options will open when clicked.



You can remove a chat from the archives by using the search bar above the chat list and searching for the contact name or chat subject, then opening the dropdown menu when hovering over the chat and selecting “Unarchive”., A chat can be unmuted by reselecting this option.
 Deleted chats are removed and cannot be recovered.
 This will revert a chat to unread status.
 The chat’s message content will be displayed on the right.
 A dropdown arrow will appear on the right side of a chat.
 A menu with various options will open when clicked.
 This will open a window that displays the read status and delivery timestamps of the selected message.


Click the “X” in the upper left of the info window to close it.
 Checkboxes will appear next to messages in the chat. Select the checkboxes to add them to the forward list, then click the “Forward” button in the lower right corner to select contacts to forward the message to.
 You can access starred message by clicking the 3 vertical dots at the top of the chat list and selecting “Starred Messages”.


You can select the “Unstar message” from the same on menu on a starred message to remove this status.



Deleted messages cannot be recovered.

