 You could get an in-pond filter or an external filter.In-pond filters have a pump attached to a fountain that runs into the pond. While they are easy to set up and install, they are difficult to clean because you must remove the entire contraption from the pond.
External filters are very easy to clean, but it can be difficult to get the right size and pump, since they are usually designed for pools, not ponds.
While these bacteria occur naturally in ponds, they are not present in the quantities necessary to adequately filter all the toxins that occur in most ponds.
Get a filter capable of filtering about twice the amount of water that our pond contains. For instance, if a filter says it can adequately filter 3,000 liters, you should use it only if your pond is around 1,500 liters or less. If you get a filter that matches your pond’s volume exactly, it will struggle to keep the pond clean.
Your filter should filter your entire pond in about two hours. Check the speed of the pump and compare it to your pond’s volume to choose the right one.;
, Usually, cleaning is a simple matter of removing the filter, spraying it down with a hose, and replacing it.However, you should always follow manufacturer instructions when deciding how and how often to clean your filter.


If you notice your pump leaking or struggling noisily, you probably need to clean it.If your filter has a gauge on it, clean it when the back-pressure reaches four to five pounds.
Failure to clean your filter regularly will result in it working less efficiently, and leave your pond dirty.
 If you see any, use a rake or a long stick to remove it directly from the water. If you choose to employ this method, you must be vigilant and check the pond on a regular basis.


Remove leaves and debris floating on the water. Most leaves, twigs, seeds, and loose grasses can be removed with a pond skimmer, a kind of long-handled net specifically designed to keep ponds and pools clean.These are readily available at most home care stores.
Clean the bottom of the pond.You can use a pond vacuum or a wet vacuum to clean the bottom. A pond vacuum is a device that allows you to suck up leaves, algae, sludge, and other debris that you don’t want in the bottom of your pond. They are readily available at most home improvement stores.
 If you have fish in your pond, selecting a high-quality fish feed will prevent the growth of algae, as the food will be more fully digested, and your fish will produce less waste. In order to ensure your fish eat all the food they’re given, check for food floating on the surface about twenty minutes after you’re done feeding them.


If you see food bits still floating in the water, you’ll know that you’re overfeeding and should gradually reduce the amount of feed you’re providing to a level where you do not see feed floating on the surface after feeding is complete. Excess food will rot and give algae nutrients it can use to grow.
The type of feed you choose to give your fish depends on the species, though most commercially available feeds are appropriate for multiple species. Talk to the proprietor of your local pet store or your vet if you have questions about what type of feed is best for your fish.
Reduce the amount of feed you give your fish in autumn and winter. During these seasons, their metabolism slows and they’ll require less food., With moving water, your pond will be less likely to accrue algae and grime. You could add a fountain or waterfall to your pond. With either fixture, ensure it is placed next to the pond so that water will return to it. Fountains could be placed in the middle of the pond if the pond’s depth does not exceed the height of the fountain.


If you install a fountain or waterfall less than three feet high, the pump should be located next to the waterfall on the ground level. If you install a waterfall five feet tall or taller, the filter should be placed just behind the waterfall at an elevation equal to its highest point., One bale of barley straw treats 1,000 gallons of water. In other words, if your pond holds 100 gallons, you’d need only one-tenth of a bale. The best way to add the straw is to wrap a softball-sized portion of straw in mesh netting and toss the balled-up straw in the pond.


Alternatively, you could add liquid barley straw. One tablespoon usually treats about 50 gallons. If you don’t notice a change after about a week, add more gradually.
Barley straw is readily available at most garden centers.
Barley straw is safe for use in ponds with fish.
 Both will keep algae at bay and keep your pond clean in a natural way.


Add floating plants. Lillies and lotus reduce the total surface area of the pond that algae can thrive on, and absorb nutrients that algae would otherwise use to grow.
Submerged plants like hornwort, parrot’s feather, and anacharis add oxygen to the water, preventing algae. They can be kept below the water’s surface by attaching them to a rock or putting them in a plant pot and adding weight until it sinks.

