


Are they confidential or legal documents.
Do they require quick referencing or can they sit in archives.
Are they required for market history research.
Do the documents have a time limit, so they are active for 12 months, then are no longer active (such as warranties etc)
Can you run one system, or does it need two (or more).;
, Consult with these people as they might have ideas for a very efficient system, or a wish list of things to avoid.


Stores & Receivables
Human Resources
Maintenance
Finance & Admin
Sales & Service
Registration & license
Legal
Marketing
Medical
Historical or Biographical.
Engineering or R+D.
Etc

, Digital copies can be filed simply, but often the original paper copy needs to be kept.


Upright files on a shelf or cupboard.
Upright Filing/File cabinets (with drawers)
Sliding door or drawer systems for large needs.
Pigeonhole or similar.
Satchel, box or envelope.
Will it need to be a formal system or a flexible system, Larger systems are better formalized anyway.
They can be from one central system or localised filing centres.



For example: Upright files have limited storage, but are easier to access like pulling a book from a library shelf. Archive boxes store more, but its easier for papers to become loose and lose their filed order.
Envelopes make good "stash and forget" for simplified personal filing, but can be very difficult if the envelopes themselves are not well archived or in order themselves as they quickly become messy.
 You can have the choice of alphabetical, chronological, document type, region or a file per entity.


They may be a mix of both, but take into account the purpose of the management. Is it to keep them in order and stored, or is it active information that needs referencing?

, Consider installing these three things:


Copies of the filing system method on each rack, or the filing cupboard door where people can read them so they can quickly learn where things are.
A reference index which shows where an admin or staff from a different section can locate what they need. This is more useful for large archives.
A history page per file, glued to the envelope or file to show who took the file and when, as well as when it was returned. If required, give room to state what was done to the file contents such as copies made or papers added/removed.
 Aim to install a system that runs itself because there are times you may be on holiday or ill and someone will have to run it.

Prepare your site so files can then be stored.
Collect all relative papers and collate them in order they need to be.
Make digital copies if needed and save them to the correct drive and sub files. Protect them and save them as read-only files so no accidents occur.
File the papers away in the correct file, box or satchel and then store them.
Take note of where you filed it for the index if needed.
 Consider various ways to cover the following common problems:


Files are getting too big or damaged - in which case you can get another file or a box.
Data contained is no longer current - for these you can archive them and store them. If they are of no future use and it is authorised to dispose of them, shred and recycle the papers.
For damaged works, copy the original and leave the copy in the file and place the original in a safe place for such needs. In some cases the integrity of the original is essential. Label the copy as a copy and record when this was done (as they may need certifying or witnessing).
Keep the index up to date and keep refining the system should there be a need for it. Ensure people know the changes made.
Ensure that files are returned in the condition they left, it rarely happens, but when it goes back on the shelf it must restored to a good condition.
Do a monthly audit to ensure all files are there, in order and complete. This is also an opportunity to check for the above problems.



The benefits are that what is requested gets supplied, they save time and don't have to wait in your section, or involve non archive staff in your section. It also smooths the system so people know they can access papers easier, especially should it be an urgent need.
 Your system should be active, in good order, accessible and can be used by anyone.

