 Most restaurants can't keep extra food after they close, so they trash all the food. If you ask nicely, some staff members will give you the food instead of throwing it away.;
, Free art shows and small, local concerts often serve food. If you live near a university, check bulletin boards or online event calendars. There are almost always public events happening, and many of them serve food.


A catered event for a private group might have extra food if you hang around near the end time.
Many religious services offer free food to anyone who attends the service.
 Some stores offer free samples of their products each day, or offer coffee or snacks for customers. Learn which ones do in your area and visit regularly. It might not be much, but at least it's something.


Some examples in the United States include Sam's Club, Costco, Trader Joe's, and BJ's.
Larger stores are less likely to care if you eat extra samples or visit daily. Small stores often kick you out if you eat samples without buying anything.
 Newly opened grocery stores, supermarkets, and restaurants may offer giveaways to attract customers. Sometimes, even stores that don't sell food will have a catered event on the opening day.
 A few bakeries, stores, and restaurants have "food dumpsters" or "bread dumpsters" that they only use for food, making it easy to pick up a clean meal. Even if you have to root through trash, sealed packages of food (that don't require refrigeration) are almost always good the day of their expiration date or a short time afterward.


Be cautious about discarded food that has not hit its expiration date, and does not have obvious physical damage. This may have been thrown out for health concerns.
 If you bargain well enough, you might get free food. Talk to a cashier or waiter before you've eaten the food or opened the packaging.
 The local government building may be able to tell you about local sources of free or very cheap meals. Some restaurants offer "pay what you want" meals, or special cheap meals for those in need. Soup kitchens and homeless shelters offer free meals, while food banks and community cupboards give away bags of kitchen ingredients.


St. Vincent's is one free restaurant with locations across the US.
Local churches and other religious buildings often host these giveaways or can direct you to local opportunities.

