 Diet does not directly cause oily skin, but certain foods can increase inflammation and fatty acids in the skin. These foods include foods with too much sugar, too much fat, or processed foods.


This includes dairy products, baked goods, candy, sugary beverages, prepackaged foods, and fried foods., There have been studies done on the impact of eating low-glycemic index (GI) foods on lowering the production of skin oils.These foods are those that slowly release sugars into your blood. The foods lowest in the glycemic index are:


Bran cereals and muesli
Rolled oats
Whole grain products, such as pasta, barley, and brown rice
Whole wheat and pumpernickel breads
Most vegetables except pumpkin, beetroots, and parsnips
Nuts and legumes
Many fruit, except high GI fruits like watermelon and dates and medium fruits like mango, pineapple, banana, raisins, papaya, and figs
Yogurt, There are certain vitamins that can help make your skin healthier by absorbing the good nutrients into your body. One of the best vitamins for skin care is vitamins A.To increase your skin health, eat more vitamin rich foods every day, either in recipes or as snacks. Foods that contain a lot of these vitamins are:


Vegetables, such as sweet potato, carrots, spinach, broccoli, pumpkin, red peppers, and summer squash
Fruits, such mangoes, cantaloupe, and apricots
Legumes, such as black-eyed peas
Meats and Fish, including beef liver, herring, and salmon, You can get vitamin D from foods or from the sun. To get vitamin D through safe exposure to the sun, go in the sun with uncovered skin for 15 minutes a week if you are fair skinned. You may need more time if your skin is darker.You can also incorporate more foods, including:


Fish and fish products, such as salmon, tuna, and cod liver oil
Dairy, such as milk, yogurt, and cheese
Foods fortified with vitamin D, such as breakfast cereals and juices, Omega-3 fatty acids are proteins that help your skin and have the added bonus of helping lower your cholesterol. These can be incorporated as meals, in recipes, or as snacks. Have at least two or three servings per week of omega-3s to help improve your skin health. Foods high in omega-3 fatty acids include:


Fish and fish oils, such as salmon, trout, sardines, tuna, mackerel, and shad, though much seafood has at least some omega-3sSeeds and nuts, such as chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts, flaxseeds, and flaxseed oil
Herbs and spices, such as basil, cloves, oregano, and marjoram
Vegetables, such as Chinese broccoli, spinach, and sprouted radish seeds