 The tape needs to go from the bottom left corner to the top right corner. If you need to, cut the tape into smaller pieces first so that it is easier to work with.Regular 8½ by 11-inch (21.59 by 27.94-centimeter) paper will work the best for this.;
, Begin rolling the paper from the bottom right corner, and finish rolling at the top left corner. When you reach the taped part, simply roll right over it. Try to roll the paper so that one end is slightly wider than the other. The wider end will be the bottom of your wand.Plan on having one end come to a sharp point and the other end to a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) opening., Coat the inside of top left corner with liquid glue. Smooth it back down onto the wand. Secure it with a piece of tape or a clip until the glue dries. Once the glue dries, remove the tape or clip.You can also secure the corner with a piece of double-sided tape instead of gluing it.
 You can do this with a sharp pair of scissors.If the ends get crushed, you can fill them back out with a skinny skewer or knitting needle., Squeeze some hot glue into the tip of your wand. Wait for it to set, then repeat for the bottom. If you need to, stuff the inside of the wand with some rolled up tissue. This way, you won't have to use as much glue. Try to make the glue as smooth as possible.For a fancier wand, stick a fancy button or gem into the hot glue before it sets. Do this for the bottom/wider end of the wand only., Coat the bottom 3 to 4 inches (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) of your wand with hot glue. You can coat the handle with a thick, even layer of hot glue for a neat wand, or you can use messy, vertical lines to make a more rustic wand, like Harry's. You can even create dots, specks, or swirls.For a fancier wand, stick fancy buttons or charms into the glue before it sets.
Not all wands have a handle. The most notable is Hermione Granger's wand.
Look at pictures of wands from the movies to get ideas.
 Squeeze some hot glue around the rest of the wand in a spiral. Start at the top of the handle and finish at the tip. You can even go back down the other way to make a lattice or crisscross pattern.You can also glue other items to the body to create texture, such as charms or sequins. Keep in mind that you will be painting over this.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but it will help give you a smoother base for the actual paint. Coat the wand with paint primer. Let it dry, then paint the other side.If you added a fancy charm to the bottom of the wand, you can leave it as it is or coat it with primer.
 To get a wood grain effect, go over the wand with a lighter shade while the paint is still wet. Do this using a stiffer bristle brush, starting from the bottom of the wand and finishing at the tip. Let the wand dry before moving on.

Most of the wands in the films were brown, but you can use another color as well, such as: black, tan, white, grey, or green.
If you added an embellishment to the bottom of your wand, you can leave it blank, or your can paint over it.
 Use a brush to apply the paint to the handle of your want, then quickly wipe it off with a damp paper towel. You can weather the rest of the wand in a similar fashion, but only work a few inches at a time.Don't paint the entire wand, or the paint will dry too fast.
Use a thin brush or a q-tip and watered down black paint to fill in any gaps, creases, or corners., Mix up a lighter shade of the base color you used for your wand. Dilute it with some water, then use a thin brush to apply it to some of the raised areas on your design. Don't get too carried away, however; you only need a little dab here and there., Use your finger, a q-tip, or a paper towel to apply gold or silver rubbing wax (ie: Rub n' Buff) to the raised areas of your wand.Gold will work the best for brownish wands, while silver will work better for white or grey wands.

You don't have to do this, but it can give your wand a nice, magical touch.
 You can use the spray-on kind or the brush on kind. Do one side first, let it dry, then spray the other side. Depending on the type of sealer you are using, you may need one to two more coats. You can use a matter, glossy, or satin finish for your wand.