 For one parakeet, your cage should be at least a foot and a half square. If you have two, you need at least a 28-inch-by-24-inch-by-36-inch cage.Overcrowding can lead to certain diseases spreading more quickly, such as clostridial diseases., Choose a room that has some airflow. If the room is too stuffy, it can also increase the chances of spreading certain bacterial diseases, such as clostridial diseases., Some infections can be vaccinated against. The polyomavirus, for instance, can be vaccinated against in two shots. For adult birds, it needs to be two to four weeks apart the first time and should be renewed yearly.Note that vaccinations for birds are not always routine, and your veterinarian may not have it readily available. Discuss the need for vaccinations with your veterinarian before your appointment so they can obtain any vaccines they think your bird needs.


Talk to your vet about what other vaccines your parakeet will need.
 You need to visit the vet when you first get a new bird, but it's also important to provide yearly checkups for your parakeet. Checkups help to make sure your parakeet hasn't developed a new condition., At the bottom of the cage, create a lining of newspaper. The newspaper catches the bird's droppings and helps soak up any water or spills., To prevent the growth of bacteria, remove the newspaper every day. Discard the old newspaper in the trash. Make sure the cage does not have any feces in the bottom. Add a new liner of newspaper in its place.Make sure to wear disposable gloves when cleaning out the cage, and don't touch areas in your kitchen. Birds can pass on bacteria to humans., Water bowls and other open water dishes encourage contamination more easily than a water bottle. Food can drop in, growing bacteria. Feces can also fall in, leading to the same problem. A water bottle discourages this type of contamination.Contaminated water can lead to bacterial infections in your parakeet.
 It's important to provide fresh food and water every day. Doing so prevents bacteria from growing in the water or food. It's also important to make sure you wash out the dishes, also to prevent the growth of bacteria.When washing out the food dish and water bottle, don't do it in the kitchen sink. You can contaminate other areas when disinfecting these items. It's best to clean them out outside,but you can also use the bathtub.
 You need to disinfect the cage regularly, about once a week. You can use diluted bleach to disinfect the cage, as well as cleaners made specifically for the purpose. You'll will need to move your bird somewhere else while you are disinfecting the cage. Move the cage outside, placing something underneath it when it's clean so you don't recontaminate it. Cleaning the cage helps prevent the buildup of bacteria, which can lead to infections.Wearing disposable gloves, clean the whole cage, including the perches. Start by using dish soap (have a bottle just for cleaning out the cage), and water to wash out the cage. Next, spray it down with disinfectant. Rinse it really well to get rid of any residue. Use paper towels to dry it off.It's always important to wash your hands thoroughly after messing with your bird's cage, even when you're wearing gloves.
 When you get a new parakeet, isolate it from your other birds for a period of time. Isolating the bird keeps it from introducing diseases to your other birds.Keep a new bird in a separate cage and separate room for about four weeks, watching to see if any diseases develop. Ideally, the bird would be kept at another location or in a room that has a separate ventilation, as diseases can be spread through the air conditioner, as well.The best way to tell if a bird has a disease is to visit a vet within a week of getting the bird. The vet can screen for certain diseases and give you an idea of what treatment the bird will need if it does have a disease or tell you if you need to return it to where your bought it. She can also give you an idea of how long you will need to continue the quarantine., When you have a new bird, make sure to clean its cage last, so that you don't spread its germs to your other birds. Clean out the cage daily, of course, but also make sure to disinfect the whole cage more often when you have new birds., Feed the new bird last, so you don't bring its germs over to your other birds. In addition, make sure you don't switch out the new bird's dishes with the other birds' dishes.Always wash your hands or change gloves between cages.
 If your bird escapes, you of course want to try to find it. If you do find it, you will need to follow the same quarantine procedures for the returned bird, as it could have picked up a disease while outside., If parakeets come into contact with wild animals or insects, the parakeet can contract an infection. One way to prevent this problem is to keep your parakeet inside. Also, don't allow strays in your house that could pass on diseases.In addition, take measures to keep any insects away from the cage if possible. If you have an infestation in the house, consider calling an exterminator to help deal with the problem.
Mosquitoes are one carrier for diseases. Try to make sure you don't have any standing water outside your home, as that can be a breeding ground for mosquitoes., Other pets can also pass on diseases to your pets. Reptiles, in particular, can be carriers of Salmonella. Don't keep parakeets near reptiles. In addition, if you let your parakeet out, close off the room where you keep the reptiles, so the parakeets can't land on their cages.