 Breathing exercises can help to reduce your stress level and calm down after a bad day. Sit in a quiet space, with your back straight, and try two breathing exercises:The stimulated breathing exercise: This exercise is good if you are feeling lethargic or exhausted by your day and want to wake up your body.
Inhale and exhale quickly through your nose, keeping your mouth closed but relaxed. Your breaths in and out should be equal in duration, but as short as possible. Don’t be afraid to make noise as you do this exercise.
Try for three in-and-out breath cycles per a second. Your diaphragm, which is just below your ribs, should be moving in and out quickly as you breath. Do this exercise for only 15 seconds on your first try. You may feel lightheaded for a minute after you finish the exercise.
Continue breathing normally once you finish your first 15 seconds. You can continue practicing, increasing your time by five seconds, until you reach a full minute.
The 4-7-8 exercise: This breathing exercise is good for calming down and de-stressing.
Place the tip of your tongue against your upper front teeth. Exhale through your mouth, making a whoosh sound. Close your mouth and inhale through your nose to the count of four.
Hold your breath for a count of seven. Then, exhale through your mouth, making a whoosh sound, to the count of eight.
Inhale again and repeat the cycle three more times for a total of four breaths. Make sure you always inhale quietly through your nose and exhale with a whoosh sound through your mouth.
 Several experts link creative expression to overall well being. Being creative allows you to reflect on your experiences, including your bad day, and express these feelings in a unique or interesting way. Your creative activity could be painting or drawing, it could be playing music or dancing, or it could even be something as simple as making a creative meal for dinner.The creative activity does not have to even be something you are necessarily good at. The idea is you will channel your negative feelings into an activity that will allow you to feel good and express your emotions.
 This could be listening to your favorite album in your car with the windows down, or a Youtube video of a cute animal you just can’t stop watching. Sometimes laughter can act as a way to put a bad day into perspective and break your bad mood., Another way to distract yourself from your negative thoughts is to turn to friends and family for support. Do a fun activity together, like a games night or bowling, go for a drink to blow off some steam, or simply have a friend over for a cup of tea. Spending time with loved ones is a great way to shift your mood and prevent you from focusing on negative thoughts or your bad day., One of the best ways to recover from a bad day and start the next day with a fresh perspective is 8 hours of quality sleep. Go to bed at your usual time, shut off all electronics in bed, and focus on shutting down your mind so you can rest. You should be well rested and refreshed for the next day, which will hopefully be a better, happier day.

