 It takes years to learn what numbers are and how to begin using them, even for in simple math like addition. For young children, it's important that you remain supportive, patient, and positive.Note that your child will be at least three or four by the time they are able to understand that adding something of taking something away involves a numerical change.
Similarly, children are unlikely to recognize or identify written numerals, or to write them themselves, until they are four or five years old.
 Your child may have memorized how to “count” to ten by the time they’re a few years old. However, this does not indicate that they fully understand what numbers mean. At first, they will not be able to tell you the next number if you say a random number, and they probably won’t be able to say a number if you show them the written number. These concepts usually aren’t fully understood until your child studies them in school.In the meantime, keep on taking advantage of everyday opportunities to talk about numbers with your child.
Answer questions they ask, and keep building associations between certain amounts of items and the appropriate number.
 As your child begin to learn how to use numbers, it is inevitable that they will make basic mistakes. Keep in mind that the first step of the process is simply learning the correct names of numbers. For example, a young child may point to a group of objects and say a number that is not correct. This is actually a good sign, as it indicates that they are learning to label objects with numbers, which comes before the ability to count.Feel free to correct you child by saying the correct number, but try not to distract them. If they continue happily saying random numbers, let them do so - they're simply playing, and building an association between the concept of certain numbers and amounts of things.
 Your child needs to fully comprehend the numbers 1 through 10 before learning to count higher numbers. Usually, this will not occur until they are in school. In short, a child must be able to count up to 10 and back down again, count items, be able to recognize and state a number when shown the figure, and write the numbers 1 through 10 before learning higher numbers. To attempt teaching them high numbers too early can complicate the number learning process.