 It’s important, first, to make sure that they actually heard you. You may have thought you had their attention, but they may not have been listening. Even if young kids hear you perfectly the first time, it takes time for them to make sense of what you said to them.When it’s appropriate, try using phrases like, “I’m only going to say this once,” to give them a clear warning that you want their attention.
You can also have them repeat back important information to you to help avoid the need to repeat yourself later.
 Kids have short attention spans so it isn’t helpful to them if you talk for a long time, especially if you have a main point you want them to understand. Speak kindly to them by keeping your directives and responses brief enough that listening the whole time and understanding is easy.Instead of saying, "Hey, what do you want for dinner? I was thinking about making some burgers but I would need to go out to the grocery first. If I do that, I'll have to wait until your dad gets home, but that will mean dinner is going to be later," just leave it at the question, "What do you want for dinner?"
Instead of saying, "You know I have had a long day and the last thing I want is to come home to this really messy house, especially after I have told you to stop leaving so much stuff around on the floor," just say, "I would like you to clean up, please."

, Being told what to do can make kids respond by doing the opposite. Get in the habit of using this type of statement instead of simply telling them what to do. Children want to please their parents, but they don’t usually want to be ordered.The statement, “Go take the trash out,” can put them in a place of being disobedient, but saying, “I want you to take the trash out,” gives them the opportunity to please you.
 You never know when something you say will have a huge impact on a kid and stick with them for a long time. If there are moments when you start to get impatient or start to get frustrated, it’s best to stop talking for long enough to regain composure rather than saying something you’ll regret.


Don't mock or harshly correct a child when they pronounce something incorrectly or use a word in the wrong context. This will only make them more hesitant to speak and won't promote trust with you.

