 Cut the thread or embroidery floss to your desired length. A good rule to follow is measuring the thread against the chosen strand of hair and make the thread 2-3 times longer than your hair or the extension you are wrapping. Measure out as many colors as you want to add to the first wrap and lay them out together.






;
, Choose a section of hair that is no thicker than a pencil. Most who wrap their hair go for a subtle location at the base of their hairline (by their neck) to create a for a pop of color. If you want to go all out, pick a section at the crown (top) of your head. Separate the chosen hair section and wrap a ponytail holder around your remaining hair.
 Braid the section chosen as tight and clean as possible, with minimal fly aways and unwanted bumps. Separate the small section of hair into three pieces. Braid the hair down as far down to the end as possible. Secure with a small elastic.

You can chose to straighten the strand of hair but your don't have too.













To smooth out the little frizzy pieces of hair that might be sticking out, lightly wet your fingers and slick down the entire braided strand.
It is also helpful to secure a tissue with bobbie pins at the root of the braid to help prevent hair from getting into the wrap when you start., From the center point, tie the floss onto the base of the braid as close to the scalp as you can with a basic double knot (making a number 4 and sliding the end of the thread through the 4).Make sure the knot is tight and secure. Secure the thread again (or thread bundle of several colors) with another double knot. Cut off the excess thread at the top of the knot, leaving only a small knot and your colorful embroidery thread below.
 Choose one string color to wrap around the braid for the several colors you have in the bundle. This means separating one color strand of thread and holding the rest of the colored strands smooth with the braid.
 Once you try these basic designs, you can try new ways to create different unique patterns on your own braids. Most commonly, people choose to wrap just one braid but don't be afraid to wrap several braid strands or even do your whole head! You can keep your hair wrap in for a couple days or an entire month.









Most people decide it is time to remove the wrap when it starts to smell or feel funny.
To remove the hair wrap, carefully snip the knot off. Be careful to avoid cutting your own hair.

