 Beer batter comes out crispy and smooth. It's the perfect coating for fish, onion rings and other vegetables. Make sure all food pieces that you want to fry are cut into similar-sized pieces, so they'll fry evenly., With so few ingredients, beer batter is easy to make. Just mix the flour, spices, and one 12-ounce beer in a bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients until smooth.
 Use a deep, heavy-bottomed pot that will heat the oil evenly. Fill the pot with an inch or two of oil to submerge the food you're frying. Place it over medium-high heat and allow it to heat for several minutes. To test whether it's ready, use a fry thermometer to take the temperature of the oil. Once it reaches 350째F (176째C), it's ready to fry.


Choose a high smoke-point oil. Peanut oil is traditionally used along with beer batter for a distinctive taste.
If you don't have a fry thermometer, test the oil by placing a small piece of battered food in the pot. If it immediately starts to sizzle and turn brown, the oil is ready.
 Dipping the food in flour first will help this rather liquidy batter stick to the food instead of sliding off. Coat the food with flour on all sides. Tap it on the edge of the bowl to remove excess flour. Use a fork to dip the food pieces in batter to coat on all sides. Shake off the excess batter before frying.









Having a lot of extra batter in the pan can cause the temperature in the pot to drop, making the food pieces cook unevenly. That's why it's important to shake off excess batter.
 Place the pieces of fish, onion, etc. into the pot. Line the bottom of the pot, and make sure none of the food overlaps. Cook the food until it's golden brown on both sides.









Fish pieces generally need about five minutes in the pot. When the fish has turned golden brown, cut into a piece to make sure it's opaque in the middle.
If the oil seems to be browning and burning the outside of the food before the inside is cooked, turn down the temperature. You want to try to keep it at a steady 350째F (176째C).

