 Two major centers provide good landing locations for those traveling to the park from afar:



Bangor International Airport is the most convenient option for travelers, located just 50 miles (80 km) from the park entrance. Rental cars are available at the airport.

Logan International Airport is not nearly as close—it’s a 264-mile (422-km) jaunt to the park—but for those interested in including a trip to New England as part of their trip, flying into Boston will be a more appealing option. Additionally, flights are offered from Logan to the Hancock County Airport, located just 10 miles (16 km) from the park.;
, Prices on flights vary from one location to another and will also fluctuate depending on the time of year. Most major airports offer direct service to Logan International Airport, while getting to Bangor International Airport often requires at least one connecting flight.
 Be sure to note whether you’re buying a refundable or nonrefundable ticket in case your plans change. Nonrefundable fares will often be lower, but you run the risk of not being able to get any money back if you cannot make the flight.
 The park’s website highlights the costs you’ll incur during your stay:



Single-Visit Passes


$20 per vehicle from late June to early October (private car, van, truck or RV). This allows an unlimited number of travelers access to the park for seven days.
$10 per vehicle from early May to late June and early October to late October.
$5 per person arriving on foot, via horseback, or on a bicycle, motorcycle or commercial bus.



Season Passes

Annual Pass (Acadia National Park only): $40 per person

National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Annual Pass: $80 per person. This pass allows unlimited entry to any national park that charges admission. It allows the pass owner and up to three adults over the age of 16 to enter parks in one non-commercial vehicle. Those 16 and under are admitted free. See the National Parks Store for details.

Annual Military Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is intended for all active military personnel and any dependents; proper identification is required.

Access Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is intended for U.S. citizens or permanent residents with permanent disabilities. Acquiring one by mail costs $10.

Senior Pass (all national parks): $10. This pass provides lifetime access for any U.S. citizens or permanent residents over 62 years of age. Acquiring one by mail costs $10.

Volunteer Pass (all national parks): Free. This pass is provided to those who volunteer for 250 hours at any national park. Hours are tabulated on a cumulative basis.



