 Before you go to bed, consider what your dreams are like. Notable features of dreams may include things such as:


Fantastic imagery
Unusual locations
Seeing individuals you recognize
Illogical actions
Wish fulfillment;
, Before going to sleep, tell yourself something like “I’m going to have some really interesting dreams tonight. I can’t wait to enter one and see where it takes me.”, Preliminary research suggests that vitamin B6 can increase the vividness and memorability of your dreams.Vitamin B6 supplements are readily available at pharmacies and other stores. Consider taking one before you sleep as an aid for lucid dreaming. You can also increase your intake of vitamin B6 by eating more of certain foods, including:Avocados
Bananas
Beans
Meat (beef, pork, and poultry)
Nuts
Whole grains
Fortified breads and cereals

, Melatonin is a hormone produced naturally in the body and synthetically in laboratories. It helps regulate sleep cycles, in addition to other uses.Research shows that melatonin can increase the vividness and bizarreness of dreams.This may increase the likelihood that you will be aware of your dreams as you have them, and so you may want to take melatonin before attempting to dream lucidly.


Melatonin is available in pill and other forms. Look for it at a pharmacy.
Taking melatonin can lead to side effects or negative interactions with other medications you may be taking. Talk with a doctor before taking melatonin.
 This substance (5-Hydroxotryptophan) is derived from another substance, L-Tryptophan, and is also produced from the seeds of an African plant (Griffonia simplicifolia).5-HTP is used to treat insomnia and other conditions, and some believe that it can help users achieve lucid dreams.


5-HTP is available in pill form from pharmacies (over-the-counter).
5-HTP can cause side effects such as nausea and muscle problems. In addition, it can have negative interactions with a variety of other medications, such as anti-depressants. Talk with a doctor before taking 5-HTP.
 Often prescribed to treat Alzheimer’s disease, galantamine helps produce substances that increase brain function and memory.Some research shows that it can cause vivid dreams, and so you may want to take galantamine in order to increase the likelihood that you will have lucid dreams.Galantamine is available in tablet, capsule, and liquid forms. Look for it at a pharmacy.
Taking galantamine can produce side effects such as an upset stomach. Talk with a doctor before taking galantamine.
Since it can increase the vividness of dreams, nightmares can also be a side effect of galantamine.
 During your dreams, try to continuously ask yourself “Am I dreaming?” or “Am I awake?”This is also known as “reality testing.” If you think you are dreaming, this will help you achieve the state of being aware of the dream while you are having it.
 When the alarm wakes you, instead of getting out of bed, focus on starting a new dream or re-entering the dream you woke up from.To make it easier to re-enter a dream, try not to think about being awake. Don’t get out of bed or do anything else. Instead, immediately start thinking about the dream you were having and imagine ways of acting within it.
 The alarm may not wake you fully from your dream, allowing you to achieve a lucid state. If you do wake up, use the WBTB technique to attempt to re-enter the dream.


Later dreams tend to be longer, so try setting alarms for 4.5, 6, or 7.5 hours after you go to sleep.
 In addition, being exhausted will make it more difficult to be aware of the fact that you are dreaming while it is happening. Try to experiment with lucid dreaming on a night when you feel rested and mentally alert.
 Don’t move from your position in bed, start talking about something else, or any other activity. Just start thinking about your dream, and any details you remember about it. Doing so will keep you from forgetting the dream.
 A dream journal is a basic notebook or other tool that you use to record your dreams in. Keep it right beside your bed, along with a pen or pencil, so that you can record your dreams as soon as you wake up. Research suggests that getting in the habit of this increases the likelihood of having lucid dreams. However, even telling yourself in one night that you plan on writing down your dreams can help you achieve a greater awareness of them.


Write down any dreams you recall, whether or not they seem interesting or coherent.
If you can’t remember a whole dream, write down whatever part you can remember—even if it is just a face, location, phrase, etc.
It is important to write down whatever you remember about your dreams as soon as you wake up. The longer you are awake without writing them down, the more likely you are to forget them.
Remaining in bed while writing down your dreams will increase the likelihood of remembering them.

