 You now have 50,000NPs to start off with.;
, If you go to school/work in the day, choose one that isn't necessarily your own, because the factory and shop only work from 9AM to 5PM; do the math and figure out when you'll be at home the most. If you're on holiday, just choose the correct time zone seeing as you will likely be there during the day.
 This will cost 2700 NPs, so you are left with 46,730 NPs to spend.
 It is impossible to say the correct things to buy, as the price of plushies is determined by the Supply and Demand, but this is ever changing: however, it is generally best to start off with plushies that uses 3-4 rolls of green cloth, neocotton, rare gems and paper bags. See 'tips' for a guide as to what plushies need what materials. Work out whether it is worth buying everything, or waiting for prices to change: Add up the cost to make 1 job of a 4 roll plushie (4 green cloths + 1 neo cotton + 1 rare gem + 1 paper bag):


If the cost is more than 3,900NP: Do nothing, wait for prices to change.
If the cost is less than 3,900NP: Start with 6 jobs.
If the cost is less than 2,900NP: Start with 8 jobs.
If the cost is less than 1,800NP: Start with 10 jobs.
 Look at how many you can start with: if you are making 8 jobs, buy 8 paper bags, 8 rare gems (buy for the plushies you plan to build), and 8 stuffing. You also need to buy green cloth.


If you want to make only plushies that need 4 rolls of cloth you will need to buy 4x6=24 green cloth.
With only plushies that need 3 rolls, you have to buy 3x6=18 green cloth.
 Now that you have everything you need, go to your factory and click 'start job'. Make sure to make 100 jobs. The rest of the procedure explains itself. Expand your factory until it can fit all 6/8/10 of your jobs in.
 Go to your factory, click 'personnel' then 'hire workers'. Never, ever, use dropouts as they are useless! A ratio of 250 workers to 25 managers is usually about right (there is one manager who you cannot get rid of, so that means hiring 24 managers to make 25). The easiest way is to start with 250 trainees as they work fairly well. Don't worry too much about the cost as this is only for one update, then you can fire them all, except that one manager. After that one update has passed (updates are one minute past every hour from 10AM to 5PM) return to your factory and fire all your workers. Do not worry if all the jobs aren't finished, just leave them.
 Your plushies should now be loading. Once they are finished loading (this can take a few hours, but it will work 24/7 so you do not need to worry about getting it done before the end of the day) tick the check box next to them and ship them off.
 After 5 minutes the plushies should now be in your shop. However, they aren't going to be selling at more than about 1 or 2 plushies per job per hour, and you'll never make a profit that way! Upgrade your store and get some advertisements: buy 3 levels each of the 3 cheapest upgrades (carpet-standard carpet, lighting-gas lanterns and store security-anti-theft tags), plus 3 levels each of the cheapest 4 adverts (Flyers-stickers, gifts-dry erase boards, candy-jelly beans and clothing-t shirts). This will cost you 8736 NPs altogether; if you are left with over 1,000NP left, buy a few more ups and ads, starting with maxing out the cheapest one, and you can work your way up from there. However, always keep at least 1k on hand, or else you can't pay your permanent manager and you will lose the game. Your plushies will only sell at the updates (one minute past each hour) so don't expect a huge rush the minute you stock up.
 Once all of your plushies from a job are sold, you receive the neopoints, and once again you have some cash. Continue upgrading and advertising your shop, expanding your warehouse and factory, and start using better materials. Better materials means more expensive, so make sure you have a reasonable amount before you start using velvet bags and red cloth, or else you will go bankrupt, lose the game, and all your hard work will have been for nothing!

