 You can buy starch from the store rather than making your own mixture. Most grocery stores will have starch in the laundry aisle. You can purchase it in liquid or powder form. A few good brands of starches are Niagra Spray Starch, Sta-flo, Dr. Beckmann, and Easy on Double Starch. , If using powdered starch, you will need to mix it with water before use. Take four tablespoons of starch and add it to one pint of hot water in a bowl or jug. Stir until the mixture resembles milk. Then, pour the mixture into a spray bottle for use.You can use the amount of water and starch recommended above, but you should check with the directions on the starch label before creating the mixture.
 Prepare the shirt by unbuttoning any buttons on the shirt, including the sleeve and collar buttons. Remove stains before washing by working a little detergent into them with a cloth, or by using a stain remover pen. Then, wash it on the delicate or normal cycle, depending on the instructions, amount of stains, and durability of the fabric. Next, put the shirt on a hanger to air dry.








Avoid putting the shirt into the dryer unless necessary. If you do put it in the dryer, use a low heat setting.
 Lay the garment on the board so that the two halves of the front are hanging over the sides, while the back of the shirt is flat on the surface of the board. You will start by starching the front of the shirt.
 Apply the starch in a light and even coat across the expanse of the shirt. Wait a couple of seconds to allow the product to seep into the material of the garment. Then, press lightly using an iron set to the recommended heat level for the material.









If a heat level is not recommended, use a high heat setting so that you will cook the starch.
 Turn the garment so that the back of the shirt is facing up on the ironing board, and then apply an even coating of starch. Iron carefully the back of the shirt. Continue the process by starching and ironing each arm, finishing the job with an application of the starch to the collar.
 Place the garment on a shirt hanger, and allow the garment to be exposed to fresh air for a couple of moments before placing it in a closet. This will provide time for the starch to finishing adhering to the fibers of the garment and provide a superior hold, creating the crisp texture and look that you want.

