 A very common mistake is losing track of time. Your time is valuable. You want to know where it goes so that you can spend it more wisely. Once you know the ways that your time is spent, you may be surprised to see what you can afford to cut from your day and how much extra time you can make for yourself.Keep a large clock visible, unless this causes you significant anxiety. Visual prompts can be very effective. Also, are you more likely to look at and respond to a digital or analog clock?
You can use your computer or phone to “clock in” and “clock out” of certain tasks.
Write down the hours and minutes that you spend on a given task. This alone is likely to improve your focus and time management because you’ll be aware that you’re being timed.
 Many people repeatedly fail to plan by not knowing how much time things take. Tracking your time is a great way to learn how much time tasks actually take. You can also look back on past projects and consider whether or not you had enough time to complete things based on the amount of time you’d set aside in the past.People who are considered overachievers are especially likely to underestimate how much time things take.
Always budget in time for breaks. They are key to staying fresh and effective.
Always remember to account for travel time! A lot of people calculate from the time they need to be somewhere, not the time they need to leave for somewhere.
Budget in extra time as a contingency. What if the supplier can’t deliver a rush order? What if a team member is sick and someone has to pick up the slack?

, The results are in: multitasking doesn’t work. Unfortunately, humans are really designed to focus on and complete one task at a time. Don’t think that you’re going to save time by doing multiple things at once.Multitasking will most likely lead to a lack of focus and poor performance all around.
Do not leave your email open or your cell phone out. Alerts from these will derail you. Focus on the task at hand and set aside another time to respond to emails, texts, etc. Set up a system for emergencies that need to get through to you.
If you have a hard time not multitasking, repeat the mantra, “Right now, I’m focusing on___.”

