 To become a police officer in California, you need to have these basic qualifications:Be at least 18 years old.
Be a citizen either through birth or naturalization.
Either have a high school diploma or an equivalent GED certificate.
Have a valid driver’s license.
Have no felony convictions in the state of California or any other U.S. state.
Have no misdemeanor convictions, which will prevent you from carrying a firearm.;
, Before you begin to apply, ensure that being a police officer is a career for you. If you are a youth, consider joining Youth Police Explorers in your area. If you are not a youth, contact your local police department. Tell them that you are interested in becoming a police officer, and ask if you can participate in ride-alongs. Or, volunteer at your local department through a cadet program.You can also ask police officers about their career experiences. Ask an officer, "What are the perks of being a police officer?" "What are the cons?" "What type of service calls come in regularly?" "What's the typical day, graveyard, and swing shift like?" and, "What is the department's diversity?"
Attend local community meetings conducted by police or LE personnel.
 Although additional education, like a college degree or an associate’s degree, is not required, it will enhance your application. Consider getting an associate’s degree in criminal justice if you do not have a college degree.


An assoicate’s degree in criminal justice helps you prepare to become a police officer. It offers courses in legal issues, human behavior, computer systems, and other subjects. These degrees are also available online.If you are in the midst of getting your BA or BS, look into criminology and law enforcement classes and majors. Also, an accounting degree is great for people who are interested in white collar crime. And, a computer science degree is great for people who are interested in computer forensics and cyber crime., All departments require that you pass a physical agility test. Therefore, you need to be in good physical condition in order to become a police officer. As part of the test, you need to be able to run 1.5 miles. If you are not already physically fit, start training at a local school’s track. You can also join a gym and get a personal trainer. Tell the personal trainer your goals and they will help you achieve them. Also, some police academies offer practice sessions at around $30. The physical agility test consists of the following components:99 yard obstacle course.
32 foot body drag.
A 6 foot chain length fence climb.
A 6 foot solid wall climb.
A 500 yard sprint.
A 1.5 mile run.

