 Start with 2 cloves of garlic and about an inch of fresh ginger, but know that you can adjust these amounts to suit your personal tastes as well.


You can also use a mortar and pestle to make a garlic-ginger paste, grinding the two together until smooth. This is a slightly more traditional take on the dish.;
, While this step is small, don't skip it. Meats can't brown until all the moisture is gone, so rinsing and patting dry will always lead to a tastier dish. Cut the breast into roughly 1-2" pieces and set aside. Try and keep them all the same general size.
 The most common options for western cooks are Serranos and jalapenos. Slice them lengthwise, remove the seeds, and then chop into small pieces.


The seeds are the spiciest part of the peppers -- adding them will give the dish a serious kick.
Wash your hands with soap and water after handling green peppers, especially before touching your eyes.
 You want high sides to contain the liquids and ensure the chicken heats up evenly. If you have one, your best bet will be a "kadai," which is a Pakistani/Northern Indian wok perfect for chicken karahi., When the wonderful aroma of the two ingredients fills your kitchen you're ready to move on. Make sure your other ingredients, as listed above, are ready so you don't burn your garlic-ginger combination.
 All you're doing right now is browning the outside of the chicken, bringing out the bird's richest flavor. Note that this all happens very quickly -- you need to keep moving to keep the garlic and ginger from burning., Many spices need a little heat to release their best flavor, which is called "toasting." This step is common in many Indian and Pakistani dishes, but be careful -- you only need 10-20 seconds before the spices start to burn.


If you're nervous about burning the spices, simply add them with the tomatoes in the next step., You want the chicken to be about halfway covered up with the liquid so that the simmering sauce cooks the chicken completely through. If you need a little more liquid in the sauce, add a pinch of water or cream. If using garam masala and fenugreek, add them now.A simmer means there are some bubbles lightly breaking the surface, but the whole pot isn't bubbling like it is boiling.
Stir the pot 2-3 times as it cooks, but otherwise leave it covered to finish cooking and preserve moisture.
 If you added extra cream or water this could take 10 minutes, but the total thickening time is up to you. If you like a thicker curry, leave it on for longer. If you want something a little more soup-like, take it off after 4-5 minutes.
 The dish is frequently served with a grain of some sort, but it can be eaten straight as well. For the best dish, try your chicken Karahi with:


Naan
Roti
Chappati

Rice