 Shelties have long fur that will become matted if not properly cared for, so make sure that you set aside an hour or two to groom your sheltie’s fur every week. To groom your sheltie, you will need a pin brush, metal comb, and grooming rake.Use the pin brush to go over your sheltie’s back and sides. Try spritzing some leave in conditioner (for dogs) to help control static and reduce tangles as you brush.
Use the metal comb to break up tangles and mats. You can sue the metal comb to help you break through any tangles or mats in your sheltie’s fur. Just make sure that you go slowly if you encounter any tangles or you may hurt your dog.
Use the grooming rake to go over your sheltie’s undercoat. This area may easily become matted if not brushed regularly, so make sure that you give special attention to this area.
 Checking and cleaning your sheltie’s ears is an important part of your grooming routine. Your sheltie’s ears may get dirty or waxy now and then, so it is up to you to keep them clean.


To clean your sheltie’s ears, wrap a small piece of damp cotton gauze around your index finger and use it to clean the inside of your sheltie’s ears. Do not stick the gauze further into your sheltie’s ear than your finger will fit and never use cotton swabs on your dogs ears.If you notice any bad smells, discharge, or wax buildup, then take your sheltie to see your veterinarian.
 Your sheltie will need to have her nails trimmed when they start to get too long. If your sheltie is very active, then she may wear her nails down on her own, but most dogs need a trim every couple of months.


Make sure that you use a guillotine style nail trimmer and trim only a little of the nail at a time. Otherwise, you may end up hitting the quick (a sensitive blood vessel inside of your dog’s nail) and this can cause your sheltie a lot of pain.
To avoid the quick, trim a tiny sliver of your sheltie’s nail at a time and check the trimmed surface as you go. If you start to see a circle on top of the trimmed surface, stop cutting. The quick is near this circle., Regular tooth brushing can also help to keep your sheltie in good health. To brush your sheltie’s teeth, you will need to get a special dog toothbrush and toothpaste. Do not use human toothpaste because this will make your sheltie sick.