 Imagine what it'd be like with out them. Not to say that they pay for about everything for you. Understand that your parents are a huge part of your life and that they love you.


They feed you. Without your parents, you'd starve to death.
They pay for toys, outings, birthday parties, and all those things you enjoy. Remember that everything costs money, and they're buying you this stuff because they love you.
They pay for your education. Without knowledge, you'd be very dumb, and you'd never get a job. Also you'd probably never have met some of your best friends!
You always have your parents to lean on. When you're sad, mad, or depressed you always know that your parents are there to cheer you up and help you get over a hard time.
They give out advice. When you have questions, your parents are there to answer them. To your parents, there is no such thing as a stupid question.
They sacrifice their time to spend time with you or take care of you. Some parents could be out having fun, but instead they're taking care of you.
They pay for electrical bills, and give you a roof to live under, where you're always welcome.
They simply love you.;
,


Make sure your parents know that you love them more than anything in the world.
 Instead of letting your parents open doors for you, open it yourself. Don't always expect your parents to do everything for you. Instead start opening doors for them.


If you can do it yourself, your parents don't need to do it for you.
If you have a pet, don't make your parents clean up after it! It's your pet, so it's your responsibility!
Always clean up after yourself, whether it's putting your stuff back when you're done, or picking up your plates.
 Such as wiping the table after dinner, or vacuuming the carpet.


Always clean your room, and do your homework without a fight. This will impress your parents.
 If your sibling started it, tell your parents that.


If you started it, Tell your parents the truth. Parents like honesty.
 Get good grades, study hard, and never get a phone home. Your parents will see that you're trying to succeed, and will respect that.


Do not start fights.
Ask your parents any questions you have about your lessons. They went to school too.
 This can range from just going out to breakfast, or seeing a movie together. Use this time to talk and catch up on each other's lives.


Don't talk all the time! Let your parents talk too!

, Nobody likes a liar. And if you lie, Your parents will stop believing everything you say.


If you do lie, Tell your parents. This may not help your punishment, but it'll show your parents that you care about them enough to tell the truth.
 If you want a pop, say "Mom (Or Dad) Could you please get me a pop", not "Hey lady what does it take to get a pop around here?". Always say please and thank you.


Say excuse me when you burp or fart.
 This could be a homemade gift, movie tickets, or just a smile, hug or kiss, and an "I love you".


Never forget your parents' birthdays, Mothers or Fathers Day!
Even moms and dads enjoy a Christmas present under the tree with their name on it!

, It seems cheesy but it can really brighten your parents' day!

, If they don't want to say, respect them and say "OK, I love you".

