 Talking to another dog owner about picking up their dog’s waste can be uncomfortable, but asking the owner directly to pick up after their dog will often work to fix the problem. There are many reasons people don’t pick up after their dog. Maybe they think no one notices or that their actions (or non-actions in this case) don’t directly affect those around them. Asking the person directly lets them know you, and others, have noticed their actions and are being affected negatively by them.


Some people choose to leave notes or signs around their communities in hopes that the culprit will take notice and correct their actions. While this may work to create awareness of the problem, it may not persuade someone who doesn’t believe they are doing anything wrong or who doesn’t think anyone knows they are the culprit.If you are going to leave a sign, however, it may help to make it humorous. Some people respond better to funny or witty notes about picking up their dog’s poop.;
, Although you are probably fed up and mad at a dog owner that isn’t cleaning up after their dog, approach them in a friendly manner. Yelling at them may make them defensive and angry and will likely do more harm than good in resolving the issue.Don’t confront them when you are angry. For example, maybe you just saw this person’s dog go to the bathroom in your front yard and you witnessed the owner walk away without picking it up. If you are too angry to have a friendly conversation with them about it at this time, wait a few days and confront them once you have calmed down.
 It’s possible this person doesn’t realize how their neglect in picking up after their dog is negatively affecting those around them. When you ask them to pick up their dog’s waste, give them a reason why you want them to do so.For example, say “I know it can be unpleasant picking up after your dog, but my children play in our front yard often and I am afraid they might get sick from your dog’s poop. Can you please pick up after your dog?”

, When confronting someone on this issue, don’t exaggerate the truth or make up reasons they should comply with your request. Be honest with them about why you want them to pick up after their dog and what could happen if they don’t.For instance, don’t tell someone that their failure to pick up after their dog is ruining the lives of everyone in the community. This is likely an exaggeration of the truth and may be brushed off as such.
Instead, tell them that you are frustrated that you have to continually pick up their dog’s poop to keep your kids from getting in it. Be honest about how their actions are negatively affecting your life. Hopefully they will relate to your truthfulness and change their ways.

