 Dark colors make a room look smaller whereas lighter, pale colors will open up the room. Use different hues of creamy colors to bring more light in and open up the space.


Get furniture and other pieces that are similar in color and hue to the rest of your room. Having like colors helps to make the space appear more cohesive and larger.
Use an accent color on your focal point. Whether it’s your bed, couch, or dining room table. Place an object like a pillow, bowl, or blanket that has some color to make it stand out and draw the eye.
 Keep your room light by allowing the windows to work for you. Remove your drapes or use ones that let light through. Place floor or table lamps around your room instead of using large overhead lights. Color code parts of your room and use vertical lines to elongateGlass items such as vases, photo frames and jewellery boxes are perfect for trying to increase the size of your room. Being transparent, glass does not take up much visual space allowing light to travel through it. You could also opt for lucite as an alternative option.
If you have books or knick-knacks, sort these items by color. Keeping like colors together gives your space an organized look which helps to make it look bigger.
Vertical strips on a rug, walls, or furniture will draw the eye further up or out, making your room look both longer and taller.
Don’t clutter a small room with too many pictures, paintings, or decorations. A few are nice and can open your room. Too many close the space off.
 Mirrors are a fantastic way to make even the smallest room look bigger. Mirrors will reflect both natural and artificial light, brightening your room.Angle your mirror toward the focal point in your room.
Lay an oversized full-length mirror against a key wall to make your room look longer and taller.
A mirror can also create a statement wall.
You can group smaller mirrors mirrors together to create a cool design and act like a larger one.
Place a mirror across from a window to create more depth and light.
 Make your bed and keep your room clean. Keep your rooms tidy to keep the space open. Make sure you keep walkways open by removing clutter from the floor.


Don’t keep anything in sight that you don’t need. Use a decorative chest or cabinet to hide papers and documents, then place something on top that helps the room like a mirror or lamp.
Fold up extra blankets and put pillows away.
If you find you have furniture or items you don’t use or need, consider selling or donating these pieces.

