 This section outlines all of the parties to the agreement, including the shareholders that will sign the agreement and the corporation.


If you are a new company with few shareholders, consider drafting a unanimous shareholder agreement. This agreement requires that all shareholders become parties to the agreement.
Even though it may be more difficult for a large company to have all shareholders sign the agreement it is preferable.
If the company chooses not to have all shareholders sign the main or principal agreement, minority shareholders should enter into a separate agreement with the company that outlines all parties’ rights and obligations.;
, This section specifies the legal meaning of words used throughout the agreement. The agreement should include agreed upon definitions, relevant to your company’s structure, for at least the following words:


Buyer;
Seller;
Vesting;
Articles;
Board;
Bylaws;
Shareholders(s);
Share(s)
Common share ration; and
Directors’ resolution., Detailing the structure of the company is one of the most important elements of the shareholder agreement. Depending on the size and type of organization, your shareholder agreement should address the following:


Board of Directors. The shareholder agreement should specify: the number of directors; who the initial directors will be; how often the board will meet; how board members are chosen; and whether the vote for approving a board member needs to be a majority of voters or some other percentage.
Officers. The agreement should outline who the initial officers of the company will be and their title. The agreement may also outline the amount of compensation for the officers.
The role of the board and officers in the company’s governance. For example, the agreement may specify who is authorized to handle the company’s banking, approval of expenditures over a set amount, authorize dividends to stock holders or undertake a loan on the company’s behalf., Shareholder agreements may also outline specific procedural rules to be followed by the board and/or officers. There rules may include: how a board meeting may be called and by whom; how often the meetings must be held; the number of board members that need to be in attendance for the meeting to meet the minimum threshold for voting.


Procedural rules will also be set forth in the corporation’s bylaws. In drafting the shareholder agreement, you must be sure that it is consistent with the bylaws., Some investors in the company who are not represented on the board of directors may request observer rights. These rights allow an investor to attend board meetings and receive information limited to board members. However, observer rights do not permit observers to vote at board meetings. If you have an investor who requests observer rights, you can add a provision into your agreement that outlines the specific rights to which the observer is entitled.


Typically, observer rights are given to investors who invest a significant amount of capital.
The shareholder agreement should explain how an investor can become an observer and the way an investor can be removed from observer status.
You may want to include a provision whereby the board can exclude observers if they are discussing highly sensitive topics., The shareholder agreement should include a section that specifies the shareholders’ rights and obligations. These can include:


Any financial obligations of the shareholder.
How to handle the death or incapacity of a shareholder.
If shareholders have veto power over a board’s decision and how this is exercised.
Any categories of decisions that require unanimous shareholder approval.The manner in which disputes among shareholders will be resolved.
Detail the shareholder’s required commitments to the company, including whether it is full-time and how to respond to a shareholder conflict of interest or commitment.
Detail shareholders’ rights, including the information a shareholder can access, such as financial statements, and board reports.
Allow shareholders to have the right of first refusal when someone is selling shares. This means that before the shares are sold to the public at large, shareholders can opt to buy some or all of the shares that are being sold., Investors may require that the shareholder agreement specify the corporation’s obligations. If you include this section in the shareholder agreement, be sure that you have a representative of the company sign the agreement along with the shareholders. Corporate obligations may include:


The preparation and delivery of quarterly reports to the shareholders.
The release of annual unaudited financial statements to the shareholders.
Information related to the maintenance of director and officer liability insurance., Generally, a shareholder agreement will contain a section that prohibits the transfer of shares, or shareholder’s rights and obligations. However, the agreement can establish certain circumstances under which shares can be transferred. This provides some degree of flexibility for shareholders to dispose of shares or make tax-planning choices. Permitted transfers may include:


For shareholders that are comprised of investment funds, the agreement may allow the shares to be transferred or sold to another investment fund under the same management or control.
For individual shareholders, the agreement should allow him or her to transfer shares to a corporation owned by his or her family.
A permitted transfer provision in the agreement should state that any transfer is conditioned upon the transferee (the person receiving the shares) agreeing that he or she will be bound to the shareholder agreement., A shareholder agreement can include a provision that allows for the company to repurchase shares of a stockholder who dies, becomes incapacitated, files for divorce, or becomes insolvent. This allows the shares to be maintained by the company and potentially offered for resale to the remaining shareholders.


This provision is especially important for a start-up company whose shareholders may be actively participating in the company’s operations., This provision protects minority shareholders. The section would state that if a majority of shareholders wants to sell their shares to a third-party, then the minority shareholders would have the right to include their shares in the sale., Drag-along rights protect against a few shareholders holding out for a better deal when the majority agree to a sale. For example, a drag-along provision may state that if shareholders controlling 90% of the shares agree to a sale to a third-party then the 10% who are holding out can be compelled to sell their shares with the group. A drag-along provision should also include:


A statement that limits the warranties and representations given by shareholders forced to sell.
The percentage of shares or the types of shareholders that can compel a drag-along sale.
The minimum value that the stock can be sold during a drag-along sale.