 The more sections you create, the more waves you will have. It is a good idea to have a top layer of sections around the crown of your head and a second layer around the bottom.









If you plan to have your hair parted after your waves are done, make sure to have that part in place before dividing your hair into sections.
10-12 sections is a good number to start with. After you have experimented you may find you like more or fewer sections depending on hair length or texture.
 You will create small buns one section at a time. Beginning with a section near your face will allow you to clearly see what you’re doing. Work your way backward.


Start with a section near the crown of your head. If you start with a lower section, hair from an upper section is likely to get in your way.
 Turn the section of hair in one direction to create a tight twist. When you hold the strand out from your head it should look something like a rope.









A tight twist will create a firmer wave.
Remember not to pull your hair too tight, as the hair may tear and your head will hurt.
 Coil the strand around itself at the base, so that it look something like a cinnamon roll or snail shell.
 How large the buns are will depend on how long your hair is and may determine what you use to secure it. Larger buns may require an elastic band around the circumference of the bun.









Use bobby pins to hold smaller buns in place. Use two at perpendicular angles to ensure an even hold.
Use duckbill clips instead of bobby pins to hold curls.
 The curls will need to dry completely before you undo the buns. Sleeping on your wet hair is often the best way to do this. Light blowdrying may also help, but the heat is unlikely to penetrate to the center of the bun.
 When the hair has dried completely, undo each bun carefully. Run your fingers gently through your hair to make loose waves, but do not brush or comb it.









Use a hair spray or scrunch fixative gel into your hair to ensure that the waves will stay all day.
