 You may be a stay-at-home mom, but you also have many other roles. Your professional identity is just one of those other roles. You can be known as a mom, but you can also be known as a web designer, or an event planner, or a car mechanic., Keep networking with people that you know from your professional career. These people will be your first point of contact if and when you want to get back into the professional workforce.


Schedule coffee or lunch dates every few months to stay in contact and update each other on what’s happening in your lives. You may hear of an opportunity that will work into your stay-at-home life, or you may decide you want to start work again.
 Read trade magazines, newsletters and other industry updates to keep yourself knowledgeable about what’s happening in your industry. Attend workshops or conferences to learn about new practices or products., Many stay-at-home parents balance competing desires to stay home and continue a professional career by finding part-time work. This work is ideally done at home, so that your schedule can remain flexible. Talk with your professional contacts to find opportunities that can be done from home. You might also find other opportunities not directly linked to your field. These might include:


Tutoring
Web design
Freelance writing
Office work
Art or design projects
Substitute teaching

, If you choose to volunteer, you can volunteer for roles that will further your career, even incrementally. If you are a writer, for example, you can volunteer to write a nonprofit organization’s newsletter. If you’re a historian, you can volunteer at a local museum or archive. If you’re an accountant, you can volunteer to do tax counseling., If you feel you need to brush up on your skillset or learn new information, enroll in the local community college or university. Taking a class that meets once or twice a week can be helpful in keeping you up-to-date in your professional life.This is also a good way to continue building your professional network.
 These give you an opportunity to update your resume while building skills. You may be able to work part-time at this type of job.Approach these types of positions with caution. Make sure you are being paid for your work, as some companies may justify not paying you by telling you that you’re getting experience.

