 Before you apply any solvents, remove as much of the tape as you can by hand or scraper. Peel back as much of the tape as you can with your hands and fingers. Scrape away any lingering bits or residue with a knife, razor blade, or scraping tool. You may find that peeling and scraping may remove less adhesive tapes such as magic and electrical.Use a scraper with a single blade and handle to prevent injury. Scrape the tape away in a motion away from you. Apply gentle pressure on the glass so you don’t scratch it.;
, Some types of tape—such as duct, bondage, filament, masking, and packing—can be particularly pesky to remove. If you can’t seem to remove tape from a glass surface, use a commercial lubricant, solvent, or even petroleum-based product to get it off. Some chemical solvents that can make your job easier are:Petroleum: including mineral spirits, paint thinner, and naphtha (also sold as lighter fluid)
Isopropyl or rubbing alcohol
Acetone, including nail polish remover
Degreasing agents with d-Limonene such as Fast Orange or Goo GoneLubricants including WD-40
Aerosol furniture polish, Chemical solvents can be toxic and should be used and stored with caution. Not using chemical solvents properly can cause fires and harm your health. Taking the time to read product labels and using the solvent it in a well ventilated area may prevent unnecessary accidents when removing tape from glass. You should also wear gloves when applying solvents to glass to protect your hands.


Read the product label closely for any suggestions or warnings about your chemical solvent. If you have any questions, contact the company at the phone number given on the label.Make sure the area you use the solvent is well ventilated. The fumes may be dangerous if inhaled for too long. Open any windows in the room or use a fan to bring in fresh air. If you don’t have any windows or a fan in your area, try and remove the glass to an area that is well ventilated. Consider taking a break every few minutes to get some fresh air.
Keep the solvent and its container away from children, pets, and flames.
 After taking the necessary precautions, saturate the taped area with your chosen chemical solvent. You can pour it on directly or apply it with a paper towel, cotton ball or swab, or clean cloth. Use the solvent only on the area with tape to decrease the chances of overwhelming fumes or fire.Cover the entire taped area as well as the immediate border of the tape and its residue. Make sure that you’ve put enough solvent on the area to saturate it without it getting other surfaces wet.
Avoid applying the solvent or rubbing it in with your fingers or hands unless you are wearing protective gloves. Not doing so may cause your skin to have a bad reaction., It takes a few minutes for a chemical solvent to penetrate and break down the adhesive in tape. Allow the product to sit on the glass for at least 15 minutes. The more pesky the tape, the longer it should have to get the tape off of your glass. Use the time the solvent is soaking into the adhesive to get some fresh air and check that there is nothing hazardous near it., After the solvent has had a few minutes to break down the tape adhesive, wipe off the tape and residue. It may take a few passes with the cloth to remove the solvent and tape, but wipe until the glass is dry or you don’t see or feel any more tape or adhesive.Use a clean, lint-free cloth to wipe off the glass. Cloth with lint or that can rip easily can leave an even bigger mess on the glass, especially if you didn’t get off all of the tape. You can also use a scraper if you prefer or the adhesive is a bit stronger.
 Because solvents are toxic and can cause skin reactions, it’s important to wash off the glass when you’re done wiping it. This can also help remove lingering residue and will leave you with clean, gleaming glass.Use a glass cleaner or hot water and a dish soap to clean your glass. Dish soap can help further cut an oil or residue. Make sure you don’t wash the glass with household or personal items.Scrape or scrub off any lingering residue in the soap and water. You can use a kitchen sponge, scrubber, or steel wool to get any tape off of the glass. Use only new sponges or scrubbers and throw them away after use so no one else in your family uses them on personal items.
 In some cases, you may not be able to get tape off of your glass with one application of solvent. Repeat the process 2-3 times or until you are able to remove the tape and its adhesive.