 To receive the proper treatment, a medical diagnosis has to be determined. There are many forms of anemia, and there can be serious consequences if anemia is left untreated or treated incorrectly. Before you can treat the anemia, you have to understand the cause of it. Make sure you see your physician if you are experiencing any of the symptoms of anemia so that they can determine the underlying cause and proper diagnosis.Your physician will perform a physical exam, listen to your heart and your breathing, and check for physical signs of anemia, such as pale skin and pale mucous tissues.
They will also likely draw a small amount of blood to obtain a Complete Blood Count. This is a test that counts the number of red blood cells and other cells in the blood. The test will also test for the amount of hemoglobin in the red blood cells. If the underlying cause of the anemia is not clear, other tests may be ordered.
 To treat iron deficiency anemia, you may need to treat the underlying condition that led to the anemia. The treatment depends on your specific condition.For iron deficiency anemia due to blood loss during menstruation, hormone treatments may be considered to lighten the flow.
For anemia due to bleeding in the digestive tract, antibiotics and antacids or acid-reducing medications may be prescribed.
In the case of lead poisoning, chelation therapy is used. In chelation therapy, certain drugs are used to bind to and filter out the lead.Rarely, blood transfusions may be necessary in severe cases of iron deficiency anemia.
If the anemia is due to internal bleeding, surgery may be required to stop the bleeding.
Other possible reasons for iron deficiency include decreased iron absorption, Celiac disease, certain foods and medications, poor response to erythropoietin, or gastric bypass surgery.
 There are many different type of anemia, and anemia sometimes has generic symptoms that might be due to other conditions. This is why a doctor’s diagnosis is important. The symptoms of iron deficiency anemia include:Constant fatigue not relieved by rest or sleep
Pale skin
Dizziness
A rapid or an irregular heartbeat
Cold hands and feet
Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
Chest pain
Cognitive problems, such as confusion or memory loss
Headache

, Red blood cells contain a protein known as hemoglobin. Hemoglobin in the red blood cells picks up oxygen in the lungs and dumps out the carbon dioxide at the same time. Hemoglobin contains iron, and without the iron, hemoglobin can’t function properly. Also without sufficient iron, your bone marrow cannot make enough red blood cells, and the result is anemia. You can get iron deficiency anemia if you:Don’t consume enough iron in your foods. This can be due to poor nutrition and pregnancy.
Can’t absorb the iron from your foods. This can happen with certain disorders, such as celiac disease, or if part of your intestines have been removed by surgery.
Lose too much iron by some form of internal bleeding, such as bleeding in the intestine, heavy menstrual bleeding, or because of the use of certain medications like aspirin or NSAIDs that can cause internal bleeding.
Have lead poisoning. The lead replaces the iron in hemoglobin, and the hemoglobin cannot carry oxygen properly.
Take aspirin regularly, which can cause ulcers and lead to bleeding.
 There are a number of risk factors for iron deficiency anemia. Knowing if you are at risk can help you monitor for any symptoms or increase the amount of iron-rich foods in your diet. The most common risk factors include:Gender. Women who menstruate are at greater risk because they lose iron during their periods. Those with heavy periods are at a higher risk.
Age. Children and infants need more iron for proper growth and development.
Intestinal conditions that prevent the absorption of nutrients. Examples of these types of intestinal disorders are celiac disease, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and Irritable Bowel Diseases (IBD), and Leaky Gut Syndrome.Pregnancy. Being pregnant can deplete a woman’s store of iron because it is being used to help produce blood in the fetus.
Nutrition. Many people don’t eat well and do not get enough iron in their foods. Vegetarians and vegans can be at risk for iron-deficiency as well, but only if they don’t include iron-rich foods in their diets.

