 Having poorly groomed nails can cause dirt and germs to get trapped underneath the nail beds. This is unhygienic and does not promote general cleanliness. You should cut your nails with manicure scissors or clippers whenever they are too long, jagged, or misshapen.


You should also try to keep your nails as dry and clean as possible. You can spread infection otherwise and bacteria can grow in constantly moist nails.
To help your nails become healthier, you should moisturize your nails frequently by rubbing lotion into your cuticles and nail beds.Don't cut or trim your cuticles. They help protect the nail bed., To give yourself a put together appearance, you should brush your hair daily. This removes snares and rats from your hair and makes it looks smooth and healthy. It also has the added benefit of spreading natural oils throughout your hair, which promotes hair health. It also cleans and stimulates the scalp.


Make sure your don't brush your hair too much. This can cause breakage and actually do more harm than good for your hair.If you have natural hair, use your fingers or a wide-toothed comb to detangle before going to the brush. This will help avoid breakage., Having excessive body hair in certain areas can cause body odor or make you look unkempt. Shaving or maintaining your body hair can be an effective hygiene technique because it allows more air to reach the skin, which reduces the amount of odor that is held in the area. It also has the benefit of highlighting certain areas if your body hair is more sculpted or clean shaven. However, shaving is a personal choice, and you should choose what you're comfortable with.Common areas to shave or maintain are the underarms, the chest, the legs, the genital region, and the face. Shaving under the arms and shaving or maintaining hair in the genital region helps reduce odors. These areas are known to sweat profusely and the musty smell can build up in the hair if it is not properly maintained.
Maintaining or shaving chest, leg, and facial hair is an option, but is not necessary if you don't feel comfortable with it.Shave gently with the "grain" (i.e., shave in the same direction the hair is growing). Use shave gel or foam to avoid irritating the skin., There are some areas of the body that grow hair that isn't necessarily thick enough to shave. In these cases, you may need to pluck the hair to maintain your personal hygiene. Common areas where these kinds of hairs may arise are on the cheeks, the neck, and the eyebrows. There may also be cases where a dark stray hair may grow on any portion of the body.


Both men and women have this problem. The areas where the hair grows may be different, but the general need for personal grooming is the same.
To pluck the unwanted hair, use tweezers to grasp the hair tightly and pull it out. Continue until all the unwanted hair is gone.