 Use a brush or comb to get out any tangles. To be braided well, hair needs to smooth and knot-free. If you don’t want to brush your whole head, at least brush the sections of hair that will get braided.;
, Part your hair down the middle, then divide it into three sections, with two small sections framing your face and the rest of the hair as the third section. Drape the front sections over your shoulders and keep the back section behind your shoulders so that the sections don’t mix., Take one of the front sections of hair and divide it into three equal strands. These will be the strands that you braid together to create the Dutch braid.
 Create one stitch of the braid by taking one of the strands on the side and crossing it over the strand in the middle. Then take the strand on the other side and cross it over the middle strand as well. This is the most common type of braid that many are familiar with., Instead of repeating the same type of stitch, instead take a small portion of hair from the back section of hair and add it to the top strand of the section you are braiding. Make one stitch of a braid, incorporating the piece from the back section of hair.


The Dutch lace braid differs from the French braid because instead of adding hair to all strands of the section, you only add hair to one strand of the braid. This gives the Dutch braid a slightly different look than the French braid., Continue making the Dutch braid by adding hair from the back section to the top strand of the braid with each stitch. Once the braid starts to leave the side of the head, start doing a normal braid instead of a Dutch braid. When the braid is about five inches long, use a thin hair elastic to secure it., Repeat steps 1-4 with the other front section of hair. Try to end the braid at about the same length as you ended the first braid, again securing it with a thin band instead of a regular hair tie., Take the top portion of hair around the crown of your head from the back, unbraided section of hair. Flip this top section over toward your face to get it out of the way.
 Take the two braids you made and angle them diagonally so they meet in the back. Then take another thin hair tie and tie the braids together. This part of your hair will be hidden so it’s okay if it looks messy., Flip the top section of hair back over. Let your hair hang as it usually does around your face. You will now see that the braids you made are visible on the sides of your head but disappear under your hair in the back. Your braids are now complete!

