 With some cramps, constipation follows. The calcium in yogurt helps relieve pain while the probiotics help regulate your digestive tract. However, avoid yogurts with a high sugar content which can cause excess bloating and upset your stomach even more.


Calcium can also be found in other dairy products like milk and cheese, and in vegetables like mustard greens, collard greens, and turnip greens.However, dairy should be consumed sparingly, as it contains an acid that can cause cramps.
 Different kinds of teas can help with different symptoms of menstruation. The herbs inside the tea work to help relieve pain, relax muscles, and even control the flow of bleeding. Try drinking:



Ginger tea. It is an antispasmodic herb that helps relieve pain and reduce bloating. It also helps oxygenate your body which works to relieve stress. If you don't have powdered ginger, grate a tablespoon of real ginger, mix it with hot water, and let it steep for 5 minutes before drinking.

Chamomile tea. This tea helps reduce inflammation and has glycine which reduces muscle spasms and relaxes the nerves.Red raspberry tea. This herb is often hailed as a go-to tea to help with premenstrual symptoms. The tea contains fragarine that assists in helping tighten and tone the muscles in your pelvic region. It also contains tannins that treats cramps, vomiting, nausea, and diarrhea. However, in order to benefit from this tea, it should be taken regularly and best ingested before your period., Coffee can irritate the intestines and cause your blood vessels to restrict blood flow to your body. Try to drink decaffeinated coffees and teas.


Some teas do have caffeine in them so if you're particularly sensitive to caffeine, make sure to find out if your tea of choice has caffeine or offers a decaffeinated version of it.
 Alcohol stores up water in your body which can cause excess bloating and aggravate menstrual cramps. It can also lower magnesium levels in your body which is used to regulate muscle function and blood sugar levels.


Limit yourself to one glass of wine or bottle of beer if you have to drink alcohol.

