 This is where lawyers can save a lot of time if they are smart about it. You will be using two tools at the same time, the Insert Index Entry tool and the Find and Replace tool. Open both tools. The Index Entry tool can be opened by going to Insert, and scrolling down to the Indexes and Tables button. The Find and Replace tool can be opened quickly with control+F.
 Figure out a good set of letters that will locate all or most of your cases and enter it into the find box. For me, I choose "cal." which locates all California citations in the document. When you get to your first case, simply highlight the entire case citation and click one time into the "entry" box. The citation will automatically appear. Then click insert. You just marked that entry. Now go on to your next citation, using the search tool, and do the same thing. Every entry will appear darker on your screen. Don't worry, it will not print that way.
 45.). When marking these, you could go back to the original full citation, copy, and paste it in the entry for the short form citation. Trust me on this, don't bother. It is not time efficient. Just mark the short form as it appears. Later, when creating the table of authorities, you will have to deal with some redundancies and extra clean-up, but it is still quicker to do it this way.
 Again, just mark them as they appear to save time. Use key letters or words to quickly locate each statute. For example, I use "section" to locate the statutes. If you're working with federal law, you might use "U.S.C."

,, Scroll down "Indexes and Tables" and the same box will appear that appeared for the table of contents. This time, where is says "type" choose "Alphabetical Index." Uncheck the box saying "protect against manual changes." As with the table of contents, we want to be able to do some tweaking if needed. Also, make sure the box "combine identical entries" is checked but uncheck all other boxes below it. By doing this, multiple page numbers will appear for each citation. Then press okay and you have your table. If you notice, this table will be assigned its own style called "index 1." Modify and save this style to your liking.
 For example, you might see "In re Paul (2001) 55 Cal.App.4th 200....2, 4." Then, right below it, you might see the short version that you marked separately because you're lazy and I told you to: "In re Paul, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at p. 204....6" To fix this, just delete the lower short version and add page "6" to the full version above.
 Again, just like with the table of authorities, the cool part at this point is that you can right click and update table/index if you made changes to your brief. This is really useful because, otherwise, manually trying to figure out the different page numbers for your cites after you made changes is very time consuming. But you will have to re-do some of the formatting and cleaning up of the table of authorities.

