 Start by writing down what you like about yourself.This strategy will give a focus. Consider writing both physical and psychological lists. Start with small things to help motivate yourself. Perhaps write things:


I like the color of my eyes.
I like my laugh.
I enjoy my job.
I like my hard work ethic.
 Similarly, it helps to write a list for what you are thankful.These can be vary from the previous list to focus more on what you appreciate about the world around you. Consider writing things:


I am thankful for my loving family.
I am thankful for my dog.
I am thankful for my apartment/house.
I am thankful for the wonderful weather today.
 If you are struggling with getting started with what you should write about, consider talking to people who love you. They might provide a different perspective. Think about asking:


”Mom, what do you think are my best traits?”
”Dad, what are you thankful for?” (This might give you ideas.)
”Do you think I’m good at ?”

, They have been proven to improve mood and reduce stress. To practice daily affirmations, do the following:


Every morning, when you first wake up, stand in front of a mirror.
Look yourself in the eye and repeat a mantra. This affirmation is designed to help you reinforce positivity. Try saying things like: “I will say yes to more things today.”
Repeat this three to five times to help you reinforce the idea.
You can change your affirmation daily, or focus on something specific you want to change.
 Getting physical has many positive benefits, both psychological and physical. The “exercise effect” is the scientific phenomenon of feeling better about oneself after physical exercise.Also, participating in exercises that you enjoy can promote happiness. For example, try taking a walk through a local park. It’ll give you time to think, burn off some calories, and provide a beautiful view!

, Similar to exercising, eating healthy has psychological benefits.Try eating more proteins (fish, meat, beans) and less simple carbohydrates (white bread, sugars, sweets, etc).
 Sleeping makes a body and mind feel good. Scientists suggest that amount of sleep varies on age.School age — nine to 11 hours per night.
Teenager — eight to 10 hours per night.
Young adult — seven to nine hours per night.
Adult — seven to nine hours per night.
Older Adult — six to eight hours per night.

