 This stretch targets several muscles in the front and back of your legs, as well as your butt. This is one of the best stretches for your lower body since it affects so many muscles.


While standing, spread your feet to just past shoulder width. Point your toes slightly outwards.
Lean your weight back onto your heels and slowly descend into a squatting position.
Try to keep your knees from extending past the front of your feet as you move into the squat.
As you descend, place your hands into a prayer position and allow your elbows to stay in contact with the inside of your knees.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds.
If you feel insecure in this stretch, feel free to hold onto a stationary object in front of your as you descend. This will keep you from falling backwards.
 This stretch targets your lower back and your hamstrings. This stretch is similar to the standard “touch your toes” stretch, but it avoids forcing your back into a curved position.From a standing position, slowly bend forward, allowing your arms to hang down in front of you.
Keep your back as flat as possible as your lean into the stretch. To help with this, aim your hands for a spot on the floor one to two feet in front of you.
If you can get your hands to floor, that’s great—but don’t feel like you need to stretch this far.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds.
 This stretch will improve flexibility in your hamstrings. It’s a difficult stretch for some, so avoid it if it causes you any pain. Make sure to perform the stretch with both legs. This stretch targets your hips, groin, and thighs.Place your right leg in front of you with the foot flat on the floor. Rest your hands on top of the leg.
Extend your left leg behind you with the foot pointed backwards.
Squeeze your glutes and press your pelvis forward so your upper body is erect.
Slowly creep your right foot forward to perform the stretch.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds on each side.
 This stretch targets the interior part of your hamstrings as well as the butt. If you haven’t done this stretch before you will probably feel a lot of pressure in your hamstrings. Go easy on yourself.Sit on the ground with your knees up and your feet flat on the floor.
Place your hands on your knees and slowly lower them to each side.
At the same time, place your feet together to the bottoms are touching.
Allow your knees to descend to each side on their own.
Place your hands on your ankles and use your elbows to gently place downward pressure on your knees.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds.
 This stretch will improve flexibility in your lower back. It’s a very safe stretch for the back, so don’t worry about straining your back on this one.Lie with your back on the floor and your knees up and together so that your feet are flat on the floor in front of your butt.
Place your arms flat at your sides with the palms down on the floor.
Using your arms and hands as leverage, slowly lift your butt off the floor until your pelvis forms part of a straight line from your knees to your neck.
Squeeze your glutes to hold yourself in place.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds.
 This stretch targets your lower back and the upper muscles of the butt. Make sure to complete this stretch on both sides. It’s a good last stretch since you’re on the floor and resting on your back.Lie on your back on the ground and allow your arms to stretch out to the sides.
Keeping your upper body flat on the ground, twist your lower body to the left while raising your right leg over your left leg.
Let your right foot come to rest on the left side of your body.
Hold this stretch for 30-60 seconds on each side.

