 Don't think that having a very strong cup of coffee or multiple energy drinks will keep you awake; it will just cause your body to use all of the energy you have left and crash very quickly. The trick is to have it in small doses (1 spoon of instant coffee rather than two, or a coke rather than an energy drink) and keep consuming more regularly throughout the night. You should also aim to drink a pint of water after all caffeine hits. Caffeine causes your brain to dehydrate, which can cause you to feel very tired very quickly. , When you really can't stay up any longer, set your alarm clock to go off every 5 minutes. If you don't have an alarm clock but are staying up with somebody else, have them pinch you every now and then to keep you from falling asleep.
 Sit down in a really hard chair so it is uncomfortable to fall asleep. Lounging in a bed or on a couch will make it much more likely that you will end up falling asleep.
 If it doesn’t feel like it is nighttime you’ll be much less likely to fall asleep. Don’t hang out in areas with dimmed lighting if you are trying to stay awake longer.
 Chewing sends signals to our brain that we should be alert. . Your body will also think that you are consuming a meal. This will cause it to release insulin, which should cause you to wake up.


Chewing on an ice cube is a good option. Just don’t hurt your teeth or freeze your mouth.
 You don't need to drench yourself, but hopping into the bathroom and splashing some cold water on your face will help you feel alert again. This isn't a permanent solution, but if you finding yourself nodding off it's a great way to avoid passing out.If you are driving a car late at night, try rolling the windows down. The cold air should have a similar effect as splashing your face with cold water and the sound of the air rushing through the car will help you too.
 Don't play soft, soothing sounds - these will call you to feel relaxed and more tired. The idea behind upbeat music is to promote wakefulness and productivity. Studies show that playing music that matches the tempo of the work you are doing can help you be more attentive.Music with high beats per minute are less likely to cause you to nod off.

