 Use this as a base.;
, Place more valuable places toward the back, like the ammo magazine, or planning HQ., Note basic landmarks in the area.
 Take it in shifts to guard the base, using the base gun as your primary weapon. Have a sniper and patrol team in the area.
 Your choice of weapon and how you use it is vital. For example, using a stampede and keeping it on the whole time will give your base away in quieter areas. Also, the battery will run out halfway through the battle, leaving you with no suitable defense weapon. Suggestions include:


Primary: Vulcan/Havoc
Secondary: Night Finder/Firestrike
Tertiary: Secret Strike/Jolt

,,, Get ready to fire at the attackers.
 Flee the base.


As soon as you are in a secure location, Walkie-Talkie the other squadrons and tell them you have abandoned your base.
If you have made a new base, tell your teammates the co-ordinates of the new base.
 You may attempt to seize the base back. In this case, call for aid from the other squadrons, meeting them at your co-ordinates.
 Break the team into the following:


Rapid-fire gunners: This is the main fighting force. Arm with pistols, walkie-talkies and GPS.
Snipers: For taking out with convenience shots. Arm with pistols, possibly armed with Walkie-Talkie and GPS.
Pistol armed men: Infiltration and scout operations. Arm with two pistols each, walkie-talkies and GPS, maybe Nerf swords.
Rapid-fire gunners.
 Stop every 100 meters (328.1 ft) to listen for movement and rest. Keep your guns primed, and if battery operated keep them off.
 Take alternate directions, one person circling the enemy from the right, one from the left. Do not run, move silently.
 Then strike, shooting as many bullets as possible, making sure not to shoot your teammate. If the target is not hit, he or she will start to move away. Do not follow the enemy, stay and collect your ammo.
, Make sure you’re fully loaded and primed, then when they cross the 10 meter (32.8 ft) boundary line, fire until you have one magazine left or all of the enemies are down. If the area is secure, stay to collect your bullets. If there are still enemies in the area, clear out as fast as possible.
 Dodge bullets by zigzagging across the battlefield until you are out of range and sight of their guns.

Prime your gun.
Scan the area.
Lie in ambush for an enemy to come by.
, The enemy will then either move away or hide nearby and wait until you move to a different location and sniper you down.

If surprise attacked, get out of there! The enemy will have a higher rate of fire than you and have the advantage of speed, mobility, and the element of surprise.
 Be careful not to leave behind obvious footprints and to not drop items.
 Make sure you are not seen or heard. The enemy may lead you to his or her base or hideout.
 If he or she is with teammates, walkie-talkie the rapid-fire gunners, using the GPS to give them the co-ordinates of the enemy's base. Input these into your own GPS ,along with the co-ordinates of your own base.
 If attacked by rapid-fire weapons, run! Finally, if you’re attacked by snipers, hide in cover, then regroup and take them down from behind.
 Use two or more teammates to cover you. Work together and you are more likely to succeed.
 Much like other projectile-tagged games many Nerf strategies and actions are decided by the thought of fear. This is why retreating and falling back are common in Nerf offensives. The main things that create the fear are the rate of fire and the amount of ammunition. One of the most important factors in winning a Nerf battle/war is to never let the enemy know how much ammo one has., Break up the group as much as possible, sending a maximum of three people per small route, while the rest of the team holds larger routes defensively. This allows a smaller team to encircle and eliminate a more concentrated force that will most likely collect in the larger routes.

It is best to know the surroundings where one is fighting, this helps players know hiding spaces and areas with physical advantages.

Spots like these include hills, stairs, fences, and balconies.
 There are two basic strategies for this:

First is by using intimidation. This means using heavy fire against then enemy, regardless of accuracy.

The drawback to this strategy is that you will be using a lot of darts in a short amount of time. This strategy is best used when there is more than one base defender and they are equip with a motorized weapon. These weapons use a motorized system to continue to fire as long as the soldier continues to hold down the trigger, feeding either from a clip or pre-loaded darts. Examples are the barricade, stampede, vulcan, rayven, or the hail-fire, stryfe.


The second strategy is one of anti-intimidation where you don't shoot at all. Let the enemy get comfortable and approach then shoot them at the last moment.

If you’re facing multiple enemies, use your cover wisely as it is one of your biggest advantages over your enemy.
If they charge all at once, the best way to counter this is either using two pre-pumped magstrikes, or two vulcans.
If choosing the magstrike, always have your guns pre-pumped.
 Though it seems obvious, you should always be taking cover even when no enemy is in sight especially while reloading., They will jam your gun. Put all damaged darts in the damaged dart bin to be repaired., Try to make each shot count as you only have a limited number of darts and no guarantee that you will find any soon. If you are pinned down without darts you can be rushed easily., Small secondary weapons should always be loaded and ready in case you are rushed without any darts in your primary. Always go into battle with at least two guns., If they rush you, thinking you are an easy kill, prove them wrong., Before each battle have a couple of code words you use to send signals to each other that the enemy will not understand.

For example, "eagle" could mean everyone strike at once, "mouse" could mean you need more ammo, and "snake" could mean retreat back to base.
Try to keep the code words short and few in number since they should change every battle and everyone needs to be able to easily remember them.
 Going into battle with 10 guns may look cool, but you will soon find out that you cannot move easily and will get tired soon. Only use guns that you know how to use, that do not jam easily, and that are not too big for you to handle., This means that you should know your equipment. If the first time your blaster gets jammed and you do not know how to unjam it, then you are in trouble.

Only use guns you are familiar with. The most common kills will be the people who do not know their equipment well.
 When moving among barricades or obstacles have your fellow soldiers fire upon the enemy to keep them pinned down while you move closer or get into a better position., With this tactic one soldier positions himself at one angle and another soldier positions himself at an opposite angle so that their shots upon the enemy are coming from two opposite angles making it hard for them to return fire or take cover., In this method, a densely packed team of Nerfers, typically armed with more powerful blasters, such as Rhino-Fires, Vulcans, or Hail-Fires, use heavy firepower to disorient the enemy with short and powerful attacks. They then surround the enemy and may engage in melee battle if necessary., In this tactic, the team is divided into 2 parts offense to 3 parts defense.

The defense holds a line on the largest major routes while the offense attempts to secure minor routes.
If the offense is successful, the enemy team will have no choice but to try to overwhelm the defense in the center.
When in position, the defense caves in the enemy still hold the area. This will result in the enemy team falling deeper into the now bowl-shaped defensive line.
The offense then emerges behind the enemy team and takes defensive positions pointed towards the collected enemy team.
If done correctly, this leaves the enemy team surrounded and without cover. If the plan fails, the entire team can recover quickly by rushing, taking advantage of their already forward position.
 This strategy works best on smaller fields where there are less routes to travel. Similar to funneling, blading shares the goal of entrapping the enemy. While not always as effective, it is easier to recover from and requires less communication.

Your team cuts in a diagonal line across the field. The most powerful members of the team should be on the edges, with the weakest parts of the line in the middle. This leaves the enemy no choice but to attack the line, often focusing on the middle.
When the enemy is within the bounds of the line, collapse your team on top of them and redistribute your players.
This leaves your enemy surrounded an all but one side.

Note that the line described here is not a straight formation, but rather a loose description of the cover positions of your team.
 To use this tactic, you take the risk of running close to an enemy bunker and fire once or twice at the enemy close range, then run back for cover., Similar to Hit-N-Run, but instead of running back for cover you keep going past the enemy bunker shooting left and right at the enemy.

Try to get as deep into their territory as possible before being shot or finding cover behind enemy lines.
 This tactic is used when a group of soldiers is moving together and suspects an attack from a Nerf grenade -If close together they could all be hit by a single well placed grenade, but spread-out keeps this from being likely., This is any tactic used as a distraction. If you move up close to an enemy position you do not have to fire on them - you already are drawing all their fire by being so close. Meanwhile, your allies further back can pick off targets easily without being fired upon.

Other ways to craw a target is to trick them into thinking you are out of ammo. When they charge in for the kill, you unload your blaster into them.
 You will often need to.

You could also set a retreat point with your team in the field or if your base is over-run
Make sure only your team knows where the base is.

