 While it may be difficult to talk about your sobriety, it will be less awkward than if you’re having to explain yourself in the middle of a tempting situation. Being open can help others to understand your perspective so that they can respect your decisions.Talk first with the people who you trust the most. They will likely be supportive and helpful as you navigate staying sober over the holidays.
If you’re feeling anxious about talking with them in person, consider calling or emailing them. Avoid texting about the subject if it’s the first time you’re talking with them about your sobriety.
 There may be certain people in your life who help you when things are tough. During the holidays, you may be feeling particularly lonely, angry, or sad. Call your trusted friends first, instead of turning to drinking.Focus on having two or three friends or family members that can be your “calling buddies” when you’re feeling like drinking. Talk with them in advance about this, and ask them if it’s okay to call from time to time for reassurance.
If you feel less comfortable with calling friends or family, consider calling your sponsor through a group like Alcoholics Anonymous, or a similar sobriety group.
If you are seeing a counselor or are currently in alcohol or drug treatment, talk with your provider about possible numbers to call when feeling tempted.
 While it may feel tempting to go back to your old hang-out spots, you’ll likely end up running to your old drinking buddies. The holidays can push people towards old, bad habits because it’s easier than dealing with the stressors of family and social expectations.Try making new friends and developing new interests instead of hanging out with old friends.
Make early new year’s resolutions that focus on the “new” you so that you’re less inclined to fall back on your old ways.
 Whether you’re currently attending Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) or not, this program could be particularly helpful around the holidays when you’re feeling more stressed. Many AA meetings continue to run around the holidays because so many people face the same challenges as you.Check for local meetings in your area: http://www.aa.org/

See these meetings as an additional support system to help you through the holidays. Think of AA meetings as a safe and sober place to go when stressed.

