 Open Mozilla or Chrome, type “Zyngagames.com” in the address bar, and press Enter. You will be taken to Zynga’s official game website.;
, Click the blue “Connect with Facebook” button from the pop-up that appears, and log into the Facebook account you’re using to play Farmville 2.


By connecting Zyngagames.com to your Facebook account, your Farmville 2 game, as well as any Zynga games you’re playing on Facebook, will be resumed, and all the data, along with friends and neighbors, will be imported with it.
 zFriends are Zynga game players. If you want to add zFriends that specifically play Farmville 2, click the Farmville 2 icon on the right panel, below “Suggested zFriends.” This will display active Farmville 2 zFriends below.
 You can check how often these Farmville 2 zFriends play, as it will state the information just below their profile name (e.g., Plays Daily). This will give you a better idea as to who you will add; the more active they are, the better. Scroll through this list, and select the ones you want to add by clicking the “Add zFriends” button next to their names. They will automatically be connected to your Farmville 2 game.


You can add as many zFriends as you want, and they will not appear in your Facebook account.
 You can also add Community neighbors in Zyngagames.com. First enable the feature if you haven’t yet by scrolling down to the bottom of the screen and clicking the “Settings.” From the options listed, check “Enable Feature” next to “Community Friends are here.”


After enabling the feature, you will be suggested to other players as a Community neighbor. When you run out of money or energy, a pop-up will be displayed with “Get more free help and free gifts” with two options: “Not interested” and “OK.” Click “OK.”
A list of Community neighbors with their pictures and an “Add” button at the bottom will be displayed. Click “Add” to add these Community neighbors. Once you add them, they will be displayed at the bottom of your screen.
 When someone adds you as a Community neighbor, you will receive a notification. Click the envelope icon available at the top right of the game screen, and accept the request. Once accepted, they will also be added as your Community neighbors. Now, whenever you need help, you can seek out your Community neighbors for assistance rather than your Facebook friends.

