 Work through your hair with a paddle brush to remove any tangles. If you haven’t washed your hair in a few days, spray a dry shampoo product in your hair at the roots and use your fingertips to gently rub it in. Run the paddle brush through your hair a few more times to ensure your hair fully absorbs the dry shampoo.If the dry shampoo doesn’t get fully absorbed, you may end up with a visible powdery residue in your hair.
The dry shampoo will also add a little volume to your hair, which works well with this hairstyle.
 Use your fingers to scoop up hair along the way as you move them upwards. Keep going until your fingers meet in the middle, near the crown of your head. Hold the gathered hair in place with one hand and grab a hair elastic with your free hand. Secure the hair in place with the elastic.This is known as a half-ponytail.
For an even higher half-ponytail, start with your fingertips at your temples instead of your ears.
 Use your free hand to grab a very small section of hair right underneath the half-ponytail. Wrap that strand of hair around the elastic several times, so that the elastic is no longer visible. Use a bobby pin to secure the hair in place. Push the pin up and into the ponytail.If you’d rather not disguise the elastic with your hair, you don’t have to! Simply leave the elastic exposed as you normally would.
 Use your fingers to scoop up the next section of hair as you move them upward. Keep going until your fingers meet in the middle, right at the back of your head. Secure the hair in place with an elastic. Leave the elastic exposed, if you prefer, or wrap a small section of your hair around it.To hide the elastic, gather a small piece of hair directly underneath the new ponytail and wrap it around the elastic. Bobby pin it in place, pushing the pin upward into your ponytail to secure it.
 Scoop your hair up as you push your fingers toward the nape of your neck. Keep going until your fingers meet in the middle at the nape, where a low ponytail would be. As you hold the gathered hair with one hand, use your other hand to secure it with an elastic., Before moving on to the rest of your ponytail, go ahead and create the first two bubbles. Start at the top with the first section, which is between the first and second elastic. Use your fingers to grab the hair on both sides of your ponytail. Tug gently, with equal pressure, on both sides to create the bubble shape. Move down to the next section and do the same thing.Tug gently to create small bubbles. Tug a little harder if you want larger bubbles, which will create a messier effect.
Make both bubbles approximately the same size.
 Starting at the last elastic at the nape of your neck, move your hands down about three inches and gather the ponytail there with one hand. Secure the hair in place with an elastic. Leave the elastic exposed or, if preferred, use a small piece of hair from the end of your ponytail to wrap around the elastic. Secure it in place with a bobby pin., Grab your ponytail between the third and fourth elastic. Tug gently to create the bubble effect. Keep your bubbles consistent – make this one the same size as the others. Mist your favorite hairspray all over hairstyle to set it.Pull a few face-framing strands out to soften the look.
Spritz a little more hairspray on your hair at midday if you need additional hold.

