 Using a gentle, non-soap cleanser twice a day is likely the most powerful weapon in the battle against acne. Another key tip: don’t be overzealous. Wash consistently, but without scrubbing, as this can actually make acne worse.Favor a cleanser that dissolves during washing, as these are less abrasive.
Avoid cleansers with something ground up in them (like fruit pits or plastic), as well as cleansers that contain aluminum oxide. Use a cleanser that is made specifically for your face.
Avoid messing with blemishes. Picking at or squeezing blemishes will likely result in acne-worsening infections and may even lead to scars.
Wash stuff that touches your face. Wash your hair, keep your hands clean by washing them whenever you’re in the bathroom or kitchen, wipe your cell phone with an alcohol pad, and wash any beauty products regularly.;
, There are a handful of different options for non-medicated cleansing.Use cleansing towelettes. Even within the realm of mini cleansing cloths, you have several options. Use open-weave cloths for dry, sensitive skin. Use tightly-woven cloths for removing dead skin cells.
Try pore-cleaning adhesive strips. There are skincare products designed to physically remove dirt, oil, and plugs from your pores. Apply while your skin is wet, let it dry, and gently remove the strip.
 The lower-strength-first rule holds more often than not, you’re going to want to switch things up, it may be worth moisturizing, and there's a few products to avoid.With all acne products, less is more. Whenever there’s an option, go with a lower-strength version first. This will minimize side effects like redness and dry skin. You can always adjust the frequency of your use of the product instead of blasting your skin with potentially irritating chemicals.
Use a water-based, oil-free moisturizer. If dead skin is the likely culprit for clogging your pores, moisturizer can be effective in diminishing acne by alleviating dry skin. Use a moisturizer that contains sunscreen during the day to protect your skin from sun damage.
Keep in mind that many acne products tend to dry or irritate the skin, so a good moisturizer can help reduce these side-effects.
Don’t use oily skin or hair products. Only use cosmetics, sunscreens, and hair products that are water-based and noncomedogenic.
 Whatever you use, don't use too much. Only use enough of whatever you’re using to do the job. After washing, apply only enough acne product to cover the affected area.A pea sized amount is usually enough.


Note that some cleaning options (such as some towelettes) come with benzoyl peroxide and other active ingredients in them. If you’re using these, don’t apply more of the same acne products after cleansing.
Vary the use of products with different active ingredients. If you have especially frustrating bouts of acne, try one product in the morning and a different one at night. You will likely see improved results as well as less skin irritation.

