 The first step to becoming a Legal Nurse Consultant is to become a Registered Nurse (RN). You will need the experience and expertise that can only be gained through a nursing program to find work as a LNC. Be aware that there are several routes you can take to become an RN.One method is to earn your Associate's Degree in Nursing (ADN) and then pass a licensure exam to become a registered nurse. These focused programs take two years to complete.
You can also earn your Bachelor's of Science in Nursing (BSN). These more in-depth academic programs typically take four years to complete. You must also pass a licensure exam to be able to practice as a registered nurse.
Make sure to complete your degree at a college or university with a reputation for a strong nursing program. This will help you find a job later.;
, Once you have your RN/BSN degree, your next step is to find a nursing job. In order to become an LNC, you need to have hands-on nursing skills and experience. You'll usually need to work as an RN for three to five years before you make the switch to becoming an LNC.Look for a nursing job in a specialty that you will enjoy. For example, if you enjoy being around children, consider becoming a pediatric nurse. You can also try to get broad experience by becoming a trauma or surgical nurse.
 Once you have clinical experience, you may want to start looking into LNC certification programs or continuing education classes. While formal training or certification is not required to practice as an LNC, it is very beneficial to finding a job in this field. Look for a program that best suits your needs. For example, would you prefer to take classes on a traditional campus or online? Those are important factors to consider.You should ask any LNCs that you know how they ended got into the field. Feedback from those with experience can be very important when deciding on a program.
 Once you have selected a program, you will begin your LNC certification process. You will already have nursing experience, so this part of your education will enhance your legal knowledge. You will learn the language of the law and how to apply your medical knowledge to legal cases.At the end of your training, you must take an exam in order to become a certified LNC. In order to take the exam, you must have at least five years of practical nursing experience, and have 2,000 hours of experience within the past three years.
After successfully passing this exam, you will earn the title LNCC (Legal Nurse Consultant Certified).

