 Each position requires a different amount of skill and strength. Below are some common things you will want to know about popular positions.










Quarter Backs: Quarter Backs need to have excellent arm strength, an ability to run (at least a decent run), and the ability to take a hit. You can train for all these by lifting weights and practicing your passes (arm strength), running ladders or taking short runs (speed), and exercises focused around the chest (ability to take a hit.)

Running Backs: Running Backs need to rely on a number of things. Speed, agility, carrying the ball, awareness, and the knowledge they are tackled frequently. Common activities such as running, practice dodging objects, and playing against friends will help build all these key strong points.

Wide Receivers: Wide Receivers need to have speed, agility, and the ability to catch and be tackled. General exercises can build strength, such as pulls ups or weightlifting. Catching is a skill that you can learn by yourself or in a group (groups work best.)

Defenders: Defenders, especially lineman, need to be all muscles and very large. As a lineman, you will get pushed around a lot, and have to tackle people a lot as well. Getting muscular and large is easy.

Kickers and Punters: Leg strength is about it. You will get pushed down sometimes, but not often. Doing leg exercises and practicing your kicking is all you need to do.;
, You need to be fast incase you have to catch the ball, you can run ladders to develop speed.You need arm strength in case you have to be on the defensive side.Lifting weights is easy.


Offensive Linemen: Lots of leg strength is needed. When you block someone, you not only are aggressive with your arms, but you need to be able to fire into the defensive lineman and drive your legs to move him back. You should be big and able to throw your weight around. Muscles are a plus. You also need quick and fast feet for blocking.
 If you want to be good and ready, you need to be above all your competition. Only a few people can make that position, and there can only be one starter. If you want it to be you, you have to be the best in your group.
 Exercising too hard could hurt you and hurt your chances of making the team. Work hard, but know your limits.
 This will also give you hands on experience and a feel of a what a game situation is like.
 Believe it or not, there is a lot of strategy involved in football. It's not just grunts throwing each other around. If by the time you start playing games you don't know how to run a "Fake 24 Double Reverse," football is not for you.
 Observe how the players in your position line up and execute the plays. See what you need to do, but look for tricks you can use as well.
 Go and try-out with confidence. You will need it when you play.








