 To be prepared for a larger emergency or disaster, you’ll need a larger bag than you did for your everyday kit. This is the type of thing you can keep in your locker or ready to go in your closet at home. You can even have two or three of these lying around, such as one at school and one at home.


Don’t forget to keep emergency money in your ready-for-anything emergency kit as well as your everyday kit.
 Even if your emergency kit bag has pockets and compartments, it’s still a good idea to organize the contents of your kit to make everything easier to find. After all, the last thing you need during an emergency is the added stress of not being able to find something you need! Makeup cases will work well for organizing your kit.


Consider color coding your individual cases based on their contents. For instance, you could keep medical supplies in a reddish colored container because of the association with the Red Cross.
Opt for cases that have zippers so that you can keep your kit neat, tidy, and separated.
You will probably need between four and seven smaller cases, depending on how you want to organize your kit. It’s also a good idea to have a hard-shell case for sewing items.
 Whether you just need an afternoon pick-me-up or forgot to eat breakfast, having a bottle of water and non-perishable snack in your emergency kit could come in handy at any time. A good snack could be a granola bar, dried fruit bar, crackers, bag of nuts, or anything else that will last for a few months., If you wear glasses, it’s always a good idea to have a spare pair in your emergency kit in case you lose or break your main pair. Similarly, if you wear contact lenses, always keep a spare contact case and extra solution with you.
 This can be used to treat cuts, scrapes, minor injuries, and unexpected headaches, cramps, and other mild pain problems.These items should all be kept together in a separate case. Your first-aid kit can include:


Tweezers to remove splinters.
Adhesive bandages for small cuts and scrapes.
Hand sanitizer and antiseptic wipes to clean cuts.
Throat lozenges and cough drops.A travel-sized bottle of pain relievers. These can go in the first-aid kit or with the medication supplies.
Tissues for wiping, cleaning, blowing your nose, and everything else tissues are great for!

, It’s always a good idea to have a spare change of clothes on you in case of spills, rain, unexpected periods, or rips and tears. It doesn’t have to be your fanciest outfit, but one day you might be glad you’ve got an extra T-shirt with you. Don’t forget about:


Underwear in a re-sealable plastic bag (the bag is for the dirty pair).
A bra or sports bra.
Socks.
A T-shirt, tank top, or blouse.
Spare pants or shorts.
 Any drug store will have a variety of miniature toiletries you can use to supply your emergency case, including deodorant toothpaste, dental floss, mouthwash, soap, and gum or mints.You may just need these to freshen up between classes or meetings, but during a disaster, keeping clean can also prevent disease and infections.
 You don’t need all your cosmetics in your mini case, but just a few things for emergency use in case of a last-minute date or job interview, or a hair or makeup mishap. Keep a few bobby pins, a comb, and hair ties in your kit,some hand cream or body lotion, lip balm, a small mirror, and some select makeup items. What constitutes emergency makeup will be determined by your cosmetics preferences, but it could be:


Foundation and a compact.
Mascara or eyeliner.
Lipstick, gloss, or lipliner.
Blush or eyeshadow.
 This is for if you lose a button, split a seam, break a strap, or experience some other wardrobe malfunction. A basic sewing kit needs pins and safety pins, a sewing needle, black and white thread, one or two generic buttons, double-sided tape (for quick fixes), and a pair of mini or collapsible scissors.You can also include a mini stain remover to treat spills and stains.


Keep these items in a hard-shell case so you don’t stab or prick yourself with pins and scissors.
 You never know when you might need an actual pen and paper to leave a note or jot down a brilliant idea, so keep a small pad of paper, pen, and pencil in your emergency kit (ink can dry out, so keep a pencil as well). Throw in a few paper clips too, which in a pinch can serve hundreds of purposes, such as a:Makeshift hair barrette
Bra strap holder
Zipper pull.
 Having a mobile phone can be a lifesaver in an emergency, but only if it has enough battery life to connect you to the outside world. A spare phone charger for your emergency kit is a worthwhile investment that means you’ll always be able to reach people if you’re in need.


Ask friends or family if they have compatible chargers lying around from old phones they don’t use any more.

