 Find out about the school that you are auditioning for. What style do they practice? Are they more interested in performance or technique? What do they like to see in dancers? Knowing these types of things are helpful to have in mind when you audition.;
, Don't come to an audition after a vacation. You should be taking class right up until the audition day so that you are in shape. Get plenty of sleep the night before, and eat a good breakfast and/or lunch. Make sure that you are hydrated before, because it is not polite to drink water in the middle of an audition.
 It is hard to dance on an empty stomach. It will make your nerves worse; however, you don't want to eat directly before the audition otherwise you will end up feeling sick after the movement. It is best to eat an hour beforehand so you can use the bathroom and not have to use it during the audition., Make sure to drink lots of water before the audition, as it is very rude to take your water bottle in the studio, because usually auditions only take 30 minutes to 1 hour., You can usually find out what attire is required on the school's website or brochure. Usually auditions require girls to wear black leotards and pink tights, and boys to wear white shirts and black tights. If the color leotard is not specified, the choice is all yours between keeping it simple and classic (for example, black or white) or going with some more unique and bold. If you must wear black, choose colored earrings or a pretty headband to wear so you will be remembered more easily. Choose a leotard with a simple, flattering style, and don't wear patterned or multicolored outfits. Part of being a ballet dancer is having good taste. Small earrings and rings are all right, but remove all of your other jewelry. Don't wear dangly jewelry or anything that gets in the way. Never, ever wear legwarmers, black tights, or any other "junk" to a ballet audition.
 Looking nice and professional is very important in an audition; it shows that you are serious about what you do. Make sure your body, hair and clothes are clean and neat. Your hair doesn't have to be completely slicked back, but make sure that it is still neat without loose strands. Make sure your slippers and pointe shoes are in good condition, with no drawstrings or threads hanging out, and your tights are free from holes. Never go auditioning without make up, but keep it light. Enhance your traits, but don't use stage make up. Also, wake up early to not get a swollen face.
 Like the attire, the materials you need are most likely specified on the website or brochure. Most auditions have a fee of anywhere from $5 to $30. Some require a headshot, photos, or a resume, and some don't. If you are not sure about photos, bring along a headshot and a first arabesque photo just in case. It is better to be safe then sorry. Don't forget to take some suitable pins in order to pin your number sheet to your leotard. Pointework is usually included in auditions, so remember your pointe shoes if you have them. Make sure your pointe shoes are going to work for you. Test them out the day before, if needed. There is nothing more frustrating then being limited by dead or too-hard shoes.
 It is a good idea to arrive at least thirty minutes early. You want time to adjust to your surroundings and relax, and you will also need to fill out an application. If you are auditioning for a large or popular school, there is likely to be a line at check in. Don't feel like you need to be one of the first in line. Because large auditions usually have dancers go in groups, if you have a later number it will give you time to watch other dancers before it is your turn. Everyone will be seen equally regardless of their number. Never ever arrive late. Allow yourself plenty of time.
 Do the exercises you usually do before class; it will help to calm you down if you do your usual routine. Make sure you a quite warm before class, because many auditions do not do a long and intensive barre.
 Don't think of it as a competition, because it's not. Treating it as such will make you more nervous. Instead, focus on your own dancing and understand that the others are trying to do so as well. Also, the directors and those auditioning dancers can spot a rude unfriendly dancer from a mile away. It doesn't impress them.
 Even if it is okay to drink water, talk, or sit down in your class at home, don't do it now. Don't lean against the bar or cross your arms. Don't be too casual.
 The directors will know who's putting on airs. Don't try to be too eager or too nice or too perfect. Just aim to be kind and respectful, and be yourself.
 Pick up the combinations as quickly as you can. A couple of mistakes are not a big deal, but if you repeatedly do not know the exercise, the directors will question your retention ability. If the teacher corrects you, do your best to apply the correction. It shows that you are teachable, and you respect and care about what they say. Also, it is your responsibility to keep track of what group and formation you are in, so that they do not need to take up time figuring out where you go.
 This is one of the most important parts of an audition. Never change any part of the combinations that the teacher shows. The school that you are auditioning for might practice a different ballet style than you are used to. That's okay. If this is the case, try to pick up the obvious details of the new style, such as placement of arms before a turn, etc. The directors will be judging how well you can adapt to the new style.
 When it comes to turns, do what you are comfortable with. Don't aim for four pirouettes if you know you can't land them cleanly. For an audition, do only what you know you can control. You want to push yourself more in class, but in an audition, the directors want a clear understanding of your technique level.
 Don't size up the competition by comparing yourself to others. It will waste your energy, and chances are, you probably won't do as well. Do class as you normally would, and focus on doing the best that you can.
 Even if you are nervous, try to smile and look pleasant. It will help you to relax. You don't have to be mechanical, and you don't have to be perfect. Smile if the teacher says something funny. Ask questions if you're confused (don't ask too many). If you fall from a pirouette, keep going. Finish with a smile, because chances are, the instructors were not even watching you when you fell. If you forget the exercise, just correct yourself and move on. Don't obsess over every little mistake, because that's not what directors care about. They are looking at your dancing as a whole.
 You may notice your body feels a little shaky or you can't focus as well because of nerves. Just take a breath and make yourself calm down. You're doing the same steps you do everyday, and you've been working hard for this! Show off what you can do!

, If the instructor corrects you, respond with a smile and say thank you. Corrections do not mean you were not doing well. It means the instructor was watching you; they saw your potential and wanted to help you.