 Processed foods and fast foods are high in the kinds of things you're better off avoiding--sodium, saturated fat and sugar. It doesn't mean the occasional fast-food burger or frozen entrée will kill you, but these are the kinds of foods you want to limit.


The government's most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that no more than 10% of calories come from saturated fats. If you're on a 1500 calorie-a-day diet, that means you can have 15g of saturated fat a day--fast-food burgers can have anywhere from 12g to 16g.
 Sugary drinks, especially soft drinks, have been linked to weight gain and obesity. Calories consumed through a straw are still calories and contribute to packing on the pounds, so plan to cut down or reduce your consumption of these beverages on your diet.


The best thirst quencher is and always has been water. Plus drinking more water will make you feel more full and may reduce your intake at mealtime.

Make water more appealing to your taste buds by adding slices of citrus, cucumbers, mint or other herbs.


Juice sounds healthy, especially drinks made from 100% juice, but they're high in sugar. Drink them in moderation or add water to get some of the nutritional benefits with fewer calories.
In a study by Harvard University researchers, sugary drinks were linked to 180,000 deaths a year worldwide, 25,000 in the United States alone. Another 2013 study, this one by the scientists at Imperial College London, found that the risk of type 2 diabetes rose by as much as 22% for every 12 oz. serving of sugar-sweetened drinks consumed per day., You may have a condition that requires you to steer clear of certain ingredients, so read labels carefully and stock up on products that suit your specific dietary requirements.


Celiac disease. Celiac disease is a digestive disorder caused by intolerance to dietary gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. Thanks to a growing awareness of the needs of those who are not able to tolerate gluten, a number of gluten-free products are now on the shelves of not only specialty food stores but also your local supermarket.
Hypertension. A dangerous condition and a precursor to heart disease and stroke, hypertension can be managed in part by a diet that's heavy on fruits, vegetables and lean protein. The DASH diet--which stands for Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension--has been shown to decrease blood pressure, is recommended by a number of health organizations including the National Institutes of Health and was ranked No. 1 best overall diet in the U.S. News and World Report's Best Diets 2012. Food allergies. If you suspect a food allergy, be sure to get tested by a physician. Eight foods account for 90% of all food allergies: peanuts, tree nuts, milk, eggs, wheat, soy, fish and shellfish. If you have any of these allergies, read food labels very carefully to avoid choosing items that may trigger an allergic reaction.

