 Acute pancreatitis presents with severe and sudden abdominal pain; however, it can be differentiated from other similar conditions in part by describing the specific nature of your pain.Qualities of your pain that point toward pancreatitis as the more likely cause include:


Pain that radiates through to your back — This is the number one symptom of pancreatic problems
Pain that is located on the upper middle part of your abdomen
Pain that is worse after eating;
, Acute pancreatitis, as the name suggests, comes on suddenly. It is a pain that is constantly present, and often feels like a stabbing sensation that gets worse after eating. If your pain comes on gradually, or has been present for a long time, it is likely from another cause.
 It could mean something else such as a gut infection or food poisoning.
 Excess alcohol consumption is the number one risk factor in the development of pancreatitis; therefore, it is key to be honest and upfront with your doctor about how much alcohol you drink and how frequently.Another major risk factor for acute pancreatitis is a history of gallstones.
If you have had gallstones once (or more times) in the past, it is more likely for them to return, and they can provoke an episode of acute pancreatitis.
 If you present to the Emergency Room (or to your doctor) with acute abdominal pain, one of the quickest ways to identify a pancreas-related cause is to test your pancreas function via blood tests. If you have elevated levels of pancreatic enzymes in your blood, this means that your pancreas is under stress. It indicates to your doctor that you may very well be suffering from pancreatitis as opposed to another condition.Elevated serum amylase and lipase in your blood point toward pancreatitis as the underlying cause. This is the number on symptom for pancreatic problems. Amylase and lipase are the pancreatic enzymes that leak out into the blood of the pancreas when it becomes inflamed. Elevated amylase levels can can be seen in other problems with the stomach and liver, but lipase is very specific to the pancreas.
Other results that are important when testing for acute pancreatitis include elevations in C reactive protein and interleukins.
 An endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is a procedure in which an ultrasound probe with a camera is inserted down your esophagus, through your stomach, and down the first part of your small intestine toward the pancreas. It provides a much more detailed view of the pancreas, and it can provide your doctor with valuable information as to the specific underlying cause of your pancreatitis.An EUS also evaluates the upper GI tract (esophagus, stomach, and upper part of the small intestine) en route to getting to the pancreas.
Therefore, an EUS can help to include or rule out other upper GI causes that could be the reason for your abdominal pain.
 If you have acute abdominal pain, your doctor may order a CT scan. A CT scan provides a detailed image of the abdominal anatomy allowing doctors to recognize many different medical conditions.You will be laying down while the imaging device surrounds you (there is plenty of space so it is not claustrophobic), and the process only takes a few minutes.


Acute pancreatitis may present with gallstones on the CT scan (as this is a common cause for pancreatitis).
The CT scan will likely also show generalized pancreas inflammation.
 Because the pain of acute pancreatitis can be quite severe, and worse with eating and drinking, the hospital is the best place for you to receive care until your condition resolves enough for you to resume daily life. A few days in hospital may be sufficient, or it may take longer depending upon the severity of your pancreatitis.The mainstay treatment of acute pancreatitis is fluid replacement and pain control.
 For the first couple of days in hospital, your doctor will advise that you do not eat or drink as refraining from these things will give your pancreas a "rest" and allow it to recover. As your pancreas recovers, you can gradually return to eating and drinking. You will normally start by drinking clear fluids, then by adding in some bland foods and, when your condition is mostly better, you may resume your normal diet.In severe cases of pancreatitis, a feeding tube may be necessary to get you the nutrients and calories you need while your pancreas recovers.You will always be given IV fluids to stay hydrated during acute pancreatitis, and basic calories (sugars) can be given through the IV line as well., The strength of pain medication that your doctor offers you will depend upon the severity of your pain. In worse cases of acute pancreatitis, you will likely receive an opioid (narcotic) pain medication. When you are discharged from the hospital and your pain has mostly resolved, over-the-counter pain medications may be sufficient to control any residual pain, if your pain has not yet completely resolved., Once your pain has been controlled and your condition stabilized, your doctor will want to identify and then treat the cause of your acute pancreatitis.Common causes and treatments include:Gallstones — These can be removed surgically, and your gallbladder may need to be removed as well.
Bile duct obstructions — You will likely receive a procedure (called ERCP) to open or widen your bile duct, and to repair any damage that is found. Damaged or dead pancreas tissue may also need to be removed, and this may require surgery. This will be completed after the inflammation resolves and you are healed.
Alcohol dependence — Excess alcohol consumption is the number one risk factor for developing acute pancreatitis. If alcohol problems are the issue, it is key to receive treatment for this. Talk to your doctor there are rehabilitation clinics and 12 Step programs that are available if you have a serious problem with drinking.

