 During development, Will Wright, the creator of the Sims, felt that the characters needed voices to express emotion and connect with the player, but the thought of real languages would sound too repetitive and would be too costly to translate. So, the development team started on working on a fake written language by combining the alphabet and visual structure of over eight different world languages (English, French, Finnish, Latin, Ukrainian, Cebuano, Fijian and Tagalog). The spoken version of Simlish is just gibberish which was improvised during recording. In fact, the developer specifically hired actors that were good at making up gibberish sounds during auditions., By studying parts of language, they were able to create a gibberish language that modulates and emphasizes like a real language. These techniques give simlish a consistent and realistic sound although it is, for the most part, improvised.
 In interviews, Maxis Audio Director Robi Kauker has indicated that it takes about 40,000 audio samples to put together a version of simlish. In addition, there are certain phrases that the voice actors are instructed to include in all versions of the language (male, female, baby, alien, etc.) including the baby (nooboo) and pizza (chumcha). Currently the development team responsible for simlish voice and music numbers six people.
 Imitating songs may be the best way to learn to sound simlish.
 You can pick up a lot of the simlish style this way.
 Imitate them. Recording artists who have cut tracks (and even videos) in simlish include:


The Black Eyed Peas
Lily Allen
Bare Naked Ladies
Aly & AJ
Drew Carey
Depeche Mode
The Flaming Lips
Pussycat Dolls
My Chemical Romance
Natasha Bedingfield
Paramore
Neon Trees
Katy Perry
Pixie Lott
Kimbra
Becky G

, Repeat and practice to get better at sounding simlish.


PS: Simlish was developed through understanding Ukrainian and Tagalog (a major language of the Philippines). It may be a little easy after knowing these two languages. Also you can say "how are like" (shee so ba)

