 If you’re not sure where to start your search for an exotic animal vet, talk to your friends who own exotic animals. They can recommend an exotic animal vet to you. Ask your friends why they chose a particular vet.Other questions you can ask your friends include:


What do you like about the vet? Is there anything you don’t like?
How long have you been taking your pet to that vet?
Is your pet comfortable with that vet and the other staff?;
, In addition to speaking with other pet owners, contact your local pet store.A pet store has different species of exotic pets. The store will likely have one or two exotic animal vets that they use to care for their exotic pets.
 Veterinarians in your area will know which types of veterinary clinics are nearby. Visit or call a local veterinary clinic for recommendations on experienced exotic animal vets in your area., If you have a phone book, look through its business pages to find an exotic animal vet. There may not be a specific category on exotic animal vets, so search through the heading ‘Veterinarians.’ Keep in mind that the listings in the phone book will likely not be as extensive as searching http://www.yellowpages.com, which is the online version of the phone book., State veterinary medical associations have directories of veterinary clinics in that state.Locate the website for your state veterinary medical association and search through its directory. If your Internet search is not successful, call the association to see if it knows of exotic animal vets in your area.


You can also visit the websites of veterinary associations for exotic animals, such as the Association of Reptilian and Amphibian Veterinarians (ARAV), Association of Avian Veterinarians (AAV), and Association of Exotic Mammal Veterinarians (AEMV).On each of these websites, you can search for exotic animal vets in your area.
 Animal interest groups exist that focus on specific breeds or species. Conduct an online search to identify animal interest groups in your area that focus on exotic pets. If you can, find an interest group for your specific type of exotic pet. The members of the interest group will be able to recommend exotic animal vets., Review websites can be helpful to get a sense of how other pet owners like or dislike vets in your area. However, these reviews usually do not represent the average client experience, so they may not be very reliable.Do not make your decision about an exotic animal vet based solely on online reviews.
 When you have a few recommendations for exotic animal vets, consider visiting each one. The visits will allow you to get a good idea of how each clinic operates and how comfortable the staff is with handling and treating exotic pets. After visiting several clinics, you can decide which one will work best for you and your pet.You can visit the office with or without your pet. If you want to bring your pet with you, schedule an appointment first.
 Equipment that works well for examining and treating dogs and cats doesn’t necessarily work for exotic pets. For example, if the clinic works with exotic pets, it should have small scales to weigh tiny animals and tanks to hold larger animals (e.g., snakes, chameleons).If you are not able to tour the clinic, ask a staff member about the type of equipment they have for exotic pets.


If the clinic does not have the proper equipment, the staff probably does not have much experience working with exotic pets. This may not be the right clinic for you and your pet.
If you are able to tour the clinic, take note of how the clinic looks (neat or unorganized) and smells (pleasant or foul odor)., If you bring your pet with you to visit a particular clinic, watch how the staff handles your pet. Many exotic pets are prey animals in the wild, so they can become stressed when handled by people. Be wary if the staff is unsure how to handle your pet. On the other hand, if the staff is very comfortable and relaxed with your pet, that is a good sign that you could trust them to treat and care for your pet., There may be a time when your exotic pet needs emergency care. Since many veterinary clinics are not open 24/7, they will refer pet owners to nearby emergency clinics for emergency care. These emergency clinics are well prepared to handle dog or cat emergencies, but may not have the equipment necessary to handle exotic pet emergencies. When you visit, ask the clinic how they handle pet emergencies.Whichever exotic animal vet you choose, make sure they know of an emergency clinic where you could take your pet.
 Not all veterinary clinics charge the same fee for a particular service. For this reason, you should know the approximate cost of an average veterinary visit and other services (e.g., blood draws, x-rays) at each clinic. Compare the costs to see which clinic has fees that align best with your budget. Below are examples of other cost-related questions you can ask:What types of payment do you accept (credit card, check, cash)?
Do you offer payment plans for your clients?

, Veterinary schools do not offer extensive training on exotic animals. Therefore, vets with an interest in exotic animal medicine need to seek additional, specialized training to become exotic animal vets. When you speak with a vet, ask them what additional training they have received, such as a residency in exotic animal medicine.A residency is a form of specialized training that takes several years.
After completing a residency program, a vet can take a standardized test to become board certified (specialized) in exotic animal medicine. Ask your vet if they have this certification.
Vets are required to take a certain number of hours of continuing education. The number of hours varies by state. Ask the vet if they take continuing education courses that focus on exotic animal care.
 To ensure that your exotic pet receives excellent care, you should want a vet with a lot of experience working with exotic pets. Ask how many exotic pets they see per month.If the vet treats only a few exotic pets per month, they may not have enough experience or knowledge to adequately care for your pet.


Ask the vet about their experience working with your specific type of exotic pet.
 Ask the vet if they belong to ARAV, AAV, or AEMV. If the vet belongs to one of these organizations, or other professional exotic animal organizations, this can indicate a strong interest in caring for exotic animals.