 35% percent of your credit score is calculated according to how consistently you pay on time. Paying early or paying above the minimum required payment does not have a direct effect on your credit score, but might be noticed by some particularly sophisticated lenders.It is important though that you do not allow your debt to get so high that you are unable to make on time payments. Paying more than the minimum is often necessary to do this.


Credit card companies are prohibited from reporting late payments to the credit bureaus unless the payment is 21 days late and most companies will wait until 30 days after the due date.However, your credit card is allowed to charge late fees for any payment that is even a day late and two months of consecutive late payments can be enough to increase your interest rate. This can affect your ability to make on time payments in the future.
 30% of your credit score is determined by how high your debt is compared to your maximum credit limit. Ideally your debt should be less than 30% of the amount of credit that you are approved for.This is where only paying your minimum balance is likely to adversely affect your credit. If you only pay the minimum balance, your debt is likely to increase progressively, lowering your credit score.
This means that the higher your credit limit and the less that you use it, the better your credit score will be. Avoid department store credit, because these often have very low limits. Thus, if you use it at all, you will surpass the ideal 30% ratio and negatively impact your credit score., 15% of your credit score is calculated according to the length of your credit history. This is determined by how long your oldest account has been open, how long your newest account has been open, and the average age of all of your accounts.This effectively means that you should limit changes in your accounts. Keep them open and refrain from taking out too many new cards.
 Examine your statement for fraudulent or inaccurate charges. If you find charges on the statement that you feel are in error, contact American Express and ask to have these charges reviewed and, if warranted, removed. If you cannot afford to make the minimum payment required, contact American Express immediately and set up a special payment arrangement.

