 Eating fewer than 1,000 calories per day or eliminating entire food groups (carbohydrates, for example) leaves your body prone to cravings. Food restriction decreases your body's production of appetite-reducing leptin by as much as 22 percent. As a result, you'll tend to consume more calories when your cravings become overwhelming.


Lift any bans you've placed upon food groups. Replace prohibitions with reasonable limits on your consumption — instead of banning dessert altogether, for example, share a piece of pie with two friends.
Don't attempt to "eat around" cravings by substituting low-calorie imitations. If what you really want is a milkshake, eating yogurt likely won't help — and you may actually consume more calories in your attempt to compensate., Sometimes it helps to tell yourself you're allowed to have the food, drink or cigarette you're craving in just 10 or 20 more minutes. When 10 or 20 minutes elapses, tell yourself the same thing. Keep delaying gratification until you've taken off the craving's edge. This method is good to have in your pocket for any type of craving, but especially nicotine cravings., Studies show that eating lean protein, like eggs or turkey, will help you feel full for the rest of the day, and make you less likely to give in to cravings later.It's important to eat soon after you wake up, rather than waiting until mid-morning, to get the full anti-craving effect.


Starting your day with protein and healthy fats causes your body to maintain a healthy blood sugar and continue craving those wholesome foods all day. Starting your day with heavy sugars/carbs, will do the opposite and cause carb cravings.
Try making a healthy breakfast with eggs or lean meat. Yogurt is another good option for your morning protein.
Eat a handful of nuts or a protein shake if you’re on the go and in need of a protein fix.
 Grapefruit has properties that inhibit insulin and keep you feeling full.While going on a grapefruit-only diet isn't healthy for your system, there's no reason not to incorporate grapefruit into your daily routine.


Try eating a half a grapefruit for breakfast or as a mid-morning snack.
For best results, avoid adding sugar to your grapefruit. Also, be sure to eat whole grapefruit and not just the juice, which has a lot of sugar on its own.
Grapefruit can have a negative interaction with certain medications (including some antibiotics, cancer medications, and heart drugs),so check with your doctor or pharmacist before you increase your grapefruit intake.
 The fiber in whole fruits and vegetables keeps you feeling full longer than foods without fiber, and helps stave off cravings. Even alcohol cravings may be related to having low blood sugar. Have a serving of fruits or vegetables at every meal, and eat whole grains instead of refined white flour.


Be sure to eat whole fruits; don’t just drink the juice. The juice alone has too much sugar.
Go for blueberries, strawberries, apples and pears, all of which are low on the glycemic index. These delicious fruits are good stand-ins for dessert and can help take the edge off a sugar craving. , Studies show that eating a handful of almonds helps to keep hunger at bay.Keep a bag on hand so you can turn to it during those times when you think you're in danger of eating a whole pie.


Choose raw or roasted almonds without salt for the healthiest version of this snack.
Roasting almonds with a dash of honey creates a healthy snack that also helps with sugar cravings.
 Incorporating a variety of flavors, especially hot spices, will satisfy your palette and keep you feeling full longer than bland food. Try adding hot sauce to spice things up. If you're not into heat, just start using more spices in general. Oregano, basil, mint and sage all add depth to your food, making you less likely to need to eat as much to feel full.
 It might sound counterintuitive, but it's important to eat fat to stave off cravings. If you try to eliminate fat from your diet, your cravings will heighten and become almost unbearable. The key is to eat foods containing omega-3 fatty acids such as fish, avocados and nuts. The oleic acid found in nuts, olive oil, and avocados also suppresses hunger.Steer clear of trans fats found in fried fast food and snack food.
 It has properties that keep you from eating too much, so you can satisfy your craving without going overboard.Look for chocolate bars that contain at least 70 percent cocoa, though; any less than that, and the sugar content will be too high to call this option "healthy."

