 Before you can successfully deter the animals that are bothering your garden, you'll need to know which type of animals you are working with. Knowing more about the type of animal will help you form a strategy that is unique to that animal's nature. The more directed your methods are to an animal's likes and dislikes, the safer your garden is likely to be. Take a look at some of the common garden invaders to get an idea of which animals you might be dealing with:Rabbits
Chipmunks
Mice
Moles
Raccoons
Rats
Skunks
Deer
Birds

, Rabbits will love to find a way into your garden and will eat nearly anything you have planted there. Because rabbits can be such a pest, you'll want to have your garden set up in a way that keeps them out and makes your garden seem unappealing. Keep some of these tips in mind to stop rabbits from eating your garden:Garden fences should be at least 3' tall.
Burying a fence 1' underground can help prevent rabbits from burrowing under.
Raised beds can make it difficult for rabbits to enter your garden.
Try adding barrier plants like azalea or boxwood to repel rabbits.
Clean up piles of brush, logs or rocks to remove a rabbit's favorite hiding places.
Ask your local authorities about trapping regulations if your rabbit problem persists.
 Deer are a common garden pest and can cause big problems for your garden. To keep deer away from your garden, you'll want to make it an uncomfortable place for them. Try using some of these methods to help keep deer out of your garden and protect your plants:A deer fence will need to be around 8' tall.
Deer won't leap over a fence if they don't see a safe space to land. Try adding another, inner fence or fence posts to prevent them from leaping into your garden.
Spraying predator urine around your garden's parameter can scare deer away.
Scaring deer away with motion triggered devices is a good option.
Dogs that allowed to roam outdoors can keep deer from your garden.
Rosemary, garlic and oregano can make good barrier plants.
 Birds can be an annoying pest in your garden and are prone to nibbling on your choicest fruits and vegetables. You can keep birds out of your garden by using several methods including:You can hang shiny balloons on posts around your garden, preferably vinyl balls with menacing faces.
You can try building a barrier out of chicken wire around your plants.
Casting a net over your garden is a sure-fire way to keep birds out. You may create a framework out of bamboo poles, fence posts or tall stakes. Then, drape the netting over the framework so it reaches the ground and anchor the net using bent wire so it cannot get blown over by the wind.
You can also try putting fishing line or black thread throughout your garden, as birds do not like wires and may stay away.
Try a high-tech option by using a computer system in the shape of an owl that makes a screeching owl noise, which will frighten away the birds.

