 Before attempting to set your hands on fire, first give them a good wash and make sure they’re completely dry. Use a mild soap with warm water and scrub your hands together vigorously. The natural oils that build up on your skin can interfere with the chemicals you will be using to protect and light your hands.Do not use hand sanitizer to wash your hands. Most hand sanitizers contain alcohol, which is itself mildly flammable., Pour around 10 ounces of water into an open container of medium size. Then, add an equal amount of isopropyl alcohol (ordinary rubbing alcohol). You want to aim for roughly an even mixture of alcohol and water. Whisk the alcohol and water together lightly to mix them.Some bottled isopropyl alcohol comes already diluted. Consider this when mixing the alcohol with water. If it’s a strong alcohol, like a 90/10 dilution, use about 11 ounces with 9 ounces of water. For weaker kinds, like a 70/30 dilution, you’ll need to use significantly more alcohol, closer to 14 ounces, with 6 ounces of water.
 Place one or both hands in the alcohol solution. Let them soak for up to a minute. Isopropyl alcohol is mildly flammable, but diluting it with water and soaking your hands will protect you from the fire while the alcohol vapors burn themselves out. Make sure you completely submerge your hand so that the flame will burn evenly.The longer you soak your hands, the more water absorbs into your skin, saturating it and safeguarding you from burns.
 With your hand still wet with the solution, use a lighter with a long stem to ignite the fire. If you’ve soaked both hands, have a friend help you. When lit, the alcohol solution will produce a quick burst of flame, leaving your hands untouched. As long as your hand is thoroughly wet with the solution, the fire won’t burn you.Alcohol doesn’t burn particularly long or hot, so this version, while providing the safest conditions, won’t be the most impressive.
Wash your hands again when you’re done to remove any remaining traces of alcohol.

