 If the stretches you’re doing at home to ease CTS aren’t working, a professional physical therapist can help you with more advanced stretching and range of motion exercises.


Some physical therapists use ultrasound therapy before performing stretches. When used at higher intensities, ultrasound creates heat, which helps ease muscle spasms and relax the muscles before stretching. This allows for a deeper, more effective stretch., Injecting corticosteroids into your carpal tunnel helps decrease inflammation, thus relieving pressure on the median nerve and relieving pain.Oral corticosteroid treatments are an option as well, but have proved less effective than injections.Research is being done to determine whether Botox injections can be used to treat CTS pain as effectively as corticosteroid injections do., Acupuncture was shown to ease mild to moderate CTS pain when individuals were treated eight times over the course of a month. This technique proved more likely to reduce pain than taking medication for CTS.As an alternative, try wet cupping, an ancient Chinese acupuncture technique in which glass cups apply suction to the skin surrounding relevant acupuncture points. Studies have shown that one session can ease pain for up to a week., Surgery is used as a last resort to ease CTS pain. It is usually performed only when other treatments haven’t helped, your CTS has been persistent over a long period of time (six months or more), or if there is risk of nerve damage.Carpal tunnel release surgery is very common and is done under local anesthesia. The surgery involves severing the band of tissue surrounding the wrist to ease the pressure on the median nerve. There are two types of surgery:Open release surgery: This surgery involves making a small incision in the wrist and cutting the carpal ligament to enlarge the carpal tunnel.
Endoscopic surgery: In this surgery two half-inch incisions are made, one in the wrist and one in the palm. A camera is then inserted, allowing the surgeon to make cuts to the carpal ligament. This type of surgery generally allows for a faster recovery.

