 Reach around to the back of your dryer and detach the power cord. It is necessary to cut off the electricity to your dryer at this point, as you will be moving the machine around and possibly opening up some of the interior panels., Shimmy the dryer away from the wall and look at the back of the machine. Locate the exhaust hose and loosen it from dryer by loosening the outward “o-ring” clamp. You may be able to simply squeeze the clamp to remove it, but other styles require that you use a screwdriver to loosen a bolt at the center of the clamp. Pull the hose away from the dryer and from the wall port.Make sure to loosen the clamps on both sides of the hose prior to trying to remove it. Otherwise, you could damage the connection to the port and make it more difficult to replace afterwards.Most clamps require a flathead screwdriver for the bolt.
You may want to call in an appliance professional if your dryer connection is older and connected to gas. Moving around the machine could cause gas leaks., Once the hose is fully removed, take it to a well-lit area and look inside. You will likely see lint balls of various sizes. Take a cleaning brush and gently wipe off the interior. Or, stick your vacuum attachment inside and suck out the lint. Set the newly cleaned vent aside., Purchase a vent cleaning rod or kit at your local home improvement store. This kit will contain a brush attached to an extended arm that is then connected to a drill or used alone. Following the package’s directions, slowly feed the brush into the vent. Continue to gently push, rotating as needed, until you’ve cleaned the entire inside of the vent.Rotate and spin the brush multiple times in order to get the most lint out. Also, pull the brush out of the vent entirely multiple times and clean off any accumulated lint before reinserting it.
 Get behind the dryer and place the exhaust hose back into position. Use a screwdriver or your hand to tighten the clamps. Plug your dryer back in and check to see if any hot air is escaping from the sides of the vent. If so, check your clamps once again. If not, push your dryer back into position against the wall., Locate your vent on the outside of your home. It should be a square exit point covered by a plastic or metal screen. Remove the screen and set it aside. Reach inside the vent with your hand and gather any lint sitting nearby. Then, use a small vacuum or brush to clean out the lint a bit deeper inside. Make sure to carefully re-secure the vent in order to keep any pests at bay.