 If you find a village while exploring, be sure to check out the farms. There's a good chance—3 in 5—that the villagers will be growing carrots, which you can take.;
, Zombies have a rare chance—1 in 40—of dropping carrots when defeated.It does happen, but it's generally not efficient or safe, so don't count on it.
 You can create farmland out of dirt or grass blocks. Assuming default controls, right-click (PC), press the left trigger (console), or tap (mobile) with a hoe selected in your inventory.
 Each block of farmland will need to be within four blocks horizontally, vertically, or diagonally of a water block. The water block(s) must be either on the same level or one block above the farmland.


You can also manually hydrate farmland with an iron bucket, crafted from three ingots of iron. Rain will also hydrate farmland.
 Carrots are their own seeds, so you can simply plant any carrots you have to make more carrots.


You can find carrots from any of the previously listed steps for finding carrots: pilfering through village farms, slaughtering zombies, or looking at naturally-spawned chests.
 Carrots take eight stages to reach maturity. You will see a bit of orange peeking through the farmland when the carrots are ready to be harvested.


You can speed up the time it takes for the crop to mature by using bone meal as fertilizer. Bone meal is crafted using a single bone, which produces three bone meal., When you harvest a carrot, you will receive one to four carrots from a single farmland block.


Harvest by "mining" the fully-grown carrot crop.

Click here for more detailed instructions and tips on creating effective farms in Minecraft.
 You can eat carrots raw from your inventory. Each carrot you eat will replenish three Hunger (marked by one and a half Hunger icons being filled).
 Farmers will buy anywhere from 15 to 19 carrots in exchange for an emerald.
 Carrots allow you to lead and breed both pigs and rabbits for better food. To breed an animal, you will need to lead two of them close together and then feed each one a carrot.Click here for more detailed instructions on breeding animals in Minecraft.
If you have a Golden Carrot (see next step), you can use it to breed horses and donkeys.
 There are several things you can craft with some carrots and other materials. You cannot currently craft any carrot-related items in Minecraft Pocket Edition.Carrot on a stick - You will need an undamaged fishing rod in the middle-left box, and a carrot in the bottom-center box.

Golden Carrot - You will need a carrot in the center surrounded by eight gold nuggets. Nine gold nuggets can be crafted by putting a singular gold ingot in a crafting table (even the small 2×2 one in your inventory).

Rabbit Stew (PC only) - You will need a baked potato in the center, a cooked rabbit in the top-center box, a carrot in the left-center box, a mushroom in the right-center box, and a bowl in the bottom-center box.
 One of the main uses for Golden Carrots, besides breeding horses and donkeys, is creating Potions of Night Vision.


Make a brewing stand, crafted using three stone slabs and a fire rod.
Use a bottle of water and nether wart (found in the Nether, most commonly in fortresses) to create an Awkward Potion.
Add a Golden Carrot to the Awkward Potion to create a Potion of Night Vision.
 Use the brewing stand to add a fermented spider eye to a Potion of Night Vision.

A fermented spider eye is crafted using a brown mushroom (found naturally), sugar (crafted from one sugarcane), and a spider's eye (a 1 in 3 drop from a spider).Fermented spider eyes always reverse the effect of a potion (Potion of Strength to Potion of Weakness, Potion of Night Vision to Potion of Invisibility).
 With either potion, you can add one of three substances to said potion in a brewing stand to enhance the potion's abilities.


Redstone - Increases potion's length.

Glowstone - Increases potion's strength.

Gunpowder - Makes the potion a splash potion. This means the potion, when thrown, will affect everyone around the potion. Each person will be given a small or large fraction of the potion's original duration, dependent on how close the person was to the splash potion's landing site at the moment it hit the ground.

