 Most blisters will heal on their own if the source of the blister or the causative agent is removed or eliminated. As soon as you see the beginnings of a blister, take away the cause immediately if possible.


For example, remove uncomfortable shoes or clothing that might be causing the blister.
If you are blistering from cold or heat, remove your body from the source of the temperature. If you are out in the sun, go indoors immediately or cover yourself with clothing.;
, To help relieve the pain of the blister, and start healing it, you should protect it. Use a moleskin pad or other bandage to cover and protect a blister.


Protecting the blister is extremely important if the blister is on a weight-bearing area, like your foot. You can cut a cushioning bandage into a donut shape to help cushion the area while leaving the blister untouched.Though you want to cover the blister when you are going to put weight or other objects against it, leave the blister open to the air as much as possible. For example, when you are at home, uncover the blister.
 Try soaking the blister if it is bothering you. You can soak the blister in cool water every few hours, especially if it is painful or itchy.Place a rag in cold water, twist out all the water, then place it on the blister for a calming affect.
 Blood blisters are painful and should be left alone to heal. To help reduce the pain, you can apply an ice pack to them immediately after they appear.Keep the ice pack on the blood blister for five to 15 minutes every hour until the pain is reduced.
You can use a bag of frozen vegetables if you don’t have an ice pack.
Wrap the ice pack in a towel. Never apply ice directly onto any blister.
 If your blister has popped, apply some antibiotic ointment. This helps heal the blister and prevent infection. Make sure to cover with gauze or a bandage.You can use a triple antibiotic cream, like neomycin or bacitracin.
You can also an ointment such as Vaseline.Stop using any ointment that causes a rash.
Generally, you only apply ointments and creams to blisters that have popped to help reduce infection and boost the healing process.
 To help a blister heal, apply aloe vera gel instead of antibiotic ointment. After applying the gel, cover the blister with a bandage.


Make sure to use aloe vera gel from a plant. Aloe vera gel that you buy contains extra ingredients that can dry out the skin or irritate and burn.
Aloe vera is anti-inflammatory and promotes healing., The antioxidants in green tea may help boost the healing of a blister. Soak a bag of green tea with warm water and then let it cool. Apply the wet tea bag to the blister.This helps to reduce pain and itching, along with helping prevent infection and swelling.
Green tea bags may be helpful in reducing pain and irritation caused by cold sores.
Put the green tea bag into the refrigerator to add a bonus soothing element.
 Get a vitamin E capsule and break it open. You can apply the gel inside directly onto the blister.You can also mix the vitamin E with calendula oil, which is traditionally used to help heal wounds. Just mix equal amounts of vitamin E and calendula oil.