,


Newer.
Higher quality graphics on supported video cards
Comes with Internet Explorer 7 pre-installed. IE7 is more secure than previous Internet Explorer versions, and has a better pop-up blocker and phishing protection
It can be used with Microsoft DirectX 10
A more sophisticated and intelligent interface than XP.
Great for gaming and other entertainment if you are using Home Premium or Ultimate.
Start menu and other programs simplified.
Getting access to networks are easier than XP.
Window's sidebar. Lets you put features on the side of your screen to help you out. ,


Runs 15% slower than a computer with Windows XP installed.
Requires 512MB of memory to even run, 1GB minimum to run comfortably.
Vista comes pre-configured with User Account Control, a security monitoring system. Any time that an action is about to be performed that requires Administrator status (installing a program, writing to or deleting system files, changing critical system settings, etc.), the user will be asked to allow or deny the action, and must respond to the prompt to continue. This can become quite annoying. User Account Control can be turned off, but that defeats the purpose of the security system.
Vista is sometimes unstable with the current release. The majority of consumer reports call it "unreliable," or "...just simply the worst operating system for...its complexity." New patches are being created to fix some problems, and hopefully these concerns will be addressed in the first Service Pack.
You may also have problems especially with printing, the printer doesn't seem to print out your work, photos etc (this problem makes the program bad for the use at schools).
More prone to viruses and other security threats
Shutdown procedure is more confusing than XP.



Sufficient
Faster in most situations
More readily compatible with software and hardware especially from between 2001 and 2007.



It is not as secure as Windows Vista (though this is disputed).
Its GUI is not as beautiful as Windows Vista.
It is not compatible with Microsoft DirectX 10.
 Get your own personal opinion from reading. Then choose the best one for you.
 Look and compare prices, so you'll get the best deal. Try to play some with both operating systems in the store.
