 Wash whatever rags or old clothing you have around. Tear them into squares measuring 4x4 inch (10x10 cm) or larger. Try a sports jersey or washcloth, since these tend not to fray.This is a cheap way to try out the idea. Keep reading for more durable options, followed by instructions for use.;
, With a little initial expense, you can make a long-lasting, comfortable "toilet paper." In the long run, it will make a big difference in household expense and environmental impact. Here's how:


Buy a yard of cotton flannel from a fabric store. Choose a patterned cloth to hide stains.If your family is squeamish about sharing these, buy one pattern per person.
Cut into squares between 4 and 6 inches (10–15 cm) on each side. Ideally, use pinking shears to reduce fraying.
Optionally, stitch around the edges with a serger, preventing fraying. Flannel rarely frays anyway, so this is not required., Set up an open container for the clean cloths. Choose a second container with a lid for the used cloths. Ideally, use a small trash can that you can open by stepping on a pedal. Line this with a pillowcase so you can easily transfer the cloth to the washing machine.Some people add water and vinegar to the used container to disinfect the cloths. A wet container becomes much smellier and grosser than a dry one, so this is not recommended. This may not even reduce bacteria, since they thrive in moisture.Place a "Cloth only" sign on the used container.
 You can use the cloth toilet paper dry, which keeps odor low in the used container.However, a little water might make the cloth more comfortable and easier to wash. There are several ways to add this to your bathroom routine:


Wet the cloth in the sink or with a spray bottle before wiping.
Rinse yourself with a bidet before wiping.
Dampen the stack of clean cloths each time you load the container. Due to the risk of mildew, you'll need to wash remaining cloths every two or three days.
 There's no special trick here. Cloth will clog the plumbing if flushed, so tell the household to use the container for used cloth.


You can use "personal cloth" for both urine and feces. Some households choose to use it only for urine, and stick to regular toilet paper for feces.
 About every two or four days, toss the pillowcase and the used cloth into the washing machine. You can combine them with any other laundry except for towels, kitchen cloths, or jeans (which may trap the cloth in pockets).To ensure they are disinfected, follow these guidelines:Agitation is an important part of cleaning. Wash laundry loads large enough to rub against each other, without tightly packing the machine.
If residue remains, increase the length of washing or the amount of detergent or (for high-efficiency washers) the amount of water.
Use the high-temperature setting.
Add bleach to the laundry, or sun-dry as a more eco-friendly disinfectant.

