 The date of the building or material can tell you a lot about asbestos risk. Buildings made between the 1940s and the 1980s are very likely to have used asbestos materials. Even still, asbestos was phased out in the 1980s, so some buildings built during that time could have still used asbestos materials. If the building was built after 1995, it almost certainly utilized no asbestos materials., On the outside of buildings, asbestos sheets were often joined together with aluminum runners. These runners were held on by small nails with no point at the end. On the inside, asbestos sheets were held together with plastic or wooden runners in the same way. This design could be a sign that the structure was built using asbestos materials. You should also inspect any adhesives used to join two materials together, as they often contain asbestos., Asbestos materials often have a pattern on the surface that looks like small dimples or shallow craters covering the surface. Later materials have a smoother texture. While this is not a foolproof identification, seeing a dimpled pattern on the surface warrants taking asbestos precautions., Asbestos was used to make several exterior materials. Roofing and siding shingles are among the most common materials to contain asbestos, and will readily release fibers into the air if broken. Asbestos was also put into cement used on the exterior of buildings to help insulate the., Floors, walls, and ceilings were often made with asbestos containing materials. Vinyl tiles and decorative wall plasters commonly contain asbestos., Aside from common construction materials, asbestos was used in a number of other manufactured pieces. These materials can be found in any system in your home or building. Some examples include:Insulation
Duct Work
Flues
Cowels
Fireproof Materials (doors, cabinets, etc.)
Eaves
Carpet Underlay

, Asbestos is a very strong, durable material. It is not susceptible to water the way that many materials are. For that reason, asbestos materials were often used in places like bathrooms and basements to avoid dealing with water damages.