 If you don't want to draft an entirely new will, you also can remove a beneficiary from your will through a codicil, which is essentially an amendment of your original will.Before you can draft your codicil, read your will carefully and mark the provisions where the person you want to remove as a beneficiary is listed.
The easiest way to do this is to make a copy of your will that you can mark up – don't mark on your original.
On your copy, highlight the provisions you want to change. You also may want to make a note in the margins to indicate how you want to change that provision.
If there's anything else you see that you want to update or change, make note of that as well.
 Although a codicil is a much shorter document than the full will, copying the same formatting that was used in your will creates a continuity between the two documents and makes them look as though they belong together.Just as you titled your will, you'll also want to title your codicil. Identify which codicil it is so there's no question, in the event you make another one later.
Assuming this is your first one, you can simply title it "First Codicil to the Last Will and Testament of ."

, Below your title, you'll want to copy the same introductory paragraphs that were in your will into your codicil – identifying the document as a codicil, rather than a will, where appropriate.Following your introduction, list the changes or additions you want to make to your original will. Use the same order as you did in the original will, so the two documents track each other.
You don't have to copy the entire provision you intend to change verbatim. However, this is something to consider if you worry your changes will be misinterpreted.
Keep your changes and additions separate. For example, suppose you've acquired property since you executed your will and you want to use the codicil to pass it on as well. That addition would follow the changes you made in removing a beneficiary from your will.
 End your codicil with a paragraph that states that other than the changes you've explicitly made in that codicil, the rest of your assets should pass according to the terms of your original will.You can find template codicils online if you're drafting the codicil yourself and want to make sure you have the right language for this paragraph.
There aren't really any magic words required here, however. You can simply say "Apart from the changes made in this codicil, I reaffirm my Last Will and Testament, dated ."
The purpose of including this language is to make it clear that what you're making is a codicil, and not a new will. Without it, you could open the door for dissatisfied family members to challenge your will.
 You must execute your codicil using the exact same formalities that were used when you signed your original will. Otherwise, it will not achieve its desired effect of amending your original will.In most states, this means you must have two witnesses. You also may have to sign in the presence of a notary public.
An easy way to discern what procedures are required is to look back at your original will. If it had signatures from two witnesses, then you need two witnesses for your codicil. If it includes a notary's seal, those signatures must be made in the presence of a notary.
Once your codicil is signed, make a copy of it to keep with every copy of your will that you have. This means if you've put copies of your will in different places, you'll need to make a codicil to go with each of them.

