 Get some space so you can gain perspective on your parent’s behavior and your relationship with them. If you’re around toxic or abusive behavior all the time, you may get used to it. Taking a break can help you get a clearer-eyed look at what’s wrong.If you still live with your parents, creating some distance can be tough. Try joining extracurricular activities that keep you out of the house, spending time with friends who have healthier family dynamics, and arranging your sleep schedule to minimize the amount of toxic behavior you’re exposed to.
If you no longer live at home, try a time-out from contact with them, including texts, phone calls, and visits.;
, Coming to terms with a parent’s toxic behavior can be difficult emotionally. Allow yourself time to experience a range of feelings, and avoid judging yourself for those feelings.Anger, sadness, guilt, and relief are a few of the emotions you might experience.
 It’s not uncommon for toxic people to be abusive as well. Remember that abusers are acting out their own pain. If you’ve been abused by your toxic parent, know that their behavior is not your fault and not a reflection on your own character, no matter what they may have told you., Growing up with a toxic parent can create emotional complications and relationship difficulties later in life. A mental health professional can help you unlearn negative thought patterns, adopt good coping strategies, and build stronger relationships.
 A good boundary protects you emotionally and physically. Think about the way your parent makes you feel. Commit to setting boundaries that shield you from the impact of their toxic behavior.For instance, if your parent insists on calling you every day, you might decide to limit your calls to once a week. Remember, you do not have to pick up the phone or immediately respond to texts.
 Consequences are the actions you take when someone does not respect your boundaries. Think about what you will do if your parent disregards your wishes. Choose consequences that you are prepared to follow through with.The best consequences follow naturally from the other person’s actions.
For instance, if your toxic parent calls you and starts berating you for not wanting to have a phone conversation every day, you might decide to hang up the phone.
 Meet with your parent and have an honest conversation about what you need from them. Be kind, but stay firm. Make sure to also tell your parent what you will do if they don’t respect your boundaries.Have the conversation at a time when you and your parent are both calm.
Your parent may get angry at you for setting limits. Don’t let them guilt you into backing down. It’s your right to create boundaries you’re comfortable with.
Frame your concerns using “I” language. For instance, instead of saying “It’s not reasonable that you expect me to spend an hour on the phone with you every day,” try saying, “I feel stifled because of how much we talk, and I’d rather schedule a chat once a week instead.”

, Your parent may try to test your boundaries. If they don’t take your wishes seriously, carry out the consequence you promised.If you fail to follow through with a consequence, your parent will think they can continue violating your boundaries with no repercussions.
 You can’t make everyone happy, and trying to please a toxic parent is often a fruitless task. Instead, make it a priority to maintain your own happiness.Learning to value yourself can be difficult if you grew up with a toxic parent. If you struggle with your self-worth, a therapist can help you restore it to a healthy level.
You may also find that you feel guilty, even when you have done nothing wrong. If this is the case, your therapist can help you overcome those feelings.
 Friends and family members who build you up can help undo the damage of being raised by a toxic parent. Seek out people who make you feel worthy of love and respect.Many people who were raised by toxic parents find themselves subconsciously drawn to other toxic people later in life. Evaluate your current relationships to make sure they are healthy.
 Emotional trauma can be hard on your brain and body. Repair your physical health by eating right, getting enough cardiovascular exercise, and establishing a meditation routine.Avoid eating foods made with processed sugar and flour. Instead, eat plenty of vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein. Make sure to get enough omega-3 fatty acids in your diet, too.
Meditation helps you build new neural pathways, which can help reverse the damage of a toxic upbringing.
 If your parent spoke to you harshly or criticized you frequently, you may be in the habit of speaking to yourself the same way. Create a new habit of talking to yourself gently instead. For instance, if you make a mistake at work, tell yourself something like, “It’s not the end of the world. Everybody makes mistakes, and now I know how to do better next time.”
Start a journal containing positive messages. When you're struggling or feeling down, reread your positive messages.
 Some people can reach an understanding with their toxic parent and build a healthier relationship. Sometimes, though, the parent’s behavior is too negative to fix. If your parent refuses to listen to you or cooperate with you, consider whether cutting off contact with them would be the best choice for your mental and emotional health.