 There is considerable overlap between signs of pain in the lower back, hip, or hock, however a horse that shows any of the following symptoms should be investigated to find the cause of the pain. The methods described in the previous step can help to determine if the pain is caused by the hock.;
, Some horses interpret pain as something that is attacking them and their instinct is to flee away from it. Thus some horses become cranky when ridden and charge at jumps, or refuse fences, or buck when they were previously mild-mannered.A change of character such as trying to bite an owner when grooming the back end, bucking, or general bad temper, can be a sign of pain.
 Another common presentation is that the horse does not work to his full potential. He attempts to limit the discomfort by not exerting himself, which could mean he:


Doesn’t move as quickly or easily.
Doesn’t reach normal height when jumping.
 This phrase means that your horse tries to take weight off his hind quarters and shifts his center of gravity forward. When he does this:


He places more weight on his front legs and he moves in a more labored manner because it takes more effort to lift his front legs.
Pain alters the way the horse moves, which is referred to as his "gait". Hock and back end pain tends to make the horse "mince" or take shortened strides with his hind legs. He transfers weight onto his forelegs, which gives him a hunched silhouette with his hind quarters tucked under and head carriage low.
When riding the horse have a friend stand parallel to the horse and video his movement. Look for the horse lowering his head to counterbalance the back end. Look to see if all the legs are taking equal length steps or is one leg taking shorter strides than the others.When riding the horse have a friend stand a safe distance behind the horse and take a video. Look to see if the hips move up and down and equal amount. A horse with a sore back leg will try to protect that leg with the result that the hip moves less., For fluid movement, the horse uses the power in his back end and bunches his hind legs beneath him to provide forward impulsion.


If the horse associates pushing off on his hind legs with pain he will be reluctant to do this, and will most likely move more slowly than normal.
 Jumping requires the horse to shift his weight backwards and place a considerable extra load on his hind legs. If soreness or pain is present, he may try to avoid this discomfort by not fully using his muscles to propel himself upward.


Your horse may lose height early, which means he will knock against jumps he used to take with ease.
 Landing after a jump involves tucking the hind legs beneath the body so as to provide the spring to push the horse forward onto his next stride.


When your horse has a painful back leg, he may slip and land awkwardly.
 Hock pain or general hind end discomfort alters the way a horse stands. He tends to shift his weight so as to minimize stress on the sore leg.


He may preferentially rest one hind leg while standing.
He may also have a tendency to stand with the sore leg tucked under his belly so that the hock is straight and the leg does not have any weight on it.
 Pain alters the way the horse moves, which is referred to as his "gait". Hock and back end pain tends to make the horse "mince" or take shortened strides with his hind legs. He transfers weight onto his forelegs, which gives him a hunched silhouette with his hind quarters tucked under and head carriage low.


Because it hurts to flex the joint, the horse may not pick his leg up cleanly, and may have a tendency to stumble.
A useful tip is to walk and trot the horse on sand so that you can trace his hoof prints. The sore leg tends to move towards the midline, rather than following the line of the matching front leg.
If your horse’s hock is injured, your horse may have a hard time walking backwards in a straight line. This is because the sore leg takes shorter strides and so the horse naturally moves in a curve to the affected side.
 If you notice that there is a loss of muscle mass over the thigh and hip of the affected leg, your horse may have a problem with his hock. This loss of muscles mass is a result of "disuse atrophy", which means that the horse has been protecting that leg and underusing. When muscles do not get used, they can begin to waste away.However be aware that disuse atrophy can arise because of pain anywhere in the limb and does not localize the discomfort to the hock.
 If you're sure your horse has a mobility issue, it is a good idea to call in the vet to give the horse a thorough check over. If you wish to continue the assessment yourself, localize the problem to the hock.
 An injury to the hock, such as a sprain, causes the damaged tissues to release hormones such as histamine, prostaglandins, and bradykinin. These chemicals act on the blood vessels and make them leaky so that fluid pools in the area of the injury, causing swelling. This has a two-fold effect; the fluid helps isolate any harmful noxious substances from the general circulation, and the fluid is also rich in white cells to protect against infection.


If in doubt that the hock is swollen, compare one back leg with the other. Look to see if the areas that normally 'go in' are puffy and baggy. Sometimes feeling the normal hock and then feeling the other side, can help you appreciate a difference in how they feel.
 If you notice that there is a loss of muscle mass over the thigh and hip of the affected leg, your horse may have a problem with his hock. This loss of muscles mass is a result of "disuse atrophy", which means that the horse has been protecting that leg and underusing. When muscles do not get used, they can begin to waste away., The inflammation of the hock generates heat. Because of this, you should feel along the hock. If the area feels hotter than other surrounding parts of your horse, your horse may have sustained an injury in the hock.


Check the temperature of the injured hock to that of the hock on the other leg.
 The basis of this test is that the hock joint is flexed (bent) to an extreme position and held there for 30 seconds to 3 minutes. The theory is that when the joint is already painful, your horse will display a heightened lameness when you release the leg. To do this test:Before the flexion test: Stand behind the horse and have the horse trot away from you in a straight line. Try to notice which hop moves up and down the most in comparison to the other hip.
During the flexion test: Flex the hock and repeat the trot. The theory is that if the hock is painful, the lameness will be worse than before it was flexed.
This flexion test argument is slightly flawed in that it is impossible to flex the hock joint in isolation. The action of picking up the leg and holding it in flexion also changes the position of the fetlock and hip joints. Thus, although the most stress is on the hock joint, it is possible to aggravate pain in another joint which confuses the results of the flexion test.
 The idea behind this test is that if the pain in the hock is temporarily removed a previously lame horse should become sound. You should wait to have a veterinarian perform this test. During the test:


The veterinarian first sterilizes the skin with surgical scrub, where the needle is to be inserted. A 1.5-inch needle, 20 or 22 gauge is used to inject about 1 ml of local anesthetic just below the skin along the path of the cutaneous branch of the superficial and deep fibular nerve.
After the local anesthetic is injected the flexion test is best performed within 15 minutes, because the local anesthetic can spread to the lower limb making the foot numb which can also alter gait.
If the lower limb becomes overly numb the horse may drag the leg and scuff the back of the hoof. If this happens then bandaging the lower limb is advisable in order to reduce the chance of abrasions.
 If a flexion test and regional nerve block point to hock pain, then radiography is sometimes undertaken. Radiography is useful for detecting fractures, bony change (which occurs with arthritis), bone infections, bone cancer, and swelling of the joint capsule.


To take the radiographs the vet will work with the horse in a standing position and use a portable x-ray machine. There are typically two images taken: an exposure at lateral view taken from the side (facing towards the horse), and an anterior-posterior view taken from in front of the hock joint facing towards the horse's tail.
It is possible for x-rays to come back normal and yet there still be pain in the joint. This is because x-rays tell us about boney damage, rather than inflammation of the joint lining. Many veterinarians want to rule out chip fractures before giving hock injections, because the steroid could delay bone healing if this is the underlying reason for the lameness. If the x-rays are clear but the hock is painful, this is a strong indication for giving a hock injections.
 The veterinarian will look for other tell-tale signs of discomfort such as head bobbing, unusual foot placement, shortened strides, and weight shifts. He or she will look to see that the horse's weight is evenly distributed between the opposite diagonal pairs of legs. Lameness tends to be more obvious at slower paces such as during a walk or trot.

