 To get a referral to homeless court, you must first begin work with an agency in your area that is approved by your city or county court system to provide referrals. Most nonprofit organizations dedicating to helping the homeless can point you to an approved agency.Your municipal court typically has a list of agencies that are approved to refer people to homeless court. However, you may understandably be nervous about walking into the courthouse to ask.
The public defender's office also typically has information about homeless court, but it may be difficult to get ahold of someone who can help you.
Most of these court offices have websites which often have information about the agencies approved for homeless court referrals, as well as additional resources related to the homeless court program.;
, Once you've found an agency that can meet your needs, you will meet with the staff member assigned to work with you as your case manager. They will explain the agency's policies and procedures and start your case file.You typically can get a case manager by walking into the agency. You may have to complete an intake form and go through a brief registration process.
Explain to the staff member with whom you first speak that you are interested in homeless court and want to begin a case file with the agency.
 The case manager may have forms for you to fill out so he or she can properly assess your needs. Based on the information you've provided, your case manager will determine what resources are available for you.The case manager will discuss various challenges with you and describe the services available that can help you reclaim your life.
For example, if you are struggling with addiction to drugs or alcohol, the agency may have rehabilitation and treatment services that can help you.
The agency also may have various job training and education programs that you can use to your benefit.
Keep in mind that your participation in these programs will be an important part of your eligibility for homeless court and whether your citations or charges are ultimately dismissed.
 If you've failed to show up for hearings, the judge may have issued a warrant for your arrest. You may not be able to participate in some of the agency's programs if there is a warrant.The affect of having a warrant depends on the city or county where you live. In some locations, you cannot participate in the homeless court program unless a warrant has been issued for your arrest.
In contrast, other areas don't allow you to participate in the homeless court program through an agency if there is a warrant for your arrest. In these places, you must go through the public defender's office to use the homeless court program.
Keep in mind that regardless of whether there is a warrant, it is still a good idea to stick with your case manager and take advantage of the services offered to you.
 City or county homeless courts typically require that you have been working with the agency for at least 90 days before you can complete an application to participate in homeless court proceedings.During this time, it's important that you keep all schedules and appointments related to any of the programs in which you participate.
You also need to keep in touch with your case manager. He or she will oversee your progress and alert you to any changes or any new programs for which you might be eligible.
Depending on the rules of the agency, there may be specific forms or logs that you're expected to complete each day so your case manager can monitor your progress.
 Your case manager can give you information about homeless court. They also will explain the procedures used by your city or county to get your case moved to the homeless court.Generally, it's a good idea to let your case manager know as soon as possible that you're interested in homeless court.
However, in most cities or counties you aren't eligible to even consider homeless court until your case manager has established a file for you and you've been working with the agency for at least 90 days.
While most homeless courts are based on the first program of its kind, established in San Diego, their initial procedures vary widely to reflect the needs and interests of different localities.
 Your case manager will need to look up the municipal citations or other charges against you to determine if they're the type of violations that can be handled through the homeless court.You must have at least one citation or reference number to be eligible for homeless court. However, you typically have to include every citation you have if you want to handle it through the homeless court process.
Your case manager should be able to help you find the appropriate numbers if you've lost any paperwork or notices you previously had.
Typically finding all the appropriate reference numbers involves running a name search through police or court records.
 Even if your violations can be handled through the homeless court, you still must meet various eligibility requirements. While each city or county has its own rules, most homeless courts share similar basic requirements.Typically, you are not eligible to participate in homeless court if you have a felony conviction on your record. Some jurisdictions only exclude those with violent felonies.
Your case manager typically will complete a criminal background check to determine whether you meet this eligibility requirement.
Additionally, you must be homeless according to your city or county's definition. Your case manager will talk to you about this.
 The homeless court can't deal with all violations. If you have charges that lie outside the homeless court's jurisdiction, you may be referred instead to the public defender's office.Most homeless courts only deal with municipal infractions, such as loitering or littering citations.
Some homeless court programs also will handle misdemeanor infractions, as long as they are non-violent. In others, you must work with the public defender's office for misdemeanors.
 Provided you're eligible to participate in the homeless court program, there will be an application form that you must complete and submit along with a referral letter from your case manager.Your case manager will get the forms and go over them with you. Ask questions if there's anything you don't understand.
Before you get ready to complete the forms, make sure you're clear on the information you'll need to provide for each part of the form.
Along with the form, you may be required to submit work logs and other reports you've completed as a result of the programs you've participated in through the agency.
 The homeless court typically requires you to complete and sign your application form yourself, although your case manager may be able to answer questions or help you if you become confused.Your case manager typically will serve as contact, so you'll enter the address and phone number of the agency.
Be sure to include all names you've used, whether legally or casually, including aliases.
Once you've completed your form, you must sign and date it. In some jurisdictions, your case manager must witness your signature and sign the form as well.
Other jurisdictions may require your signature to be witnessed by a notary public. Your case manager will let you know if this is a requirement in your city or county.
 Typically your case manager will be responsible for submitting your application to the homeless court along with his or her official letter of referral. Keep a copy of these documents for your own records.You may have to complete a formal interview with your case manager or another agency representative to certify your works hours and program participation.
Typically your case manager will make several copies and keep one for you, if you don't have anywhere you can store it to keep it safe.
You must continue to participate in any ongoing programs while you wait to hear back from the homeless court.
Anything that happens with your application will go through your case manager, so make sure you keep in touch with them so they can update you on the status of your application as soon as they know anything.
 Homeless courts only have a limited number of hearings each month, which are filled on a first-come, first-served basis. The court typically notifies your case manager when your hearing has been scheduled.Your case manager typically isn't required to attend your hearing, but you probably want them there with you.
At the hearing, the judge will ask you questions about your participation in the agency's programs and the work you've done.
If you've met all requirements, your citations or infractions will be dismissed. Any legal impediments in pace as a result of your infractions will be removed.
For example, if you were previously unable to get a driver's license, you will be able to do so after your infractions are dismissed.

