 Alcohol can damage or destroy liver cells, eventually causing permanent scarring which impedes or even ceases liver function.


If you're a woman, you should restrict your consumption to one alcoholic drink per day. Men may have two alcoholic drinks per day.Even if you only drink rarely, be mindful of over-consuming even on isolated occasions. Binge drinking--defined as any pattern or episode of drinking which causes a blood alcohol content greater than 0.08g/dL--can accelerate liver damage.Be on the lookout for behavioral signs of dependency. If you think you're drinking too much, review your habits and check yourself for symptoms of addiction like drinking alone and increased tolerance.;
, If you eat more fat than your body can digest, the fatty tissue accumulates in your liver. This buildup can lead to inflammation, scarring, or other injuries.Avoid in particular processed foods high in saturated fat. Such foods include fast food like hamburgers and pizza, red meat, potato chips and other deep-fried foods, cheese, and sweets.People with certain medical conditions should be particularly careful regarding managing fat intake, since these conditions may contribute to fatty liver disease: diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, insulin resistance, and high blood pressure., Maintaining a balanced diet consisting of grains, proteins, dairy, fruits, vegetables, and fats will help to ensure that your liver receives the nutrition it needs to complete its diverse array of bodily functions.
 Fiber assists in clearance of the large intestine by binding to bile and thereby facilitating its transfer out of the body. This represents an important way that the body gets rid of fat-soluble toxins which can eventually deposit and build up within the liver.Examples of fiber-rich foods include peas, beans, artichokes, broccoli, and whole grain breads and pastas.
 Combining your healthy dietary regimen with regular exercise should enable you to lose weight over time. This reduction in your weight can lead to diminished fatty tissue in your liver.Regular physical activity will help not only to keep your liver in good condition, but also to improve your overall physical and mental health. You should complete some combination of aerobic and muscle-strengthening activities every week.Keep your exercise regimen varied in order to avoid burnout or boredom.
While weight loss is generally encouraged as a method of combating fatty liver disease, it is unwise and even dangerous to engage in extreme dieting or exercise. Losing more than four pounds a week can damage the liver, so make sure that your weight loss regimen is gradual., Tobacco has been shown to have many adverse effects on internal organs such as the liver, despite the fact that the inhaled smoke does not come into direct contact with it.


Smoking tobacco has been linked to liver cancer and should be discontinued as soon as possible in order to limit your risk factors for the disease.While tobacco smoking does not damage liver cells directly, it can worsen existing liver conditions like fatty liver disease and cirrhosis., While fatty liver disease is generally asymptomatic, alcoholic hepatitis is marked by symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and jaundice. Alcoholic cirrhosis is the most advanced form of alcohol-related liver disease and causes jaundice, yellowing skin, extreme weight loss, and severe abdominal pain., Seeing a health care practitioner regularly will help you avoid all kinds of medical problems, including problems with your liver.
 Talk to your health care provider about having a blood sample taken and testing for liver function. The results will indicate how well your liver is performing normal functions such as protein production and clearing of blood waste products like bilirubin.If your tests indicate signs of compromised liver function, there are numerous, highly effective remedies available. For alcoholic fatty liver and most cases of alcoholic hepatitis, abstention from alcohol can reverse liver damage. For non-alcoholic-related liver damage, your doctor may utilize a combination of medication and dietary alterations to initiate liver regeneration., All infants should begin receiving the Hepatitis B vaccine series at birth, while babies between the ages of 12 and 24 months should undergo the Hepatitis A vaccine.Additionally, if you are considered to be “at-risk” for Hepatitis A or B ,you should receive the vaccines. Such cases include individuals traveling to high-risk international regions like Africa or Eastern European, individuals with infected sexual partners, and those with chronic liver disease., While some medications do not affect the liver, many common drugs are considered hepatotoxic—that is, they damage liver cells—and should be used sparingly or only in strict accordance with doctors’ instructions.


Fluoxetine (generic Prozac) and Trazodone are some of the most widely prescribed drugs which are known to be hepatotoxic, while acetaminophen is perhaps the most popularly consumed hepatotoxic drug which may be purchased over the counter. Make sure to check prescription information or product label—or, better yet, consult your local pharmacist—before taking any new medication.