 In order to make history more enjoyable, try watching a movie or TV show based on a historical subject. You can watch a fictionalized account of a historical event or a documentary about it. Although the information may not be the best, this may be more enjoyable than reading a book or listening to a lecture.


Compare the Hollywood version of events to what really happened. Picking out the differences and similarities can be a fun exercise.
Films like Braveheart and Saving Private Ryan are perfect for people who enjoy action films.
If you like romance, try Shakespeare in Love or Titanic.
Ken Burns’ The Civil War is a great documentary for those interested in military history.
 If reading history books is not your thing, you might enjoy reading fictionalized accounts of those same events. Historical fiction is an author’s interpretation of how events may have unfolded, injected with dialogue and climactic events that did not occur in real life. Although it may not be entirely accurate, historical fiction can be informative and entertaining.The Color Purple, Cold Mountain, and Gone with the Wind are just a few examples of popular historical fiction. They also happen to be films.
 In the last decade, podcasting has become a field in which historical subjects are often discussed. There are numerous shows that tackle subjects in a series or single episode. Podcasts are great if you want to learn more about history but do not have the time to sit down and read a book. They are perfect for listening to while you commute or cook dinner.


Stuff You Missed in History Class and The History Chicks are very entertaining podcasts hosted by historians.Overanalyze is a podcast about the intersection of history and geek culture., Historical settings and subjects are very common in the gaming world. There are numerous history based video and board games that create an immersive environment in which to explore the past. Playing historical games is not only fun, but it will help you learn a little about history as well.


Some historical video games include Sid Meier’s Civilization, Ryse: Son of Rome, the God of War series, and Call of Duty.
 For those looking for a unique way to learn a little history, graphic novels might be a good choice. These illustrated histories are both artwork and literature, taking the reader back in time with description and visualization. For those who do not want to commit to a book, a graphic novel is a quicker way to learn about history while enjoying eye-catching illustrations.The Harlem Hellfighters, Showa, and Trinity are all great examples of graphic novels about history.

