 Renew your registration if it will expire while you store your vehicle, or set a reminder to do so when it is due. Also, contact your insurance company to inform them that you will be storing your car and confirm your car is fully covered by your existing insurance policy.;
, It is important that your engine and fluids are in good shape before you store your vehicle for a long period. Otherwise, you risk having your car not start when you are ready to use it again.

Change or top off fluids which may contain sediments as appropriate. This includes oil (Synthetic oil breaks down more slowly with time which makes it preferred for storage), coolant, transmission, and brake fluid.






Run out windshield washer fluid in regions susceptible to freezing to protect spray hoses from freeze and thaw cracks.






Fill your car with gasoline as it leaves less airspace for moist air to enter the engine and form condensation (or ice) and add a fuel stabilizer available at any hardware/parts store.






Check belts, filters, hoses, and other components of your engine. Ensure that all are in working order and clean.
 Oil the hinges of the hood, doors, and trunk. Use a graphite-based lubricant for locks. Coat rubber parts of the doors and tires with silicone or white lithium grease. This will help prevent them from freezing shut.
 Throw away any trash. Vacuum seats and floor mats to prevent damage. Do not use chemical protectant (i.e. Armor All) on leather, vinyl, and other fabric as these may stain or cause excessive chemical damage to surfaces. Wash the inside of your windows. Getting the interior of your car in shape before storing it will prevent smells and potential damage from the sun or heat.
 Wash, buff, and wax your car. Have it detailed, if possible. Make sure to clean the underside of your car as anything stuck to the bottom of the car acts like a sponge, trapping moisture that could lead to the creation of rust. Remove wiper blades or lift them up so they do not become deformed or flat. Ensure all leaves, pine needles, and other debris have been removed from the engine compartment and the windshield wiper cowl (The black thing between the hood and the windshield where the wipers come out of.)

, Electronics can quickly drain the power of your battery, so make sure it is charged before you store your vehicle. You can also consider using a trickle charger. Disconnect your battery if storing for more than 6 months. Take the disconnected battery someplace temperate and dry (A Basement).
 This allows the rubber to relax and prevents cracking while allowing you to still drive on them when you remove the vehicle from storage. There are theories of "Flat Spots" if a vehicle is stored on the ground, but newer tires are engineered to prevent this and any flat spots will be worked out within 100 miles (160 km) or so. This does not apply to antique vehicles (Ford Model "X" or vehicles with non-belted tires)

, Vehicle covers protect your car from sun damage, dust, and minor dings. Try to find a vehicle cover designed for long-term storage. These will not trap moisture, but allow your vehicle to breathe. 