 This will just ruin your day. Act like you normally would in front of teachers. Do any work assigned and don't talk if not allowed to. Don't run around, scream or act destructive.;
, This is a fun thing yet most memorial thing to do. You can ask some good friends for their contact so the memories will last.
 Take home all your school books. Chances are, text books have been collected, and no materials are needed for the next day. Try to stuff your bag, and carry things in your hands.
 Chances are, you will not be able to manage all these materials at once. Ask a parent to drive you back after school and pick up the rest of your junk. Technically, this should be the last time you will see your locker from this school year. Clean out anything from it that belongs to you. Bid it a final good-bye, as you will never see it again!

, At home, to minimize a mess, file away everything that you brought home in designated cabinets or drawers. For school the next day, you might want to take along a small drawstring bag on your back for the whole day with your yearbook and pens/pencils for signing, maybe even a camera for memories. Make sure you pack this the night before, though!

, This is a special day. There will probably not be homework, so relax! Put your feet up and take a nap! Talk to a friend online or on the phone. Go biking with friends in the neighborhood. Write in your diary, if you have one. Try to capture these moments and how you feel. You can read back on it later on. Fantasize about summer and what you will do.
 What were the best parts of it? What did you like about each subject? What were your achievements? What do you hope to improve on? What were your mistakes? If it helps, write this down.
 If you are going to buy a gift for your teachers, this is the best time to do so, when you are relaxed and in a good mood. Go to any local store, such as Borders or another book store. If you know what kind of books your teacher likes, buy a book to her liking. If you cannot decide, then buy a gift card varying from ten to fifteen dollars, depending upon your budget and how many teachers you are buying a gift for. In elementary school, with less teachers, the amounts tend to be larger.
 Soon, you will be older and have more responsibility as well as privileges.

