 This will be easier to do if you make sure to keep cage paper (or old newspaper) over the floor of the cage. You can easily pull this out and replace it as needed. You can wipe down the cage with a nontoxic disinfectant as needed.Be prepared to change your macaw’s water daily, and clean its bowls.
You’ll need to wash all the perches and bird toys weekly, using nontoxic soap and fresh water.
Plan to do annual disinfecting and cleansing of your macaw’s cage.
 A well-cared for hyacinth macaw will rarely become ill, but you should be alert for signs of possible illness. The illnesses that hyacinth macaws are prone to include proventricular Dilation disease (also known as Macaw wasting disease); psittacosis (chlamydiosis or parrot fever); and bacterial, viral, or fungal infections. If you notice signs of illness, you’ll need to make an appointment with an avian veterinarian right away.Some of the more commonly observed signs of illnesses include:


Listlessness
Drooping wings
Sagging body
Extreme mood changes
Avoiding food, or not eating its usual amount
Partly closed or watery eyes, or swollen eyelids
A raspy voice
Difficulty breathing
Excessive saliva
Dirty vent

, Behavior problems usually arise from something missing in the macaw’s environment. As an intelligent, social creature, the hyacinth macaw requires a great deal of interaction. Without enough to do, the macaw can develop some maladaptive patterns of behavior, including biting, feather plucking, and screaming.If you notice these signs in your bird, try to spend more time taking interacting with your parrot.
Make sure your parrot has enough activities to do when you’re not home.
Find ways to provide your bird more exercise, and limit the time it’s expected to spend in its cage.
 Your hyacinth macaw has photosensitive skin that doesn’t respond to artificial light, even full-spectrum artificial light. It needs regular exposure to natural sunlight in order to maintain good health.This is different from other parrots, who consume a pellet diet which can provide their vitamin D. The hyacinth macaw, since it doesn’t rely on pellets, requires sunlight in order to get enough vitamin D.

