 If you are the victim of of corporal punishment, talk to the adult about using anger management techniques to cool down as opposed to physically touching you. Tell them they can count to ten, take deep breaths, or remove yourself from the room., Talk with your parents or teachers ahead of time about your boundaries and so you know what is expected of you. If you know what is expected of you, you will know how to avoid getting punished.In addition, if you set boundaries with the adults in your life, hopefully they will respect them.
 Ask your parents and teachers to use positive reinforcement as opposed to using physical punishment.Tell them you respond better when you are praised and told what you are doing well.
 For example, if you skipped school, maybe your parents require that you spend extra time at school for a week or that you do some extra homework.
 If all else fails, tell your parents you want to go to counseling. Counseling can be a great and safe way to talk with your family about your concerns. Counselors are trained to listen to your concerns and convey them to your parents. Your family and your counselors will then work on solutions. For example, a counselor may tell your parents alternative ways to punish you and the counselor may talk to you about obeying and respecting your parents.


You can find counselors through a social worker, public health departments, social services, or your school., If you have been a part of a single instance of minor corporal punishment (e.g., a single spanking), you may want to apologize for your actions and talk with the punisher about what happened. This will hopefully alleviate the problem in the future and will allow both parties to move on.


While you should apologize if you did something wrong that led to the punishment, and the punishment was minor, you should never apologize for being the victim of abuse. If any punishment rises to the level of abuse, you need to have a more serious conversation.
 Another way to move on quickly from minor instances of corporal punishment is to talk with the other party about other ways to get their point across. You may want to discuss time-outs or taking away privileges as an alternative to physical punishment.


However, if the physical punishment continues even after having this discussion, you may need to take more serious steps to stop the corporal punishment.

