 The summer solstice is a great time to find inner peace and balance. Try the sun salutation and the tree pose or simply sit quietly for a while. Meditation and yoga are intended to exercise both your body and your soul, balancing both in harmony through thought and physical movement. Begin this routine on the morning of the summer solstice and aim to make it a daily habit from this time on.
 The summer solstice heralds the beginning of summer, which also represents the time of fulfillment. This is an excellent time to take stock of your life and assess how your goals are progressing. From earlier New Year's resolutions to the big goals in your life, ask yourself how you're doing in achieving these things for yourself and others you care about.Are you still aligned with your goals or have you strayed from them? Take this opportunity to reinvigorate them and to make any necessary changes to achieve your aims in life.
Be honest with your goal appraisal––set aside those goals that aren't taking you in the direction you want to go now. We all grow and change over time; make sure you're not hanging onto goals that no longer fit the person you have become.
 Keeping a gratitude journal can remind you of all the positive things in your life. Write down things and people you are thankful for, as well as abilities or qualities you possess that you are grateful. Jot down positive experiences you have had as well. Try to recognize all the good and wonderful things in your life, to help you better notice fulfillment when you feel it., The summer solstice is a great day to decide to learn more about a healing technique that has interested you for a while, such as reiki, therapeutic massage, or acupuncture. You could go to a session and try a new healing therapy for something that ails you, be it stress, pain, etc. Alternatively, if you would like become a practitioner in healing arts, look for courses that you can take.
 The stability of summer and the promise of balmy, warmer days ahead is considered to be a time to develop yourself, to set yourself free, and to nurture yourself. Take the easier nature of summer as a reason to make greater efforts to make positive changes.


Refresh your home by creating a new layout. Rearrange furniture or swap out pieces for things you have stored in your attic or basement. Add new accents, like pillows, art, lamps, etc. Get rid of clutter, but keep things that bring you joy.
Readjust your nutrition intake using the fresh fruits and vegetables of summer as your base. Use this opportunity to align your thinking about food to one that involves eating more greens, locally grown foods and organic foods and eating less processed foods.
Find an exercise that you really click. Choose something that you enjoy doing, rather than something you suffer through. Think about meditation, yoga, swimming, running, or riding a bicycle.

