 It is a good idea to keep record of what happened in the past and what happens to you until this the issue is resolved.If there are electronic communications that have been sent to you by the perpetrator, save them. If you can safely audio or video record interactions that make you uncomfortable, do so. If not, write down what happens each time you interact with the clergy member. A written record will be helpful for reporting the harassment and should include the following:Any inappropriate communications to you from the perpetrator or from someone else on their behalf.
A record of the discussions in which you asked them to stop and set boundaries. Include their reaction or response to these talks as well.
Dates, times, and locations of each incident or conversation.
 Sexual harassment within a religious context has been recognized as a significant problem. Several sects have developed their own policies, helplines, or boards of individuals to handle sexual harassment issues. Research what might be available within your religion. Find contacts or an appointed official that you (or your parent if you are underage) can talk to about your experience. Ask for a copy of any sexual harassment policies they may have, and what services they offer.


In the United Methodist Church contact the General Commission on the Status and Role of Women(GCSRW) or Safe Sanctuaries which assist and support victims of sexual harassment or abuse.In the Christian Reformed Church contact the Safe Church Ministry Team which helps support those who struggle with abuse as well as provide educational opportunities for churches.In the Mennonite Central Committee contact the We Will Speak Out campaign joining other organizations to raise awareness and provide resources to parishioners., To ensure that your claim is taken seriously, or if the perpetrator has refused to stop, you may need to file a complaint with a senior clergy member or governing body of your faith. Once you find helplines, organizations, or boards within your faith, proceed with their process of making a complaint. Utilizing your research, follow the appropriate way to file a complaint or the appropriate person to talk to.


If there are no resources set up, talk to a clergy-parishoner relations committee, bishop, or a senior clergy member within the place of worship.Continue to process up the chain in your faith until you feel the issue has been addressed.
 Sexual harassment, especially in the clergy, can violate the same state statutes, laws, and codes of ethics as any other caregiver profession.If the situation violates laws or statues it should be immediately reported to the authorities.Additionally, if the situation makes you fear for your safety, then you should also call the police immediately.Speaking to the authorities can help you determine if you want to pursue criminal or civil litigation against the clergy person.


File a police report against the perpetrator right away by contacting your local authorities. If you are in immediate danger, then call emergency services.
If you are in the United States, refer to Rape, Abuse, and Incest National Network (RAINN) for a state-by-state resource guide for sexual harassment and sexual assault reporting.