 Keep moving forward and don’t focus on how difficult life can be. Think of the adventures you’re having in life because of these challenges. If things were straight and smooth, your life might be pretty uninteresting. Think about the ways you’ve overcome challenges and become a better person because of them.For example, if you’re mad that you were laid off, think about how you have been able to spend valuable time with your children.
 We can often feel like we’re surrounded by life’s frustrations. Perhaps you lost weight and gained it back, or it rained at your neighborhood barbecue. When we get bogged down by frustrating events, we start to notice and get frustrated by minor things, like not finding a parking spot or hitting all the red lights in traffic. But if you alter your reaction to these frustrations, they won’t have such a strong hold over you.Compare the current frustration to similar ones in the past. Will this frustration make a difference in the long run, or are you wasting your energy getting worked up over nothing?
For example, let’s say you are unhappy making sandwiches for a job. Put some artfulness into it, arranging the meats colorfully with the vegetables. Think of something nice to say to the customer. Ask the manager if there is something else you can control about the environment, like the music.
If you hate traffic, plan ahead and listen to your favorite music in your car.
Take action to change the frustrating event. If you hate going to work, you might think this way because you want to have a different career. Make a change to fix the situation.
 Oftentimes, we get wrapped up in negativity because we are stressed, overwhelmed, frustrated or angry. When we allow ourselves time to relax and recoup, we can find space to tackle problems with a positive attitude. Set aside time every day for yourself to do something relaxing, whether that’s reading a book, watching your favorite TV show, or talking on the phone with a friend.


Try meditation or yoga, or spend a few minutes taking some deep breaths.
 Frustration and negativity often occur because we feel a lack of efficacy, or a lack of success for our efforts. A productive response is to do something you are good at. When you feel good about your abilities, your mindset will improve in the positive direction. Increase how often you do your favorite activities.


For example, if you like knitting, take a break and work on a knitting project. You will get positive energy from this activity because you can see your progress. This positive energy will then influence how you feel about other projects.
 Research shows that negative thinking is supported by media with negative comparisons.If you notice media making you feel negative, one approach is to avoid that media. If you found yourself frequently comparing yourself to a certain model or athlete, avoid magazines, shows, or games that feature them.


Even temporary exposure to media depicting ideal images has been shown to negatively impact self-esteem and self-image., Having fun and laughing can boost your mood and increase your positive reactions to things and people.Attend a comedy show, watch comedy television, or read a book of jokes. This will help build a sense of humor that is associated with playfulness and positivity.