 If your boss’s racist remarks start to affect your job performance, you’ll need to find someone to talk to. Chances are there are others in your workplace who’ve had similar experiences with your boss. Ask them how they’re handling his racism and what (if anything) they may be doing about it.Make sure to do this discreetly. It’s a good idea to meet up after work for drinks or coffee when you have this conversation.
Once your company is aware of the incident, it’s legally obligated to investigate. If you’re not ready for a full investigation yet, you may wish to wait before speaking with your human resources department.
 Although it’s not required by federal laws, most employers have developed harassment policies regarding workplace behavior. The policy should provide a clear definition of prohibited conduct, and information about who to contact within the company if you have questions or complaints.It’s in the company’s best interest to develop such a policy, because not having one can make it much harder to prove that employees were aware of nondiscriminatory practices.
Small businesses may not have a policy in place, and may not have clear guidelines regarding who to contact with concerns. In this case, you may wish to consult with a lawyer.
 Many different actions are illegal if they are both unwelcome and either severe or pervasive. That means that if you’ve made it (tactfully) clear that you don’t care for your boss’s racist remarks, and they continue, he’s engaging in illegal workplace discrimination.This can include:


Verbal comments about clothing, personal behaviors or individual people’s bodies; race-based jokes; passing along racist texts or emails to employees.
Physical contact, including unwelcome touching of an employee’s body, hair, or clothing.
Non-verbal conduct, including derogatory gestures, and facial expressions that have racial intent.
Visual displays, including images, drawings, screensavers, posters, pictures, or any visual display of items understood to have racial significance.
 As mentioned earlier, keeping careful records of any racist incidents at your workplace will provide the basis for any potential of legal action. Write down exactly what was said or done, including any possible witnesses; document the time, date, and location.You may wish to ask other coworkers to keep their own written records to support your documentation.
Be as clear and objective as possible. For the purposes of this written record, don’t engage in any name-calling, speculation, emotional processing, etc.
Keep this record at home or in your car, rather that at your workplace.
 If you’ve told your boss tactfully that his racist behavior isn’t appreciated and it persists, it might be time to take a more direct approach. If this is a job that you really love and want to keep, it will be worth your while to try to affect a change in the racist environment of your job. If you’re not invested in keeping the job, then consider taking steps to find another employer.


Once you report your boss’s behavior to the company, the company is required to initiate an investigation into your complaint.
The company will not divulge your name; however, it may not be difficult to determine from whom the complaint is coming. Be aware that your boss may be aware of the complaint.
Even though retaliation is illegal, there’s a chance that you may suffer as a result of reporting your boss.

