 The foundation of good parenting lies in the relationship you have with your kids. If you never sit down and have one-on-one time with your children, you’ll find it challenging to relate to them, and vice versa. Devote at least one hour of quality time per week with each child.This time should be spent with positive interactions, such as cheering your child on as they build a fort or talking to them about their school week. Avoid using this time to correct or teach. Simply enjoy being together.;
, No matter how hard they may push against it, children thrive with structure. You can practice good parenting by setting limits with your child from a very young age. Limit-setting isn’t the same as punishment. In fact, you will use empathy to establish appropriate limits while still showing your child that you’re on their side.For example, you might set the limit that your child cannot play with his ball in the front yard. You might say, “I know you like playing with your ball in the front yard, but you get caught up in playing and run out into the street. It’s safer if you play in the gate out back.”
With this method, you are explaining the limit while still showing that you understand why your child wants to play with the ball in the front. By showing empathy for their feelings, they are much more likely to follow your directive.
 Starting out communicating with your children while they are young sets a positive tone for adolescence. A great rule-of-thumb is to ask three “you” questions each day. This teaches your child conversation skills while also helping you learn more about them and their experiences.You might ask, “What would you like to do for fun this weekend?” “What did you learn in school today?” or “What are you going to wear for picture day?”
Once you ask the questions, actively listen to their answers. Look for openings to take the conversation further and to keep them talking. For instance, you daughter says, “I don’t know what I want to wear for picture day” with a moan. You might say, “You don’t sound excited. I thought you usually enjoyed picture day.”

, Many parents go by the “do as I say, not as I do” principle. Such an attitude may lead to a confused child. Plus, your child may still end up following in your footsteps. Send the message that the limits you set are important by upholding them yourself.This includes all habits, from not bullying to not abusing drugs or alcohol. Instead set a positive example with healthy behaviors that you child will pick up from you.

