 This is referred to as Lagana Lekhan. It is performed by a Jain priest at the bride’s house. The priest uses the bride and groom’s horoscopes to determine an auspicious date and time for the marriage.Only the bride’s closest family members attend this ceremony.;
, After the date is set, the Jain priest proceeds to the groom’s house to present the date and time of the wedding to the groom and his family. Upon the arrival of the priest, the groom will perform the Vinayakyantra puja, which is a prayer.The groom must wear the traditional Jain headgear and wash his hands before he performs the prayer.
 After the prayer, the bride’s brother places a mark, known as the tilak, on the groom’s forehead using red turmeric, sandal paste or sacred ashes. This ritual is referred to as Sagai.The bride’s brother also presents the groom with gifts like gold jewelry, clothes, money, a coconut, and sweets.
 The priest will read the auspicious data and time of the wedding out loud to the groom and his family. This is known as the Lagna Patrika. Then the groom asks the elders to bless the wedding., The Mada Mandap takes place a couple days before the wedding. During the Mada Mandap, the priest makes a trip to both the bride and groom’s houses separately. At their houses, the priest will perform religious rituals., This is done at the gate of the wedding venue or at the bride’s house. Upon arrival of the groom’s wedding procession, the bride’s brother rubs tilak on the groom’s forehead. He will also give him gifts like money, sweets, a coconut, and/or clothing. This ritual is referred to as Barati.Additionally, the married ladies in the bride’s procession sing Mangal Geet. This ritual is referred to as Aarti.
 The ritual of presenting the bride to the groom is known as Kanyadaan or Kanyavaran. The bride’s father or uncle places a rupee, 25 paise and rice in the bride’s right hand. Then the father or uncle presents the bride to the groom. The bride and the groom sit together in the mandap.Additionally, in front of the guests assembled at the wedding, the bride’s father or uncle will make a public declaration of the wedding.
 The priest will do this after the public proclamation. While chanting mantras, the priest will pour holy water on the bride and groom’s hands three times., A married woman will tie a knot between the groom’s shawl and the bride’s sari. The knot symbolizes the binding of the man and woman together in marriage. This ritual is referred to as Granthi Bandhan.During this ritual mantras are chanted.
 The ritual of walking around the sacred fire, i.e., the havankund, by the bride and groom is known as Phere. This is the most important wedding ritual. The bride and groom walk around the fire four times. The bride leads the couple the first time around the fire. Then they exchange positions and the groom leads the couple around the sacred fire three more times.During the Phere, the Mahaveerakshak stoot is recited while the women sing the Mangal Geet in the background.
 After the Phere, the couple recites the seven vows to each other. Then the bride sits on the left-hand side of the groom and is referred to as the Vamangi. To complete this ritual, the bride and groom exchange garlands.The Vamangi symbolizes the idea that she has become her husband’s better half.
 To solemnize the marriage, the Shantipath and Visjaran are recited. These are prayers or pujas.The Shantipath is a prayer that wishes happiness and peace for all living beings.The Visjaran is the conclusion of the Shantipath.
 After the marriage is solemnized, the elders from both families bless the newlyweds' marriage. The blessing of the newlyweds symbolizes an auspicious marriage and the beginning of new life. This is referred to as the Ashirvada ceremony., The bride and groom do this after the blessing of the marriage. Once the bride and groom arrive at the groom’s house, the groom’s family welcomes the bride to her new marital family. This custom is referred to as the Sva Graha Aagamana., Both families offer alms to the Jain temple. It is an important post-wedding ritual. The purpose of the ritual is to express gratitude for the marriage’s successful solemnization. This ritual is known as the Jina Grahe Dhan Arpana., The groom’s family will do this. The reception is a formal introduction of the bride to the rest of the groom’s family and friends. The bride’s family may or may not attend.