 At parties, family gatherings, office events, etc., take note of who is taking the photos.;
, Ask them to reassure you that they won't place any photos containing you into a public online site or forum.
 There are many possible reasons and these will be entirely up to you. Some reasons might include:


Faith, spiritual or religious reasons.
Personal privacy reasons.
A simple but relevant personal preference not to be added online.
 Many people will be surprised at your request. It's not common yet for people to make such a request and so you may encounter a disappointed, surprised or even irritable response to your request. Be patient and simply insist kindly but firmly that you do not want your photo placed online without your consent.


It is a good idea to work through an explanation of your preference for not having your photo uploaded to the internet prior to having to face this situation.
 If you're really concerned about photos being taken of yourself randomly when out and about, do what the stars do and cover up as best you can. To your advantage, your relative anonymity will make it harder to work out it's you once the hat, glasses, scarf and any other covering elements are all in place.
 If you come across a photo of yourself somewhere online, such as on Facebook, Flickr, Picasa, etc. and you have not authorized it or don't want it there, ask the uploader to politely remove it. Being nice and explaining carefully why the image's online presence upsets you may be enough to have the uploader remove it.


Be aware that it is hard to get images removed from online even if the original person removes it. This is because search engines cache images and they may also have been shared around among many other people. This is why it's best to try to stop uploads initially or to do your best to conceal yourself in public.
 The legality or otherwise of someone placing a photo of you online against your express will is dependent on the context and the laws of your jurisdiction. Whether or not you can have a photo of yourself removed from online will depend on the terms and conditions of the site, the identifiable expression of your preference to the photographer and other factors and it's probably best to get privacy or legal advice if an incident occurs where you want your photo removed after someone else has uploaded it.


It becomes much more difficult to have photos removed when your photo is taken as part of a general crowd. Removal on legal grounds would probably be dependent on finding a cause of action such as the photo being defamatory or illegal, etc. and that is likely to be pretty hard to prove.

