 SAP stands for Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing. A German software corporation known as SAP AG has developed SAP HR that makes enterprise software to manage business operations. SAP HR module is particularly used to streamline and automate core HR and payroll processes thereby effectively managing talent across the enterprise.;
, To opt to become SAP HR consultant you need to build a strong base covering all the aspects of the module along with minimum essential qualification. Bachelor’s degree in human resources, information technology or business management is needed. Adequate training is important as SAP implementation is complex.
 SAP HR is a software application that enables administrators to manage data about their human resource effectively. The module is divided sub-modules such as Organizational Management (OM), Personal Administration (PA), Time Management (TM), Payroll (PY), Personal Development (PD), Performance Management (PM), Enterprise Learning (EL, Training Management), E-Recruitment (Recruitment Management). The SAP Human Capital Management (HCM) module helps companies reap certain benefits, such as recruiting and retaining key talent, improving decision making and reducing risk. HR functional SAP software that provides businesses with help in a number of key areas related to human resource management is suitable for large multinational corporations.
 SAP HR professionals handle ESS, CATS, info types, personnel management, organizational managements and benefits. Travel management basics, transaction codes, including training, event management, and concurrent employment hiring along with employee tracks are all recorded and maintained.
 It is good to become a certified associate as it will help you differentiate your place in job market. Getting SAP Certification is not mandatory but it is recommended to get certified. Especially if you don't have any experience in that field, getting certified makes you better suitable than no experience.
 SAP HR configuration jobs pay the highest. SAP HCM is one of the hottest areas in SAP consulting. Large corporations or mid sized organizations, most of them use SAP modules and the hiring in HR is on the raise. Each employee records are synced with all other modules for using at a later stage. You can also start networking with professionals in the HR field while in college to boost your chances in job search.

