 The unspoken rule of metal concerts is, however, not to wear the shirt for the band you are going to see. Find a band shirt for a similar band in the same genre as the one you are going to see.
Black t-shirts or tank tops with graphic designs are always good choices for a rock or metal show.
Avoid anything that isn't cotton. If you are moshing or in a large crowd you will definitely sweat!

, Keep in mind, rockers mix feminine and masculine in their looks, its going to be the accessories that tie this look together.


Match your tee with dark green, dark blue, black or dark purple jeans.
If you want to style up your look a little more, try swapping jeans for a peplum skirt or fitted red mini. Either of these provides a feminine chic look.
Plaid miniskirts are especially popular at punk rock concerts.
If you are going to a heavy metal concert and plan to be in the mosh pit, wear jeans rather than a skirt. , Military boots, and dark sneakers are all rocker-chic.


Again, you want comfort as concerts are typically in packed areas.
Nevertheless, this look lends itself to flats rather than heels. Try to wear shoes with a thicker material at the toe. Your feet will be stomped on quite a bit.
Experienced metal heads advise to always wear combat boots to a heavy metal concert. Even sneakers won't protect your feet from all the stomping! , Keep in mind that rock looks combine masculine and feminine styles. The accessories are really a chance to make your look more feminine.


Layer bracelets (cuffs, leather bands, studded bangles, and jeweled wrap-arounds) until you have an eclectic look.
Leather studded cuffs and belts are always good accessories for a rock or metal concert.
Earrings should be minimal studs.
Avoid long necklaces. If you are moshing or dancing at a rock concert, these can get pulled. , Simple light make-up and simple hairstyles are best, though. If you are dancing or moshing, your makeup might run. Wear waterproof makeup if possible.
Avoid curling your hair too much, as this style isn't really in fashion for a rock or metal look.
Ponytails and braids are simple and practical hairstyles for a rock or metal show.Brightly colored hair and mohawk styles are popular for a punk rock look.

