 You'll want a best friend who you can tell anything to, look for qualities such as loyalty, trustworthy and a similar personality. Your other friends will need these qualities too of course but not necessarily as magnified. No more than ten in your circle of close friends. Make sure they're all mature, friendly, nice people who also know how to have fun.;
, You don't want to have only ten people on your friends-list do you? Get out there and mingle! Since you're in high school, try joining extra-curricular clubs and visiting other forms at lunch. If you take a bus to and from school that's a great way to get to know people from other schools.
 Use your page regularly and take the opportunity to message people with it! Also, try to look at other peoples statuses (like, comment) so that they are more likely to look at what you're up to but do not become annoying!

, Chav-popular or classy-popular. Naturally this article is about being a teen socialite which means you want to be the latter. Despite that, some of you will fall into the trap.
 At this point it's about striking a balance.
 In most schools you are supposed to be getting a level six at year eight, so aim for a level seven. Put in the time to study, even if it means putting school first. As an adult, it will be far easier to become a real world-famous socialite if you are clever.
 It's there to highlight your best features and improve the ones you don't like, not to create new features or make you look like a clown! As a teen you'll want to be experimenting with makeup, but please do not wear cake-y foundation and four layers of mascara! I suggest you read up on how to apply makeup for a fresh and clean look.
 English fashion is very different to American or that of any other culture which is why it's so important to read this step - especially if you're not native to the UK. The main fashion is a long-thin cardigan, jeggings/leggings, a top and a small purse. Don't go along with that. Choose one of the key trends making it's way through the country and then do what you want with the rest of your outfit. But remember the whole time: Class not crass. This means not too much cleavage, stomachs shown rarely (i.e. loose tops with trousers and NOT skirts lest they be maxi skirts), no hotpants either!

, Since we're in the UK, unless you're in 6th form, your school will most likely have a uniform. Stick to this uniform and don't push the rules too much. Roll up your skirt a notch, but not so that everyone can see your knickers.
 The clue is in the name - Socialite. It's a good idea to buy yourself a diary to write down upcoming events. This is why it's so good to be friend-ish with a lot of people, you get invited to their parties. If nobody has invited you to an event, organize your own!

, It could be a celebrity, a book character, a person you know. Anybody. They have to be mature, law-abiding and classy. Somebody that embodies what you want to be. Don't become a complete copy of them, keep your own identity.

