 Power is sexy. If you have power, people are attracted to you. They admire it, and if possible try to get into bed with power. This is because it creates a way of owning power without having to take responsibility for it and most people crave this. Speak highly of yourself. Don’t downplay your accomplishments, jobs, or lifestyle. A touch of modesty will go a long way, but be sure to show self-assurance.
 Getting stuck in a dead-end job is bad for your morale, and worse for you sex life. You might not be in your dream job, location, or situation now, but show that you’re working toward it.


Getting stuck in a dead end job shows that you have no interest in your goals. Think more highly of yourself, gain confidence, and exude sex appeal. , Don’t stare, but keep eye contact because it shows confidence and comfort.


Direct eye contact doesn’t mean stare. If you catch yourself doing so, look away sheepishly. Have eye contact when words are being spoken but don’t scare someone off by eyeing them nonstop.
Even make eye contact as you walk through the room. Glance around and catch the gaze of your peers.
 To show your power at work, dress in a way that demands all eyes turn to you.


”Fit” is everything. If your work requires you to wear a suit, be sure to get one that fits. It should hug your body, but not squeeze it. All jackets should be able to button closed, and you should be able to sit easily in all of your skirts or pants. Keep it appropriate. The best way to access this is to look around at your peers. Notice what they’re wearing and keep it as covered as they do. Women, if your bra or panty line is showing at work, it is inappropriate. Men, if you can’t sit without getting a “plumber’s crack,” go get some new pants.
Throw in a pop of color. Although work environments are often filled with black and gray suits, if you like color, show it off! Keep the black suit but throw on a bright top. This will help get you noticed. Stick to one brightly colored piece, it can be overwhelming and unprofessional if you dress in a loud outfit.
 Having a voice will get you noticed. Whether you’re putting on a presentation, or simply getting involved in an office meeting, talk in a direct fashion.


Put yourself out there. An office meeting containing the entire staff is a great time to ask questions. Asking a question here puts you in the spotlight—if only for a moment—which makes coworkers notice you. Getting them to first notice you is more than half of the battle in appearing sexy.
Stay involved. Go to work parties. They might seem like a drag, but this is a great place to intermingle with coworkers. Portraying confidence outside of the workplace is only going to help you appear sexy. 