


There are two main waste systems in the body, the Lymphatic System and the Urinary System.

The Lymphatic System parallels the Circulatory System, but runs purely on water and muscle movement to propel it along its way. The Lymphatic System picks up waste from body cells. It is impaired when tight clothing is worn and by lack of movement. Exercise and movement substantially help the Lymphatic System with its job. Water is essential for the Lymphatic System to work properly. Drink plenty of water and move around to help work the Lymphatic System.
The Urinary System collects and excretes waste from the body. Water is the greatest key to allowing the Urinary System to remove poisons and toxins from the body. "The solution to pollution is dilution." If you are not drinking enough water, the Urinary System may be hampered in its ability to remove poisons, toxins and waste from the body.

;
, Having a person well hydrated before beginning to deal with healing may be a big key to avoiding a Healing Crisis.
 Another key to getting the body ready to deal with healing is making sure it is getting plenty of protein, and not being overrun with sugar, processed carbs and grains. It may be wise to check up on a person's diet and make sure they are eating plenty of fresh fruits, vegetables and proteins, and not eating a lot of fast food, prepackaged foods, sugars and grains for at least a week or two before starting into deep healing.



One way to check with the body's computer system is simply to use Reflex Muscle Testing and ask the body each time you complete a technique if it is okay to continue. A weak muscle when you ask, "Can I continue to work with this body?" means it is time to stop now. Ask the body to save the work and when would be a good time to continue.
Another tell-tale sign that the body is at or beyond capacity is when Reflex Muscle Testing gives the same result for Yes and No. Often the body will give weakness on both if the body is full, but sometimes it will show strong on both. If you ever get an unexpected answer on Reflex Muscle Testing, check two questions with known answers, one yes and one no, to verify if the body is going beyond capacity. If it is getting overfilled, you will get an incorrect answer on one of them. If this happens, ask the body to save the work and stop immediately.
 There are a few Switchword phrases that may help alleviate a healing crisis.


The Switchphrase "DIVINE-LIGHT-FLOW" may be helpful for brightly focusing positivity and stepping out of routine, allowing flow. When one deals with illness and disease, generally it relates to negative emotions and ways of being, one must allow oneself to flow in another direction to release the illness or disease.
The Switchphrase "OPEN-GO-BE" may be useful for releasing and allowing things to progress and return to health and peace.
The Switchphrase "CRYSTAL-ALONE-BE" may be useful for connecting to the healing path and opening to healing.

