 Many of those who test positive for the HSV-1 virus do not experience cold sores, and many more don’t have recurrent cold sores after initial outbreaks.However, those at a higher risk for recurrent cold sores include those with:A weakened immune system, i.e. are immunosuppressed
HIV/AIDS, which is a cause of immunosuppression
Eczema
Cancer who are taking chemotherapy
An organ transplant, which means the patient is taking immunosuppressant drugs to prevent organ rejection
Severe burns

, Certain triggers are tied to the likelihood of a person experiencing future outbreaks as well. These triggers include:


Fever of any kind (whether from another viral or a bacterial infection)
Menstruation
Stress of any kind (physical, mental, or emotional)
Fatigue
Sun Exposure
Surgery

, Since sun exposure is a trigger for cold sore outbreaks, you should minimize your time in the sun. Remember always to wear sunscreen as well to minimize effects when you are outside.
 A balanced, nutritious diet can help reduce triggers like fatigue and stress. The main components of a healthy diet include:


Lots of fresh fruit and fresh vegetables. Include a variety of both fruits (except citrus) and vegetables. Both fruit and vegetables contain vitamins, minerals, proteins, and fiber to keep you as healthy as you can be.
Complex carbohydrates versus simple sugars. This means that you should stay away from processed and packaged foods. They often seem simpler, but during the processing and packaging, all kinds of sugars are added, including high-fructose corn syrup.
These sugars are associated with glucose-intolerance (pre-diabetes), diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and heart disease as well as alterations in the gut bacteria.Increased amounts of fish and lean poultry in your diet (as well as decreasing the amounts of red meat).
Beans and legumes, which are excellent sources of vitamins and minerals. They do contain phytic acid, but normal cooking should release most of the minerals and allow them to be absorbed by your body.
Don’t forget to keep drinking water and staying hydrated. Drink at least 6-8 8-ounce glasses of water each day.
 Poor sleep schedules have an effect on both stress and fatigue levels. Ensure that you get 7-8 hours of quality sleep each night.
 Though often unavoidable at work or at home, try to avoid stressful situations as much as possible. This can mean walking away from a situation or something as simple as taking a few minutes away from your desk at work. Other steps you can take to avoid stress or at least balance it include:


Spending time with friendsGoing for a walk or to the gymIntroducing deep breathing or meditation techniques into your daily routineYou can find a guide to these techniques at How to Breathe Deeply and How to Meditate.
 In addition to diet and exercise, you can take other steps to boost your immune system as well. These steps include not smoking, drinking only in moderation, avoiding sickness and other infections by washing your hands regularly, and controlling your blood pressure.
 Cold sores rarely lead to any complications, and they don’t typically require a trip to your doctor. However, you should make an appointment to see your doctor if:You get cold sores more than 2-3 times a year
Your cold sores don’t heal within two weeks
You get sick frequently, which may signify a weakened immune system
The cold sores are very painful
Your eyes are irritated when you have a cold sore, which may indicate further infection

