 It can be hard for those with RA to cope with cold temperatures. Because of this, it is a good idea to keep your home at a relatively high temperature. If you cannot afford to keep your whole home heated at a high temperature, consider getting a space heater and heating the room that you spend the most time in.


You can also use targeted heating products, such as heating pads, electric blankets, and hot water bottles, to keep yourself warm., If you have RA, it is likely that you have pain and discomfort on a lot of days. In order to brighten your mood, you should fill your home with bright light from both natural and artificial sources.Open up your window treatments and let the light in. Just because you are stuck inside, that doesn't mean you can't enjoy the daylight.
Put full-spectrum bulbs in your lamps. Getting a lot of full-spectrum light can brighten your mood when you are feeling down.
 When you have RA it is important to have soft surfaces to sit and lay on. Buy furniture that is heavily padded and add additional pillows to existing furniture that needs more padding.


If you can't change all of your furniture, focus of the pieces that you sit on and lay on the most. Invest in a quality mattress and chair that will be comfortable for you.
While soft beds and seats may help, you should not add rugs to pathways, as these can pose a tripping hazard. Carpets are fine as long as they are properly secured to the floor. If they are torn or loose, you should replace them., If you have RA, common tasks can be very difficult to complete. However, there are products that can ease the discomfort and difficulty that comes along with doing routine tasks. In particular, there are many products made specifically for people with arthritis.For example, there are many kitchen gadgets that can make cooking easier for those with RA. Some of them include jar openers, soft handles utensils, and two handled pots, which are easier to pick up and carry for people with RA.Consider ways to make access to shelves, cabinets, and closets easier. For example, you might install a lazy susan into your kitchen cabinet to make food easier to grab., If you can afford it, hire someone to come to your home and do chores that cause you pain and discomfort. It could be that you hire someone to come in and cook meals for you or you hire someone to clean your house. Whatever causes you the most discomfort, focus on eliminating those tasks from your day.Even if you cannot hire a helper all of the time, it can be helpful to get temporary help if you are having a flare of symptoms that has made chores especially painful.
If you do not have the financial ability to hire a helper, you can ask your friends and family for help.
You might speak to a social worker or with the human resources department at work to help you locate government resources and other sources of assistance.