 The primary rule of statutory interpretation is to assume words and phrases have the same meaning a reasonable person would assume them to have.If the statute makes sense on its face, you generally don't need to look any further.The other tools of statutory interpretation only apply to words and phrases that are ambiguous or could have several meanings.When you read the statute, avoid reading anything into it that isn't present in the language of the statute itself, or reading a word or phrase to imply something other than the plain meaning of the words themselves.Presume that each word, and each punctuation mark, have meaning and were put there intentionally – unless it's an obvious clerical error.;
, If the statute you're reading references another statute, you can look to it to gain an understanding of some words or phrases that may be unclear.In some situations, the statute also may borrow definitions from another statute – particularly if the subject matter of the statute is complex or highly technical. This avoids redundancy and eliminates the ambiguity over whether, by redefining a term already defined in a previous law, the legislature meant the new definition to be different from the earlier one.
Pay attention to whether the reference to the statute is general or specific. General references typically should be interpreted to include any later amendments to the statute, while specific references refer only to the particular section or clause indicated., The entire statute is a whole unit with multiple parts or clauses, all of which work together.


The same context applies to key words or phrases that are used throughout the statute. The "whole act" rule of statutory interpretation guides you to use consistent definitions of a word or phrase throughout the text.For example, interpreting a word one way might make sense in all but one clause of the statute. However, in that one clause, the interpretation leads to a silly or outlandish result. Therefore, that can't be the correct interpretation of that word.
Most statutes have a preamble, or a clause that states the purpose of the law and what the legislature intends it to achieve. This clause can help guide your interpretation of the statute, because you can generally assume that the legislators would not include another clause in the statute itself that was at odds with or undermined the stated purpose of the statute.Although the preamble generally is not considered to be part of the statute itself, it provides information about the purpose of the law and can help resolve ambiguities in the language of the statute., Several doctrines of statutory interpretation focus on finding the meaning of ambiguous words by looking at the words or phrases that surround them.


Keep in mind that generally, courts interpreting a statute assume that every word is meaningful. Even if a phrase sounds redundant to you, each word in that phrase must mean something different, or the legislature would not have included all of them.Often you can discover the meaning of a term by looking at the words associated with it in the statute.This is particularly helpful if there is a term that could be interpreted broadly, but the context within which it appears indicates it should have a more limited definition.
For example, suppose you own a food truck specializing in cupcakes, and you're interpreting a statute to determine whether it prohibits you from using strawberry icing on your cupcakes. The clause banning strawberry icing states it covers "any cupcakes made or sold in the city," but the entire clause repeatedly refers to standing bakeries in brick-and-mortar locations. Additionally, the statute elsewhere excludes food trucks from its definition of "bakery." Thus, you would be justified in concluding that the statute does not apply to your food truck, and you can make and sell cupcakes with strawberry icing to your heart's content.
If the statute explicitly lists items that are included (or excluded) within its scope, pay attention to the type or category of items listed. Generally, the statute doesn't apply to something that falls wholly outside the categories of listed items.For example, if a statute prohibits horses, goats, mules, hogs, and sheep in the town square, you can safely assume that the statute does not apply to chickens. All of the listed animals have hooves, and chickens don't have hooves. You could find additional support for this interpretation in the preamble's discussion of how the hooves tear up the grass in the square.
 Some words signify the scope of a condition, indicate exceptions, or limit other terms.


Some words are commonly used in statutes. For example, if a statute states that an individual "shall" or "must" do something, this typically means that action is required by the law. In contrast, if the statute states the individual "may" do something, it indicates that the individual has discretion in whether to complete that action.Words such as "unless" or "except" typically signal an exception to a general rule the statute has already set forth.Keep in mind that courts tend to interpret exceptions narrowly.Pay attention to whether the statute connects terms with "and" or "or." Using "and" generally indicates that both terms the word connects must be together for the condition to apply. Using "or," on the other hand, means that the condition applies to each term individually.For example, if the cupcake statute defines bakeries as places where cupcakes are made and sold, this means both must apply. If the business only sells cupcakes baked somewhere else or by another company, that business would not qualify as a bakery for the purposes of the statute.
Other words such as "each," "only," "every," or "all" can indicate the scope of the statutory provision, while words such as "if," "before," or "after" typically indicate that a precondition must be met before the statutory provision can apply., Diagramming a sentence from a statute can help you understand how the words work together.


Basic rules of statutory interpretation assume that words and phrases should be analyzed according to proper grammar, usage, and punctuation.By diagramming the sentence, you apply the rules of grammar to your statutory interpretation.
 Most statutes have a section that provides specific definitions for key words that are used throughout the statute.


Definitions typically are one of the first sections of the entire statute. Specific terms only used in one section, or that the legislature intends to have a slightly different definition for the purposes of that section, may be defined at the beginning of that section.For example, an employment statute may define the word "employee" to exclude contract or freelance employees. However, there may be one section in which contractors and freelancers are included as employees for that section only.
Statutory definitions typically are used to streamline the text and avoid repeating long phrases and series. The definition of a term lists everything included as well as anything the legislature intends specifically to exclude from the understanding of the term.
Often the application of a statute depends on how certain words are defined. For example, a statute may state that employers must provide health insurance for all employees. Although that sentence's meaning seems straightforward, you have to know who is considered an employee (and who is considered an employer) under the statute if you want to understand how that statute would apply to a particular set of circumstances.
If you hired a local high school student to babysit your kids, you may wonder if under that statute you are required by law to provide health insurance to that student. However, by reading the statutory definition, you discover that employees are defined as anyone who works more than 30 hours a week, and for whom a W-2 is filed with the IRS. Since neither of those things are true for your babysitter, she isn't covered by the law.
Even if the statute itself does not define a word, the word may have a particular definition as a "term of art" in the field covered by the statute. Similarly, the legislature may have borrowed the word from another law, incorporating the definition used there., Supreme Court and Court of Appeals decisions provide definitive interpretations of many statutes.


If you're interpreting a state law, look for decisions from the state's highest court. Decisions from lower courts have less value; only the highest court's interpretation becomes a matter of law.
Generally, if you're looking at a criminal statute, courts will resolve any ambiguity in the law in the defendant's favor.Keep in mind that parts of the statute may have been limited or repealed by a court's interpretation.For example, if the Supreme Court decides that a particular part of a statute violates the Constitution, that part of the statute is repealed. If the legislature still wants to achieve the same goal, it must pass a new law that doesn't violate the Constitution.
Court decisions also may discuss alternative interpretations and provide some reasoning about why the court believes those interpretations are invalid.You can research many court decisions online for free by using search engines such as Google Scholar. To find a court decision that talked about the statute you're interpreting, conduct a search that includes the statute's citation. 

, Government agencies charged with enforcing a law often must interpret that law to fulfill their duties.


These regulations may include specific instructions on how the statute should be interpreted or applied to particular cases and situations.If you're reading an annotated statute, these regulations may be mentioned in the statute's footnotes.Otherwise, you can look through the statute itself to find out which agency is charged with enforcing it, then search for regulations and other information related to the statute at the agency's website.
Keep in mind that courts employ a basic presumption that an agency's interpretation of its own regulations is correct. Courts also give extreme deference to agency interpretations of a statute if the statute grants that agency explicit power to enforce that law., By studying the minutes of legislative sessions you can uncover key information that can shed light on legislative intent.Legislative history typically includes floor statements about the statute while it was being debated, proposed amendments, and reports or statements from committee meetings or hearings.Previous versions of the law before it was passed also can help with statutory interpretation.For example, if an early version of the cupcake statute contained language that limited the application of the law to within a five-mile radius of the town square, but the statute that became law did not include any geographic limitations, you can presume the legislature didn't intend the operation of the statute to be limited to that small area.
Keep in mind that in some cases you might read conflicting interpretations of a statute from different committees, or different legislative bodies. For example, the House's interpretation of a law may differ from the Senate's interpretation. In these situations, neither should be taken as definitive., News reports can give you a better understanding of why the law was proposed and the issues surrounding it.


Scholarly treatises and law review articles also might give you a better sense of the statute or argue for a particular interpretation. You should pay particular attention to anything mentioned in the legislative history. If the legislators read an article while they were drafting the law, it can provide additional clues into how the statute should be interpreted., Since you want to rely on the plain language of the statute, dictionaries can provide some insight into the best definition for a word or phrase with which you're unfamiliar.


For example, suppose you're interpreting a statute that gives health and safety inspectors the power to modify state health and safety regulations for restaurants able to show a good cause for doing so. If you looked up the definition of the word "modify," you'd see that it allows the inspectors to alter or change the requirements, but the definition does not include the idea that the requirements can be eliminated entirely. This is assuming that the word "modify" is not specifically defined elsewhere in the statute.
Additionally, keep in mind that if a statute is dealing with technical or scientific regulations, a word may have a particular definition within that industry or scientific community that differs from the general dictionary definition of the term. In these situations, you also may want to look at industry reports or scientific papers to see how the word is used there.
If you're interpreting an older statute, you might want to look at dictionaries published during that time period rather than one in use today. A dictionary published contemporaneously with the law will give you an idea of how the word or phrase was being used at the time the law was written, and what it meant to people then., Although another state's interpretation isn't authoritative, if you know the legislature based its law on one in another state to discern the legislature's intent.


Other legal documents such as the Constitution also can assist in your statutory interpretation. If you assume the legislature would not have wanted to create an unconstitutional law, but one interpretation would lead to that result, it probably isn't the correct interpretation under your assumption.
One basic rule of interpretation used by the courts assumes that similar statutes should be interpreted similarly, unless something in the legislative history suggests otherwise.For example, another state's statute regulating cupcake sales and distribution may have been discussed, but the legislature agreed that its statute had an entirely different purpose.

