 It's a small amount of time. Surely you can spare 15 minutes, right? You will get something accomplished, so see how much you can do.


Try setting a timer. The "Pomodoro Method" suggests setting a timer for a block of time (15-25 minutes), then taking a short break, then trying another block of work time. It can help you bust procrastination, because you only have to focus for a short period of time., You may not have the inspiration to work. Your class schedule will tell you that inspiration doesn't matter. The task must be completed. During your 15 minute work period, focus on that finishing that task or taking care of distractions. You may not get a lot done this time, but next time you should accomplish more.


While you work you may find distractions keeping you from working. Use your 15 minutes of work time to take care of those distractions. The next time you start working, those distractions should have already been taken care of. Now you can work without distractions.
 Maybe you don't want to forget something or need to figure out the solution. Write down everything you are thinking. Next time you think about the issue you'll know you've already written it down to remember later or solved it.


Writing in your journal can help you organize your thoughts. While writing, you may discover the reasons you are procrastinating. You may also find that once you write down something you don't want to forget, you stop thinking about it. You can remember you already wrote that down. Then the thought is no longer a distraction from the task you are really trying to accomplish.
Focus your journalling to issues related to the task. You may start with "Why can I not do this? What is on my mind keeping me from working?".
 You may find that a singular stress is influencing all of your work. Take some spare time to find ways to overcome that stress or deal with that problem. Adjust your next week's work by dealing with stressors that slowed you down throughout the week.
 As you successfully work for 15 minutes on a task you may feel 15 minutes is too short. It likely is too short in the long run. But 15 minutes is a good starting point. Once you know you can do 15 minutes straight, try working longer periods. Instead of 15 minutes try 30 minutes or more.
 As you complete your goals or even stick to your schedule make sure to reward yourself. Don't trivialize the time spent by saying "But I didn't accomplish anything". In fact, you spent time trying to work. As you spend more time trying you will find yourself working and eventually finishing the task


Give yourself both time-rewards and task-rewards. That means you should reward yourself for sticking to your schedule as well as completing tasks. Make sure to reward yourself based on the effort you put into either sticking to the schedule or task.

