 Place a cast-iron skillet in the oven as it warms up.The initial cooking will be done on the stove, but placing the pan in the hot oven will allow it to become nice and hot before you even add the steaks.
You can use a standard cast-iron skillet for this, but for an even more authentic barbecue experience, opt for a cast-iron grill pan. The best grill pans have low sides, sharp grates, and a round shape., Brush the oil and liquid smoke over both sides of each steak. Season both sides with smoked salt and freshly ground black pepper, as well.


Ideally, the steaks should be at room temperature before you season them. Cold steaks may cook unevenly and could dry out.
Both the liquid smoke and smoked salt will give the meat a smoky flavor, thereby mimicking the taste of outdoor barbecue.
 Remove the pan from the oven and place it on the stove. Set the stove heat to high, and allow the pan to warm up for another 4 to 5 minutes.


Meanwhile, reduce the heat of the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius).
 Place the steaks in the hot pan and let them cook for 2 to 4 minutes. After finishing the first side, flip the steaks over to the other side and cook for another 2 to 4 minutes.


The steaks are ready to flip once a golden-brown crust develops on the first side. Also note that the meat should release easily from the bottom of the pan.
Only flip the steaks once. Turning them too often will make it harder for the outside to crisp up.
 Switch off the stove and place the pan back into the hot oven.
 Allow the steaks to continue cooking until they reach your desired level of doneness. The exact amount of time will vary depending on the thickness of the steaks and the level of doneness you wish to reach, but the process may take another 8 to 15 minutes.Check the internal temperature using a meat thermometer to verify the level of doneness.

Rare: 120 to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (49 to 52 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Rare: 130 to 135 degrees Fahrenheit (54 to 5 degrees Celsius)
Medium: 140 to 145 degrees Fahrenheit (60 to 63 degrees Celsius)
Medium-Well: 150 to 155 degrees Fahrenheit (66 to 68 degrees Celsius)
Well-Done: 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius)



, Remove the finished steaks from the hot oven and take them out of the hot pan. Place the meat on a plate or platter, then allow it to rest for approximately 5 minutes.


The resting period allows the juices to redistribute throughout the meat. Cutting into the steak before it rests can cause these juices to escape, creating dry, chewy steak as a result.
If desired, you could loosely cover the steaks with aluminum foil to prevent them from losing too much heat. Do not leave them in the pan, though, since doing so would cause the meat to continue cooking.
 The steaks should be done and ready to enjoy. Moreover, you should notice a flavor similar to the taste of outdoor barbecue once you bite into the meat.

