 The water helps to loosen up their old skin and makes it easier for them to shed. Make sure the water level is not too high, as this could lead to a drowned animal. You can also use a spray nozzle to gently spray warm water over their bodies. Remember to make sure to dry them off properly by covering them up with a towel and placing them underneath their heat lamps. Never use any type of heating rock, as these can cause serious and sometimes fatal burns. Heating pads are preferred as an exterior heat source under their substrate or water dish. Once again, the heat pads need to be placed or secured OUTSIDE of their enclosure to avoid burns.;
, This can range from either a rock to a branch, a stick or rough surfaced enclosure decorations. When reptiles shed their skins, not only does it get very tight, but it also gets very itchy. Giving them a rough object to relieve their itchy bodies on helps them tremendously. This is also very helpful for when they want to break the skin to shed from their bodies.
 If a reptile isn't getting the proper care and nutrients it needs, it makes shedding a very difficult process for them. Make sure they are getting the right kinds of food and the proper supplements. You can buy powdered reptile multivitamins, calcium, & mineral supplements at any pet store or order them online and just sprinkle the recommended quantities (based upon your particular species) onto your reptile's food (This does not apply to snakes, as they get all the nutrition they need from their prey). Make sure your reptile has a daily access to a clean water source. The premier water type should be Ro or distilled. Practice excellent hygiene and always clean out old food, change stale water, and clean up their waste. Provide them a good heat source, like a heating lamp or a heating pad; as is appropriate for each species. Be sure to allow for thermal regulation by placing the heat source at one end of the enclosure. This allows for the animal to move from the cool end to the warm end of the enclosure.

