 Your product may be a good or service you provide, your business, or you, depending on what you want to market. For example, you may want to market yourself to earn a customer base for your clothing line, in which case your product would be your designs; or, you may want to become more popular, in which case your product would be yourself.;
, This means creating a personality for your services or telling a story about yourself.


Design a logo. This may be your business logo, or even just a picture of yourself. A logo is important to branding because people naturally recall images more easily than they recall words or names.






Become an expert. Whatever your product is, whether it be your services or your personality, it is important that you devote time and effort to expanding your knowledge and understanding of everything related to the product.






Make your expertise available to others. Accomplish this with marketing materials and through networking avenues.
 You have a lot of choices when it comes to how to market, including business cards, social media outlets, flyers, brochures, stickers, refrigerator magnets, door hangers, calendars and more. Your resume and cover letter may even be considered marketing materials, if you are marketing yourself to find a job. Whatever marketing materials you choose to create, they should include some basic elements.


Make sure your name is readily identifiable when you market yourself. It should command attention with its typeface and placement. For example, use a bold font, in a larger size than the surrounding text, and center it at eye-level.
Your contact information, including telephone number(s), mailing address and email address, should be listed in a way that is easy to find and read.
If you have a mission statement, a promotional catch-phrase, or a call-to-action that expresses your purpose for marketing, then include it on your marketing materials. This is your opportunity to sell yourself, so be creative. For example, if you are marketing yourself for the dog therapy service you provide, you might include text like, "I can help Fido through his ruff times."
Include your logo on every piece of marketing material you produce.

