 There are no laundry facilities in the woods surrounding Camp Crystal Lake. If you want to really sell the costume, distress them artificially until they look more like Jason’s from the movies. Wash the garments multiple times to soften them up, then bury them in the ground, drag them behind a car or cut them up strategically with scissors to achieve a convincing appearance. The more ragged your clothes are, the more fright you’ll inspire!Buy used clothing at thrift stores or consignment shops for a bargain so that you can tear them up without feeling like you’re throwing money away.
Go over different sections of the clothing with a steel brush or coarse-grained sandpaper to make it look naturally frayed., Jason was ready for anything, and you should be too. Though his look changed subtly from film to film, certain accessories could almost always be found. A pair of thick yellow work gloves, for instance, a utility belt with pouches or a sheath for a hunting knife can make the difference between a generic Jason costume and a more detailed one.These accessories will look best when paired with a basic jumpsuit, echoing Jason’s formative look in Friday the 13th Parts 4-6., At the end of every Friday the 13th flick comes the big reveal when Jason’s mask comes off and the hideous face that lies beneath is exposed. Mimic these shocking scenes by wearing a mask underneath your hockey mask or pillowcase that gives you a stomach-turning, disfigured appearance. You can even find deluxe compound Halloween masks that layer detachable hockey masks over Jason’s ugly mug.Try to find a thin rubber mask that wears comfortably and will allow the hockey mask or pillowcase to fit over it easily.
If you don’t want to bother with wearing two separate masks, just slip on a bald cap under the hockey mask so that your own hair isn’t visible., Jason’s one true fear is water, and he once nearly met his fate while chained to a boulder at the bottom of Crystal Lake. For a little bonus detail, try winding a length of fake chains around your body and let the world know that it can’t keep you down. You can find plastic chain props at most Halloween costume suppliers, or you may be able to find some cheap chains made from real metal for a more realistic clink while you lurch about threatening hippies.Small touches like this are a great way to win favor with horror movie aficionados.

