 Dramatic mood swings may be an indication that counseling is useful for your mental health or the presence of a mental illness. Beyond normal moodiness during puberty, pregnancy, menopause or other stressful life events, serious mood swings can be an indication of a larger problem.


Mood swings are excessive or abrupt changes in your frame of mind or emotional status. For example, you may shift from euphoria to extreme sadness abruptly and often with no environmental trigger. These can indicative of mental health issues like bi-polar or a personality disorder. If you notice yourself or a friend experiencing persistent, worsening, mood swings, you should seek out mental health help. , If you or anyone you know is thinking about suicide, you should seek professional help immediately. Whether you’re thinking about taking your own life, or suspect a friend, it’s important to recognize this and seek help. Suicidal behavior and tendencies can vary from individual to individual. Some telltale signs include: talking about suicide, seeking out means of self-harm (such as pills or a gun), withdrawing from all social contact, rapid personality changes or engaging in risky, self-destructive behavior.
There’s help. Suicidal thoughts can be scary and even embarrassing but no one needs to face it alone. You should reach out to a close friend or loved one and make an appointment with a counselor. If these aren’t options, call a suicide prevention hotline like 800-273-TALK.
 Although suicide is an extreme version of self-harm, other forms can be an indication of emotional pain and distress that could benefit from a professional.


Self-harm can include cutting one’s skin, burning one’s self or even sticking objects in your skin. If you notice a friend who may be doing these, or if you are yourself, there are safer long-term ways to deal with stresses that cause self-harm.
 Addiction and mental health have strong links and individuals often self-medicate. If you or a friend increasingly find drugs or alcohol as a way to cope with emotional issues like stress or anger, it might be time to seek out help in order to find safer alternatives. Although it’s fine for legal aged adults to have a drink to unwind, there are early warning signs that an over reliance on substances may be problematic. These include a family history of addiction, neglecting responsibilities because of substance use, dangerous and reckless behavior while intoxicated, needing more of a substance for the desired effect and spending increased time thinking and using the substance. If you notice these characteristics in yourself or someone you know, a mental health counselor may be able to find other more healthy coping mechanisms.

