 Tie an adjustable knot onto your crochet hook near the hooked end.


To form a slipknot, make a loop with the end of the yarn.
Slide the crochet hook into the loop and wrap the long end of the yarn over the hook.
Pull the yarn through the loop.
Tighten the loop onto the hook to complete the knot.
 This beginning chain will give you the width of the scarf.


To make a chain stitch, grab yarn from the long side (the side attached to the skein) and pull it through the loop on your hook. This completes a single chain stitch.
 Work one double crochet into the fourth chain presently from the hook, not the fourth chain you created. Chain stitch once before working another double crochet into the same chain stitch you worked the first double crochet into.


To make a double crochet, yarn over the hook before inserting the hook into the stitch.
Yarn over the hook from the back and pull it through to the front.
Yarn over the hook once more. Pull this newest yarn over through the first of the three loops previously on your hook.
Yarn over the hook again and pull it through the remaining two loops on your hook to complete the stitch.
 You will need to skip over a few chain stitches and double crochet twice into a few others.


Skip two chain stitches.
Work one double crochet into the next stitch.
Chain stitch once.
Work another double crochet into the same stitch.
Repeat this pattern three more times until the end of the chain.
For the last stitch of the original chain, work in one double crochet, chain once, and double crochet again into the same stitch.
 The first full row will use a similar pattern of double crochets, but instead of skipping stitches, you will double crochet into the spaces or gaps made by the previous row.


Turn the scarf.
Work one double crochet into the first space of the foundational row.
Chain once and double crochet into the next space made by the previous row. This will be the center of each "v" shape. Continue this pattern along the length of the row until you reach the end.
Finish the row with a double crochet in the last space, chaining three times to provide turning space.
 The exact number of times you should repeat this row pattern will vary based on how long you want the scarf to be.


The recommended length is 60 inches (1.5 m).
Double crochet into the first gap, chain once, and double crochet into the next gap. Repeat this pattern for the entire length and end each row with three more chains.
 Cut the yarn, leaving at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) of yarn as a tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook to make a knot.


The tail should be a little longer than the width of the scarf since it will be used to join the ends together.
 Bring the ends together so that they line up evenly. Weave the yarn through the stitches of both ends using a whip stitch to join the ends together. Trim the remainder of the tail.


Insert the yarn through the eye of the needle.
Pull the strand of yarn through the lowest stitch of both ends. Start with the end your yarn is still attached to and work through that one and the other end in the same stroke.
Insert the needle into the next stitch of both pieces in the same manner. Pull through the complete one whip stitch.
Continue along the two ends in this manner until you stitch along the entire span.
Tie the yarn off to finish the piece.

