 If you are going to try to match your hair color with a suitable dye, you need a sample of what your natural hair color looks like. Grow your roots out at least 1 inch before attempting to find a matching shade., Using your roots as a guide, select a color of hair dye that is as close as possible to your natural color. If you can afford it, visit a professional colorist; they can match your color more precisely than home products. If you are on a tight budget, visit your local beauty supply store and ask a worker to help you select the right shade. Then head back home and dye your hair.If applying the color yourself, first read all packaging for specific directions.
Mix the developer with the color. If you are using a box dye, these will be measured out for you. If you have purchased separate developer and color, read the instructions and follow them.
Part your hair into 4-8 sections and apply the product to your roots.
Spread the product through the rest of your hair, making sure to saturate all of it.
Set a timer and wait.
Rinse your hair.
 If your dyed color is quite a bit different from your natural color, it may not be possible (or advisable) to dye your hair back to your natural color right away. Instead, you can use highlights (if your natural color is lighter) or lowlights (if your natural color is darker). You can add additional highlights or lowlights every 3-4 weeks until you have sufficiently disguised your roots. Then simply allow your hair to continue growing out.


Both highlights and lowlights are best done by a professional colorist.
Explain to your colorist that you want to move toward your natural color and they can help you.
 If your hair has been bleached and you want to grow it out, a fun option is to use bright funky colors to cover your roots as they grow. When you first apply bright colors (such as purple, hot pink, or teal), they will cover your roots and your hair. As the colors fade with each shampoo, your roots will become more prominent. But when you are going for a fun funky look like this, you can get away with showing some dark roots.


Try Manic Panic brand hair dye.
Apply a mix of 2-3 different colors for a more dynamic look that will better disguise your roots.
With Manic Panic (and most semi-permanent dyes) you do not use developer. Simply apply to paste directly to dry hair and wait 20-30 minutes. Then rinse.

