 There are numerous activities at your local park that can provide sensory stimulation, education, and enrichment for your blind or visually impaired child. A play date at the park also is a great idea if your child has a friend without significant vision impairment.You might pull up plants and examine the roots with your child, or catch bugs. They also may have fun exploring playgrounds, swinging on swings or running their hands over the equipment to see how it's put together.
If you live in the United States, you might try NPR's directory of accessible playgrounds nationwide. Just visit www.playgroundsforeveryone.com and type in an address to begin., Because petting zoos focus on the senses of touch, smell, and hearing, they can be great places for a blind or visually impaired child to explore the world and connect with different kinds of animals.The animals at petting zoos typically are very calm and tame, and will allow your child to explore them.
Talk to your child about the animal they are touching, the part of that animal the child is touching, and what that animal does. When the child touches a different animal, talk about the differences between the two.
 Many libraries and museums have play-date type activities specifically designed for blind and visually impaired kids. These events can help your child explore their community as well as giving them the opportunity to meet other blind or visually impaired kids their age.Your local library or community center may have a bulletin board where information about activities and events are posted. You also may be able to find this information on the library's website.
If your city government has a community events page on its website, you also may be able to find information there.
Ask at local museums, especially children's museums, to find out if they have special events or specific days for blind or visually impaired kids.
 If your child enjoys the water, backyard water slides, wading pools, or fountains can provide a fun activity for a play date, especially on hot days. You don't have to get fancy – often a simple garden hose is enough.Keep in mind that if there are too many elements, they can get overwhelming. Try to limit your water play activities to one or two things.
If your child doesn't like cold water, you might try running the hose from the kitchen sink so you can use warm water.
If you make a slide in the backyard, you can use other liquids on the surface, such as whipped cream, so the kids can enjoy different sensations. Just make sure the liquid you use isn't too slick.
 If you live in or near a more rural area, you may be able to find a working berry farm where you can take your blind or visually impaired child along with a friend. Picking berries engages your child's senses of touch, hearing, and taste.This also can be an educational experience, because the child will learn where berries come from and how they are harvested.
Call ahead to the farm before you go and let them know you will have a child who is blind or visually impaired. They may be able to offer specific accommodations, or may have special events for blind and visually impaired kids.
 Fishing is another activity that is both fun and educational. While you'll typically have to help with things like baiting the hook and removing the fish from the line, blind or visually impaired kids can still actively fish themselves.Catching a fish can give your child a sense of accomplishment. The process also teaches your child where fish come from and how they are caught for eating.
Holding and touching a fish presents a unique sensory experience for the child, who will be able to feel the muscles in the fish and the flapping gills.
If you go somewhere that doesn't require catch-and-release, you also have the opportunity to take the caught fish home and cook them. This will give the child a better sense of how food gets to their plate.

