 If possible, you should also send a shipment with military troops. As soon as your barracks are built, start building troops. When you have an army of 10-20 men including your explorer, go for an attack. This attack is far from the final blow, but it can be really decisive.
If you've done a good job of scouting, you might be able to locate the enemy's villagers. At least some of them are likely to be hunting out of reach from towers and enemy forces. Raiding these will give you an advantage. First of all, villagers cost resources so just by killing a few villagers you can force your opponent to spend money on something else than military troops. Second, a dead villager doesn't collect resources, you can add all the resources a villager could have been gathered to the loss. Thirdly, you're denying the enemy player resources. Hopefully he will retreat his villagers and in this period of time he will, of course, not be able to gather resources with those villagers.
Note that this isn't a rush. It's called harassment and its purpose is not to defeat the enemy base. Therefore, keep your troops alive and do not attack buildings. In fact, you should ignore towers and trading posts. With some luck and skill you will be able to take the lead at this point through a stronger economy.
 Many players are unable to focus on both building their home base and engaging in military operations, and it is simply something that takes practice. The buildings you need the most at this point are the market, if you hadn't already built it, and the stable. You can expect your population to go up, so try to stay ahead of the curve and build houses.
 Instead of going for the very early harass, you could wait for the enemy to come to you. When he attacks you, take out his force with the support from towers etc and immediately go for a counter-attack.
 You may wish to age up again quickly, or if things are going well, keep producing and sending units. If you feel that you can produce units faster than the enemy can kill yours even with you sitting in his base, do just that. Build one more barracks and pump out troops as fast as possible. You might also be able to take this path to victory if you're able to take down the enemy barracks. If your enemy is aging up, you want to age up as well in most cases.

