 The main source of trehalose is mushrooms. It’s found in shiitake, parasol, shingled hedgehog, oyster, king oyster, golden needle, nameko, maitake, and Judas’s ear mushrooms.Since mushrooms have many health benefits, including immune support, various vitamins and minerals including selenium, vitamin C, and vitamin D, and antioxidant functions, mushrooms are a great option.
There is no recommended amount of mushrooms to eat. The trehalose content varies from one species to another and the content of trehalose can depend somewhat on whether the mushroom is fresh, frozen, cooked, or raw. The best recommendation would be to include mushrooms, shiitake or any other favorite, into your diet about three to four times a week.;
, Sunflower seeds are another source of trehalose.Toss some sunflower seeds onto your salads, into your entrees, or just eat them as a snack.


Sunflower seeds contain monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, which can help promote cardiovascular health. They are also a great source of vitamin E, B-vitamins, and iron., Shrimp have small amounts of trehalose, as do lobsters.Choose shrimp or lobster for your entrees occasionally so you can ingest some naturally.


Shrimp is also a lean source of protein. It is also very low in calories, so it is a healthier option than meat in your dishes.Lobster provides omega-3 fatty acids, along with copper, zinc, selenium, phosphorus, magnesium, vitamin E, and vitamin B12. It is also relatively low in calories while being a good source of protein., Trehalose is a relatively new product, but companies are starting to sell it in bulk to the public. These bags of trehalose can be used for baking or in the place of sugar or artificial sweeteners.You can find trehalose at Whole Foods Market, some health markets or health food stores, and through online retailers.
 Trehalose is also available as a supplement from a number of different suppliers. A common dose is 5 grams, or about one teaspoon, mixed into 8 ounces of water or other liquid one to two times a day.Trehalose can also be used to substitute for sugar. You can use about twice as much trehalose as table sugar.
Make sure to follow manufacturer’s directions when using trehalose as a supplement. Read the label carefully and adhere to their dosage suggestions.
It is only about half as sweet as table sugar, but understand that it may raise your blood glucose levels. Diabetic individuals should only use trehalose while under the care of a physician, though it is advertised as having a moderate glycemic index.

