 Open your browser of choice and type in www.elance.com on the search bar.;
, Enter your email address and password into the text fields to the right, and click on “Sign In” to access your account.
 After you log in, you will land on your job screen. To get to your profile page, click on your username, which is on the top-right portion of the screen. From the drop-down menu that appears, scroll down the options and select “Profile.”

, Once your profile page is up, you will see profile sections at the bottom of the left side of the screen. Click on the “Contact Info” tab.
 Once you click on “Contact Info,” click on the blue “Edit” button beside your name on the next page to bring up the Edit screen, where you can make changes by inputting data in the corresponding text fields.
 The first two boxes on the Edit screen are for your first and last names, and the third is for your title (Ms., Mr., Mrs., and so on). Edit this part just in case you had previously entered a nickname and now want to use your full name, or perhaps had a change in civil status and you want that reflected. Otherwise, leave the information unchanged.
 Simply click inside the box, and type in your email address or the new one you would like to use for your emails and messages in the future.
 Click each box, and type in your phone number and then your fax number, if you have one.
 If you have a website, LinkedIn account, or a similar business account, just go to your site in another tab. Copy your website URL then go back to your Elance page and paste the URL into the URL box. Click on “Paste” to post the link.
 You can now enter three messenger locations. Type your username into the box, and click on the drop-down list beside it. Locate the IM service you’re using, and click on it.
 Click the boxes in this section to enter in your address. Start with your street address, followed by your city and state (click on the drop-down menu, scroll through the states and click on “Select” when you see yours). Complete your address information by clicking on the “Zip Code” box and typing in your zip code.


Specify how you want your address to be displayed to other people, or if it is to be displayed at all. Click on the option that you are most comfortable with, i.e., no information shown or to show all of it.
 This is the final portion where you must specify whether or not to limit the information people will have access to. Select the ones you want shown by clicking on the corresponding bubble next to the option you prefer.
 Give your additions and changes a once-over. Once you’re satisfied that everything is correct, click on the green “Save” button at the bottom of the page. Once you do, your Elance contact information will be updated.

