 Do you want to get a raise or promotion? Do you want to persuade your coworkers to support one of your pet projects? Or do you simply want to date someone you work with? All these things are easier when people find you attractive.Dating a coworker can be messy. If this is your goal, carefully consider the repercussions if the relationship were to go south: you might get fired, transferred, reassigned, or just have to endure an unpleasant work environment where you face your ex every day.
 Don’t try to become more attractive to everyone at work. Do not date multiple people in your workplace or you may get a bad reputation. Dress and tailor your appearance to appeal to the individual whose affections you seek.


Find out what the person whose interest you’re trying to attract is into. What makes them laugh? What impresses them? What music do they like to listen to? Having a common interest with someone will make you more attractive in their eyes.
 Certain physical positions can nonverbally express that you’re available and interested in someone. When you show you’re interested, the person you want to appear more attractive to will see it as a green light and if they’re interested too, they will reciprocate. Laugh loudly or spread your arms out if you’re a man. If you’re a woman, make eye contact, look down for a bit and gather or comb your hair. Then, look up at the person you want to attract without bringing your chin up., There’s a fine line between acting interested in your coworker's life and being potentially invasive. Be approachable and act interested in all of your coworkers, but don’t go overboard with personal comments or questions.


Ask very open-ended questions (“How are you?”, “What are you working on these days?”) about your co-worker's personal and working life and let them give you the cue as to how much information they're willing to share.
Remember people’s names and their life details. People tend to find you more attractive when you continue to call them by name and if you demonstrate that you actually know something personal about them. For example, you could say, “Hi Bob, how was your mom’s 75th birthday party last weekend?” Remembering these specifics shows that you care, which definitely makes you attractive to others.
Spend time establishing your ability to be confidential. Once they know you're a good listener, they'll find you more attractive.
Don't support office gossip or undermining talk. Let others know that you won't be drawn into gossip or casting aspersions on others in the workplace.
 Be generous with your time and earn the reputation that you're the kind of person who is helpful without being conditional. Assisting others with no hope of reward is the kind of quality which attracts others.
 “Great job on that report” is a kind comment which will make them feel good. You can also, within reason, praise a coworker’s appearance. “That’s a nice tie” is an acceptable compliment which could attract your coworker. “Your butt looks great in those pants” is an inappropriate comment which constitutes sexual harassment.
 Consult coworkers for their insight and solicit their participation in projects or even a personal dilemma, depending on the extent of trust within your relationship. During a group project, turn to a coworker and ask what he/she thinks about a certain statistic or idea. Bringing people together and getting involved can be pretty sexy, especially when individuals feel that you have personally made an effort to help their talents shine in front of others.
 Make yourself more attractive to others in the office by forming more personal relationships with those coworkers you feel a connection with.


Plan outings, dinners, and events with your coworkers so you grow closer with them.
Be as inclusive as possible of other coworkers you're less inclined to want to spend outside-of-work time with. Have a chat at the water cooler, find out about their pets or children, and ask after them regularly. Don’t exclusively yourself In other words, spread your charm around.
 A brainy individual who does what he or she sets out to do! Demonstrate your powerhouse intellect while working on a collaborative project or presentation, in a way that bolsters everyone's participation and leaves nobody out. Always be subtle, and don’t brag.


Be a dependable, stand-out employee––someone that every coworker (and boss) knows will get the job done above and beyond expectations.
Be that “go to” person that everyone knows is the best man or woman for the job. More than being just someone to "go to", be a willing guide, teacher or mentor to others. When everyone knows you're willing to both listen and give useful advice, you'll attract positive attention.

