 If you are walking in a park, picnic area, or other location at which you have no control over how tall the grass and weeds are, you should avoid areas with tall vegetation and stick to well-worn paths.Avoid unmowed fields and walk in the center of mowed trails to avoid accidentally brushing up against taller vegetation.
Chiggers need well-hidden vegetation that offers plenty of shade and moisture in order to thrive. Tall vegetation provides the perfect environment, which is why you should avoid it if you want to avoid chiggers.
 If you have no choice but to go into an outdoor area with tall vegetation, you should prevent chiggers from attaching themselves to your skin by concealing as much skin as possible. Wear long sleeves, long pants, and tall boots.


You should also opt for tightly-woven fabrics over airy, loosely-woven ones. Chiggers are small enough to find their way in between the gaps present between threads of loosely-woven fabrics, but they will have a significantly harder time finding their way through clothes with smaller gaps.
 Chiggers can find their way to your skin by hopping onto your clothes and crawling underneath. To get rid of them before this happens, you should seal off any openings to your skin as best as possible.Tuck your socks into your pants or your pant legs into your socks, sealing off the gap of skin between them.
If venturing into tall grass or weeds, consider tying off your sleeves around the wrists with rubber bands or ribbon.
When possible, wear clothes with zippers over clothes with buttons.
 Certain strong odors, including sulfur powder, have a tendency to drive chiggers away. Sprinkle a fine dusting of sulfur powder into your shoes and/or socks to drive off any chiggers lurking in the grass and weeds by your feet.


For even better protection, consider sprinkling a light dusting of sulfur powder over the inside of your shirt and pants.
Note that sulfur powder does have a potent odor, which may make it a less than ideal solution if you have a particularly sensitive sense of smell.
 Quickly brushing over any exposed skin on your arms and legs every half hour or so may help you to get rid of any chiggers hanging out on your body.


To the same end, you can also brush off your clothes to help remove chiggers from your garments, as well.
 Even though chiggers do not often hang around low-cut grass, if that grass is near taller vegetation, you should avoid sitting or lying on it. Chiggers can migrate to those areas, and exposing the bare skin of you neck and face could cause chiggers to bite and attach themselves there.
 If you were outside in an area often infested by chiggers, you should take a hot bath or shower immediately after coming back inside.To ensure extermination, you should lather, rinse, and repeat several times during the shower. The water must also be hot, rather than lukewarm.
Vigorously scrub your skin with a washcloth to dislodge any chiggers that may have attached themselves to your skin.
If chiggers did attach themselves to your skin, you may have to deal with the bug bite afterward. Itching associated with chigger bites can be temporarily relieved with benzocaine ointment, hydrocortisone cream, and calamine lotion. You may also be able to reduce itching with petroleum jelly, baby oil, or fingernail polish.
 If you suspect that you may have been exposed to chiggers while you were outside, you can get rid of any hiding out in your clothes by washing the garments in hot, soapy water.


The water should reach a minimum of 125 degrees Fahrenheit (52 degrees Celsius).
The washing cycle should last for 30 minutes or more to ensure extermination.
After washing your clothes, you can dry them in a drying machine or in the sunlight.
Do not wear chigger-infested clothes before washing them. Do not wash the clothes in cool water, since this will not get rid of the chiggers.

