 If you really want to reinvent yourself, then you need to understand that reinvention is a never-ending process. Though you may reach your set goals, if you want to be an improved, well-rounded person, you should recognize that there is always more to learn. This will keep you from being complacent and will continue to drive your hunger for knowledge. Here are some traditional and non-traditional ways to get an education:


If you've been thinking about going back to school for the last few years, it's time to put down your reservations and apply, no matter how old you are or how insecure you feel. You should enroll in courses at your local community college or a university to improve yourself, especially if you need a more formal education to reach your career goals.
Read works by experts on subjects you want to know about. You can learn a lot about almost any given topic by getting the information straight from the horse's mouth. You can make a goal of learning about one completely new subject each week.
Travel. Seeing the world in all its glory can help you change your perspective and will help you become more open-minded and learn about how other parts of the world function on a daily basis.
Learn a new language. Taking a language class in person, online, or through a textbook can help you expand your brain and learn to think in more than one set way.
 Reading is the key to expanding your learning. If you don't read, you won't be able to gain knowledge and work to become your best self. You can read a variety of materials, from newspapers, fiction, historical nonfiction, memoirs, or science journals. Anything you read, as long as it comes from a credible source, will help you build knowledge and become a more well-rounded person. Here are some great things to read:


Read philosophy. Philosophy will expand your worldview and will show that the world is more complicated than it seems. It will also open up more ways of viewing your daily life, and will help you improve the vision you have of the future you.
Read international fiction. Reading works by authors from different countries will help you gain an understanding of how people live on the others side of the world. Reading about other countries is also a great way to travel without moving from your couch.
Read the newspaper. Make a goal of reading the newspaper for just 10-15 minutes a day, so that you feel more complete as you follow current events and have a stronger sense of how the world works.
Read the classics. Indulge in Tolstoy, Dickens, or Poe, and you'll feel like you have a more well-informed knowledge of the history of literature. And after all, literature can teach you a lot about how to live, and many classics are about a central character who is trying to reinvent himself.
 The people around you can be just as useful of a resource as a college class or a classic novel. Take the time to talk to the people around you to see what valuable knowledge they can impart, and how they can give you the skills you need to fully tackle your reinvention goals. Here are a few ways to learn from others:


Ask a close friend to teach you a skill. If you have a friend who cooks like a world-class chef, dances like a professional, or just really loves watercolor painting, ask if the friend can spend an afternoon with you to teach you the ropes.
Ask your colleagues for work-related help. Talk to people who have been working at your company longer than you and ask a few questions that can help improve your productivity or the way you approach your work. And if you're looking for a career change, talk to some people who are experts in your new career of choice, and see what advice they can give you.
Talk to your older relatives. Take the time to talk to your older relatives, not only for life advice, but to learn more about your family history. You don't want to be left with tons of questions about your family's past when it's too late.
 Almost every person has trouble focusing at one point or another, and the better you are at focusing, the more equipped you'll feel to gain knowledge and to work towards achieving your goals. No matter what you may think, any person can improve his focus if he just puts in the hard work. Here are a few ways to do it:


Be more organized. Keep a clear work space, a logical filing system, and a decluttered home. If you know where everything is all the time, it'll be easier for you to concentrate on any given tasks.
Learn to avoid distractions. Spend less time browsing the Internet, watching shows that don't matter, or texting your friends nonstop instead of just making one phone call. Push away all of the things that are keeping you from accomplishing your goals.
Let yourself take a break. Part of focusing means taking breaks after every hour of intense work. If you don't let your mind rest from time to time, it will be harder from you to accomplish your goals, whether it's to finish writing a paper or to change your entire outlook.

