 The cup will prevent the balloon from rolling away while you work.;
, This will be your papier-mâché glue., Newspaper works best, but you can also use plain newsprint paper from the craft store instead. Don't cut the paper; the ragged edges will help the paper seal together and give you a smoother finish.


Consider using both newspaper and tissue paper. This way, when you do multiple layers, you will be able to see which one you are working on.Avoid using plain printer paper or construction paper. Both are too thick and too stiff for this project.
 Drag the strip across the edge of the bowl as you pull it out. This will remove any excess glue. Place it down near the top of the balloon. Use your fingers or a paintbrush to smooth the paper down so that it lays flat against the balloon.
 Overlap the strips slightly as you work from one end of the balloon to the other. Work your way from the top of the balloon all the way down to the tail end. Do not cover the tail, or you won't be able to remove the balloon.
 You don't have to dip these strips of paper into the glue. Simply stick them to the wet paper that's already on the balloon, and use your fingers or a paintbrush to smooth down the edges.Consider using a tissue paper or plain newsprint for this layer. This way, you will be able to see what's cover and what isn't.
Two layers is ideal for eggs that you want to cut open. If you want a sturdier egg, apply a third layer. You may have to use some extra glue for this one., Use a clothespin to clip the balloon to a hanger or clothesline. Wait for it to dry completely before moving on. It may take up to 2 or 3 days., Once the egg is completely dry, gently tug the balloon tail up so that you expose a bit of the balloon. Pierce it with a pin or pair of scissors and wait for the balloon to deflate. Once it is completely deflated, pull it out and discard it.
 Use the same technique as you did for the rest of your egg. If you wish to fill your egg, then do so before covering up the hole.
 To make the paint really stand out, coat the entire egg using white primer and let it dry. Once you have your white base, you can paint your egg any color you want.
 Once your base color has dried, you can paint designs onto it. You can also draw designs using glitter glue or puffy paints instead.Great Easter designs include: stripes, dots, and squiggles. Try to use soft, pastel colors.
 Once all the paint has dried, spray or paint the eggs with a glossy sealer. You can even use a glittery sealer to give it some extra sparkle.This will help make them more durable.


If you'd like, you can cut the egg in half using jagged, zigzag lines so that it resembles a cracked open egg. When you are done, you can fill each half with fake grass, and place a little chick or bunny figure in each.

