 If you are taking a proctored IQ test, find out all of the details well in advance by contacting the testing center or the test program officers. Ask if there is any paperwork that you’ll need to bring with you. Find out what items you are allowed to bring in to the testing room.


Many IQ tests are simply done online now, eliminating at least some of these worries. However, IQ groups such as Mensa will only accept scores created under a specific testing process., Some IQ tests give you one hour to finish the questions while others operate without a time limit. Find out in advance how long you’ll have for the test then divide this by the number of questions asked. This will give you a rough idea of how much time you can spend on each question.
 All IQ tests are a bit different but they usually cover the same basics. Look for questions about spatial reasoning, verbal knowledge, and quantitative understanding. Memory and retention questions are spread throughout. “Emotional intelligence” and creativity are generally not measured, creating a disadvantage for certain out-of-the-box thinkers.It is a good idea to practice your basic math and vocabulary skills headed into any IQ test as these types of questions are ever-present., Before taking the test, try to set a score goal for yourself. The raw score for most tests is the result of the number of correct answers. Some tests also factor in your age as well. Your raw score is then converted into your IQ by comparing it to the scores of other test-takers. You will also see a percentile ranking showing how your IQ stacks up against others., As you proceed through the test, increase your odds of choosing the correct answer by instantly identifying and disregarding those options that are incorrect. Each time you do this you make your final choice a bit easier and more precise.For example, on a question with answers A through D, try to scratch out the least likely option before making your final choice.
 This is especially helpful when dealing with visual or listing questions. Recognize that you are being tested on your ability to perceive order amongst the chaos. If you see a question that at first appears totally disorganized it is your job to look for a potential organization that works. Think about it that way and the questions are not so intimidating., Spatial aptitude segments of an IQ test will often show a series of geometric or odd shapes sometimes with additional symbols placed therein. When you see a question like this remember that your point of view is not fixed. You can rotate the image in your mind or simply turn the paper until a pattern or solution emerges., It goes without saying but while you are taking the test remove all outside distractions. Turn off and put away your cell phone. Arrange it so that you are not disturbed. Paying attention to a task beyond the test, even briefly, could lower your IQ score by 10 points or more.