 Formatting a drive will erase all of the data on a drive, so make sure that everything you need to save is backed up to a safe location. You can then restore this data to your new drive.


You cannot back up installed programs. These will need to be reinstalled on your new drive. You can, however, usually back up settings and preference files.
See this guide for details on backing up your data.;
, If you are formatting a new drive, it will need to be installed in your system. See this guide for instructions on installing an internal hard drive. If the drive is external, plug it into the computer via USB.
 This can be accessed from the Start menu, or by pressing ⊞ Win+E. This window displays all of the drives connected to your computer.
 Select Format... This will open the Windows disk formatting tool.


Make sure you select the right drive. Everything will be deleted when the drive is formatted.
 The file system is the way that the hard drive stores and catalogs files. The file system will determine what the drive is compatible with. If the drive is internal and you are only using it with your Windows computer, select NTFS. If the drive is external, select FAT32 or exFAT.


FAT32 and exFAT can be written to and read by all newer operating systems. FAT32 is an older system, and doesn't support files larger than 4 GB, but can be read by virtually any operating system. exFAT has no restrictions, but won't work with older operating systems like Windows 95.
In general, exFAT will be the best option for an external drive. It is compatible with the most systems and can store the largest files.
 If you are primarily using the drive for one use, giving it a name will help you identify what's on it. For example, if you are using a second drive to store your music, movies, and pictures, naming it "Media" will quickly let you know what it contains.
 A Quick Format will perform the format much quicker than a standard format, and is fine for most users. Only perform a regular format if you suspect that the drive may have errors. A regular format may be able to correct some of these errors.


The Quick Format option does not affect how securely the data is erased. If you need to securely wipe the drive, see the last section of this article.
 Click Start to begin the format. Click OK to confirm that you understand everything will be erased. If you selected Quick Format, the process should only take a few seconds.