 The first strip should be 45 inches (114 cm) long and 4 inches (10 cm) wide. The second strip should be 45 inches (114 cm) long and 5 inches (12.5 cm) wide.


Experiment with different types of fabric to produce different results. Most medium-weight or heavy-weight fabrics will be easy to work with, especially if they are fray-resistant. Avoid lightweight materials, stretchy materials, or materials that fray easily.
 Fold the long edges of both strips. Use a hot iron to press along the folded edges, holding them in place.


For each edge, you should fold down roughly 1/4 inch (0.6 cm). The exact measurement doesn't matter too much for this project, but the fold must be even along the entire edge.
 Fold both strips in half crosswise, halving the total length from 45 inches (114 cm) to approximately 22.5 inches (57 cm).


Use an iron to press this fold, as well.
 Tie an overhand knot into one end of the thinner strip. Position the knot as close to the end as possible.


This knot will give you a starting point for the rolls you'll need to form. It should also prevent this end of the material from fraying.
 Roll the fabric around the knot one full rotation. After that, continue rolling the fabric behind the knot until you reach the end of the strip.


Make sure that each consecutive layer stays behind the starting knot. The covered knot will need to be positioned at the top center of the flower.
After the first few rotations, you will need to begin twisting the layers as you wrap them to create rounded points along the perimeter.
Each layer should gradually extend further out, and the back of the flower should look fairly flat.
 Insert a few straight pins through the stacked layers of the first strip to hold the entire thing together.


Set this first strip aside temporary.
 Follow the same steps used to roll the first strip to roll the second, wider strip.


Tie a knot on one end of the strip.
Wrap the strip around this starting knot.
Continue wrapping the strip around this point, twisting and stacking the layers as you go.
Pin the layers together when you finish stacking them.
The final circumference of this wider strip should be almost twice as large as the circumference of the thinner strip.
 Place the smaller stacked strip on top of the larger one, keeping the two aligned at the center. Use a sewing needle and thread to stitch the two stacks together.


Thread the needle with thread that matches the color of the fabric.
Start from the center of the flower and work outward, crossing across as many layers as possible.
Keep your stitches hidden beneath overlapping layers.
When you have stitched through the entire flower, tie a secure knot at the end of the thread.
 Remove all remaining straight pins and check the layers to verify that none of them are loose.


Loose layers can be tacked together with a needle and thread or a dot of hot glue.

