 Put your dog’s name, your name, address, and cell phone number on your dog’s tags. It’s preferable that your dog wears a collar with tags at all times, especially before a storm or disaster. Consider having your dog microchipped, but remember a microchip works best when paired with an identification tag.If your dog goes missing during extreme weather or an emergency situation, the average person won’t be able to scan for a microchip. They will, however, be able to read a tag with your name and number listed.
The best protection for your dog is a combination of tags and a microchip. Chips can be scanned by most vets, shelters, and dog wardens, and offer an additional layer of security if your dog's tags become lost.
An individual can have a professional scan for a chip, which will pull up your contact information and help them reunite you with your pet.;
, Sensitivity during a storm can lead to anxious behavior, so it’s important to try to keep your dog calm. Try staying in an interior room without windows, give your dog praise and treats when it’s calm during a storm, and consider investing in a snug-fitting calming jacket., Call your local emergency management office and ask about area pet-friendly shelters. Keep a list handy of shelters or hotels that are dog-friendly options before an extreme weather emergency occurs.Be sure to ask about any breed or size restrictions.
Make a reservation as soon as you decide to evacuate or if a mandatory evacuation is ordered.
 Prepare food and water for you and your pet for at least five days. Include your pet’s medications, proof of its vaccinations, and copies of medical records. Keep emergency numbers handy, such as your vet’s number and the contact information of an emergency animal clinic in your area or near where you’re staying during an evacuation.Be sure to pack a manual can opener if you include canned food in your emergency kit.
Pack a portable pet first aid kit that includes gauze, saline solution, hydrogen peroxide, and pet bandages.
 In the event that you don’t evacuate during extreme weather, make sure your dog knows how to follow the “Come!” command word. If you need to quickly proceed to your basement or safe interior area to escape an extreme weather threat, pulling a stubborn dog will cost valuable time.Practice drills regularly. Start off by offering your dog a treat when teaching your dog to come or proceed to a designated safe area. Be sure to gradually eliminate a treat reward, since you might not be able to find a treat in the event of an emergency.
 You might be out of town or away from your home during an extreme weather event, so ask a neighbor or local friend or family member to act as an emergency caregiver. It’s best to choose someone you trust and who has experience handling pets.Make sure they have a key, list of care instructions, emergency contact numbers, and access to your dog’s medications.

