 Women kissing women has become more common in popular culture over recent years. If the woman is open about a past experience with a woman, there is a chance she would want to do it again.


You would need to gather more information, though, such as whether she liked doing it, who initiated it, and the context surrounding what happened.
If her past or present includes girl-on-girl porn, that’s another dead giveaway. If a woman enjoys watching a woman pleasure another woman, there’s a chance she’s imagining what it would be like to feel that way herself.
 Start generically. Ask which celebrity she has a crush on, and see if she names a woman. Or ask directly which female celebrity she finds the most attractive, and why, and see how she responds.


Bring up issues in the news like gay marriage to see how she reacts. Such issues can be contentious, but broaching them can give you clues about her sexuality.
You could mention that you are gay or bi to see how she reacts. Recognize that being bisexual can be a very confusing experience for some people. She might be very unclear about any of it, so resist the urge to label and seek bottom-line pronouncements. Just gather information.
 The best way to find out if a woman is bisexual is to ask her. Do this in a roundabout way at first, though, and if she’s giving you more signals she might be bisexual, eventually come out and ask. For example, start by inquiring what she thinks of bisexuality. Or whether she’s ever found another woman attractive. Or whether she’s ever kissed a girl.
If you show an openness and genuine empathy and interest in her experiences, without judgment or pressure, she may level with you. Don’t be over serious. Ask in a casual, light-hearted way.
 A woman might be bi-curious, meaning she wants to explore sexual activity with a member of the opposite sex.


Such a person might be bisexual or they just aren’t sure. A bisexual person is clearly attracted to people of both sexes, not just in it to see if they are. Of course, a bi-curious person could learn they are bisexual with more experience. Sexuality can be very fluid.
 Bisexual women sometimes get sick of being asked clichés. It’s always a good idea to avoid generalizing any group of people and to instead get to know her as an individual.Insisting she must really be gay or implying that she’s bisexual because she wants to have a lot of sex with different people or insisting you can change her (and make her either straight or gay) are things to avoid.
Don’t assume she’s bisexual because she doesn’t like or had a bad experience with men. Let her explain how she sees her own bisexuality. Let her define herself and her experiences. Make her feel comfortable talking about it. Tell her how much you respect gay and bisexual people and how many friends you have that are bisexual. Let her know that you think it is okay and that she can trust you
Don’t make quick judgments about her. The bottom line is that, although there are some ways to get clues, there is no way to know for sure if someone is bisexual just by looking at them.

