 If you have been diagnosed with prediabetes, you should let your physician know how you have changed your diet to improve blood sugar control, lose weight, and reverse prediabetes. Get regular checkups, every three to six months, including blood tests as advised by your physician.Keep track of your labs so you can see how well you are doing and celebrate your progress.
 Certain factors make people more at risk for prediabetes. People at risk for prediabetes are:People who are overweight or obese.
People who exercise infrequently.
People who are older than 45 years old.
People with a family history of diabetes.
Women with a history of gestational diabetes.
African Americans, Mexican Americans, American Indians, Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders and Asian Americans, Often, there are no symptoms of prediabetes. If you see a physician regularly and have your blood tested, your physician may notice that your blood sugars tend to be on the high side, but not high enough to diagnose T2D. You may display symptoms of diabetes or have diabetes related problems with prediabetes.Fasting blood sugar levels between 100 to 125 mg/dL are suggestive of prediabetes.
Your doctor may also measure Hemoglobin A1C to test for prediabetes. This is a three-month average of blood sugar levels. Normal is under 5.7. A diagnosis of diabetes mellitus is made if two consecutive A1C tests are over 6.5. Patients with A1C between 5.7 and 6.5 have prediabetes.
One early sign that is a risk for T2D and that may signal prediabetes is a skin condition known as acanthosis nigricans. In acanthosis nigrican, the skin around the neck, armpits, elbows, knees, and knuckles get darker.You may also experience increased hunger, thirst, fatigue, weight gain, or increased urination.
 Just because you have prediabetes does not mean you will have type 2 diabetes. Prediabetes can be reversed by losing weight. You can also reverse the effect by changing the way you eat and exercise.


It is believed that almost all type 2diabetes could be prevented with diet and nutrition.