 Pour the contents of 1 28-ounce (794 g) can of tomato sauce, 1 6-ounce (170 g) can of tomato paste, and 2 14.5-ounce (411 g) cans of diced tomatoes into your slow cooker. Use a wooden spoon to mix the ingredients together.Your slow cooker must hold 6 quarts (5.7 l) or more for this recipe.
If possible, use fire-roasted diced tomatoes for the sauce.;
, Once all of the tomato ingredients are mixed in the slow cooker, add 2 bay leaves, ½ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of garlic powder, ½ teaspoon (¾ g) of dried basil, and ¾ teaspoon (1 g) of dried oregano. Stir well to incorporate all of the spices.You can mix in other spices that you like, such as crushed red pepper or dried thyme.
 When the spices are mixed in, add ½ cup (125 ml) of dry red wine. Mix well to ensure that the wine is fully incorporated.Adding the wine is optional. While it adds another layer of flavor, you can still make a delicious sauce without it.
 Place a large skillet on the stove, and add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to it. Turn the burner to medium, and allow the oil to heat for 3 to 5 minutes or until it starts to shimmer.For the best results, use a non-stick skillet.
 Once the oil is heated, add 1 large chopped onion to the skillet. Allow the onion to cook for 3 to 5 minutes or until it is soft and translucent., When the onion is soft, mix 3 cloves of minced garlic into the skillet. Allow the onion and garlic to cook for another 2 to 3 minutes or until the garlic becomes fragrant.To save time, you can use minced garlic from a jar.
In addition to the onion and garlic, you add other vegetables to the sauce. Mushrooms, chopped carrot, bell peppers, and/or celery all work well. Saute them with the onion and garlic for another 1 to 2 minutes, or until the vegetables are soft.
 Once the garlic and onion mixture is fully cooked, use a slotted spoon to carefully add it to the slow cooker. Mix the onion mixture into the sauce base, so it’s fully combined.If there is any oil left in the skillet, try to avoid adding it to the slow cooker with the onion and garlic.
 To ensure that your sauce is thick and rich, drape a clean dish towel over the slow cooker before you close it so the towel can absorb the excess moisture. Secure the lid over the towel to keep it in place., With the lid on the slow cooker, turn it to low. Allow the sauce to cook for 8 hours or until it’s thick and warmed through.If you want the sauce to be ready more quickly, cook it on high for 4 to 5 hours.
 When the sauce is finished cooking, take the bay leaves out of it. Next, give the sauce a taste. Season with salt and black pepper to taste.If the sauce has any bitterness, you can mix in 1 tablespoon (12 ½ g) of brown sugar to balance the flavors.
 When you’re happy with the taste of the sauce, ladle it over the hot pasta of your choice. While it’s called a spaghetti sauce, you can also use it with spaghettini, angel hair, capellini, linguine, penne, rigatoni, or ziti.The sauce also works well with stuffed pasta, such as ravioli or tortellini.
You can also use the sauce in your usual lasagna recipe.
This basic sauce also works well for pizza, parmigiana dishes, and heroes.
