 A vet will test the female dog to make sure that she is able to breed. The vet will check for eye problems, hip and elbow dysplasia, and diseases. Be sure to inform the vet that you are looking for a female dog to breed, and the vet will be able to tell you if this dog is a good choice or not.


Hormone testing can tell you how fertile a female dog is by evaluating her hormone levels. It can also give you a window of the best time to mate the dogs.Ask the vet to test for brucellosis. This is a bacterial disease that can spread during mating, and it can cause the dam to lose the litter or to become infertile.Genetic testing can inform you if the dog is a carrier for any genetic disorders. While susceptibility to genetic disorders can vary from breed to breed, some common ones include hip or elbow dysplasia, autoimmune diseases such as skin, blood, and thyroid disorders, or progressive retinal atrophy., A dog that is too young or too old may have problems when carrying a litter of puppies. Furthermore, some kennel clubs will not register a litter of puppies born from a dog that is below or above a certain age. In general, large dogs can start breeding between 18 and 24 months of age; medium dogs can breed between 15 and 18 months of age, and small dogs can start breeding between 12 and 18 months.If you have a young dog, you should avoid breeding her when she first goes into heat. Although the dog is sexually mature, she may be too young to successfully carry a litter of puppies.
While the age can vary from breed to breed, generally eight years of age is considered too old to breed a female dog.If the dog has just given birth to another litter, wait for a few successive heats to pass until you breed her again. This allows her to fully heal from the first pregnancy., An over or underweight dog can have many problems during pregnancy. Ideal weights vary from breed to breed. If your dog is mixed, you should ask your vet what her ideal weight might be based on her size and build.


If you can feel but not see the dog’s ribs, she is a healthy weight. If you can see her ribs, she may be underweight, but if you cannot feel them, she may be overweight., Temperaments tests provide a dog with different types of stimuli. How the dog reacts to these determines if she is responsive, shy, aggressive, or independent. You should not breed shy or aggressive dogs. You can hire a service, such as the American Temperament Test Society, to test the dog. You can also try to a few tests yourself.


Try to put a leash on the dog and take her for a walk. If she walks next to you with minimal tugging at her leash, she may have a good temperament. If she is lunging at small animals, other dogs, or people, it is a sign of aggression.
The dog should willingly play with toys with you. She should not bite or snarl at your over the toys. If the dog is possessive or aggressive over the toys, it is a sign of aggression.
When you pet the dog, the dog should relax. She should be willing to be touched. If she seems tense or if she tries to escape, she may be shy. Growling in this situation is a sign of aggression.