 Gasoline contains numerous chemical compounds called hydrocarbons which are poisonous to humans.Swallowing gasoline or breathing in its vapors can lead to numerous unpleasant (even potentially life-threatening) symptoms, including difficulty breathing, localized irritation, vision loss, stomach pain, vomiting (sometimes with blood), drowsiness, cognitive impairment, and many more. If attempting this method of siphoning, take every possible precaution to ensure you don't swallow any gasoline or breathe in any vapors.


If you've been exposed to gasoline in any way and begin to exhibit symptoms, call the emergency services or your local poison control central immediately.
 As with the method above, this method requires a length of tubing and a receptacle to contain the siphoned gas. As above, it's important to use a closed gas canister to prevent gas from being spilled or fumes from being inhaled. However, with this particular method, clear tubing is not merely recommended, but rather, crucial. Because ingesting gas is hazardous to your health, you need to be able to able to see the gas moving through the tube so that you can take the tube out of your mouth before gas reaches it.
 Set your gas can on the ground near the vehicle's gas tank. Feed one end of the tube into the tank deep enough that it sits below the surface of the gas into the tank. To tell whether the tube sits below the gas, blow air into the other end (taking care not to inhale fumes through the tube as you do so) and listen for the sound of bubbles.
 This method of gas siphoning works by using your mouth to create suction in the tube, which draws gas out of the tank. Once gas is flowing freely, gravity causes the siphon to continue sucking gas out of the tank. Care must be taken to ensure you don't swallow any gas or inhale any vapors. Once the tube is in your mouth, breathe only through your nose and pay close attention to the level of gas in the tube.
 Once you start sucking on the tube, gas may begin flowing quickly. Keep one hand ready to stop the flow of gas so that none gets in your mouth.
 To minimize (but by no means eliminate) the risk of gas vapor inhalation, try to suck with your mouth, rather than your lungs - as if you are drawing on a cigar, rather than a cigarette. When gas begins flowing through the tube, it can flow somewhat quickly, so be alert. When the gas is about six inches from your mouth, crimp the tubing tightly near the end and remove it from your mouth.
 Air bubbles are a common hindrance when siphoning gas, as they can impede proper flow, forcing you to suck harder, which is dangerous. If you see air bubbles in the tubing, release the crimp and drain the gas back into the car, then try again.


Try to position the tube so that you're sucking directly above the tank. According to some sources, air bubbles are more common when the tube runs to the side, rather than up and down.
 The gas should begin to flow into the gas can. From this point on, the power of gravity should continue pulling gasoline from the tank and into the can. Monitor the flow of gas to ensure that the can is filling at a steady pace.
 Doing this stops the flow of gas and allows the gas remaining in the tube to drain safely into your gas can. Account for the volume of gas remaining in the tube before pulling the tube out of the tank - you don't want to wait too long and risk an overflow.


Alternatively, simply cover the free end of the tubing and lift it higher than the level of gas in the tank. Gravity will cause the gas to flow back into the tank. You can even lift the gas can itself while the tube is still in it for the same effect.
 You've finished! Close your gas tank and seal your gas can to prevent the inhalation of fumes.

