 To help alleviate your allergy, create an area of your home that is dog free. Designate your bedroom or the upstairs area of your home “dog free” and keep the dog out of these areas. Keep the doors closed or block off the area with a pet fence. This way, your dog will stay out of certain spots in your home. You can then retreat to these areas if your dog allergy starts to act up.Another good rule of thumb is to keep your dog off of your furniture, even in areas where they are allowed to hang out and run around. Keep the dog off your couch or your love seats so there is less hair in the area. This will make your allergy less severe when you are sitting in these areas.;
, Place high-efficiency particulate arrestance (HEPA) air cleaners in your home to help filter out dust and dander in the air. You can put one in each room to filter the air or one in areas you share with your new dog. Good air cleaners can help to reduce the severity of your allergy.You can find HEPA air cleaners online or at your local hardware store.
 Keeping your home clean can really help to reduce your allergy. Try to stick to a daily cleaning schedule where you sweep common areas every day and vacuum your home once a week. You should also dust often and remove dog hair with a clean wet cloth.You may also go for hardwood flooring and less rugs in your home so it is easier to clean. Opt for furniture that you can clean easily on a weekly basis to avoid letting dog hair or fur build up.
You should also get in the habit of washing your bedding and blankets on a weekly basis if your dog is allowed in your bedroom.
 Keep your hands clean and free of fur or hair by washing them regularly. Make sure you use warm water and soap to wash your hands every time you touch your dog or before you touch your clothing or your skin. You should also keep hand sanitizer on hand so you can clean your hands when you are on the go.Wash your hands by lathering your hands with warm water and antibacterial soap. Rub your hands together for ten to fifteen seconds to make sure you get all the bacteria, fur, and hair off your hands.

