 Different insects live in different places, and there are certain circumstances where it is more likely to be bitten by each of them.If you were outdoors, and perhaps near a wooded area, you were probably bitten by a mosquito, tick, or spider.
If you were near food or garbage, you may have been bitten by a fly, or stung by a bee or wasp.
If you were indoors, sitting somewhere or playing with a pet, it may be fleas.
In the United States, scorpions are only found in the South and Southwest, particularly Texas and Arizona. Scorpion stings are extremely painful, and most of the time they are easy to rule out.If you were bitten in the southeastern part of the United States by a fly-like creature whose sting feels like a mosquito bite, it may be a deer fly.
If you were bitten in your bed while sleeping, it may be bedbugs.
If you were bitten on the beach, particularly in the southeast, it may be sand fleas.;
, This is the most common visible symptom of an insect bite, and depending on other symptoms could be from a variety of insects.A single bite mark is probably from a mosquito or fly. You may notice a tiny bite mark in the center of the mound of a mosquito bite.Flea bites are a number of small, itchy mounds grouped together. You will probably find them in areas where your clothes fit tightly to your body, such as around your waist.
Bedbug bites will be itchy red bumps, maybe with a blister, grouped in rows of two or three.
 Other types of bites or stings involve the swelling of the skin around the bite area.Fire ant bites will cause swelling (as much as 1/2 inch) and will fill with pus. They may blister over after a few days.Scorpion stings can cause swelling, as well as redness of the skin and pain or numbness in the area. Scorpion stings can be very dangerous, and they make most people very ill. Call emergency services or seek medical treatment right away if you suspect a scorpion sting., Stings from these insects will cause an immediate sharp or burning pain and swelling. They will leave a red welt (similar to a mosquito bite), with a small white spot where the stinger broke the skin. There will probably also be some swelling in the area. In the case of bees, they will leave their stinger behind.If stung by a bee, remove the stinger. Stinging a person will kill a bee, as the stinger is pulled out of the bee's body. You don't want the stinger to stay there, so use a credit card to help you scrape the stinger out. Attempting to use tweezers may accidentally force the stinger farther into your skin.Other stinging insects, like hornets, wasps, mud dauber wasps and yellow jackets, do not leave their stinger. If you have been stung, and there is no stinger left, that is probably what stung you. These insects can sting multiple times in a row.
 Bites from ticks tend to be bright red, but painless, so if you are not looking, you may miss having one. It is likely that you will discover the bite with the tick still attached to you. Most tick bites are harmless, but many ticks carry dangerous diseases like Lyme disease or Rocky Mountain spotted fever. You will want to be careful when discovering a tick bite.If the tick is attached to you, you will want to remove it as quickly as possible. Use a pair of tweezers to grab the tick near its head and pull — do not twist, as this can cause the head to pop off and remain attached to your skin. Don't leave any part of its head or body on you. When removing a tick, use tweezers, and not other items like petroleum jelly, matches, or nail polish remover.If you cannot get the head out, it is probably buried under your skin. If so, contact a doctor immediately, and they should be able to remove it.
Keep an eye on the bite area. If you see a rash in a bull's-eye pattern (erythema migrans), this is a sign of Lyme disease. Go to a doctor immediately.You should always check yourself for ticks after being outdoors in a wooded area, or walking through tall grass. Ticks like warm, dark places, so check all over your body. They can be as small as the period on the end of this sentence, so you may want to use a magnifying glass.
Tick paralysis is an uncommon ailment in which a female tick releases a neurotoxin, which causes temporary paralysis. It usually dissipates as soon as the tick is removed, and is most common in pets and children under 10.
 Head lice are usually found on the neck, scalp and behind the ears. Their bites will look like a rash on your head, and you will probably find the lice and their eggs (called nits) in your hair. If you have lice, you will need to wash your hair with non-prescription lice-killing shampoos, and wash any clothes and bedding that may have come into contact with them.If you are pregnant, do not use these lice-killing shampoos. Instead, talk to your doctor about the best ways to get rid of the lice.
An overnight coconut oil mask can be a great alternative for women who can’t use chemical treatments., Spider bites are slightly different than insect bites, and should be treated differently. Look out for one or two small, two-fanged puncture wounds (a sign of a black widow spider bite,) or a bite that turns blue or purple and begins to turn into a deep, open sore (a sign of a brown recluse bite.) If you notice these signs, call your doctor. Other, less serious spider bites may resemble insect bites.Black widow spider bites may cause stabbing pain, but they can also be painless. Look for the telltale fang marks, tenderness and swelling at the bite site. Symptoms to look for include muscle cramps, nausea, vomiting and even seizures.
The bite may become infected and swollen with pus.
 Most insect bites are painful, and you will notice them right away. If you feel yourself bitten, try to find the insect that bit you. Take a picture, or, if the insect is dead, collect the carcass. That can help you and your doctor identify what bit you, and what steps you should take next.


If the insect is still alive, do not try to capture it. That is a good way to get bit or stung again.
If the insect is dead, fold the insect in the piece of clear tape, taking care not to damage it, so you can show it to a professional.
 This will help clean the bite and can prevent additional infection. It's best not to use other creams or medications on the bite area until it is clean., Look for over-the-counter antihistamines like Benadryl or Chlor-Trimeton.Don't scratch the bite, as that can cause it to become infected.


Topical creams, gels, and lotions—particularly those containing pramoxine or benadryl—may help control itching.
 Make a cool compress, a cloth dampened with cold water or filled with ice, and hold it over the swollen area. If possible, elevate the bite area to reduce blood flow., Crops of raised, itchy, red bumps may appear as a result of a hypersensitivity to insect bites. This usually occurs after bites with fleas, mosquitoes, and bedbugs. Treatment for urticaria include antihistamines and topical steroids.Do not scratch these pumps, as this can result in scarring or infection.
 Some insect bites can cause an allergic reaction, which can be very dangerous. The first signs of a serious reaction are often hives, rash, a swollen throat or tongue, and trouble breathing. This is an urgent medical emergency, so call 911 or go to the emergency room right away. Use an EpiPen if you have one, as allergic shock can be fatal., In most cases, the effects like itching and swelling can go away quickly. If the symptoms persist, or get worse, you should look for a doctor, to make sure you are not suffering from a more serious reaction.If you think, or know, you have been stung by a scorpion, seek medical attention immediately.
 Insect bites may not be dangerous by themselves, but many insects can carry diseases. Ticks can carry Lyme disease and Rocky Mountain spotted fever, and mosquitoes may carry West Nile Virus and encephalitis and can transmit these serious diseases to humans. Keep an eye out for other symptoms like fever, body aches, and nausea. These are usually signs of a more serious condition.