 Massage is a common treatment to relieve tension or stress because it helps stimulate increased blood flow to targeted areas. Begin by gently massaging your upper eyelids for 10 seconds. Then, gently massage your lower eyelids.


If you wear contact lenses, take them out before doing this exercise.
Apply light pressure when massaging and use the first three fingers of your hand.Make gentle, circular movements.
The soft pressure on the lacrimal glands, which produce most of your tears, helps to stimulate tear production and wetness in the eyes. This, in turn, provides soothing and much-needed hydration to tired eyes.
When massaging the lower lids, make sure to massage across the lacrimal bone, which is located near the inner eye., Blinking offers much-needed breaks and moments of relaxation for our eyes. However, it is often something most people disregard since it is such a natural activity that generally requires little thought. However, making an effort to blink more frequently can help ameliorate eye strain.


Blinking helps lubricate and hydrate your eyes. Not only does blinking push out toxins with tears, it also works to spread tear film evenly over your eyes.Blinking can thus help ameliorate eye dryness.Try to blink once every four seconds to keep your eyes from drying out.
 Giving your eyes more breaks during periods of intense focus or concentration, particularly at a computer screen, will help alleviate eye strain.


Try the 20-20-20 method: Every 20 minutes, look away from your screen at any object 20 feet away for 20 seconds.If you have a hard time remembering to take breaks, set an alarm as a reminder to rest and reset your eyes.
You can also try fully opening and closing your eyes every once in a while. Research suggests that this action can reduce the symptoms of eye strain, eye fatigue, and dry eyes., Palming can be done very simply. Take your palms and cover your eyes for a few minutes.


Sit comfortably in a chair with a straight back. Place your elbows on a table, on top of a pillow or blanket for added comfort. Rub your palms together beforehand to produce some heat before you begin palming - this heightens the relaxation component of this technique. Cup each hand and close your eyes. Place each cupped hand over each eye. Breathe normally and rest in this position for 5-10 minutes. You may want to set an alarm to keep the time.If after your alarm goes off you feel refreshed, then this the right amount of time you should spend palming. If you don't feel refreshed, add an extra five minutes and observe any changes afterwards.