 When walking in public, you should avoid listening to music on a cell phone or other personal listening device. The music could distract you from various dangers, and someone could take advantage of you as you’re listening to your music., While it may seem like a normal thing to do, playing with or checking texts on your smart phone could distract you. A mugger may see this and identify you as a potential victim.


In addition to your phone being a distraction, it might also be something a mugger wants to steal., As you walk, make sure to look around. Walk with your head up and look from side to side occasionally. Ultimately, the more you are aware of your surroundings, the easier it'll be able to avoid being mugged.If you see someone suspicious or threatening, walk away from them.
Be careful turning corners. Try to make a long turn so you can see what’s around a corner before you turn it. After all, there could be a mugger waiting on the other side of the corner.
 The more light on a street, the less likely a person will try to mug you without fear. As a result, stick to streets that have lots of light. In addition, avoid dark streets and dark areas of town.


If you’re going into a dark area, bring a flashlight.
Avoid shortcuts that are dark. Saving a couple of minutes isn’t worth jeopardizing your safety., If you’re unfamiliar with a certain area, you should ask locals about it before you walk around. This way, you’ll have an idea of whether an area is dangerous or not before you hit the street., Before you set off on a walk around town, have a good idea of where you’re going and how you’re going to get there. You can do this by asking directions or by consulting a map before you start on the walk. This way, you won’t have to stop and ask strangers for directions or look to the map app on your phone – things that make you look vulnerable., If you think you’re in a high-risk location, you can lower your chances of being mugged by walking with a group. Muggers are much less likely to approach a group of people when they can simply target an individual.


If you’re leaving a bar at night, walk to your car or home with a group of people. In addition, consider having one person drive everyone else to their cars or homes – if their cars or homes require a long walk., If you’re in an area you’re not familiar with, you’ll be much safer if you walk with a local. Locals will not only know what areas of town are dangerous, but they’ll likely fit in more and may not be targeted by a mugger.
 If for any reason you suspect you are in danger or are actively being followed, you should seek help immediately. You can do this by approaching a nearby police officer or by walking into a bar, restaurant, or store.


If you walk into a public establishment, make sure to wait enough time until you are sure the person following you has left. If you’re not sure, contact the authorities.
If there aren't police or safe establishments around, continue to walk confidently and briskly to an area you know is safe., Muggers are much less likely to strike in places where there are a lot of people around. As a result, try to walk in areas where there are a lot of people.If presented with two routes to your destination, pick the one with more people.
 If you’re visiting an area you’re not from, try to dress as much as you can like someone who lives there. This is because muggers and other criminals often target people who are tourists or visitors.


If you have any, wear domestically made clothes instead of designer imports.
Avoid wearing t-shirts that show you’re a tourist. For instance, if you bought a shirt at a local tourist attraction, wait until you are home to wear it.
 If you're in an impoverished or unfamiliar area, don’t wear expensive watches, jewelry, sunglasses, shoes, or display electronics. In addition, keep as little money in your wallet as possible and don’t display a lot of money if/when you purchase something.If you have to transport jewelry or expensive items, conceal them.
 Move along a street or sidewalk as if you know where you’re going and know what you’re doing. If you walk in a timid and unsure manner, a mugger could spot you as a vulnerable person.Avoid looking around nervously as if you are unsure of where you are or what you’re doing.
Avoid taking pictures of every little thing on the street. While something might make a great photo op, your interest may signal that you’re a tourist.
Take self-defense classes so you can defend yourself. While this won't prevent you from being mugged, it will bolster your confidence.
 Since there are very few people walking at night, you'll draw attention to yourself by being on the street very late. Even if you're with a group, you'll increase your chances of getting mugged. Instead of walking:


Take a cab.
Call a friend.
Return home early.

