 You can get the motivation you need just from imagining how beautiful and organized your house will look after you’re done. This alone can make you feel like getting up and starting to clean.Look at pictures either online or in magazines of your ideal home. Imagine trying to get your own home as close to your vision of the perfect home as possible. Seeing how others organize and arrange their own houses can inspire you to make your home as beautiful as you can.
You can even look at pictures of your house when it is in its ideal state for inspiration.;
, You probably have also noticed how much calmer and more productive you are in an organized environment. It’s a fact that the more cluttered and unclean your environment is, the less stressed you feel., Call up a friend and tell them that you are having trouble finding the motivation to clean. Ask your friend to check in with you every twenty minutes or so to check your progress. Just the feeling of having someone who is keeping track of your cleaning can be enough to motivate you to do it.You can also talk to your friend on speaker phone as you are cleaning. Talking with them will make cleaning more enjoyable, and they can check up on you to make sure you're cleaning.
 If you are cleaning in the afternoon, invite people over later in the day. You will be motivated to save yourself the embarrassment of a messy house. This may seem like an extreme measure, but sometimes you need the pressure of other people seeing your home to really get the drive to clean.Make sure to give yourself enough time to clean before your guests come over.
 Make a post about your cleaning project. You will receive positive feedback from friends, and you feel accountable now that you have made your goal public.To really hold yourself accountable, you can post something like, “Finally getting around to reorganizing my house! Pictures to come.” The fact that you have to show proof of your cleaning will really get you motivated!

, Buying something new can give you the motivation to clean because you want to be able to see how your new item fits in with the rest of your house. You will want to give the new item the place it deserves, and this can drive you to clean. Even buying something small like a candle or a vase can give you the incentive to clean.