 There are many methods you can use to liquefy and loosen the secretions blocking up your nose. By setting aside a little time for these techniques, you can improve the efficiency of each nose blowing. Over time, you'll have to blow your nose less frequently, decreasing the chafing on your nose. Try these decongestant techniques throughout the day, and always blow your nose immediately afterward.
 If you belong to a gym with a sauna, that's the perfect place to both loosen nasal congestion and relax after a long day. But if you don't have access to a sauna, you can improvise in your bathroom. Turn on the hot water in the shower, and close the door to keep all the steam in. Stay in the bathroom for three to five minutes or until you feel the secretions are loose and moist. Gently blow your nose before leaving the steamed room.


To save water, you can just blow your nose when you get out of the shower.
 Microwaving time will vary depending on your machine, so start with 30 seconds and add 15 seconds at a time. The washcloth should be hot, but tolerable. Place the cloth across your nose and allow to sit until the heat is gone. The heat should loosen secretions, even when applied from outside the nasal cavity.


Repeat the process if necessary before blowing your nose.
 You can buy a nasal saline spray at any grocery store or pharmacy. Spray the bottle twice into each nostril, adding liquid to the secretions and liquefying them. If you don't want to buy a saline spray, you can make a simple one at home:


Mix eight ounces of warm water with 1/2 teaspoon of salt.
Buy a suction bulb from the grocery store or pharmacy. Use it to irrigate your nostrils with your homemade saline rinse.
 A neti pot looks like a miniature tea pot. It clears out blocked sinus passages in the nose by flooding warm water through one nostril and out the other. Heat the water to at least 120 °F (49 °C) to kill anything potentially harmful in the water. Allow the water to cool to a comfortable temperature before using the neti pot. Tilt your head, and pour water into your right nostril. If you keep your head tilted, it will drain out your left nostril.


Consider skipping the neti pot if you live in an area with inadequate water treatment. There have been some reports of rare amoebic infections from parasites in tap water., The throat and nose are closely connected, so drinking warm liquids will also warm up the nasal passage. Just like inhaling steam, this will allow secretions to flow more freely. Any type of tea you prefer is fine, but you may choose to drink a healing herbal tea if you have a cold. Check your grocery store or health store for cold or flu teas. Peppermint and clove teas can soothe a sore throat while freeing up your nose., But if your excessive nose blowing is caused by allergies, exercising is a good option. When your heart rate rises enough to make you break a sweat, it has a beneficial side effect of clearing your nasal secretions. Even 15 minutes of exercise can help, as long as you avoid the allergen. For example, if you're allergic to pollen, don't go running outdoors.
 Think about the last time you ate something uncomfortably spicy. Do you remember how your nose started running?That's the ideal state for nose blowing, so power your way through hot salsa, peppers, hot wings — anything to get your nose running. Blow your nose immediately while the secretions are still moist and fluid.
 You can buy a humidifier at the drugstore to keep the air moist as you sleep. Choose a humidifier with a cool mist setting, as a warm mist might make congestion worse. Set the machine to the ideal humidity level — between 45 and 50%.A tabletop version holds one to four gallons of water, and should be changed daily. Clean the water container completely by hand every three days.
The filter, preferably a HEPA, should be changed at the discretion of the manufacturer.
 For a little extra punch, use rosemary, peppermint, or lavender oil, but make sure not to get it in your eyes. You can rinse your face with a warm compress afterward. Using your index and middle fingers, apply gentle pressure in a circular motion to:


The forehead (frontal sinus)
The bridge of the nose and temples (orbital sinus)
Under the eyes (maxillary sinus)

