 If you're a simple small town girl, whose parents won't find it appropriate for you to bring home biker-dudes and minor criminals, don't try to be this girl. You can be similar, but remember BE SAFE.;
, You need a sexy/punk/rock look to pull off 'Nona'. You need old school band t-shirts (make sure these are tight, no big extra large ones that you'd sleep in). Wear interesting clothes, be daring with your choices. High heels are great, so long as you can walk in them. But you can make combat boots part of your look (Uggs and sneakers are a no-no). Wear mostly blacks and reds, they're the sexy ones. Don't go with short skirts very often. Interesting skinny jeans are cool. Do not go too Gothic with this, no antique-y large skirts. Do not go too Avril Lavigne, no baggy trousers and ties. Do not go TOWIE, you aren't rocker with that.
 Straightened, or the 'I just rolled out of bed' waves are sexy. Try to get rid of messy curls. Don't go too flashy with the colours either. Keep it in the kind of natural colours (black, brown, blonde, and you can be sexy with ginger), you can add a couple streaks to make it interesting. A bright 'Gerard Way' red can work too, but mostly, stay away from anything that makes you look like real-life anime.
 No dark tanned skin, unless it's natural. Keep your foundation light (cover up freckles, you don't want a young face). Dark eyes (don't go total Taylor Momsen, too emo-chick) and sometimes if you can pull off bright or dark red lipstick it can be sexy. (If you go with red lipstick, make sure your teeth are white. Nothing sicker than pale skin, red lips and sick yellow chompers).
 If you have ten facial piercings, you aren't sexy. You're scary. Bad guys aren't into metallic faces. You can even pass with none, but one nose ring or lip ring or belly button ring (if you're going for a belly top look) is good. (If you really don't want to pierce yourself, but want to be identical to Nona in the song, a fake piercing is okay).
 Keep your posture tall. Be confident.
 Don't have only one group of friends. Kind of float along through life. Don't talk about loads of people. Girls can be mean, don't give them a reason to hate you

, The ones with the longish hair and the band t-shirts. The clothes with the chains. Of course don't try looking around for guys just because they fit the category. Flirt with the ones you are a bit interested in at least. Do not go for anyone outside of this type. You have to give up being a nice, friendly girl and just practically ignore other guys. If a jockey sort of guy goes out with you, you'll become the slut. A nerd, you lose all your reputation. The rock ones keep to themselves.
 If you want to be her, confidence is the key. You have to initiate if they don't. Be mysterious in the flirting. Go up to a potential guy and compliment him on his look. Don't hesitate if he has friends around. If you complement him on his bad boy look or reputation and his friends around, people are immediately aware that you are the girl who wants the bad guys. Don't be afraid, (if he seems comfortable of course) to go to touch. Speak slowly, softly, seductively, and try to make your voice a bit deeper. Don't grin so much, a small lip smile works. Your EYES are the real tool. Let your eyes look interested. try to make it look like your cunning, dart your eyes around his face a bit and maybe raise an eyebrow in a curious or suggestive fashion (practise in a mirror saying things you want to say with your facial expression). Conversationally try to be suggestive. try to make things into innuendos. Don't giggle. Laugh softly and give a smile. try to keep eye contact. Don't let conversations draw out. You'll lose your mystique. And when leaving, don't give a long, fast answer as to why you're leaving. Just say, 'I gotta go' or something to that effect, and leave quickly (no run or fast walking. Just maybe long strides and a swing in your arm. A large flip of the hair is cool too.
 Don't be a rock-chick without knowing a thing about rock. Learning a bit about the music that the bad boys are into and it'll really help. You should say 'Oh, you like that band? I think they're awesome', and don't be afraid to ditch the songs themselves and talk about guitars and amps. Learn a bit about motorcycles. A bit about wrestling. That's what will turn the bad guys on. A sexy girl who isn't into the normal stuff.
 Don't give anything on the first night. If you have a new look and people hear you've been on a date soon after, already rumours will begin spreading. But you don't want rumours of you hanging with every other guy to be true. And if people ask, be mysterious too. Do something cool on dates too. Rock shows, sports events and hanging around town. Not parks, picnics and cafes. Don't always flirt too. Otherwise the easy reputation will appear. Be funny and witty. Be easy going, don't be clingy or too clean. You have to be down and dirty and ready for fun. The young, free and relaxed attitude are part of the attraction.

