 Toenails can harden over time, but petroleum jelly or oil can keep them softer, which means you will have an easier time trimming them.Oil also helps to moisturize the nail, which prevents chipping.Don't forget to rub oil around the cuticle, as well, as that can make the cuticle look better. This process also helps moisturize the nail.;
, These types of polish removers can dry out toenails, causing them to split or crack. Non-acetone nail polish removers use ethyl acetate or methyl ethyl ketone to remove nail polish. Look for a label that says "non-acetone."Be aware that because non-acetone nail polish removers are not as harsh, you might have to work a little harder to remove your nail polish., According to studies, taking this vitamin-B based supplement can help create stronger nails and toenails., Yellow nails can be sign of other health problems.For instance, if your nails are yellow and separating from the skin, it could be a sign of thyroid disease or psoriasis.Yellow nails without separating could be a sign of a respiratory disease,infection, or diabetes., Long toenails increase your chances of ingrown toenails, which can be painful and require medical attention. Long toenails are also uncomfortable when you wear shoes with closed toes because the nails dig into the shoe, placing pressure on your toenails.Trimming regularly also helps to keep your toenails from splitting.


Trim your toenails until they are about the length of your toes. If they are too long, they will split. Too short toenails can lead to ingrown toenails.Square off your toenails rather than curving them. Squaring off your toenails helps prevent ingrown toenails, as the edges keep the skin from crowding back over the toe., By checking in regularly with your toenails, you can make sure they stay in shape. Also, always file in one direction, as moving the file back and forth can tear or break toenails., Cuticles help stop infection, and trimming cuticles opens up the possibility of your skin becoming infected., Lightly use a nail buffer to help remove stains from the tops of your nails., The toothbrush helps remove any dirt under your toenails. In the shower, add a little soap to the toothbrush, and then scrub your toenails clean. Be sure not to scrub too hard, as you could break the skin.If you want your toenails whiter, use a whitening toothpaste in addition to the toothbrush., You can move the cuticle out of the way for painting but don't force it to the point of breaking., The base coat creates a stronger bond between the toenail and the polish, meaning you won't need to touch up the color as often.Also, a base coat can help protect the nails against stains when you do remove the polish., While your big toenail might need a bit more polish, generally you apply a center stroke, then spread it out to the right and left. Let the polish smooth itself out by getting a big drop on the brush, then gently rolling it out with the brush., The top coat adds extra shine and protection.
 Use a small brush or piece of tissue and nail polish remover to clean up the nail polish you get on your skin., Cold water can help set your nail polish, but hot water can cause your nails to expand, which can lead to cracking.,


Glittery polishes tend to last longer on your toenails than non-shimmery polishes. Use polishes that claim to be "three-free." That means that they don't contain formaldehyde, toluene, or dibutyl phthalate. These chemicals can be harmful over time., If you're shy, don't go with funky neon orange. For classy events, try French tips.
 An easy way to create fancy designs for your toes is to paint them on a plastic bag or parchment paper first. Once you are done, you can peel it off and adhere it to your toe with a base and top coat.Stickers and tape can help you create interesting designs. Lay down a base color, and let it dry. Use stickers or tape to create an interesting design that you paint in with another color. You can do curves, star bursts, or even just split the nail down the middle.