 Use soap and a washcloth to clean your entire body. Do this in the morning, that way you are smelling good right as you walk out the door. You especially want to wash sweaty areas, like your arm pits, behind your knees, and between your legs., While you are in the shower, use shampoo and conditioner. Check the labels to make sure that alcohol is not a component of your hair care product; this will dry your hair out. Run your hands through your hair with the shampoo and conditioner for at least a minute or two. You want to make sure you get rid of any dandruff and debris from the previous day., To be cute, you want to get rid of most, if not all, your acne. There are many products available, but stay away from ones containing alcohol (will dry your skin and cause more irritation). Applying a daily facial moisturizer will also help your face look smooth and silky. Rub the cream on your face with a pad or your hands. Make sure that your pad/hands are slightly dampened first, as well as your face. Use small circular strokes to apply., First apply a shaving cream or lotion to your face. Then take a razor, and take off those pesky hairs. You can create interesting mustaches, or just shave it all off. The benefit of shaving at night is that you won't have to show off any razor cuts you accidentally made. However, shaving in the morning alleviates a five o'clock shadow., This is for your own personal hygiene, as well as a way to smell good in front of other people. Take a stick of deodorant and rub it underneath your arm pits once in the morning. This will prevent sweat stains from occurring throughout the day and make you smell good. Always carry a stick in your car or backpack in case you forget in the morning., An added fragrance can entice the girls, as well as make people notice you. Spray on a minor amount to "pulse points." These are around the neckline, wrists, and the back of knees. The heat from these "pulse points" will spread the scent of the spray throughout the day. Overdoing the spray will detract more people than it will attract., This might seem minor, but it is incredibly important. Use nail clippers and trim your finger and toe nails down until you can barely see the wide edge. Use a nail filer and smooth the edges. You will not only look like you care about your appearance, but when you touch others it will feel smooth and comfortable., Use a hair gel or styling cream and spike your hair. You can also get creams/gels that specialize in more classic looks (Don Draper hairdo) or bed head looks. Take a dime sized amount and run it through your hair. Then, using your hands and a comb, straighten your hair how you would like. If you need more gel/cream, keep adding dime sized amounts. You can also get your hair combed, cut, and styled professionally., Yellow, or stained teeth are not attractive. Make sure to brush in a circular motion, dislodging plaque and scum from the previous hours' meals. Always floss to get the incredibly hard-to-find debris lodged in your teeth. Take a piece of floss about 6 inches long, and wrap the two ends around a finger from each hand. Also make sure to schedule dentist appointments every six months to get your teeth cleaned professionally., Always remember to change your wardrobe up every 6 months to a year. The same clothes get stale fast, and the colors tend to fade. Tank-tops are popular in the summer, as are flip-flops. In the winter, tight fitted jeans are in style, along with a pair of boat shoes or Converse. Clothing is up to the individual, however, you can always get advice from a friend, girlfriend, or a clothing professional whom works at the store.
 Aviator or rectangular sunglasses are whats currently in style. Buy a pair to wear when you are riding in your car. Keep them inside the glove compartment so you don't forget them. Or you can wear them inside, which looks even more daring and cool.
 Keep a good posture and don't slouch. Look approachable by keeping your arms by your side. Avoid crossing your arms over your chest, this is a sign that you don't want people around you. When you walk you should also remain upright, with your back straight. This shows people that you care about your demeanor, and are confident., Looking serious and cold is a major turn off. However, wide grins are usually left for only your friends, as it can look goofy if you aim it at a girl. However, if you know a girl likes you, a goofy grin can be the perfect type of smile. Closed mouth smiles are adorable, and/or you can grin softly too. A consistent smile shows people that you are a positive person, and upbeat about life., People who laugh are seen as more positive cheerful. Grab a joke book, and learn some funny pick-up lines. Saying sarcastic comments (that aren't derogatory) can make you seem witty and cunning. If someone else tells a funny joke, feel free to laugh at it and let loose., Some of the cutest things guys can do is to casually flip their hair with their hand, or shake it in the breeze. Seeing those locks flow back, and revealing your bright, smiling face. Sometimes even the smallest things work, like twirling a few curls of your hair with your fingers as you are studying. Comb through your hair occasionally, or run your hand through it, trying to straighten it out. It shows that you are both cute, and care about the way you look to other people., Some of the cutest guys are those who care about grades and class. You don't have to be top of the class, but keep your grades up to grade level. Even if you are not interested in "book smarts," show an interest in learning, and participating in new experiences. A passion, like loving Star Trek, or world affairs, shows other people that you take interests and follow through with them., Show your sensitive side and caress a person who is having a bad day. Don't be the bully in class, who is overly obnoxious. It is much more cute to show that you care about other people, and that you are willing to go out of your way to help someone. Strike up a conversation with that nerdy kid in the back of the class. If you're sad or scared show it with your face and body language. Be willing to share with others about your day, and whether it is going good or bad., Either pull them behind your head, or lower them down to your waist. This is a great way to show off your muscles, and your tan line. Don't go overboard, as girls don't like a showboat. Get up out of your seat, and stretch your back. You can also crack your knuckles., This is a very cute thing to do. The saliva adds a shine to your lips which makes them glimmer. Always keep some chap stick around to keep your lips moist, and not cracked. Not only is it cute, but it shows that you care about your appearance to other people. Moist lips will want to be kissed, more than dry, chapped lips., The girl you have a crush on will likely love a guy that is solemn, and a little nervous. After all, you want a great girl, and she should be able to tell that you really care if she accepts, and that you don't feel entitled when asking her out. While cowering in the back of a room is overdoing it, a little redness in the cheeks is always adorable., You want to show off those big blues or browns as much as possible. Try to avoid blinking at a rapid pace, so girls can get a good look at them. Push your hair to the side so it doesn't cover your eyes up. Never approach a girl while still wearing sunglasses. If you have them on, take them off slowly, and reveal your cute eyes., You don't have to buy a large, expensive present. However, little items, like her favorite chocolate bar, or one rose, can go a long way. Leave them where you know she will find them, with a small, handwritten note attached. You can also buy markers which are safe to write on windshields. Write on her back windshield "Will you go to prom with me?" or "Will you go out with me?" or simply "I love you!" Showing her you are always on her mind ups the cute factor tremendously., If you guys are getting closer, you can rest your hand on her leg, or hold her hand. Little moments like this show intimacy, as well as a commitment to show her you love her in public. If she is having a bad day, rub her back gently.How to Touch a Girl

, While being shy is extremely cute, so is making a fool of yourself. Tripping and falling down can be funny, and somewhat embarrassing. Doing silly things like dancing on a table while you are intoxicated shows you are willing to be spontaneous and do things you wouldn't normally do.
 Singing is the way to a girl's heart. You can sing a song perfectly, and win her over. Or you can purposely sing bad, which is really cute indeed. If you are in a car with her, and she is singing her song, join in. Sing really loudly, and get into it. You can even dance along a little bit, showing her you are willing to open up., Get out on the dance floor and light it up. Most guys these days simply "grind," which gets the job done, but isn't that cute. Feel free to dance badly. Flail your arms, kick your legs, or simply move side to side. Grab her arms and swing them back and forth. Hold her hand up high, and let her twirl around. The possibilities are nearly endless. The added benefit of this step is that the worse you are at dancing, the cuter you are.