 The guys get to perform a pre-game cheer and girls have to devise a play and act it out to launch the game day festivities. Set up a mini football game boys against girls and see who wins.
 If you're feeling playful and flirtatious, this can be a fun way to get his attention. Toss a cube his way with a wink and a wave. This is much better than shooting long disapproving stares at him, which could end up creating a conflict later., Start a football poll for the girls. Have each woman take exactly the opposite position of one of the guys. And at the end of the day see who really knows more about football., Keep an eye on the MVP party goers. Keep secret voting ballots for the girls to pick:
Worst Joke
Worst Behavior
Best behaved
Heisman Trophy Snack Winner
Fewest Party Fouls
Worst Party Fumble

, Get the girls together beforehand and add a little football fun to your wardrobe. Make "NFL Champion" baby doll tees with nick names or code names. Buy flashy Super Bowl rings as party favors., Give them trash bags and let them know that every empty can they collect is money in their pocket. You'll take them down to the "Recycle Center" and turn the cans into cold, hard cash. You might even match the money and then take them to a special spot so they can spend it!, Every time the boys leave the seat up, the girls get to get a reprieve from the football talk. Feel free to bring up any non-Super Bowl-related topics for a few minutes without being shushed! This may work, but if the boys are a little too rowdy you might get kicked out for saying something about your favorite soap opera., Have a competition between the women and the kids at the party and see who is up on their football trivia., Have pedicure spa goodies on stand by and ask the girls to bring toe nail decals to trade and swap for a fun pedicure moment in the 4th quarter., Just because you're a girl doesn't mean you can't enjoy the actual Super Bowl game. Ask intelligent questions. Read a football rulebook. The funnest possible thing to do on Superbowl Sunday is to show up the boys with your football smarts. Hopefully, your boys will cooperate and explain it to you.