 If you think you might run into your crush, take a few extra minutes to brush your hair an extra bit or maybe put on one of your favorite tops. Don’t go overboard but a little extra primping may give you that extra bit of poise to counteract any klutziness.For example, you could style your hair in a way that makes you feel the most confident, such as a sophisticated up-do. Or, you could give yourself a home manicure or pedicure every other week.
Other people will also notice that you look put together and they will be less likely to pick on you or bother you as a result. Your confidence will make them view any mishaps on your part as simply accidents and nothing more.
 Keep a slight smile on your face, even if the going gets tough. This will show others that you are not that affected by any klutzy behavior and that you’ve moved on, so they should too. Smiling also relaxes your body, reduces stress, and makes other people feel more comfortable with you.If you are not sure how your smile looks, you might want to practice a bit in front of a mirror. You will soon find that it comes naturally to you when you feel good.
 The best way to demonstrate that you do control your body is to carry yourself in the best possible way. Keep your back straight and pay attention to holding your shoulders back as you walk. Focus on taking clear, deep breaths as well. A benefit of maintaining proper posture is that it will also help to minimize any clumsiness in the future.As you walk over to meet your crush and other friends, imagine balancing a book on your head. Each step that you take must be slow and chosen carefully. This will make you less likely to trip or fall.
 If you are unsure whether or not you can talk to your crush without stumbling, try to interact with his friends instead. Ask them about their hobbies or interests. Talk to them about the day’s events. Just be casual and discuss anything that comes to mind. This can help you build up to interacting with your crush directly.You might say, “Did you all go to the football game on Friday?” Or, “What do you guys have planned for Spring Break?”

, As soon as you fall, you may feel the need to stand up and say, “I’m sorry,” to everyone who witnessed it. Unless you hurt or knocked someone else down, this isn’t really necessary. Stating an apology could make you feel better, but it will likely make you feel worse and even less worthy of being around your crush. So, just skip it entirely.