


Try saying, “I think I may be showing signs of adult ADHD. Can we do an evaluation?”
Or you might try, “I’d like to talk to you about adult ADHD. I think I may have it and I’d like to be evaluated.”

, In order to be evaluated for adult ADHD, you will have to answer questions about how your life is going now, as well as how it was a child.You may have to think about how you function at home, work, school, with friends, etc. in order to determine if you have adult ADHD.


For example, you might complete a checklist about your behavior when you were younger.
You may also be asked to fill out behavior rating scales, surveys, or other questionnaires.
You may be asked if you have depression, anxiety, or have substance abuse problems to eliminate these as reasons for your ADHD signs., Checking your physical health may be a part of your ADHD evaluation.This is to see if there might be other reasons for your ADHD signs and to help your physician determine if you have ADHD.


Your doctor will likely check your blood pressure, weight, body mass index (BMI) and other indicators of your overall well-being.
You may be asked about your eating and sleeping habits as well as your physical activity.
 Professionals often ask people close to you about your adult ADHD symptoms as a part of the evaluation.Let them know that answering the questions honestly will help you determine if you have adult ADHD.


You might say, “I’d like you to answer some questions about me. This will help me and my doctor determine if I have adult ADHD.”
Or you could try, “Would you fill out this questionnaire about me? It’s a part of my adult ADHD evaluation.”

, There are specific criteria and requirements for you to be diagnosed with ADHD. The evaluation by your doctor and the information you and others give for it will help your physician determine if you have ADHD.The severity of the ADHD symptoms, or how much they impact your life, is one criteria for ADHD. Your symptoms must severely impact your life.
For example, your ADHD signs have to cause you problems in your relationships, at work, and in other settings.
Remember that the duration of the signs of ADHD is another criteria. Your ADHD symptoms have to have been going on since before you were 12 years old.
For instance, if you remember being told you have problems paying attention when you were around 8 years old, then you might have ADHD.

