 Ultraviolet rays from the sun stimulate pigment-producing skin cells,which can worsen the appearance of acne scars. If you spend time in the sun, protect your skin by applying sunscreen (SPF 30 or higher), wearing a wide-brimmed hat, and keeping to the shade as much as possible.
 A lot of the time, people are so desperate to get rid of acne scars and skin discolorations that they will use all manner of abrasive products and methods which can irritate the skin and make the situation worse. Try to listen to your skin -- if it's reacting badly to a particular product, you should stop using that product immediately. Stick to gentle facial cleansers, make-up removers, moisturizers and scrubs that soothe your skin rather than inflame it.


A big mistake people make is applying moisturizers to dry skin. Apply your moisturizer to WET/damp skin to guarantee that the moisturizer can work its way into your pores.
Instead of using a regular moisturizer, mix some of your favorite facial cream with some Aloe Vera Gel. Aloe is a natural humectant which means that it sucks all the moisture from the air onto your face. This will leave your face hydrated.
Avoid using very hot water when cleaning your face. Hot water can be very drying to the skin, so turn the temperature down a few notches.
You should also avoid using rough facecloths, sponges and loofahs on the face, as these are too harsh and can irritate the skin.
 Exfoliating helps to slough off dead skin, revealing the fresh, soft new skin underneath. As acne scarring usually only effects the top layers of skin, exfoliating can speed up the fading process. You can exfoliate using a specific facial scrub, just make sure it's designed for sensitive skin.


Alternatively, you can exfoliate using a gentle washcloth and some warm water by moving the washcloth around your face in small circular motions.
You should exfoliate at least once a week and at most once a day, though if your skin is very dry you may want to keep it to 3 to 4 times a week.
 Though it may be tempting, picking at your scars interrupts the process by which your skin naturally heals and can worsen their appearance. Picking at existing pimples, meanwhile, can cause your skin to scar in the first place, as bacteria from your hands may be transferred onto your face, causing it to become inflamed and infected. Therefore, picking should be avoided at all costs.
 Although eating healthily and staying hydrated isn't going to magically make acne scars disappear, it will allow your body to perform at its best and help skin to heal itself. Water will flush toxins from the body and keep skin looking plump and firm, so you should aim to drink 5 to 8 glasses a day. Vitamins such as A, C and E will also help to feed the skin and keep it hydrated.


Vitamin A is found in vegetables such as broccoli, spinach and carrots and vitamins C and E are found in oranges, tomatoes, sweet potatoes and avocados.
You should try to avoid greasy, fatty and starchy foods as much as possible as they will not do your skin any favors.

