 If you work somewhere interesting, tour it. Even industrial zones often have spaces of interest to investigate, including river fronts, vacant lots, and curious warehouse allotments. Plan to walk to different places every lunch hour so that you get to know your work area well. Wear good walking shoes and treat it as a good chance to get in some daily exercise.;
, If you are near museums, galleries, libraries etc., go and visit them during your lunch hour. It will never be enough time to see through an entire gallery or museum, so do a floor or an exhibition every time you visit. The great thing about many of these places is that they vary their exhibits so you can always find something new to look at.
 Find other like-minded people and get knitting, quilting, stitching or cutting cards over lunch.
 Find a running club, a squash club, a swimming club etc. that meets over lunch and get actively involved.
 Catch up on the season's latest trends by window shopping in your work area. Note the things you like and what might be affordable. Consider trying things on another lunchtime.
 Take work colleagues with you on some occasions. Compare notes on the things you enjoy most about each of the cafes.
 Use those cafe meets to run a book club at lunchtimes. Some lunches can be for reading only; other lunches for getting together and talking about the books.
 If you like painting, sketching, drawing etc., get down to a park or other natural or interesting feature and set to. This will take a number of lunchtimes to complete.
 You can skate for half an hour and get a hot chocolate down all before getting back to work in time. Or you can make snow angels in the local park. If it doesn't snow where you are, put on the rain boots and slosh in puddles for a lunch. Take brisk walks to ward off the cold.
 As Christmas, Easter, Valentine's etc. draw near, go into the stores and see what gimmicks they have for sale. Set yourself a task to find the ugliest, corniest, most beautiful, sexiest etc. greeting card/ornament/toy etc. possible. This will definitely pass the time. And don't buy it - this is just a game!

, Bring your camera to work and go around making photos of things in an artistic fashion. Look for angles that other people don't see. Make a collage of photos and have people guess where you took them.
 Include both solitary games and group games, as well as a snack machine. This can be a great diversion for rainy days and cold days.

