 Find an old spray bottle, and put lemon juice in it. Add an equal amount of water to the bottle. Spray it on your skin being careful to avoid any cuts or injuries.


;
, Rub a lemon rind over your skin. It helps cleanse the skin and slowly lightening it over time.
 Make your own facial wash from equal parts of water and lemon juice, honey and aloe. Splash it onto your face in the morning the same way you'd use water to wash your face, then rinse.





For a skin-lightening mask, mix 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon tomato juice, 1 tablespoon cucumber juice, and 1 tablespoon sandalwood paste into a paste. Apply to skin and let sit 15-20 minutes. Rinse with warm water and moisturize.
For a skin-lightening mask for dry skin, mix 1 tablespoon powdered milk, 1 tablespoon honey, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, and 2 drops of essential oil. Apply to skin and let sit for 20-25 minutes. Rinse with warm water and moisturize.
For a lemon exfoliant, mix together 2 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 egg white, and 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Massage exfoliant into skin using gentle circular motions. Gently scrub or let rest for 10-15 minutes, rinse with warm water, and moisturize.
 Apply to your face, rinse after 10 to 30 minutes.
 Make your own lotion out of two parts lemon juice, three parts glycerin and one part light rum. Thoroughly combine all ingredients with a spoon or wooden spoon. Apply to your skin and rub closely.
 The citric acid in lemons does have natural lightening components.Unfortunately, the process will take some time. If you want to speed the process up, try using hydroquinone, kojic acid, alpha-hydroxy acids, or bearberry as lightening agents.Be warned, however: There are some risks associated with some of these products. One study showed that 1 out of every 4 skin lightening products made in Asia but sold in the U.S. contained mercury., When using lemon and other skin-lightening products, always use sunscreen and avoid unnecessary time in the sun.Lemons and lemon juice can dry out skin, making it susceptible to sun damage.
 Lightening your skin with lemon juice will take a long time, so it's tempting to try to apply a mask or lemon juice every day. Try to stick to 3-4 applications every week. Lemon juice dries out the skin too much to apply every day.
 Some sources say that lemon juice kills the bacteria that produce acne while simultaneously clearing up acne scars. Lemon juice may do this, but it may also interfere with any topical treatments you are using for acne. Talk to your doctor about coupling your acne treatment with lemon juice.
 Much of what you put on your skin gets absorbed into your body.If you are using other ingredients besides lemon juice as a peel, a wash, a lotion, or a mask, use good judgment about whether you'd want it in your bloodstream.

