 If lifestyle changes are not enough to reverse your heart disease, then your doctor may prescribe medication. The prescription will vary greatly with your specific condition.Always take your medicine exactly as your doctor instructs.
The list of medication types that deal with heart disease is extensive. The drugs typically deal with the blood or blood vessels in some way, but a few others handle the disease from other angles such as displacing excess fluid or controlling the heart rhythm.
 These drugs widen (dilate) blood vessels to improve blood flow with the heart and lower blood pressure.


Angiotensin II receptor blockers work to the same effect as ACE inhibitors but do so by reducing certain chemicals in the body. These drugs also reduce some fluid and salt build-up in the body. They may be prescribed if the patient cannot tolerate the cough that is sometimes caused by taking ACE inhibitors.
 These medicines will affect arrhythmia conditions.


These are also called anti-arrhythmia drugs.
 These include blood thinners and aspirin.


Antiplatelet drugs prevent blood clots from forming — a frequent cause of strokes. Since the 1970s, aspirin has been used to prevent and manage heart disease as well as strokes. Warfarin (Coumadin) is an anticoagulant. It helps prevent blood clots from forming like other blood thinners.
 There are several drugs that regulate blood pressure to prevent heart disease or reverse it.


Beta-blockers are drugs that treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and congestive heart failure.
Calcium channel blockers relax blood vessels to increase blood and oxygen flow to the heart without increasing stress on the heart muscle.
Diuretics (water pills) remove water and salt through urination. This eases the heart's ability to pump blood and regulates blood pressure.
 These drugs help with blood flow and coronary artery disease.


Thrombolytic therapy is usually given by hospitals through the veins (intravenous/IV) to break up blood clots. Sometimes they are called "clot busters."
Digoxin can help a damaged heart to regain some efficiency with pumping blood.
Nitrates (vasodilators) are used to treat angina (coronary artery disease or chest pain) caused by blockages of blood vessels in the heart.
 If your doctor determines that your lifestyle changes combined with medication are not enough to reverse your heart disease condition, then surgery may be the next step. There are a number of procedures available for heart disease cases, and recovery after heart surgery can take six to eight weeks of closely monitored care after discharge from the health care facility.You may get a stent. Stents are small metal mesh tubes that can expand once in place in the artery. There are several types of angioplasty you could get instead, and stents are among them. In all cases a thin plastic tube is surgically inserted into the problem artery with a catheter. Next, the artery is expanded and the blockage removed.
Similar to a stent is an ablation. Ablation involves inserting a tube or directly cutting into your heart's blood vessels and intentionally scarring the tissue to get the heart to restart its beat to correct irregular rhythms.
Receive coronary artery bypass surgery. The surgeon will take a blood vessel from another part of the body and graft it onto the heart to give the blood another path to flow. This is one of the most common surgeries to correct heart disease.
Ask your doctor about procedures for heart arrhythmias. Most of these procedures involve electrical stimulation of the heart muscle to correct the rhythm.

Pacemakers are small devices that send electrical impulses to the heart to control the heart's rhythm.
Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) directly monitor and stimulate your heart rate.
Other electronic device correctives include enhanced external counter-pulsation (EECP) to cause blood vessels to develop branches, and create a natural bypass around problem arteries that angina (chest pain). It works by attaching blood pressure cuffs to both legs to compress blood vessels there until the branch vessels form then releasing the cuffs quickly.
A left ventricular assist device (LVAD or VAD) is a partial mechanical heart inside the chest and helps pump oxygenated blood throughout the body. But it is not a full replacement for the heart.


Receive heart transplant surgery. This is the replacement of one's diseased heart with the healthy heart from a deceased donor.
 If you have heart surgery, then you will need to take great care in your efforts after discharge from the hospital or care center. Recovery can last six to eight weeks.Pay close attention to any instructions, lists, and medication given to you by your doctor and the hospital/care facility.
You may have some pain or discomfort around the surgical incision area. This is normal and you should be given a prescription for pain before leaving for home.
If you have any pain in the legs, especially for bypass surgery (usually leg veins are used for the graphs), try walking more for daily activities to lessen discomfort.
Driving may be unsafe immediately after surgery. You might have to wait the six to eight week period if this was a major operation — though it could be shorter if the operation was not as invasive. Riding in vehicles is fine.
You want to gradually resume your normal activities, but do not strain yourself. Resume household chores, but avoid remaining standing for more than 15 minutes at a time. Do not lift objects heavier than 10 pounds. Also don't push or pull heavy objects. Stair climbing should be okay unless your doctor says otherwise. Ask your doctor or assigned therapist for instructions on exercise.
A poor appetite is to be expected after surgery, but you should resume your heart-healthy eating habits unless otherwise instructed by your doctor.
Keep in frequent contact with family and friends to avoid stress and depression.

