 Having something to do that you enjoy can enhance the balance in your life as a teen. You might be a part of extracurricular activities, but these responsibilities may not necessarily classify as “fun.” You may not have even chosen them for yourself; a parent may be influenced you to join. Find an activity that you like to engage in regularly.Hobbies give you a chance to pursue and develop new skills, relax, and meet people. Try joining an interesting club or organization at your school or in the community that’s not related to academics. Join a swim team at the local YMCA. Volunteer at an animal shelter. Learn to play a musical instrument.
A hobby should be an activity that you enjoy doing for yourself--not because your mom or dad says so. Choose an activity that you can engage in regularly. But keep in mind that there's no pressure. If you feel like doing it, do it. If not, do something else. Don't view it as an obligation like school sports or clubs.;
, Regular exercise is an important element to leading a healthy life. When you exercise, your body produces chemicals called endorphins that lift your mood. In addition to a mood-boost, physical activity can also help you manage your weight, fight stress, and even improves academic performance.Opt for 30-60 minutes of exercise on most days of the week with activities like running, hiking, rowing, or dancing.
Remember that you get the greatest benefit from physical activity when you eat a balanced diet. Be sure to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
 As a teen, it can be a challenge to articulate your feelings sometimes. Writing out your thoughts and feelings in a journal offers an outlet to help you manage stress and problem-solve.


Find a nice notebook and pen. Unplug from technology for an hour and sit down to write. You might simply outline the happenings of your day, create stories or poems, or list some things you are grateful for.You may also utilize this time to reflect on stressors. Remind yourself that the stressful past events were only temporary. Treat your experiences as learning opportunities to help you get through any current situations. Your journal can help you reflect and strategize.
 Teens have busy lives. You may often feel like the days are flying by and you have very little connection to individual moments. You can reconnect to the present moment by practicing mindfulness. This activity helps you slow down and focus on the here and now. You can do it virtually anywhere, too.


Try fully focusing as you eat dinner each day. Don’t watch TV or other entertainment. Fix a plate of food and eat it slowly. Notice the different flavors, textures, and smells.
Another approach is to just sit in silence and focus on your five senses. Pay attention to the sights, sounds, touches, or smells around you., Practicing meditation and breathwork can help you relax and keep your mind in the present moment. It helps to slow down racing thoughts, and anxiety about your present situation or the future. Regular meditation can have a positive effect on the body, as well.For instance if you're experiencing anxiety with a racing heartbeat and rapid breathing, relaxation techniques can help bring these symptoms back to a more normal level.
 Failing to get enough shut-eye can undermine your academic performance and make you irritable. It’s important for you to get enough sleep to develop your body and boost brainpower. Teenagers should get about 8 to 10 hours of sleep each night.If you find getting to sleep challenging, it may help to create a nighttime routine. An hour or so before bed, wind down by turning off your phone, TV, and computer. Take a warm bath, listen to calming music, or do some light reading.

