 This will open the Google Photos website, where you can download your photos for printing., Log in with the same account you used to access your photos on Google+. Google Photos stores all of the photos that you had on Google+ or Picasa.
 The main Google Photos page will display all of your photos in chronological order. You can hold your cursor near the scroll bar to see the dates available. Your albums can be found by clicking the "Albums" button on the left side of the screen. Any albums you created in Google+ or Picasa can be found here.
 You can download one or multiple pictures from an album or the Photos page:


Click the checkmark button in the corner of the first picture you want to select.
Click each additional picture that you want to add to the selection. You can hold ⇧ Shift and click to select a group of pictures at once.
Click the ⋮ button in the upper-right corner and select "Download." Your pictures will immediately begin downloading as a file called "Photos.zip"

, You can download all of the photos in an album at once:


Open the album you want to download.
Click the ⋮ button in the upper-right corner and select "Download all." This will begin downloading the photos as a file called "Album Name.zip"

, Once you've downloaded your files, you'll need to extract them from the ZIP file that they downloaded in.


Open your Downloads folder and find the Photos.zip or Album Name.zip.
Double-click the file to open it. On macOS, this will automatically extract the file into a new folder with the same name. In Windows, this will open the contents of the ZIP file in a new window, and you'll need to click "Extract" to make a new folder.
 You'll find this in the same folder as the ZIP file itself. Leave this folder open for now, it will make uploading them to the print company easier.
 There are a variety of photo printing services online that you can order prints from. Popular services include:


shutterfly.com
walgreens.com
snapfish.com

, You'll need an account with any of the services that you want to order prints from. Accounts are free, and often come with new customer promotions.
 The process for this will vary depending on the service, but after signing in with your account you can usually click the "Upload" or "Add photos" button to add the photos you want to print.


You may be able to drag and drop photos from your computer into the Upload page. if this is the case, you can use the folder that you kept open earlier to easily find and add them.
You may be prompted to browse your computer for the files. If you didn't move them, you should be able to find them in the "Downloads" folder on your computer.
 If you're uploading a lot of photos, it may take a while to transfer them all. Don't close the website until you're notified that the upload was successful.
 Most print services offer a wide range of sizes, from standard photos to wallet pictures to canvas wall prints.
 Many services off in store pickup at participating stores. You can also have your prints shipped to you, usually for an extra fee.
 Enter your payment information when prompted and submit your order. Your prints will arrive or be available for pickup in the time specified by the printer.

