 After you have developed enough strength and stability in the joint to raise your arms parallel to the ground with experiencing little to no pain, you may consider moving on to more demanding exercises. The next three exercises are similar to the first three, but add movement. For these exercises, use resistance from either resistance bands or weights. Be sure not to push yourself too hard, and stop if you feel unusual pain.


The front shoulder raise: (above) Begin in the standard position with either a weight or resistance band in your hand. Palms facing down, raise your arm until your forearm is parallel to the ground, pause for one second and then lower to the starting position. Keep the range of motion limited to parallel with the ground or below. Going any higher may put unnecessary strain on your joint.
The side shoulder raise: (above) involves having your palms down, facing your side and raising your shoulder until it is parallel to the ground. Pause and then lower.
The standing row: (right) involves holding a resistance band that is tethered directly in front of your body, in a straight path from your forearm. From the starting position, allow your arm to move forward until almost fully extended. At this position, pause and then return to the starting position by pulling the band.
 Grab a resistance band that is tethered in a way that when your arm is rotated away from your body, the band is slack. Rotate your arm inwards towards your body and hold for one second. Slowly return your arm to the starting position.
The external shoulder rotation (right): utilizes the same movement pattern as the internal shoulder rotation, except that the starting position begins with your arm already internally rotated. From here, rotate your arm out and hold for one second before returning to the starting position.
 Either with or without free weights, move your arms down towards your feet until they are parallel with your body. Pause for one second and then slowly return to the starting position.
The second exercise: Begin by laying on your stomach and move your hands, palms down, away from each other while keeping them perpendicular to the plane of your body. Once your arms are parallel to the ground, pause, and then slowly lower to starting position.
The third exercise (shoulder flexion): Stand with your arms to your sides. Raise your arms while keeping them at a 45-degree angle directly in front of you. Pause for one second at the top and then lower them back to starting position.

