 If you do not have a backyard (or one that’s big enough for everyone), you could think about trying to find a park close to where the party is, where you can take the party goers for at least some of the party. If you are planning on doing this, ensure you have enough adults with you to supervise.;
, Torrential downpours are no excuse if you’ve planned ahead and asked the parents of the party goers to bring a change of clothes for afterwards.
 Outdoor party games are enjoyed by children, but they are also ideal for the adults. They do not only give the children an opportunity to expend some of their couped-up energy, they let the children exercise and allow you to concentrate on things inside the house (e.g. setting the party table, arranging the food or getting the cake ready).
 Naturally, “Hide and Seek” has more scope in an outdoor area; nevertheless if you are in a public place, you should tell the partygoers where the boundaries of the play area are.
 A fun addition to any outdoor party are bouncy trampolines.
 This is a children's favorite outdoor party game. You can play this the usual way (splitting the group into teams and letting them throw balls made of sponge at each other) or by making one person the thrower (and whoever the thrower hits with a ball replaces them as the thrower). You can adapt this so that if someone is made a thrower more than twice, they become a permanent thrower. Ensure you have a sufficient number of balls made of sponge (about the size of a soccer ball); five should be enough.
 Typically have an adult playing the part of Mr. Jelly (who can only run after the children with wibbly-wobbly limbs!).
 Setting this up in your backyard is quite straightforward; if you choose to do so in a park or other public place, you may discover (as I have done before!) that some of the treats have been taken by strangers!

, These are also great fun. You could play "Tag" or "Dodge Ball" with water balloons (better in the summer); or you could hold a race to see who can burst the greatest number of balloons.
 “Mermaid Child” is where the children have to swim like mermaids and “Dry Hand” is where everyone swims but tries to keep one of their hands dry. Obviously, these pool games depend on the swimming abilities of the group.
 These are a favorite with girls. "Hula Marathon" is where the winner is the person who can keep the hula hoop spinning on their hips the longest and “Hula’s Got Ya” which is basically tag but using the hula hoop to 'hula' people; your children will almost certainly have their own entertaining ideas too.

