 There is a strong bias within the medical community against fat patients. Many hospital personnel would prefer not to treat fat patients at all. They do not want to be around them or have to touch them. As a result, many fat people do not receive adequate medical attention. This has, in many cases, resulted in the death of the patient, since they are often simply told to "lose weight and your ailment will go away", even when presenting with dangerous conditions (heart conditions, asthma, or auto-immune diseases) or had important medication withheld from them because it might cause weight gain or because they did not lose a certain amount of weight imposed by medical personnel.;
, There are compilations made by fat-positive blogs and activists.
 In this way, you make it clear that you want a full, honest investigation of the problems that you’re having and that you won’t accept the “Lose weight” prescription as the be-all, end-all of your issue.
 This is something that people tend to forget that they can ask for. But going into the appointment not wanting your weight to be at all discussed can make your approach strong and firm. A possible way of saying this is to answer when you are asked to step on the scale: "No, thank you, it really isn't relevant to my visit."

, If the nurse, doctor, or anyone asks about why you don’t want to be weighed or any other weight-related questions, you can use a response like “I did not come to discuss my weight today; I would like to focus on ________.” If they push, repeat yourself. And if they still will not stop, tell them that you are prepared to seek out another doctor for the treatment you are wanting.
 That can be a way to show up the fat phobia and give you an idea of what therapies are possible for your condition.
 That way, you can have someone to support you.
 Many fat people have trouble being hired at all, and if they are, they often receive lower wages than their thinner colleagues. Nutrition can suffer if you only have a small budget to work with. Negative social attitudes to fat people eating anything at all can result in a disordered relationship to food in general. Useful online resources include articles and studies provided on www.ellynsatter.org, fatnutritionist.com, as well as food blogs directed at people with little time and money, who often have food intolerances. One good example is no-more-ramen.tumblr.com.
 Often, eating disorders are either not diagnosed in fat people because they don't "look malnourished" based on not being thin, or they are diagnosed with binge-eating disorder when they do not have it. If you know or suspect that you have an eating disorder, you restrict your food intake, or you harm yourself in other ways, find a clinic near you to receive treatment. If they will not treat you, widen your search. Use online support resources to manage as well as possible while seeking treatment.
 It is not your responsibility to not become the victim of abuse, but you are at a high risk of being harassed or even attacked, simply for living in a fat body. This is particularly ironic because many fat people experience harassment while they are walking or running for exercise, something they are often pressed to do to receive social acceptance based on the trope of the "good fat person", someone who is outwardly seeming to strive for weight loss or fitness. Do whatever you want in public, just like thin people get to. Avoid dark areas by yourself, if you can.

