 If you are not familiar with the term, IP spoofing denominates a practice of using different types of software to change the source or destination information in the header of the IP packets. Since these packets are sent through a connectionless network (packets in connectionless networks are also known as datagrams), they can be sent without a handshake with the recipient, which makes them convenient for manipulation. Number of ways to abuse IP or TCP spoofing (the latter mostly being a non-issue these days) kept decreasing with improvements in the overall online security, development of new protocols and increase in user awareness, but there are still people who use this for nefarious purposes. The most common abuses of IP spoofing today revolve around:


IP user authentication based exploits – where the intruder impersonates the IP of the internal network they are trying to penetrate.
Denial-of-service attacks – either direct where the attacker modifies the destination in the IP packets, sending them to the target address; or indirect, where the attacker sends out requests to different reflectors or amplificators, with the IP’s header forged so as to imply that the target site is the source of the packet. This is usually sent to a number of different reflectors/amplificators, which all reply to the target site, sometimes with a response which is much larger than the request itself. ;
, This will prevent some of the possible exploits of IP spoofing. Ingress filtering prevents the reception of packets that are determined to be coming from a different IP address block than what is stated as the source in their header. When correctly implemented, this prevents attackers from flooding your system with requests. Egress filtering prevents packets from leaving your network, if their header seems to be tampered with, which prevents your site form being used as an amplificator or reflector. , If you have a large network, you shouldn’t allow internal authentication based on IP. Setting up additional layers of protection might come at the cost of some convenience, but it will keep your system much more secure.
 Cryptographic protocols such as HTTP Secure (HTTPS), Secure Shell (SSH) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) remove much of the risk of spoofing by encrypting the packets so that they cannot be modified by attackers, and requiring authentication upon receiving a packet.
 Wishing to reduce the threat of IP spoofing, most of the Internet Service Providers have for a while been offering network ingress filtering. This is to say they try to collaborate with each other in the attempt to monitor the path of the packets, and detect the ones that seem unreliable. Checking whether your provider is a part of this agreement is a step in the right direction.
 Seeing how IP spoofing can be combined with other exploits, giving your entire setup a security upgrade is always a good idea. This extends from penetration testing and introduction of two-factor authentication to educating your employees/partners on the online security best practices, like not using public networks to access sensitive information and similar.
 While following all of the steps above should do a decent job of protecting you from IP spoofing, you still want something to alert you if you’ve been an intended victim of one. Luckily, there is an abundance of software out there that can help you with this issue; you just need to find something that fits your needs and budget.

