 If you're trying to improve your health by mimicking other's eating behaviors or styles, you'll need to make sure you choose a core support group that already engages in positive behaviors.


Although studies show that weight gain can be contagious, they show it's equally likely that you'll engage in healthier eating behaviors around those that eat well and eat smaller portions.Think about your current group of friends, family members or co-workers that you normally eat with. Who has healthy eating patterns? Who chooses a side salad instead of fries? Who offers to split larger portions? Who indulges in treats more often?
Make a mental note or list in your head of those people that you think already engage in healthy behaviors. These may be people whose behaviors you envy — like going to the gym regularly or having the motivation to eat healthier on a consistent basis.;
, Your core support group can also influence you in other ways outside of eating. Take advantage of their healthy lifestyle and ask to join them for more physical activity.


If some of your core support group is active regularly, consider asking to join them. Go to the gym at the same time, ask to sign up for a race together, or make a plan to go for afternoon walks together.
Studies have shown that those who work out together are more likely to stay consistent with their exercise plan.In addition, you may work out longer or at a higher intensity when you're with other people.
Similar to eating patterns, you may mimic exercise patterns of those that are active regularly.
 Don't forget about your other friends or family members that you'll still socialize with and eat with. Although they may not exhibit healthy behaviors, its important to still connect with them.


Think about your other friends and family members that you hang out with on a regular basis or eat with. You'll need to come up with strategies to help you stick to more positive eating behaviors around these people.
First, try to engage in other non-food related activities together. Instead of avoiding certain people, ask to go to the movies or go for a hike instead of going out to eat.
If you eat meals regularly with someone who doesn't have the healthiest eating habits, try to take note of how they influence you. You'll need to try harder to make sure you don't change how you eat when around these people.
 One very common behavior of those that already have unhealthy habits, is that they can enable you to adopt those same unhealthy habits. Limit your time with those that are enablers.


Enablers are those friends or family members that encourage or suggest bad eating patterns or behaviors.For example, an enabler may say, "Let's both get dessert and we'll get to try two different items" when you suggest splitting dessert. Or, "Come on! You should have another helping" after you've said you are full
Although some enablers are harmless and don't suggest poor behaviors frequently, some friends or family members do this on a regular basis. Be aware of these enablers and try to avoid eating with them if they have a significant influence on your habits.
 One of the most common mimicked behaviors is eating style.When you're with your core support group, pay attention to how they eat and try to mimic their eating behaviors.


Eat a smaller portion. One common trait of those who are at a healthy weight is that they tend to eat smaller portions and only eat until they're satisfied.Mimic these small portions and leave some food on your plate.
Eat slowly. Try to mimic other's eating speed as well. You may need to try hard to slow down your pace, but this can help you feel more satisfied with less food.
Take small bites. If you normally fill your fork up with a big bite, watch how much food your friends or family choose to have per bite. Try to make your bites smaller and match their size.
Try taking a sip of water between each bite, putting your fork down after each bite, or chew a certain number of times before swallowing to slow yourself down.
 Another easy way to improve your health is by copy catting your friend's orders. Try to mimic what they're ordering or choose a similar meal or snack.


Those who are more slim may be more likely to eat more fruits and vegetables compared to those that are overweight.Let your friends or family members order first or serve themselves first. Look at what they chose and either order that same meal or something similar.
If you don't want to order exactly the same meal, order something very similar. For example, if someone ordered a grilled chicken salad, you may order a grilled steak salad or grilled salmon and steamed vegetables. All are lean proteins and vegetables.
 To help you eat slower and be more mindful about your food choices, engage in more conversation. If your friends are usually the ones talking, this may be why they have an easier time eating less or smaller portions.


If you eat more slowly, your GI system and brain have more time to communicate about your level of satiation. The longer it takes you to eat, the more likely you are to feel satisfied with less food.Engaging in conversation is a natural way to slow yourself down at a meal. Ask questions, bring up complex topics or take the opportunity to vent to a good friend. These are all ways to help keep you talking and slow down your eating pace.
 You can also use your core support group to help you cut down on your own portions of food. If they're already eating smaller portions, they may be more willing to split items with you.


Some friends or family members may enjoy eating larger portions and not want to share or split items with you. This may make it easier for you to order too much or eat too much at meals.
If you want to focus on eating smaller portions, ask your core group to split items with you. You can split an entree, appetizer or dessert.It'll cut down on the overall amount of calories you're consuming at that meal.
These smaller portions will help you stick to an overall more balanced diet and improve your health.
 Also follow your core support group's method on indulging and including treats in their diet. Just because they eat well most of the time, doesn't mean they avoid the occasional treat.


When your friends or family members are ordering food, watch how they include a higher fat or higher calorie option to their meal. Try to mimic their behavior when it comes to indulgent treats. Ask for smaller portions or request a healthier side.
For example, do they order a cheeseburger but swap the fries for a side salad? Do they order a child sized dessert? Do they order a more indulgent appetizer as their main course?
Including some favorite comfort foods is appropriate even when you're trying to improve your health. The key is to be able to do it in moderation and with control.
 Whether you're eating out or going to a friends house for dinner, stick to foods that are prepared with low-calorie cooking methods.


When you're eating with others, try to focus on choosing a meal item that has been prepared without a lot of added fat, oils or sugar. This can help your overall meal be slightly lower in calorie.
The lowest calorie cooking methods to pick include: grilled, sauteéd, boiled, poached, steamed, baked or roasted.
Try to avoid foods that have been deep fried, "smothered" or pan-fried. This usually indicates a higher calorie option.
 Even if other people choose something unhealthier or higher in calories, you should still choose nutritious, lean sources of protein at your meal.


Lean proteins are naturally lower in calories and fat. This can help control the overall calorie content of your meal.
Lean protein options include: poultry, eggs, low-fat dairy, lean beef, lean pork, seafood, legumes or tofu.
When you're eating around other people, try to see what sources of lean protein they are choosing for their meal. Mimic their choice or choose another lean option for yourself., Another way to keep your meals more nutritious is by making half of them a fruit or a vegetable.


Both fruits and vegetables are naturally lower in calories. When you make half of your meal a fruit or a vegetable, it helps control the overall calories of that meal.Watch and listen to what your friends order in regards to fruits and vegetables. Are they choosing to order a vegetable over a higher fat item like fries, potato salad or macaroni salad? Try to mimic this behavior.
 If you have friends that eat well-balanced and nutritious meals, they're most likely choosing 100% whole grain foods. Copy this behavior when you're ordering your meals.


100% whole grains are less processed and contain more fiber, protein and other nutrients compared to refined grains.When you're ordering foods or serving yourself, watch what types of grains your friends take. Do they order brown rice or white rice? Do they ask to swap out the plain pasta for whole wheat?
If your foods are served with a grain, try to eat 100% whole grains like: brown rice, quinoa, whole wheat bread or whole wheat pasta.

