 Certain foods can help you lose weight. In general, these are known as “anti-inflammatory” foods, which are used because having extra weight is an inflammatory condition.To follow this diet switch to organic foods as much as possible. These contain no pesticides or other chemicals, like hormones and antibiotics, that may be related to an increased risk of inflammation.


Limit the amount of processed and prepackaged food you eat as well. You want to limit the additives and preservatives that can cause some people increased inflammation if they have sensitivity to these additives and preservatives.
It may take some extra practice and planning, but the closer you can get to cooking from scratch, using whole foods that have not been processed (and therefore retain most of the vitamins, minerals and other nutrients) the healthier you will be.
A rule of thumb is that if the food is too white, like white bread, white rice, white pasta, it has been processed. Instead, eat whole grain breads, brown rice, and whole grain pasta.
 About ⅔ of your total food should be fruits, vegetables and whole grains.Fruits and vegetables contain high levels of antioxidants, which may decrease inflammation.


Choose brightly colored fruits and vegetables for the highest level of antioxidants. These include: berries (blueberries, raspberries), apples, plums, oranges and citrus fruit (Vitamin C is an excellent anti-oxidant), leafy green vegetables, both winter and summer squash, and bell peppers.
Fresh is best, but frozen vegetables and fruits can definitely be used.
Avoid eating vegetables in any sort of creamy sauces that may add fats to your diet.
Avoid fruits that have sugar or heavy syrup (with added sugars)

, You should be aiming for a minimum of 20 – 35 gm of fiber daily. High fiber foods include:


Whole grains like brown rice, bulgar wheat, buckwheat, oats, millet, quinoa.
Fruits, particularly those that you can eat with the skin — e.g. apples, pears, figs, dates, grapes, berries of all kinds.
Vegetables, especially leafy green vegetables (spinach, mustard, collard, Swiss chard, kale), carrots, broccoli, brussel sprouts, bok choy, beets
Beans and legumes including peas, lentils, all beans (kidney, black, white, lima)
Seeds including pumpkin, sesame, sunflower seeds, and nuts including almonds, pecans, walnuts and pistachio nuts

, In fact, try to limit the amount of meat you eat in general. If you do eat beef, make sure it is lean and preferably grass fed, as this meat has the natural ratio of omega-3 and omega-6 fats. If you eat poultry, make sure it is skinless and is raised without hormones or antibiotics (that goes for the red meat as well).
 The American Heart Association recommends for overall health that you avoid all trans fats and limit saturated fats to less than 7% of your total daily calories. Saturated fats are most easily avoided by avoiding butter, margarine, and shortening in your cooking.


Use olive oil or canola oil instead.
Trim the fats off any meats.
Avoid any food that has “partially hydrogenated fats” on the label. These may contain trans fats, even if the label says “0 trans fats”

, Fish is good quality protein and has good amounts of the healthier omega-3 fats. Higher omega-3 fat intake is associated with a decreased level of inflammation. Fish with higher levels of omega-3 fats include: salmon, tuna, trout, sardines and mackerel.
 If you avoid processed foods, you have essentially included only complex carbohydrates. The processing of food breaks down the carbohydrates into the simple carbohydrates. High amounts of simple carbohydrates can increase the levels of inflammation.
 Eating well, eating less, and exercising is the only real way to lose weight and to keep it off. However, the exercise doesn’t have to be, and shouldn’t be, a difficult chore. Start slow by walking more often. Park the car far away, use stairs instead of escalators or elevators, walk the dog, or just plain take a walk! If you want, join a gym and find a fitness coach.


Lift weights, do cardiovascular workouts, use an elliptical, whatever you enjoy and will stick with.
Make sure you talk to your physician and make sure you know what you should and shouldn’t be doing. Don’t push it too hard, just push it a bit!
Find an activity that you enjoy and that fits well into your life. Don’t overdo it, because workouts that are too strenuous can cause you to stop doing them.Try using a pedometer to track and monitor how many steps you take through the day. Gradually increase this number over time to increase your activity level.
 Examples include running, swimming, hiking, walking, jogging, dancing, martial arts and cycling.


These can also be done inside, using exercise equipment such as stationary bikes and ellipticals, or outside, in a park or in your neighborhood.