 Your bikini area has very sensitive skin and very coarse hair. This means waxing the area can be very painful. Choosing the wrong wax could lead to more pain than what is necessary. There are different types waxes that have different benefits and disadvantages, but for avoiding pain, hard wax is your best choice. It does not grab any skin and is best for the coarse hair you have in your bikini area. Cold wax strips are warmed up in your hands and are great to avoid mess. But sometimes you need to go over spots more than once to remove all the hair, so it is not recommended for avoiding pain. Soft wax is put on with paper strips and is better for finer hair. It is best for large, non-sensitive areas so it is not recommended for your bikini area. ;
, It is important not to try to wax if your hair is too short or too long. Your hair should be about ¼ inch when you wax. If your hair is too short, there will not be enough hair for the wax to grab. If your hair is too long, the wax will grab too much hair. The long hair will also be coming from various directions, causing more pain. If your hair is too long you can trim it with an electric razor. , You should wax every three to four weeks. If you go longer than that, your hair will be too long and waxing will be more painful. Staying on a strict waxing cycle gets your hair used to the pain and builds tolerance.


Don’t wax before your period. This is when you are the most sensitive to pain. , Purchasing creams that promise to take away the pain are just a waste of money. As nice as it would be to be able to numb your bikini area ahead of time to prevent pain, they don’t actually work and the waxing is still just as painful. Put baby powder on your bikini area beforehand instead. This will help remove moisture so the wax can grab the hair easier.
About 20-45 minutes before you wax, take an ibuprofen to help lessen the pain. , Before you start, take a shower and wash your bikini area with unscented soap and warm water. Make sure you are completely dry before you start waxing. Stay undressed, it will be easier to wax without underwear or clothes getting in the way. , You can heat the hot wax in a wax warmer or in the microwave. A wax warmer keeps the wax warm throughout the process, prevents the wax from getting too hot, and is less messy. If you don’t want to purchase a wax warmer, you can just use your microwave. , Don’t try to wax in the living room or a shared space of your house. Go somewhere you can be completely alone and are comfortable. Wait until everyone is gone so there is no chance of someone walking in on you. You want to be able to take your time and be able to relax while you work.


You can wax on your bed or on your floor (with a towel laid down) so you are comfortable.
Have a mirror in front of you so you can see what you are doing. , Make sure you test the wax before you start applying. If the wax is too hot you can burn yourself. Take a wax applicator stick and stir the pot of wax. Scrape off any extra wax and dab the inside of your wrist to check the heat. , There are many options for bikini area looks. You can wax your bikini line (the area that shows when you have a swimsuit on), you can create a shape (landing strip, triangle, and heart are the most common), or you can do a Brazilian wax and remove everything.


If you want to create a shape, you can purchase stencils or use a bright lip liner to outline the area you don’t want to wax. , Carefully smear the wax in one section (about an inch wide and up to three inches long). Make sure to put the wax on in the direction of your hair growth. Wait for 30 seconds for the wax to harden then pull off the wax in the opposite direction of your hair growth. Since it is hot wax, you can directly pull the wax without paper.


Start with your inner thigh and work your way in and then back until you are finished waxing.
Pulling the wax off is the only way to remove it once you apply it.
Pull your skin tight in the area you are waxing to help with pain. , When you are finished, remove any remaining hairs with tweezers. Any small pieces of wax that did not come off can be taken off with wax remover or baby oil. , When you are finished waxing, rinse off to help sooth discomfort. When you are rinsed off, exfoliate your bikini area to help prevent uncomfortable ingrown hairs and to keep your bikini area stay soft and smooth. If you get ingrown hairs don’t pop them, they could get infected. Use hydrogen peroxide or alcohol free astringent to help prevent infection. , If you burn yourself on the hot wax, get a wash cloth wet with clean, cold water. Press the wash cloth on the burned area for 15 minutes. Put aloe vera gel on the burn to help with the discomfort and inflammation. If the burn blisters or swells go to a doctor. , It is possible your bikini area will be very red after you wax. If this happens, microwave milk in a bowl. Soak a wash cloth in the warm milk and press on your bikini area until the redness fades. If you are at home or have privacy, take your underwear off for an hour or two when you are finished. This helps fix any redness. Even if you aren't red, you might want to do this anyway to prevent irritation. 