 Be it a person or a thing, move away from it. This is because the more you see the person/thing, the more angry you become. It is necessary to control anger as soon as possible before it gets you out of limit.;
, If you are standing, sit down and if you are sitting, lie down on a nearby sofa or on the floor. This helps you to relax for a while and also diverts your attention, to some extent, from the reason that made you angry.
 Remember a simple phenomenon: that anger is a fire that rises within you, and fire can be quickly  extinguished by water. Sit down and drink a whole glass of water slowly, taking breathing pauses in between. Feel yourself relaxed.
 Calm yourself down by deeply breathing before you become out of control. You might will to slap the person or crush everything, but keep in mind that these things only increase your problems.
 This works on the same phenomenon as mentioned above. You can either have a bath with cold water (that completely alters your mood), or have a steam bath; it relaxes you and makes you feel relieved in short time.
 If you are in your office, school or at home, it's better to have a light walk outside your place to take control over your temper. If you get to a nearby park or garden having greenery, that would be a great way to calm down.
 This is one of the best ways to get rid of anger quickly. Weeping in this condition helps you change your mood. This will turn your anger into sadness for a moment, but if you're confident enough to face your problems, you'll definitely find a way out of this sadness. Remember to weep in a low voice because crying out loud might make you more angry.
 You can do it as a replacement to the above mentioned step. This might seem awkward, but it truly works. If you're unable to smile or laugh at the moment, look out for quick reasons that make you smile. These can be pictures, videos, delicious food etc.
 This way, you can release your anger without harming anyone. If you don't have boxing gloves, try to punch into a hard cushion with bare hands.
 Step out of your place and walk quickly, until your anger is overcome by the tiredness you'll feel because of this brisk walk. It is necessary that you take care of your body while doing this, because walking long distances in this state can badly effect your body.
 It is another well-known way to reduce anger and to calm down without hurting anyone/anything.

