 The PatFT holds full-text patents issued from 1976 to the present.


Older patents exist in the database as PDF images only. However, you can only search for pre-1976 patents if you have the patent number or know the official classification scheme.;
, You can search US patents issued from 1976 to the present with any information at all. This type of search also can be used to find multiple related patents.


For example, you could use PatFT’s search function to find all patents issued either to Bill Gates or Steve Jobs.
You may also want to brainstorm words to describe the invention or technology. If you don’t know anything specific, but have access to the invention itself, these words can help you find the patent of that or related inventions., The Quick Search page also has a drop-down menu of Boolean connectors such as “and” or “or” that you can choose if you use more than one search term.


With a quick search, you can only use two search terms and one Boolean connector.
 After entering your search term, use the drop-down menu to tell the database where that term is located on the patent. If you don’t specify the field, the form defaults to searching all fields.


For example, if you were searching for all patents issued to Bill Gates as an inventor, you would enter “Bill Gates” in the blank for “Term 1” and then specify “Inventor Name” as the field for that term., If you have more than one term you want to search in the database, you can enter a second term in the same way you entered the first.


You also should adjust the Boolean drop-down menu as necessary. The form defaults to “AND” but you can choose a different operator if you want. For example, if you wanted to search for all patents with either “Bill Gates” or “Steve Jobs” in the “Inventor Name” field, you’d change the Boolean operator from “AND” to “OR.”, The default search is the entire full-text database, which covers patents issued from 1976 to the present. However, if you only want to search patents issued in the last 20 years, for example, you can limit your search accordingly., The database will return a list of all records that matched your search terms. If you aren’t satisfied with your search results, you can refine your search, or reset the form and start over.

