 Ask yourself about the occasion or incident prompting you to make a photo collage. Oftentimes, the occasion will guide you in choosing a theme or design for your collage.


Photo collages are often created for holiday decorations or gifts. For instance, you may create one to celebrate Mother's Day, Father's Day, an anniversary, bridal shower, baby shower, graduation, birthday, or major holiday like Christmas. Many collages created for such occasions include photographs and decorations that are themed around those occasions.
Photo collages can also be created to showcase pictures from a memorable event, like a vacation or family reunion. In these cases, the photos chosen will be restricted to photos from that event.
You may also end up creating a collage for an art project. This occasion is less restrictive, but you should still factor in any submission guidelines if you plan to enter your work into an art contest.;
, Theme is usually tied into occasion, but if no special occasion governs the creation of your work, you will need to spend more effort coming up with a cohesive theme to tie your work together.


Photo collages are a great way to document and display happy memories with loved ones. You could consider a theme that showcases such memories with relatives or friends.
A photo collage can also be used to document your life or the life of someone else.
From an artist's or photo journalist's perspective, a photo collage can be used to showcase something significant, like a location or event. For instance, an artist may create a college of photos that illustrate the beauty of a natural habitat. On the other hand, a photo journalist may create a college of photos that illustrate the harsh conditions of those living in poverty.
 You could opt for a simple rectangular arrangement, but you could also change the shape or plan on a more artistic arrangement.


For lighthearted collages, the photographs can be arranged in non-standard shapes, like hearts or stars.
For a more artistic approach, you can consider arranging the photographs into a more complex shape, like a face. For added effect, each photo can be tinted slightly so that the colors better match those of the design you plan on attempting.
 The manner in which the photo collage will be displayed should be taken into account when deciding on the size and shape of the collage.


If you plan to display the collage in a personal office or similar space, you should choose an unobtrusive design and keep it fairly small.
For a collage meant to serve as the centerpiece of a special occasion, you should keep the design fairly simple, but the collage itself should be somewhat large and easy to see.
If the collage will be displayed in an official capacity as a piece of artwork or photo journalism, you should consider making it both large and intricately designed.
 The number of photographs can usually be determined by the intended purpose, size, and design of your collage.


A small, personal collage meant to serve as a decoration or gift should usually be somewhat small, consisting of 10 pictures or less.
A larger collage with a simple design can include anywhere from one to two dozen photographs.
A larger collage with a more complex design will usually need many photographs. In general, the more complex the picture or design you intend to create, the more photographs you will need in order to create it.
 This step seems simple and obvious, but it requires you to carefully consider whether each photo you select truly fits your theme or if you are choosing several photos simply because you like them, even though others might fit your theme better.


This process is usually fairly simple with straight-forward themes like vacation photos or photos honoring a loved one.
This process becomes more difficult, however, when dealing with abstract themes like the beauty of nature or the nature of humanity. When dealing with an abstract theme, you need to consider whether or not each individual photo can speak to the theme on its own, and you must also consider whether or not each photo speaks to the theme in a manner that seems compatible with the other photos.
 A good photo collage will use high-quality photographs. Weed out any photographs that seem blurry, as well as any that show red-eye or those with major imperfections in the film.


Note that some imperfections can be corrected digitally. If you have a photo that you really want to include that has a minor imperfection on it, consider correcting it digitally to determine if it can still be salvaged.
 Since most photographs can be enlarged or shrunk to size, this usually presents little problem. You should consider what may happen to the quality of the photo after altering it, though.


A large, detailed photograph may lose some of that detail if you shrink it down too much.
Conversely, a small photograph may become blurry if enlarged too greatly.
Shape and orientation also plays a role in photo selection. Many collages include a mix of vertical and horizontal photos, but you should consider the balance between these orientations when choosing your pictures.
 Choose more photos than you will need. Among the photographs you choose, separate the ones you intend to use from those that can be used if necessary.


As you arrange your photographs, you may notice that a certain photo does not fit the theme or appearance as well as you initially thought it would. This is a good time to rummage through these extra “back-up” photographs for an option that can replace it.
 Place all the photographs on your background before you glue any of them down. If you paste the photos as you arrange them, you may make a mistake and find yourself unable to correct it.


If you are concerned about the pictures sliding around as you work, use a temporary way to fix them in place. A piece of double-sided tape or a single-sided tape folded into a loop words well as long as the tape is standard office tape.
 If the arrangement you chose will permit some of the background to show through, you need to make sure that the background you choose fits your theme.


Plain colors work well for most occasions and themes, but you should make sure that the color works well. You can use holiday or seasonal colors for seasonal collages. Alternatively, if a certain color runs through the majority of your photos, you can choose a coordinating shade of that same color.
 If you determine that a given photo will not work within your collage as you work, select a different photo to include in its place.


Reasons a photo may not work for a collage can include the orientation, size, content, color, or overall appearance.
 You do not need to use your photos as they are. Instead, consider cutting them into shape to make them work with your collage.


Trim and crop portions of your photos that do not belong or do not fit with the theme of your collage. You can also trim and crop photos in order to make them fit onto your collage better.
You can cut your photos into various shapes, too, including ovals, circles, stars, and hearts.
 Stand back and take a good look at your finished collage before you decide to glue everything in place.


Pay close attention to detail. Ask yourself if it satisfies your original vision and theme, and look for any areas that could be improved.
Consider taking a snapshot of your arrangement. Doing so will allow you to see it in a new light and from a new angle. Additionally, it will also allow you to see how everything was arranged in case your work gets disturbed before you can glue everything down.
 Apply a thin coat of glue to the back of each photograph before carefully placing it on the background.


Do not use a huge glob of glue, since doing so may create wrinkles, bubbles, or bulges.
Start with the photos on the bottom of the arrangement before gluing the ones that overlap.
Once the glue dries, carefully check each photo. If any still seem loose, carefully apply more glue beneath them.
Seal the collage if needed. You can use a crafting sealant that dries clear or make a paste from one part clear-drying glue and four parts water. Mix well and apply the sealant over the entire collage using a foam brush.
 You can add themed embellishments to your finished collage to further draw out the theme. Potential embellishments include:


Borders
Stickers
Stamps
Autographs of those in the photographs
Seashells or other small trinkets

,


Basic photo editing software is often sufficient if you only plan on creating simple collages, but it may not provide the right sort of tools needed to create more complex designs.
If you use photo editing software you already have, you save on expense. Some special photo collage software is free, but the highest quality options do cost money and can be fairly expensive.
Creating a photo collage with basic photo editing software can be labor intensive and time consuming.
Special photo collage software often comes with templates and tools that make collage creation easier.
 Every program you might consider using has different tools, so you will need to look up a specific guide for your software in order to learn how to use it effectively.


Begin by searching through the software help files or the software's instruction manual.
If you find nothing within the help files, search the Internet. Tutorials can come in all-text form, pictorial form, or as video tutorials. Browse through a variety until you find one that seems helpful.



Knowing how to rotate photos will allow you to turn and flip photos as needed in order to make them fit.
Knowing how to resize photos will permit you to enlarge or shrink a photo as needed.
Knowing how to crop photos will allow you to remove portions of the photo that are unneeded or that upset the balance or appearance of the collage.
 Many programs allow you to undo your changes if you decide later that you do not like them, but just in case, it helps to save your collage each time you feel satisfied with your progress. That way, you can return to an earlier version if you later decide that you do not like the most recent changes you made to your collage.


Saving frequently also helps to prevent you from losing your work.
 The quality of a digital collage can be dramatically affected by the quality of the paper you print it on. Standard printer paper is light and has a poor effect. You should at least consider using cardstock or photo paper.


On the same note, you should also use a high-quality printer to ensure vivid coloring and depth.

