 In a small bowl, mix together the paprika, chili powder, sugar, garlic powder, salt, onion powder, black pepper, cumin, and oregano. Whisk them together thoroughly to create a spice blend.


Use plain white granulated sugar for this recipe. Light brown sugar can also be used.
Alter the amounts of paprika and chili powder to vary the heat level of your blend. This will create a mildly spicy meat mixture.
 Place the chicken in a deep skillet and cover with 4 cups (1 l) of water and 4 Tbsp (60 ml) of your spice blend. Bring the mixture to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to a simmer.


Cover the skillet and let the chicken cook for 30 minutes, stirring periodically. #*The chicken should be fully cooked and tender when finished.
You can also use a Dutch oven or stockpot instead of a deep skillet. Simply make sure that whatever cookware you use is heavy-duty and equipped with a lid.
 Transfer the chicken from the liquid and let it cool on a separate plate.


Do not dump the liquid.
 As the chicken cools, turn the heat back up, bringing the liquid to a boil again. Keep it boiling.


Do not cover the pan with a lid during this stage.
As the liquid boils, much of it will evaporate off, reducing it down to a thicker, more concentrated consistency.
 When the chicken is cool enough to touch, shred it by pulling the meat apart with two forks.


You could also use your fingers to shred the chicken, but doing so will be much messier.
Alternatively, you could use a knife to cut the chicken into rough cubes or strips instead of shredding it.
 Transfer the shredded chicken back into the liquid.


Stir well so that the chicken is evenly soaked in the seasoned liquid.
 Combine the remaining 4 Tbsp (125 ml) of water, the remaining spice blend, and the cornstarch in a small bowl to form a paste. Add this paste to the skillet and continue cooking until the liquid thickens.


You will need to allow the liquid to boil after adding the cornstarch slurry.
Stir constantly until the mixture thickens.
Remove from the heat and serve or store the meat when finished.

