 To cut an onion effectively, cut it in half from pole to pole (following the lines of the onion). Place the cut side on the cutting board, then cut the onion horizontally in half, with your knife parallel to the cutting board. From here, simply cut along the "grain," following the lines on the outside of the onion, then cut perpendicular to these cuts to get small onion squares. The garlic can be left whole or finely chopped.


Whole garlic will have a sharper, slightly spicy flavor. Chopped garlic will take on a slight nutty sweetness as it cooks.
 You can also use a tablespoon of butter and one of oil, as well, for a slightly richer sauce.
 Salt brings out moisture immediately to help the ingredients cook perfectly, but it works best if added right with the cold ingredients. Stir well.If the garlic is finely chopped, wait a minute to add it. The small pieces will cook, and burn, much faster than the onion will.
 Translucent means that the onion is just starting to become see-through. You'll notice the centers becoming slightly clear and the white leaving the onion. This is your sign to move on. It usually takes 3-5 minutes to occur after the onions hit the hot pan.
 You can use a bottle of wine from the house or a bottle of cooking wine. If you can't use either, broth or stock works too, and even a splash of cool water is good. Once the liquid hits the pan, use your wooden spoon to scrape up any bits that stuck to the bottom of the pan from the onions so that their flavors meld into your sauce. There should only be a bit of liquid left in the pan before you move on.


Even if you don't use wine, deglaze the pan quickly before moving on to get these bottom bits. Let the liquid mostly dissolve before proceeding.
 Add a pinch of salt to the tomatoes and stir them around, using the back of a wooden spoon to smash and smush any whole tomato, releasing more of those juices. Let them heat up until boiling and bubbling.


If you want to use fresh tomatoes, you must blanch and peel them in advance. Put 7-10 Roma tomatoes in boiling water until the skin loosens (1 minute), then immediately drop them in a bath of ice water. You can then easily pull the skins off, saving the juices and cooking like normal from here out., Great cooks know to keep sampling the sauce as it cooks, adding pinches of seasoning here and there to get the perfect sauce. You can also consider a 1/2 cup (4 oz) of vegetable or chicken stock, which will add a nice subtle blend of spices and flavors.Some common spices to add include:


Handful of fresh basil (note that smaller leaves tend to have the most flavor)
1-2 Bay leaves
Oregano, Rosemary, and/or Thyme
Ground black or crushed red pepper
Fresh parsley., If you want the chunky, traditional sauce, leave it as it is. But most people want something with a little smoother consistency and texture, and blending is the best way to go. If you have a stick mixer, this is often the easiest way to do it, as the sauce never has to leave the pan. However, it is just as easy to pour the sauce into your blender or food processor, puree everything, and then pour it back in the pan to keep cooking.
 The longer a sauce can cook slowly, with only a few heat bubbles breaking the surface, the better it will be. It will thicken as it cooks as well, so keep an eye on it to make sure it stays creamy and liquidy. If it turns too thick, pour in a ladle full of pasta water (if cooking pasta with the dish) and stir. Starchy water will help the sauce bind itself to the pasta when you serve it.A splash of water, water with 1 tablespoon tomato paste, or a bit of chicken/vegetable broth can all be used to thin a sauce that is too thick.Don't worry if you over-thin out a sauce -- it will thicken again as it heats up.

