 Put together a timeline of action and communication so you can present an organized plan to staff.


Include top leadership and new managers in the planning process.
Discuss specific areas that will affect staff during the management change, so you can be prepared for questions and suggestions.;
, Every company has a few people who can be relied upon to help management keep morale high, as well as a few people who can be counted on to complain.


Develop a plan for each group. Have a manager talk to the staff leaders for insight on how to keep people positive about the change, and assign someone to watch the detractors for excessive gossip or negativity.
 Whether you are going to announce the change in person, online, through written communication channels or via separate managers and supervisors, make sure everyone who has a part understands the change message and how to communicate it.


Create talking points for anyone who will need help in explaining what the change means to staff and teams. Anticipate questions and concerns, and help communicators address them.
 You do not want your staff to hear about management change through the grapevine or outside your company. Let your employees know about the change before you go public with the news.
 Tell staff why the management change is taking place.


Explain the positive outcomes you expect from the change. Be positive and optimistic, but do not mislead the staff. If the company is struggling, be honest about it.
 Allow your staff to meet and get to know the new managers as soon as you announce the management change.


Share the managers' biographies, resumes and professional interests.
Encourage the new managers to get to know their teams and the rest of the staff.
 Answer any questions that staff may have about the management change.


Appoint specific people to answer questions and manage feedback. Let staff know who they should talk to if they have questions, comments or ideas.
 After the initial announcement about the change, continue to communicate as the process moves forward.
 Once the change is in place, measure your outcomes and determine what worked well and what will have to be adjusted the next time.


Share the success stories with staff. Use company publications, email blasts or company meetings to celebrate what you are proud of after a management change has been implemented.

