 Oxford and Cambridge are great places to study and look very good on a CV. One in five member of the Parliament actually went to Oxbridge!In a few cases, you may wish to consider top universities overseas, or another university for a specialist degree (e.g. Mechanical Engineering). You might also want to study in another European country to enjoy other cultures or learn a language.


Make sure to visit Oxford and Cambridge. You can access the colleges and talk to the students. You can also contact the universities and colleges through their webpages or by phone. Don't send emails to the lecturers and professors. They don't deal with general queries and are already busy enough.
If you haven't studied in the United Kingdom before, look at the criteria online or contact the admission teams. They have very specific criteria for each country on the planet. ;
, Your A-Levels will determine if you are admitted or not. As a teenager, you will be expected to work over 40 hours a week for some subjects, so make sure you are willing to dedicate yourself to the hard work.


Your A-Level results are extremely important. If you feel you will be able to achieve highly when taking more than three A-Level results, then feel free to do so. However, the number of results is far less important than the grades. It is better to do better with three A levels (at least AAA or higher, dependent on course and university), than to do less well with four or more. Most Admissions Tutors will agree with this.
It is not mandatory to disclaim your GCSE grades but they are often used to distinguish between entrants due to the high number of A's achieved at A level. As they are not mandatory, there is officially no level to reach. In practice, the better they are, the more likely you are to be accepted.
 Your choice of A-Levels needs to reflect your desire to study a discipline. You cannot study medicine if you never had an interest in science. It’s always a good idea to check in advance what is needed in your aspiring field.

It's also a great idea to make sure you are passionate about your subject, don't just do it for Oxbridge, for a job or because you are good at it. You will be slogging it out for the next three or more years, make sure It's something you can enjoy. The interviewer will also be looking out for this passion.

Think ahead. Your degree will decide what you do in life. You should realise that you might not work in history, even if you have a degree in the field. Decide what’s right for you and don’t let others choose for you.
 Many applicants will have perfect grades at GCSE and A-Levels. When all else is equal, depending on what program you're in, Oxbridge may look at your life and at who you are to decide who has done the extra mile.


Gain leadership experience. Having responsibilities and the ability to lead a team is always a way to shine. Try to become the captain of your sport team or the president of your debating club.
Volunteer with charitable organizations. Helping others and showing that you care about your surrounding will make you look like a valuable addition to a community.
Engage with cultural activities. Oxbridge is based on traditions and history. Even if you want to study science, show that you care about the past and the culture.
Ultimately though, extra-curricular activities are not the be-all and end-all. The people reviewing your application will be academics, so it is much more important to show a genuine passion for your subject and to back up your claims with evidence. This can include listing relevant books you have read, films or documentaries you have watched, or events you have attended.
 It might be obvious but you need to know where you want to study when you apply. There is a strong rivalry between the two universities and you probably already have a preference. The most rational way to pick the right institution for you is by picking the strongest in your field. Oxford performs far worse in engineering and technology than Cambridge but is better for life sciences, medicine and humanities.It is slightly easier to reach Cambridge from London.
Think about the financial implication. The tuition fees are currently £9,000 per year and you should allow an additional £8,300 per year to live in Cambridge.. Oxford is slightly more expensive in terms of living costs.
 You will need to pick a college when you apply and write the application. Read up about as many colleges as you can. You can view the statistics of each college online to see how many people applied and got in for each course. Study the history of the college and try to remember the name of a few of its prominent members. It’s important to show that you care.


Make sure to choose a college that offers your subject. You can find information on this on the University websites.
Only take an open application if you are unsure what college you want to go to. This will not affect your chances but you will be asked why you didn't apply for a college at the interview. Make sure to underline that it has nothing to do with you not caring or not having read on them.
 Oxbridge will only look at your personal statement for a few minutes. It has to be perfect. Ask several teachers to look over it and even get your friends to double-check. Make sure to take the advice of experienced teachers. There are many ways to approach a personal statement but make sure to mention the following in your letter:


Introduction about the subject, why you want to do it, etc. (show some knowledge of the course)
Academic achievement
Non academic achievement
Extra curricular activities and hobbies
Conclusion (include what you want to do after university).
 There are extra steps between the UCAS and the interview at the University of Oxford. The first one is a test with the Admissions Testing Service.The test is not systematic. It is required when you need specific knowledge, like Latin and Greek for Classic studies. A full list and several examples of tests are available on the webpage of the University of Oxford.Each test is different. Make sure to read what's required and the criteria about your specific discipline.
 You will need to submit written work. The piece needs to be marked and cannot be more than 2,000 words. Make sure to select the best written work you can.The written work should be relevant to your future career path. Don't send a history essay if you want to study biology.
 If you are called for an interview, you will need to prepare. They will ask you difficult questions and try to test you. You must prove your knowledge and your desire to learn in that particular university. They will also ask you about your hobbies. Remember that they are looking for human beings who can contribute to the life of the college.


Know why you want to go to the college, why you want to study your course, and what you love about your course.
Stay confident throughout the interviews.
It is always a bonus to search up your interviewers to see the areas they specialise in. Read up on these areas as it may be likely that they will ask you questions on those topics. It is always better to be clued up, and you will impress them.
There are courses held every year for students to prepare for the interview. These are extremely expensive, sometimes costing hundreds of pounds. They are not necessary if you are supported by your school and trained by your teachers.
It is a good idea to get teachers to give you several different styles of mock interviews. Make sure you study relevant topics and be prepared to answer questions that require independent thought.
Don’t forget to dress properly and behave impeccably. The first impression counts a lot. However make sure that you feel comfortable in your clothes, this may seem minor but it could affect your performance in the interview which is by far the most critical part of this process. Whether to wear a suit or not is an ambiguous subject. Some tutors may dress much more casually than others (this may have a correlation with which subject they teach). The letter or email inviting you to the interview may hold a hint on what kind of clothes are acceptable.
 Oxbridge will typically notify you of their decisions six months before your final A-Levels. If you get accepted, you will still have to perform well at your A-Levels as the offer will be conditional on you receiving certain grades. The typical Oxford offer is AAA at A-level, but Cambridge offers usually asks for the new A* grade.


If you are rejected, you will need to consider your options. If you want to try the year after, make sure to do something constructive, such as volunteering, during your gap year. You can also choose to apply for another university.

