 Banks, both online and in physical establishments, generally make their lending interest rates very visible. Find a few banks near you or online and check over a period of a week or two. Make note of the fixed rates for different term mortgages and keep a record of changes.


For example, you might select the 10-year fixed rate and 30-year fixed rate mortgages. Check on the rates at the beginning of each week for a period of two or three weeks. If you see rates rise over that period, you may wish to act soon before they get much higher.
As an example, the website www.bankrate.com offers a list of current mortgage rates from ten different lenders.
 If you expect interest rates to be increasing in the near future, or if you have already seen a rising trend in interest rates, then you would want to make your decisions about buying real estate as early as possible. If the financial forecast is for rates to continue rising, then you should try to lock in the best rate you can.Buying real estate can be a big step. If you are currently renting, you may find that mortgage payments on a similar or even larger property may be lower. By buying property, you have the added benefit that your payments work toward building equity.
If you need help reaching a down payment level that you can afford, you might try asking family members to lend you some money to help you get started. A personal loan like that can help you get into the real estate market, and the money you save by taking advantage of currently low interest rates should help you be able to repay them over time.
 If you believe that rates are going to be going up, then you gain the most advantage by locking in with a fixed rate. Banks offer both fixed-rate and adjustable- or variable-rate loans. An adjustable rate loan may appear enticing with a lower entry level, but as rates increase, you can wind up paying more. Locking in with a fixed rate can save thousands of dollars in the long run.For example, the current fixed rate for a 30 year mortgage is roughly 4%. Over the full life of a $300,000 loan, for example, you would pay about $200,000 in interest. However, adjustable rates that begin at 3% could rise to as high as 6% or more. Even if it takes ten or fifteen years for your rate to rise that high, you would still have another fifteen years to go at that higher rate. Paying interest at 6% for fifteen years would cost you significantly more than the original fixed rate loan.
Online mortgage loan calculators, at websites like Zillow.com, allow you to predict the overall cost of mortgages with rates and terms that you select., You may want to take advantage of the lower rate that is offered with adjustable rate mortgages. Currently, a seven-year adjustable rate mortgage charges about ½% less than a 30-year fixed mortgage. Over the seven years, if you borrow $300,000, that ½% amounts to $10,500 in savings. However, you need to watch the interest rate carefully. If it begins rising above the level of fixed rate mortgages, you may wind up losing money. If you monitor rates carefully and are prepared to refinance, you can save money in the long run.There is also the possibility that financial forecasts for increasing interest rates could be wrong. By borrowing with an adjustable rate mortgage, if the rates drop, then you get the benefit of paying lower interest.
 If you have been getting along at a moderately high interest rate, waiting to take advantage of the lowest rate possible before refinancing, this may be the time. If you believe rates will begin climbing back up, then you should take advantage of the currently low rates and refinance before you lose the opportunity.Refinancing has costs associated with it, so you don’t want to do it freely or too often. But if it has been a while since you last refinanced your mortgage, you may want to take advantage of low rates now.

