 Homemade lipstick is made from inexpensive ingredients you can purchase at craft and grocery stores or buy online. You'll need the following supplies to create the perfect lipstick:


A new or used lipstick or chap stick container
A glass dropper
Beeswax
Shea butter or cocoa butter
Coconut oil
For color:

Beet root powder
Cocoa powder
Ground turmeric
Ground cinnamon

;
, Lipstick base is made from beeswax, which keeps the lipstick stiff; shea or cocoa butter, which makes it spreadable; and coconut oil, which moisturizes your lips. Place equal amounts of beeswax, shea or cocoa butter, and coconut oil in a small glass dish. Place the dish in a shallow pan filled with an inch or so of water, making sure the water surface is well below the rim of the glass dish. Place the pan on the stove and turn the burner to medium-high, allowing the water to heat the mixture until it melts.









Use a wooden stick or a spoon to stir the mixture until the ingredients are combined and completely melted.
If you want to make several tubes of lipstick, use two tablespoons of each ingredient. If you just want one stick to start, use one teaspoon of each ingredient.
 Remove the mixture from heat. Add powders and spices to the base in 1/8 teaspoon increments, stirring well with a wooden stick or spoon to fully incorporate them into the base. Continue until the mixture has reached the hue you want.









Add beet root powder if you want the lipstick to be red, using less for a pink color and more for a deeper rouge. If you can't find beet root powder, a natural red food coloring dye also works.
Add cocoa powder for a brown hue.
Ground turmeric and cinnamon produce coppery tones.
If you want a nontraditional color, like purple, blue, green or yellow, add a few drops of natural food coloring.
 The easiest way to fill small lipstick or chap stick tubes is to use a glass dropper, such as the droppers that come with bottles of essential oil, to move the lipstick while it's still in its liquid state. Use a dropper to fill the container to the top with lipstick.









If you don't have a dropper, use a small funnel to transfer the liquid. Place the funnel over the opening of the lipstick tube and pour the liquid from the bowl into the funnel.
If you don't have a lipstick or chap stick tube, you can use a small glass or plastic lipstick pot instead, and plan to apply the lipstick with a lipstick brush.
Be sure to transfer the liquid quickly, since it will begin to harden as it cools.
 Allow the lipstick to completely cool and harden in its container. When it has set, apply it directly to your lips or use a lipstick brush for a more precise job.








