 A primary color is a bright color that is useful for mixing other bright colors but cannot itself be made by mixing other colors. Yellow is the perfect example. Try mixing yellow from orange and green, and the result is very "dirty," not yellow at all. And yet we can use yellow with red to mix orange or with turquoise to mix green. This definition provides the rationale for the steps that follow.
 For example, if you have a set of poster paints, arrange them like this: red, orange, yellow, green, turquoise, cyan, blue, purple, magenta. Don't include any light, dark, or dull colors. No black, white, gray, brown, light pink, light blue, wine red, hunter green, navy blue, etc. Make sure your colors include all the candidates: yellow, orange, red, magenta, purple, blue, cyan, and green.
 Now paint a sample of each color, arranging them around your circle in rainbow order as determined in step 1. Make sure they go all the way around so that your first and last colors wind up next to each other.
 For example, try to make yellow by mixing orange and green. Try to make green by mixing yellow and turquoise. Continue around the entire circle, painting a sample of each mixture next to the color it's supposed to be.
 The human eye has three types of color-sensing cone cells, which means that for those of us with normal color vision there are three primary colors. Yellow made from mixing orange and green is an obvious "dirty" result. The other primary colors may not be as obvious as yellow. In the photo above, which are the two other mixtures that look "dirtiest" in comparison to what they are trying to be? Those will be the other two primaries.
 In the exercise above, you should have discovered that magenta, cyan, and yellow are the colors that cannot be mixed and therefore are primary. These are the colors used in photographic and computer printing. Here we will test this trio against the traditional red, yellow, and blue. If you are using artist colors, try transparent quinacridone magenta (PR122) and transparent phthalocyanine blue (PB 15:3 or 15) for magenta and cyan. If you are not using artist colors, that's fine too. Just look for colors that are a good match for the magenta and cyan inks used in printers. You can find color swatches on end flaps of many food boxes, and look for paints to match them.;
, Compare your result to your red paint, and see how well you can match it. Remember, if red is a primary color, you should not be able to make it by mixing other colors. If you can make red, then maybe magenta is the real primary color, not red. And, if magenta is a real primary color, it should work to make both reds and oranges when mixed with yellow, and to make blues and purples when mixed with transparent cyan. Try it!

, Remember, if magenta is primary, you should not be able to mix it from other colors. Compare your result to your magenta paint, and see how well you can match it. Is your mixture dark and dirty looking? That would indicate that magenta is a primary color.
 Compare your result to your blue paint, and see how well you can match it. Remember, if blue is a primary color, you should not be able to make it by mixing other colors. If you can make blue, then maybe cyan is the real primary color, not blue. And, if cyan is a real primary color, it should work to make lots of different greens when mixed with yellow, and to make blues and, yes, even purple, when mixed with magenta. Try it!

, Remember, if cyan is primary, you should not be able to mix it from other colors. Compare your result to your transparent cyan paint, and see how well you can match it. Is your mixture dark and dirty looking? That would indicate that cyan is a primary color.
 If red and blue can be mixed from other colors, and magenta and cyan cannot (or in any case your results are very "dirty"), the latter two must be the correct primary colors, not the former two, despite what we all were taught in third grade.
 After following the above steps, it should be obvious that if magenta, not red, is the primary color, then it does not make sense to "split" our primary by calling magenta "red with a blue bias" and keeping red as our "red with a yellow bias." Red as a primary color is simply an outdated and invalid idea, since red can be made by mixing magenta and yellow. If we cannot find an ideal magenta, a valid split primary would be two magenta's, one tending toward purple, the other toward red, PV19 and PR122 for example. Similarly, if cyan is the primary color, and not blue, then we should stop calling cyan "blue with a green bias," since blue has nothing to do with it. True blue can be made from cyan and magenta, and is not a primary at all.
 Just because red and blue can be mixed from other colors does not mean you need to throw them away. For example, you may be able to make a brighter orange with red than with magenta, since mixing paints closer to each other in hue gives generally brighter results. Plus, why go to the trouble to mix primaries when you have other colors that are ready to go?

, Having correct primary colors is mainly important for when you need bright colors such as purple, pink, and turquoise. Often bright colors are not needed in fine art paintings, but are more necessary when making craft projects or for children's art projects. In either case, colors you can mix from cyan, magenta, and yellow are most likely going to be bright enough. Because primary colors allow you to paint with only three colors, plus white, they can save you money when it comes to buying paints. On the other hand, keeping red, blue, purple, orange, brown, and black paint around can mean less mixing, which saves you time (and possibly frustration).
 This way you can discover which one is best for mixing the various colors. Try paints with pigments PB15, PB 15.3, etc. Steer clear of paints that include white pigments (PW).
 This way you can discover which one is best for mixing the various colors. You can try paints with pigments PR122 and PV19, for example. Steer clear of paints that include white or blue pigments (PW, PB). This information can be found on the back of most artist colors.
 The best cyan and magenta pigments is a hot topic these days. Using transparent colors will keep your mixtures from looking chalky or muddy.

