 Bugs love dark, humid spots. Head to the nearest stream, or simply start turning over rotting logs, rocks, and other low-lying hiding spots. You can catch a large variety of insects this way as long as you're quick. In damp, loose soil, just dig 6-8" under the surface to reveal a plethora of insects.


A net or garden shovel will make it much easier to get multiple insects at once.
For delicate bugs, like mantises, consider using tweezers to keep them safe and intact while collecting.;
, The snug, relative protection of dead wood is a great place to go searching. While not necessary, gloves and long sleeves are generally recommended to protect your skin from splinters or nasty, moldy bits of wood. Always treat your environment with respect. Breaking apart insect habitats should only be done if you need the bugs for research or survival, not purely for fun.
 Flying insects are tough to capture -- unless you have a net. If you're trying to save the bugs (such as for a collection), make sure that you have a net with a thin, light mesh, protecting valuable parts like wings and antennae.



Sweep nets are solid, and are made for insects in bushes, trees, and long grass. You can use a pillowcase attached to a pole or branch to make your own.

Butterfly nets are much thinner, and are only for aerial insects. If you want to make your own, purchase some light mesh from your local craft store., If you don't have a net and aren't worried about keeping the insects in pristine condition, you can also use a stunning stick. Get a big stick with its large, leafy end still intact. Then, walking in tall grass, use the wide leaves and branches at the end to knock bugs out of the air, stunning them temporarily. Think of it as a large flyswatter. , Slowly moving or stagnant water is a treasure trove for small insects. Using some sort of strainer, skim the top 1-2" of the water to pull out all sorts of mayflies, water skimmers, and even dragonflies.


A net, especially one with a long reach, is almost always your best bet.
In a pinch, such as a survival setting, you can make a net with two poles and a shirt. Tie the shirt between the sticks and sweep it across the water. Once you have something, bring the sticks together to circle the "net" around your prey., You'll want gloves for this, especially if you are unsure if the bugs bite. Simply jam a long stick into the mound and wait. As they panic at the intrusion, ants will climb up the stick in a frenzy. Once it is filled with as many as you want, pull the stick off and use your fingers to slide the ants into a bowl for safe keeping.


Bright red ants are usually the most dangerous, so collect with caution.