 Excel does not feature SmartArt, only Word and PowerPoint do. Open one of these programs from your desktop. You can do this by clicking on the start button, then clicking on All Programs > Microsoft Office > Microsoft PowerPoint / Microsoft Word.;
, This button is in the same place for both PowerPoint and Word.
 A small window will pop up with the various types of graphics that you can insert into your presentation or document, depending on the the program you chose earlier. To explore all the variations of Smart Art, follow the next seven steps. If you do not want to do this,(although it is highly recommended if you have never used the SmartArt feature before) skip down to the Tips section of this article.
 Lists are the most basic forms of SmartArt. They are intended for information that does not have a specific order.
 Processes are a slightly more sophisticated form of SmartArt. They show a sequence of steps or events. The designs are quite similar to the ones in the Lists category, but they contain directional arrows, similar to the ones in a flow chart.
 Cycles are more similar to Processes than to Lists, however while they contain arrows like a Process, most graphics in this category have a circular pattern that never ends, similar to the concept of evaporation and condensation. Processes have a strict beginning and end, or cause and effect.
 Hierarchies are unique in the sense that they are unlike Lists, Processes or Cycles. An appropriate use of a Hierarchy graphic would be a family tree or a display of various company positions. It shows various "parent" pieces of data that can represent an "umbrella," like the term "mammal." These serve as broad titles for more specific names that are classified in the "umbrella term." In this case, a more specific word would be "cat" or "dog." You can have various levels in the hierarchy until the terms become more specific.
 Relationship graphics are simple: they explain how two pieces of data are connected. They are the explanation behind the arrow in the flow chart.
 The purpose of a Matrix graphic is extremely similar to one of a Relationship graphic; it is simply meant for more data. Most designs contain 3-5 boxes of supporting data surrounding a central data space, meant for a title or "umbrella" term.
 The Pyramid graphics are for comparing amounts of data. An appropriate situation for the Pyramid graphic to be used is a dietary guide, like the Food Pyramid.

