 Chair pose is similar to a squat, and can help tone your thigh muscles as well as giving you some stamina. Because much of yoga centers around breathing, stand and breathe deeply, taking a few seconds to connect with your breath before you start.Press your feet together and push your hips back as though you are sitting in a chair. Lower yourself as far as you comfortably can, ideally until your thighs are parallel with the floor. Your shins should be perpendicular to the floor with your knees directly over your ankles, not pushed out over your toes.
Extend your arms straight overhead and hold the position for 20 to 30 seconds, breathing deeply. You can also press your palms together in front of your chest.
 Lunges and leg lifts are basic lower body exercises that have a place in any workout routine designed to build lower body strength. These exercises can be done slowly, as static exercises, or quickly as a lower-impact interval.If you're doing lunges or leg lifts as part of a routine with plyometric exercises, you may want to do them more slowly and use them as a lower-intensity rest period following a high-intensity plyometric exercise such as sumo squat jumps.
Lunges also can be used as an effective warm-up interval before you do an interval of sumo squat jumps.
 Calf raises are a very simple exercise that you can do at home. All you need is a box, set of stairs, or other elevated surface. Begin the exercise by standing with the balls of your feet on the elevated surface and your heels over the edge.Keeping your back straight and your shoulders rolled back, push with the ball of your foot to lift your body onto your toes, lifting your heels as high as you can.
As you lower, make sure your body is straight as you lower your heels as low as you can. Repeat for a 30-second interval.
Make sure you're not rocking your body or pulsing as you raise or lower your heels. The movement should be smooth and controlled. If you need help keeping your body straight, hold onto a rail or the back of a chair for balance.
 Box jumps are a basic plyometric exercise you'll find in almost any plyometric exercise routine. The size or height of the box isn't important, as long as you can jump onto it from the ground.The point of box jumps is not speed, but power. Stand a few feet away from the box with your feet in a wide stance, a little more than shoulder-width apart. Lower into a semi-squat, then immediately propel your body up and forward onto the box. Step back down and repeat. Don't jump off the box – step carefully down.
You also can do lateral jumps, where you're standing to the side of the box and jumping to the side.
Focus on landing softly on the top of the box. This can take some practice, but you want to control your movement so the jump has as little thudding impact as possible.
 Close out your workout with a stretching routine that will loosen up and relax your muscles. Always stretch at the end of your workout, not the beginning.A comprehensive stretching routine can help reduce your risk of injuries and also lower the amount of recovery time your body needs.
Focus on stretching the muscles you've worked during your routine. Do static stretches, in which you move your muscle until you feel a stretch and then hold the stretch for 20 or 30 seconds.
For example, if you've done sumo squat jumps you might want to stretch your quads. Stand and bend one knee to bring your foot behind your buttocks. Grab your foot with your hand and press on the top of your foot until you feel a stretch in your quad. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds, then release and do the other leg.

