 First off, dress modestly and cutely. Wear a cute dress that can blow in the wind, or wear a t-shirt with a cardigan or sweater on top, and wear jeans with ugg boots, or shorts/skirt with knee high socks and shoes. Your hair can be any length, and bangs are always cute. Try to keep it down, but add a bow or other accessory on it.
 Don't talk at every opportunity. Be somewhat mysterious by not saying much about yourself. Spend much time alone doing something you like or are passionate about. Don't open up to someone unless they make the first move or until you two become friends., Have a slightly higher, slower, and calmer voice. Take your time when you speak, and never say anything mean. Refer to yourself in the third person., Fuko is like the little sister everyone wants to protect. Even though she is the same age as the others, all viewers think that she is younger. This is because Fuko is childish. Don't be so serious! Be nice to everyone, and try to be friends with everyone who talks to you. Have fun and play. Act like a zombie or hero, but do it cutely and calmly. Be hyper at times., At times, act clueless about what is happening around you. Pay attention to what you are doing, or stare and look out the window., For Fuko, this is starfish. Smile whenever you see or think about it. If you have the guts, go into a trance state when thinking and dreaming about it. Get toys and draw them whenever possible. Make them your life and always have an argument ready when someone puts it down., Move slowly and take your time. Eat with two hands and savor your meal. Don't be moody or angry. Never yell or let others get under your skin. Take your time when you walk but have a bounce in your step., If you have a mission, do whatever you can, even if you have to do it alone. If someone says you can't do it, make sure you argue back that you can. Also, work hard for your grades., Fuko and Nagisa once had an argument about what was cuter, starfish or Dango. She stood up for starfish but was not rude, and she did not put down Dango. Stand up by saying what is good or what you like about something. Not by being mean or putting down., Take a walk instead of being on the computer. Sing or hum from memory rather than listening to your mp3. Say happy birthday in person rather than on the phone. Be sure to get or make gifts for your closest friends. Use them when you need to, but don't be addicted to them., Accept help when offered. Always be teachable. Listen when people tell you that you did something wrong. Do not fight back or be stuck up, but take it to heart. Do not be proud or showoff., Do not swear or do anything impure. Do not gossip or do anything to hurt others. Act clueless to dirty jokes. Be like an angel and do things for the good of others. Put others first and help when ever you can.