 Doing jigsaw puzzles may help to sharpen your mind. Jigsaw puzzles require you to identify colors and shapes and match them with similar colors and shapes.If you enjoy doing jigsaw puzzles then try spending an hour or so every day working on one to help sharpen your mind.
Jigsaw puzzles can be relaxing as well, which may help you to keep stress under control.
 Doing crossword puzzles can also help to sharpen your mind. Doing crosswords may even delay the onset of memory decline in individuals with dementia.If you are a fan of crosswords, then try to complete one every day for the brain boosting benefits.
Check your local newspaper for a daily crossword puzzle. You can also find crossword puzzles in magazines and online.
 Reading can also help to improve your cognitive function.Reading teaches you new information, stimulates your mind, and engages the problem solving areas of your brain.


Try to read as much as you can to help stimulate your brain and sharpen your mind.
Read the local newspaper, books, poetry, articles on the internet, and anything else that you find interesting. Try to read something new every day.
 Watching thought-provoking movies may also help to sharpen your mind.Try watching movies that pose a problem or that keep you thinking even after the movie is over.


For example, you could watch documentaries, mysteries, or psychological thrillers to stimulate and sharpen your mind.
 Video games may help to sharpen your mind as well.Try playing games that combine exercise or movement with video game action. These are sometimes called "exergames" and they seem to provide more brain benefits than normal video games.For example, you might try playing games that use a camera to capture your movements, such as dancing games or sport simulating games.
 Keep in mind that a puzzle is anything that challenges you and this can include many different things. Along with traditional puzzles, word games, video games, and reading, you can also try other types of puzzles, such as board games and escape rooms.

Escape rooms are puzzles where you are locked in a room with friends and you have to follow a series of clues to escape.