 For some reason, lots of people think bringing a to-go cup of coffee to a job interview is a great idea. To an interviewer, this looks informal at best and disrespectful at worst. You're not on your lunch break, so treat yourself to a latte after the interview, not before. Even if the interview is early, or you might end up waiting a long time to get through with it, don't show up with a cup of coffee. The plus side is you won't have to worry about spilling it.
 Biggest faux-pas of the mobile phone age? Using yours in a job interview. Never ever take your phone out and look at it at any point in the job interview. As far as your interviewer is concerned, you should be a troglodyte who's never even heard of an app. Turn your phone all the way off, keep it in your car, and never, under any circumstances, give the interviewer the impression that a text message takes precedence over getting this job.
 In the interview, it's not the time to ask about benefits, the possibility of a raise, or really even bring up the topic of money. If you're applying for a job, it's time to focus on your skills and qualifications.


Sometimes, you'll be prompted to provide a base salary requirement for the job. The best answer for this is that you're willing to work for the lower end of the average salaries for your position. Express that you really want the job and that you'll be fine with what's being offered in the legal limit.
 Never get defensive in an interview, even if you feel like you're not getting on perfectly with the interviewer. It's supposed to be a conversation, so try to assume the best in people. Nobody is trying to antagonize you on purpose. Treat it as a chance to prove yourself and come up with a good explanation, not a defensive snark.
 Making petty comments about previous coworkers, superiors, or other job in general should be avoided. Even if you're applying for a rival business, avoid painting yourself like someone with a grade, or like someone who'll be difficult to work with. It's bad form to gripe about your previous job.


If you're asked why you're leaving your current job, say something positive. "I'm looking for more out of my work environment and I'm excited about getting a fresh start. To me, this looks like a great place to do it."

, Even if you indulge in the occasional smoke, avoid smoking before a job interview. A recent study revealed that up to 90 percent of employers would hire a nonsmoker over a smoker of equal qualification. Right or wrong, smoking makes the interviewee looks nervous.Likewise, having a few drinks to soothe tense nerves should always be avoided. You want to be sharp and on point, not sloppy. Interviewers will expect you to be nervous. It’s a job interview.
 Billionaire mogul Richard Branson claims to hire primarily based on personality, as opposed to experience or quantifiable skills. Each job is different and the essential aspects of the job can be learned. Focus on selling yourself and letting your true personality shine through, not on trying to be something you’re not.