 What do you have that could be used to animate? A computer with decent specs? A scanner? A tablet such as the iPad, or an Android? All of these things can be used for animating! You could draw a frame on paper, then clip it to a lite-brite! Then you just clip a blank sheet of paper on top of the old frame, turn on the lite-brite, and trace over the old frame! Anything could be useful when used correctly!






;
, Sketch some wildlife or buildings as practice and evaluate how well you can draw. Animating has more to do with drawing than anything else. If you are a poor drawer but also want to animate as a job, consider buying professional animation tools.
 Always get the appropriate gear -- never buy tools that were made cheaply. You can't go into combat with a cardboard sword, right? Also, don't overspend. Why buy the best golf club if you rarely go golfing? Or even if you golf all the time, you shouldn't pay $500 just to get your club gold-plated. Buy what you need. No more, no less.
 If you choose to draw digitally, get a drawing tablet ($20-70). This is basically a mouse for your computer that's controlled by a pen. Most of them, however, don't have screens. The Wacom Cintiq has a screen, but prices have been known to exceed a thousand dollars.

If you want a screen, you can buy a cheap Android tablet with a resistive screen, and then use a DSI stylus with it. Once getting the tablet, download a drawing/animating app on the Play Store. Recommended: Animator's Desk, which has a free version.
 Just like with normal drawings, frames drawn by the animator only reflect how the animator feels. If you feel happy, you'll draw bold, vibrant straight lines. If you feel sad or hurt, you'll draw more jagged, crooked lines, and your work will feel less exciting. If you don't enjoy animating, you certainly won't enjoy sitting in one position for hours to make a mediocre animation. It takes a lot of time and patience -- and enjoyment. I hope this tutorial gave you some ideas for cheap-budget animation. Enjoy making your animations!








