 Your compliment might not be welcome if the setting is wrong. Inside the office, at a professional meeting, in the classroom, and even out to lunch with colleagues are inappropriate situations to tell a girl that she is pretty. Doing so in these circumstances will put the girl on the spot and could embarrass her, which is not what you want to do.


A compliment could also seen as inappropriate if you are on strictly professional terms, either by her or by co-workers and friends. It may also violate your workplace’s sexual harassment policy.Telling a stranger on the street that she is pretty walks a fine line with harassment and will probably not be welcomed. Cat-calling and whistling are also not OK.The words might be on the tip of your tongue, but think first. Make sure it is the right time and place.;
, It is important that you have had some interaction with the girl who you are telling, even if you have just exchanged a few smiles in the past. This way she will have a degree of comfort with you before you tell her she is pretty.


Your compliment might go awry if you do not know the girl well. She may consider it out of the blue and “creepy.”
If you can, get to know her a bit. Exchange small talk or pleasantries before class or at the water cooler. If you are bolder and work together, try sitting at the same table as her over lunch in order to introduce yourself. Make some small talk.
Use other social situations to get to know her. It is easier to tell a girl she is pretty after you’ve spent some time together and are on friendly terms. For example, you could talk while waiting for the bus before or after school, at office parties, or during group projects.
 Without a plan for what to say when you approach a pretty girl, it is possible that you will stumble over your words, appear confused, and generally seem awkward. This is not the impression you want to make. By planning what you want to say and how to say it, you will be better able to handle the situation and come off as confident and smooth.

Think about how you want to initially approach the girl and begin your conversation.
Think about what makes the girl pretty in your eyes, and plan on sharing this with her in a gentle way.
Avoid long-winded speechifying. Keep it short, sweet, and to-the-point.
 A simple "hello" will do to begin a conversation. You can then follow this up with a few questions about her, her day, and her plans. Starting with small talk will help you be more confident with the girl, and the girl be more confident with you.


Stay calm and be yourself. Don’t try to put on a false face or you might come across as insincere. Even worse, the girl may think you are joking.
Pay attention to body language when talking. Make sure that you look her in the eyes instead of elsewhere. This will show her that you are engaged and interested in her and the conversation. Do not lean towards her in an aggressive way, but stand back in a relaxed manner.Try to read her body language, as well. If she faces you or leans in slightly, it means that she is engaged in the conversation and may be interested.Try not to fear rejection. Tell yourself that you have little to lose if she is not interested. Besides, fear will only work against you.
 There are a number of ways to do this after you have had some initial conversation. What is critical is that you do not blurt out your compliment in the middle of the conversation. Instead, wait for a lull in the conversation.


Try something like “You look very pretty this evening” or “I just wanted to say that you look pretty tonight.” It is usually good to go with simplicity.
You might also try to be original and plan your own lines. “I’ve always thought you have lovely eyes” or an indirect “Have you done something new with your hair? It is very pretty the way that it frames your face.”

, If the girl responds well to your compliment, consider continuing with a bit more flattery. Draw attention to the little things that you find beautiful about her. Perhaps it is her eyes, her eyebrows or something else.


Avoid sexually charged compliments. Not only does this objectify her, but it also crosses the line of good sense and decency.Be genuine with your compliments, though, and don’t go over the top.
Avoid clichés, as well.

