 This is the most important and rare resource, so use them wisely. Use your gems to speed up barracks production, or use them on collectors. But be careful when deciding to use them, and make sure it'll be worth it. Don't spend them on hurrying troops' training unless it's absolutely necessary. Save up your gems, and avoid spending them all at once.


Try not to buy gems. Clash of Clans is hard to be good at without buying gems a few times, but try your best to limit purchases.
When cleaning up your village of trees, bushes, etc, clear them all at once, not broken up. This way you won't spend 5-6 gems on something like troop training, rather than 20-30 gems on boosting a few collectors.;
, Make sure most important upgrades (barracks, clan castle, army camps, air defense, mortars, and troop upgrades) are finished before you upgrade the town hall.
 This doesn't mean you upgrade gold storages as fast as possible, but put it as one of your top priorities.
 Look at the clan description before you join to figure out its key principles and rules, and evaluate a clan before you decide to join it. Good clans should have won many wars. This means they are active, and you will be able to contribute when you are at a high enough level. Good clans should also have people with lots of donations. The more donations, the more active and friendly the clan is.
 Do not upgrade all your offense first, as this will leave you with a dangerously weak defense. Balance it out and take it slowly if needed.
 This is important, whether you're farming or trophy-hunting. To create a good design, keep your clan castle, storages, mortars, and air defense in the center of the base as much as possible, as these are your most essential buildings. If you're not farming, keep your town hall in the center where it will be protected; if you are farming, put the town hall off in one corner and keep everything else in the center.


Do not put all buildings listed above in one wall square. Separate buildings with walls and traps.
Keep all cannons and archer towers inside walls. Collectors, army camps, barracks, builder huts, and spell factory do not need to be inside walls. You can put them outside as a distraction for troops.
 You may get frustrated at times with the game, but play on and you will succeed.

