 If you’ve given her a reason to distrust you, such as cheating on her, being shady with other girls, talking about her behind her back, or just doing something to make her think that your intentions are less than pure, then the most important thing you should do is to give her an apology that is genuine and sincere. Look her in the eyes, put away all distractions, and make it clear that you recognize that you’ve made a huge mistake and want to make it up to her.


Don’t make excuses for why you were disloyal or hurt her feelings. Instead, focus on how much you regret it and how there’s no way you’ll do it again.
Saying, “I’m sorry you’re so upset” makes it sound like you’re blaming her. Instead, say, “I’m so sorry that I acted like a real jerk. I take full responsibility.”
Of course, no one said it was easy to apologize, but if you really want to gain her trust, then this is far better than being in denial about doing something wrong.;
, Whether you’ve made a mistake and want her to forgive you or you’re just with a girl who needs some time to put those walls down, if you really want to gain her trust, then you have to give her time to open up and to feel safe with you. If you get impatient because she’s not opening up enough or not warming up to you after a few weeks, then you may be on the way to spoiling a good thing. If you’re trying to win her trust back after cheating, then the ball is really in her court and it may take her much longer than a few weeks to feel like she can trust you again.


If you cheated on her, then you have no right to be mad that she’s taking “too much time” to feel close to you again. It’s all up to her now.
If she just has trust issues or has been hurt by boyfriends in the past, then the best thing you can do is reassure her that you’re different. That said, if you lose patience with her, she may be scared off. Show her that she’s worth the wait.
 If you want to gain her trust, then you have to let her make some of the calls. Whether you want to get more intimate, have her meet your buddies, or go on a weekend trip together, make sure she’s ready before you move forward. You don’t want her to feel like things are moving too fast, or she’ll be scared off. Instead, wait for things to move at her pace, and you’ll see that she is ready to move forward with you, but she just needs a little time.


If you feel like you want things to move a lot faster and just can’t wait anymore, then you may be better off moving on. If you don’t think it’s worth it to wait, then you may be better off with another girl who is more open.
 Of course, one of the best ways to gain a girl’s trust is to not abuse it. If you want her to feel like she can trust you, then you have to be honest, you have to be open, and you have to show her that you’re reliable. If she thinks you’re going to flake on your date, not keep her secrets, or flirt with other girls when she’s not around, then yeah, it’ll be pretty hard to gain her trust. Instead, work on being the best man or boyfriend that you can be, and she’ll see that she doesn’t need to worry about you.


The best thing you can do is to be loyal and open with her. Don’t make her feel like she can’t believe a word you say or that you’re trying to smooth-talk your way out of a lie.
If you hang out with another female friend one on one, for example, don’t lie about it when nothing happened; instead, tell her the truth and show her that she has nothing to worry about. If she finds out from someone else that you’ve been hanging out with another girl, then she’ll have much less reason to trust you.
If you abuse her trust, however small the infraction, then giving her a sincere apology is the best thing you can do.
 Another way to start to gain the girl’s trust is to be dependable. If you say you’ll pick her up for a date at 8 o’clock, roll in there at least five minutes early, to show that you won’t leave her hanging. If she needs help putting together a bookshelf, be there when you say you will and follow through. If you have a routine of walking to class together, don’t flake out without an explanation one day. Let her see that she can depend on you to be there when she needs you.


If she expects to talk to you on the phone, make sure you answer shortly after she calls. Don’t go off the grid for a few hours when you know she needs you.
Be there for her, even if she just needs a shoulder to cry on. The most important thing is that she feels like you’re available and wanting to help.
 Nothing will make a girl suspicious faster than a guy with a password protected phone who is always stepping out to take mysterious calls. Take that password off your phone, unless you’re really worried about it being stolen; in that case, make sure you’re okay with her going through it. When someone calls, let her see who it is before you take the call, and don’t slyly send text messages when you’re with her unless she knows you’re just texting your buddy about the Warriors game.


Of course, you may say that your phone is your property only, and you’re not required to let her go through your phone if you want her to gain your trust. That said, if you’ve been shady with it before, you want her to see that you’re not a repeat offender.
The same goes for your computer. If you immediately slam your laptop shut the second she walks into the room, then yeah, she’ll have a reason to distrust you.
 The best thing you can do if you want to gain a girl’s trust is to be honest with her. That’s right. This means you tell her the truth. Tell her where you’re going with your buddies. Tell her what you were up to last night. If you wish you two went to more concerts together, let her know what’s on your mind. She’ll appreciate the fact that you’re honest with her, and she’ll be much more likely to trust you than if you only selectively tell her the truth.


That said, a white lie or two never hurt anyone, if you really decide there’s no point in being honest about something. If you think her new haircut makes her look a bit too severe, for example, you may want to keep that to yourself.
 If you want her to really start trusting you, then you should confide in her. Tell her about what’s on your mind, what your fears are, what your childhood was like, what drama you’re having with your friends, or really anything else you’ve been thinking about. If you open up to her, then she’ll see that she has more reason to trust you, because you’re willing to open up to her. You don’t need to freak her out by revealing incredibly person details when you’re just getting to know each other, but the more time you spend with her, the more you should open up.


If you talk to her about the things that really matter to you, then she’ll see that you really do think she’s special and that you like her.
The more you confide in her, the more she’ll be comfortable confiding to you back. That said, she may not be comfortable confiding at the same pace, so don’t put pressure on her to reveal more to you than she’s ready for.
If you tell her things you’ve never told anyone, then she’ll really see that she means a lot to you. Of course, you should only do this if you want to.
 If you really want to gain her trust, then she has to see that you’re not just there for the good times. If she’s in a fight with her best friend, having a rough week at work, or just not feeling so great, then it’s up to you to be there for her. If she thinks you’re only around for the kissing and the fun dates, then she’ll see that she can’t really trust you. Show her that you’re there for the sunshine and the rain.


If you want her to see you as someone she can truly depend on, then you should support her when she’s upset. Don’t just get frustrated and act like she’s getting upset over nothing or like you’re just waiting for her to be in a better mood.
If you really want a long term thing with this girl, then you have to be prepared for the fact that she won’t always be in a good mood. The same is true for you, right?

, Another way to gain her trust is to actually take the time to listen to her. Look her in the eyes, don’t interrupt her, and let her see that you’re really taking in every word she says. Don’t give her advice unless she asks for it and put away your phone and other distractions, showing her that she has your full attention. Really take the time to process what she’s telling you, whether she’s describing a conflict with her mother or a career choice she’s been struggling with. The most important thing is that she sees that you really care about what she has to say.


Don’t get that glazed look in your eyes that says you’re just waiting for her to finish talking so you can tell her what happened that day.
In addition to listening to her, you should actually remember what she says and follow up about it. For example, if she’s telling you about a big test she has later in the week, wish her luck the night before.
 If you really want to gain her trust, then you have to show her that you’re ready to commit. This means putting your arm around her in public, introducing her as your girlfriend, making long-term plans with her, and generally making it clear that you’re serious about her. If you won’t book tickets for a concert that’s two months away, then it’ll make her suspicious. If you’re sweet to her in private but treat her like she’s just a friend or kid sister in public, then she’ll see that you don’t want the world to think you’re really serious about her.


Of course, if she’s not ready to really commit, then you don’t need to pressure her to do so. But if it seems like you’re on the same page, then make it clear that you really want to make an effort for her.
Check in with her. When you don’t see her for a day or two, make sure to give her a call or at least send a text if you’re really busy. This will make her see that when she’s out of your sight, she’s not out of your mind.
 If you really want to gain her trust, then you have to be willing to make an effort with her friends and family as well. Be kind to her friends, show an interest in them, and let them see how much you like your girl. Treat her family with respect and care, and take the time to really get to know them and to open up about yourself. If you’re nice to her but don’t give her friends or family the time of day, she’ll see that as a red flag that she can’t really trust you.


It’s okay if you’re shy about meeting her parents. That’s only natural. The important thing is that you’re nice and friendly and act and dress appropriately in their presence. Make an effort with them, especially if you’re meeting them for the first time.
 If you really want to win her over and gain her trust, then you have to stick to your word. If you tell her you’ll watch her dog over the weekend when she’s away, don’t flake to take a road trip with your buddies at the last minute. If you say you’ll give her a ride to the doctor when her car is in the shop, show up when you say you will. If you tell her you’ll be loyal and honest for as long as you’re together, then make her see that she can believe it.


Even following through on the smaller promises, like saying you’ll take her to lunch, can make a big difference. If she feels like she can’t even trust you to go to lunch with her, then she’ll see that she can’t expect you to follow through on the important stuff, either.
If you do happen to be late or to forget a promise you made, make sure you apologize profusely and show her that it won’t happen again. You don’t have to be perfect, but you should make an effort to make her see that you want her to depend on you.
 If you want to have a meaningful relationship with a girl who trusts you, then one of the most important things you have to do is let her know how much you care about her. Tell her you love her, give her meaningful compliments, spend time with her, plan romantic dates, and always let her know how lucky you are. Don’t ever take her for granted or she may feel like she can’t trust you because you’re losing interest.


You don’t have to smother her with hugs and kisses all the time, especially if that’s not your thing. However, you have to find a way to let her know you care every time you’re together.
Getting her a meaningful gift just because, instead of because it’s Valentine’s Day or her birthday, can really show her that she matters to you. It’s the thought that counts, not the price tag.
Write her love letters to surprise her when she’s having a bad day. If you do this when she least expects it, she’ll be charmed.
 If you really want to continue a serious relationship with this girl and to make her trust you, then you have to be able to compromise with her. Let her see that you don’t always need to get your way and that you want her to be happy, too. Even if you’re working on winning back her trust, you don’t have to completely give in to her every single time, or she’ll think you don’t have a backbone. Instead, work on having productive conversations that weigh the pros and cons of a decision, and on finding a way that can make both of you happy.


She’ll see that she can trust you if it looks like you really take her thoughts and feelings into account instead of just always wanting to get your way.
Sometimes, you should just give in and let her see the movie she wants to see or go to the restaurant she’s been craving; this is okay as long as sometimes, she gives in to you as well.
 You may think that, if you want the girl to trust you, that you have to be Mr. Perfect all the time, and that you can’t possibly ever disappoint her. While you should be loyal and reliable, you shouldn’t put too much pressure on yourself to be absolutely perfect. Make an effort to be the best person you can be, and she’ll feel like she can really trust you because of it. That said, this is no excuse for cheating. Cheating is never acceptable.


If you show up late to a date, just apologize and show her how sorry you are. As long as you don’t make a habit of it, she’ll appreciate the fact that you’re willing to admit you made a mistake.
You should also be okay with saying, “I don’t know”. You don’t always have to act like you know exactly what to do if you want her to trust you. In fact, she may be even more eager to trust you if she knows you’re honest about your feelings.
 Another thing you can do to make her trust you is to be open about your feelings. Let her see that you want to confide in her, to be frank with her, and that you’re willing to tear down those walls for her. While you don’t have to reveal every single secret you have to her, you should work on being open and honest when you’re talking to her, whether you’re telling her what you did this past weekend or you’re talking about your concerns about your college major. If you’re open on a regular basis, she’ll see that she’s able to trust you in the long term.


If something is troubling you, you should be comfortable enough to open up to her about it, even if it’s a little bit embarrassing or you worry it’ll make her think less of you. If you never tell her about your problems, then she’ll feel like she should never open up to you, either.
If you’re having a bad day, you can be honest with her about it, explaining what’s going on. You don’t want her to think you have to hide everything from her. If you hide things from her, then she’ll hide things from you, too.
 To maintain a meaningful relationship with a girl who trusts you, you have to be open and willing to communicate with her. You can’t brush her off every time she wants to have a talk, and you have to make her feel comfortable with bringing up issues to you. When she talks to you, make sure you’re open to having a conversation and that you really stop and listen. If you have something to say to her, don’t put it off or be passive aggressive instead of hashing it out.


Communication is key in any healthy relationship. If you want the girl to trust you in the long run, then you have to make her feel like you’re open to talking about your relationship and sharing your feelings with her.
If she feels scared about sharing her feelings with you because she thinks you’ll be angry or dismissive, then she won’t be able to really trust you.
 If you want to make your relationship with the girl work and really want her to trust you, then you have to be able to make time for her and to show her that she’s a priority. If you spend too much time with your buddies or don’t answer your phone for hours, then she’s likely to not trust you because she won’t know what you’re doing when you’re not around. Make an effort to be there for her, to have a regular hangout routine, and to let her know what you’re doing when you’re not together. Putting in a time commitment is essential to making her trust you.


If you know you won’t have your phone on for a few hours, because you’ll be in a long meeting or watching a movie, you can text her before to say hi and let her know what’s up. Of course, you don’t have to be accountable for every minute of your life and that can get exhausting, but letting her generally know how you spend your time can really help her trust you.
Making time for her shows that she’s central to your life. This is crucial for making her trust and believe in you.

