 Some emotional and physical cues are prime indicators of when disintegrating communication will take place. These are described by the acronym H.A.L.T. It stands for hungry, angry, lonely, tired. These conditions can exacerbate an already heated situation, and prevent resolution. Of course, this person is already angry with you. However, if the other person's anger does not diminish (even after a time-out), or if it is coupled with one of the other conditions, it is best to put off the discussion until everyone's physical and emotional needs are met. Briefly, we will discuss why each of these conditions hinder progressive problem-solving and communication.When you are experiencing physical hunger, purposeful, rational thinking goes out the window. Your body is low on fuel and you may say or do just about anything to refill the tank. Research shows that humans and animals that are hungry take more risks. Hunger affects our decision-making skills and behaviors - two things you definitely don't want to be out of your control during a confrontation.Anger is an emotion that few people have learned to display constructively. Typically, anger is displayed with insults, name-calling, ridicule, and even physical violence. What's more, people often exhibit anger, when, in fact, they are feeling hurt, confused, jealous, or rejected. When underlying emotions are playing into the anger, a person is less likely to view the situation objectively and strive for resolution. It is best to give this individual time and space to reel in his feelings before any productive communication can occur.

Loneliness means that a person feels isolated from others. A person who does not glean a sense of community will have difficulty maintaining objectivity during a confrontation.
Feeling tired during an argument can be a recipe for disaster. Sleep deprivation brings with it a poor mood, poor cognitive functioning, and poor performance. Being tired also affects your decision-making abilities. You might be able to clearly see a solution if you were well-rested, but sleepiness can have your argument circling it's tail for hours with no end in sight., When someone is screaming at you, the last thing you may want to do is acknowledge his or her anger. However, anger is often a response to feeling misunderstood or ignored.Acknowledging that the other person is angry isn’t the same as saying s/he is behaving appropriately.Try saying something like, “I understand you are feeling angry. I want to understand what is happening. What is it that you’re feeling angry about?” This shows that you are trying to see things from the other person’s perspective, which may help him or her feel better.
Try to avoid sounding judgmental when you do this. Don’t ask something like “Why are you being such an angry jerk?”
Ask for specifics. Calmly ask for the specific thing that the other person is responding to. For example, “What did you hear me say that has upset you?” This may encourage the other person to slow down and think about why s/he's angry -- and s/he may realize it was all a misunderstanding.
 “Shushing” or otherwise stopping the person from expressing his or her feelings will not help the situation. It may increase the other person’s feelings of anger.Shutting the other person down communicates that you do not view his or her feelings as legitimate. Remember that even if you don’t understand the other person’s experience, it’s very real to that person. Dismissing that will not help you defuse the situation., Be an active listener. Show that you are engaged with the other person by making eye contact, nodding, and using phrases such as “uh huh” or “mmm-hmm.”Don’t get caught up in preparing your defense while the other person is speaking. Focus on what s/he is saying.Listen for reasons given for why the other person is angry. Try to imagine the situation from his or her point of view. If you experienced this situation, would you feel the same way?

, One reason tense situations escalate is because of miscommunication. Once the other person has told you why s/he is angry, confirm what you heard.Use “I”-focused statements. For example, “I heard you say you were angry because this is the third cellphone you have bought from us and it isn’t working. Is that correct?”
Saying things like “It sounds like you are saying ______” or “Is _________ what you mean?” will help you make sure you understand the other person. It may also help the other person feel acknowledged, which can help soothe angry feelings.
Don’t embellish or reword the other person’s statements when you confirm them. For example, if the other person has complained that you have been late to pick him up the last 6 days, don’t say something like, “I heard you say that you’re pissed off because I’m always late.” Instead, focus on what he actually said: “I heard you say that you’re angry because I have been late for the past 6 days.”

, If the other person is continuing to shout or be aggressive with you, use “I”-focused statements to communicate your needs. This will avoid sounding as though you are blaming the other person.


For example, if the other person is shouting at you, you could say something like this: “I want to help you, but I cannot understand what you’re saying when you speak so loudly. Could you repeat what you said in a softer voice?”

, Try to consider the other person’s side of the situation.Doing so can help you keep a handle on your own emotional responses. It can also help you communicate effectively with the other person.Saying something such as “That sounds very frustrating” or “I can see why that would be upsetting” can help defuse anger. In some cases, people just want to have their feelings of frustration validated. Once they feel understood, they may calm down.
You may have to mentally tell yourself that the person is upset and is doing her best to communicate her feelings. This can help you to reframe the situation in your own mind. Don’t make light of the the problem. Even if it seems trivial to you, the other person clearly feels strongly about it., Think about consequences instead. If someone is mad at you, this person feels wronged by you in some way. Your first reaction might be to defend yourself and state your intentions. For example, refrain from saying "I meant to pick up your suit from the cleaners, I just forgot because I left work late." While your intentions may have been good, at this point, the other person does not care. The person is dealing with the consequences of your actions, and that's why he/she is upset.Rather than declaring your good intentions, try to step into the other person's shoes and notice how the consequences of your actions have affected this person. Make remarks like, "I see now that my forgetting your suit has put you in a bind for your meeting tomorrow."
This concept may feel like you are being disloyal to your own beliefs. You may honestly feel like you did the right thing and have trouble coming to terms with being wrong. If this is the case, try to imagine that the person is not mad at you, but someone/something else. Consider how you would resolve the situation if you weren't the 'wrongdoer'.

