 Once you've chosen a baby cereal (like rice cereal), put about 1 tablespoon (2.5 g) of it into a bowl. You'll want to start with a small amount.Since you'll be feeding your baby with a spoon and dipping it into the cereal bowl, you'll introduce bacteria that could grow over time. This is why you shouldn't store and reuse prepared cereal.;
, Pour about 4 to 5 tablespoons (60 to 75 ml) of liquid into the cereal in the bowl. You should use either breast milk or baby formula, depending on what your baby is used to.If you don't have breast milk or baby formula, you can use water as long as it is clean and fresh.
 Stir the liquid into the cereal so the mixture becomes very runny, like melted ice cream. Remember that your baby's reflexes may make them gag on anything that's too thick. If the cereal doesn't look runny enough, add another tablespoon (15 ml) of liquid., Once the cereal is thin, you can serve it. You don't need to heat or sweeten the cereal before you offer it to your baby, but your baby may refuse the cereal if it's very cold. To warm cereal made with formula or water, just microwave it at half power for about 15 seconds. Always stir and check the temperature before offering it to your baby.Avoid microwaving cereal made with breast milk, since this can break down nutrients in the breast milk. If you need to warm up the breast milk, place the breast milk in a bag and set it under warm, running water for a few minutes. Then you can stir it into the baby cereal.
 Cut back on the amount of liquid you use after a couple of weeks, once you can determine that your baby's ability to swallow has improved. Reduce the amount of liquid you add to the cereal by 1 tablespoon (15 ml) every few weeks until you are using equal parts liquid and cereal.
 By six to eight months, your baby can eat anywhere from 3 to 9 tablespoons (7.5 to 22.5 g) of baby cereal throughout the day. This amount can be stretched between two to three feedings.


Remember that your baby should still be getting their primary nutrients from breast milk or formula.

