 Though it is possible to use a real tree, it will be very heavy and much harder to hang, and it won't last long as you can't water it. Select a tree of the appropriate height and fullness to fill your space.Look for one that is lightweight and that has fairly full, evenly spaced branches and a stand that attaches securely to the base of the tree. A wire tree stand or one with pre-drilled holes in the base is a bonus that will make the tree easier to hang.;
, Check to see whether the trunk has parts that might come loose when you hang the tree upside down; if it does, toss those too. It is necessary to have a solid 'trunk', nothing more.
 If your tree has a little loop on the bottom, great. Hook the string through that. If not, take the lowest 'branches' and tie the string around there, so it's up by the branches and doesn't slip down. Next, bring the string around and tie it into a loop.
 This will be what you loop the string onto. If you choose to get a adhesive hook, make sure to get the heavy duty type (20+ pounds). However, this method is not recommended if you have bumpy, stucco-like ceilings, as it will be hard for the hook to adhere. If you drill, realize you may have to consult with your landlord (if you rent).


When you drill, drill a pilot hole in the ceiling at the joist mark and screw a sturdy eye bolt into the joist. Clip a quick link to the eye bolt. Screw a hook or eye hook into the corner nearest the tree at the ceiling to drape a light cord to later.



If you use lights, keep in mind that you need an outlet, so you may want to invest in an extension cord.
 With the help of another person, invert the Christmas tree and place the loop in the hook, securing the tree. Cautiously let go, and if all seems okay, proceed to the next step.
 Tighten the ornament hangers around each branch to hold them in place. Run an extension cord from the tree base -- at the ceiling -- to a hook in the nearest corner and down to a baseboard power outlet. Decorating the Christmas tree after successfully hanging it is quite similar to decorating an upright tree. However, weight concerns may play a role here as well. While many modern ornaments consist of aluminum or other lightweight metals, heavier vintage ornaments should be evenly spaced out to distribute the added weight properly.
 Tie the skirt around the 'trunk' then secure the edges to the ceiling. This step is completely optional.

