


You can donate money online through Amnesty's website. When you donate for the first time, you'll become part of the Amnesty International membership.
The organization has chapters in 80 countries. If your country does not have an Amnesty International chapter, you can become an international member.
In some countries, donating money and becoming part of the Amnesty International membership gives you access to a special "Members" section on Amnesty's website and subscribes you to the newsletter.;
,


When you become a member of Amnesty International, you'll receive emails alerting you to urgent actions. You can also donate additional money when you send in the petition.



Local chapters regularly screen films about protecting human rights or hold conferences focused on ways to protect human rights. They may have fundraisers for Amnesty International.



Find other Amnesty International members in your area or at your school who would like to meet regularly and participate in fundraising and letter writing campaigns.
Contact the regional office of Amnesty International and get a sign-up form. The organization may assign an experienced volunteer to work with you.
Complete the required training period before launching your local group.
 You may wish to collect dues for Amnesty International membership. Decide what actions your group will take, from writing letters to protect human rights to screening films or holding potluck dinner fundraisers.



Every December, Amnesty International holds a "write-a-thon." During this event, members and other interested parties write letters to authorities on the behalf of people whose human rights are being abused.
The organization provides sample letters to help you get started. Use these letters and sign your name at the bottom, if you aren't inspired to write anything additional.
Writing letters can actually protect the rights of people who are unjustly imprisoned. Amnesty International has records of people who were freed because of the deluge of letters.



Amnesty offers internships at its offices in New York, London and Geneva, as well as in regional offices in the United States.
Internships are generally unpaid, but you may receive a stipend or money to cover travel expenses.

