 Approach the person you have been bullying and sincerely say you are sorry. Telling him is one clear way to let them know that you are sorry for bullying him and won’t do it again.Try saying, “I want to apologize for how awful I have been to you. I know I can’t take it back, but I do want to tell you that I am truly sorry. It won’t happen ever again.”
If it is too difficult to do in person right now, then send him an email, text, or even write him a note.
He may not accept your apology immediately. Understand that he probably has some negative feelings towards you that may take time to get over — he also may not trust that you are being sincere. Use your behavior to support your apology and over time he will see your sincerity and forgive you.;
, Before you do something that could be mean or hurtful, think about what you are doing and why you are doing it.

Taking just a few seconds to consider these things can change what you were about to do. Thinking about what you are doing before you do it can help you stop bullying.

Think about the immediate and short-term effects of bullying. What effect could this have on you and the person that you are bullying right now and later?
Think about different ways you can address the situation and interact with that person. Can you ignore her or even try being nice?
Think about the person you are trying to be. Is bullying in line with that?

,

While you don’t have to buy gifts for everyone you know, make an effort to be nicer, more compassionate, and helpful.Try to do at least one nice thing a day. Not only will you be changing your behavior in a positive way and stop bullying, but you could also develop new friendships.

Pay someone a compliment or just ask him how his day is going.
Volunteer or donate something to a local charity or your favorite cause.
Become a tutor or mentor for someone.
 If one of the reasons you were bullying was because the person is different in some way or because of your feelings about certain issues or things that person represents, then work on being more accepting. Accepting the differences in others is not only a part of growing up, but also a big step in not bullying.Instead of harassing the person, accept that she is different and even accept that you aren’t completely comfortable with that difference.
Try to learn more about the person. Although she may have some things about her that you don’t like, you may find out something about her that you actually like.
If you simply cannot accept the person, then just leave her alone.


Instead of bullying, when you feel yourself getting upset, stressed, scared, tired, etc., practice some stress and anxiety reducing techniques. Doing this on a regular basis will change your long-term behavior so that bullying isn’t a natural reaction for you.Taking a few deep breaths is one way to calm down in the moment.
Try picturing yourself someplace fun and peaceful.
Do something that calms you like drawing, listening to music, or even exercising.
 If you feel that you are on the verge of bullying someone, decide to walk away instead. If you need to, spend a few minutes completely by yourself so that you can work through what you are feeling without hurting anyone. Walking away is one of the easiest ways to stop yourself from bullying someone.


If possible, leave the immediate area so that you can calm down.
If you can’t leave the room ( for example, if you are in the middle of class) then try to go to another area in the room or just turn away from the person.
 One way to change your behavior and stop bullying is to associate with people who support this change. While you don’t have to get rid of all your old friends, if they were part of the reason that you were bullying in the first place, then you should strongly consider it.


Meeting new people will allow you to have a ‘fresh start’ without the reputation of bullying.
New friends can help support you when you feel you may be about to bully someone.

