 If an item has been certified by a third-party organization as produced under conditions that qualify as fair trade, it typically will display a sticker or symbol on its packaging.The labels you see will mean different things, and may mean nothing at all. A company may claim itself that its products are "fair trade" without any independent evaluation of this claim.
Keep in mind that there are no legally enforceable minimum standards you must meet to call your product "fair trade," such as those that exist for certified organic products.
Labels or symbols indicate that a product has been certified as fair trade by a particular independent organization.;
, There is no universal or uniform body for evaluating the principals of fair trade, and different organizations have their own methods of evaluation and qualifications. There are three basic types of labeling organizations.Third party inspection and certification labeling organizations have the highest standards for fair trade. They typically conduct field inspections of growers or processing plants, and compare performance against a set of uniform standards.
Membership organizations such as the World Fair Trade Organization (WFTO) and the Fair Trade Federation (FTF) evaluate the fair trade polices and practice of whole companies using set membership criteria, but do not inspect growers and processing plants themselves.
Brand programs such as Whole Trade, the fair trade program for Whole Foods grocery stores, work with third-party inspectors and certify operations using their own brand standards regarding what qualifies as fair trade.
 Each organization has particular guidelines that must be met for products to be certified, including labor law and pricing standards.There are two basic certification standards that are generally recognized, and typically other organizations have some version of one of those, or a combination of both.The international Fair Trade Labeling Organization (FLO) is the oldest fair-trade certification body. The organization developed a number of verifiable indicators of fair trade practices, and are the best-known and most common certifier of agricultural products worldwide.
A number of Western countries such as Canada have their own fair trade initiatives which are affiliated with the FLO and use the same standards.
The Institute for Market Ecology (IMO), headquartered in Switzerland, is also a well-known and well-respected certifier of fair-trade and organic products.
The IMO aims to be more universally applicable than the FLO standards, which typically require producers to be large-scale co-ops or plantations with hired workers.
IMO standards, in contrast, allow distributors to purchase products from individual farmers, informal producer groups, and smaller collectives.
 The standards required by the labeling organization should extend to all actors involved in the trade of the product, and include not just employees but also contractors and sub-contractors.Label organizations that use FLO standards typically focus on the hired labor harvesting crops on plantations, with less focus on workers in processing, unless processing is organized by farmers' collectives.
In contrast, IMO certifiers evaluate the pay and working conditions of all workers involved in the process of bringing the product to market.
IMO certifiers also tend to include contract processors in their inspections, while FLO certifiers limit their evaluation to hired employees.
 Labeling organizations have different requirements – and different labels – to accompany products with several ingredients that are sourced from several producers.FLO certifiers require all ingredients to be certified for the final product to be certified. However, if certified ingredients are not available, at least 50 percent of the product must be fair-trade certified for the whole product to be granted a fair-trade label.
If fewer than half of the ingredients are fair-trade certified, the product may carry a label on the front of the package indicating that it is made with a single fair-trade ingredient, or with a few fair-trade ingredients.
Keep in mind that these "fair trade lite" labels often look exactly like the whole fair-trade certified labels, so with multi-ingredient products you must inspect the label closely.
In contrast, IMO "fair trade lite" labels may only be carried on the back of the packaging – only whole-product fair-trade labels may be displayed on the front.
 Inspections for fair-trade certifications typically take around six months to complete, and labeling organizations charge fees for the inspection and licensing process that some companies cannot afford.FLO organizations charge inspection fees to producer groups and processors, plus licensing fees for the use of the logo to brands that sell FLO-certified products.
IMO organizations charge inspection and certification fees, but do not charge licensing fees to brands that sell fair-trade certified products.
The costs of inspection, certification, and licensing may be prohibitive to smaller companies selling items that actually are produced in sustainable ways with workers in fair working conditions being paid a living wage.
Additionally, it requires many months of research and analysis for fair-trade organizations to determine fair prices for new crops or products.
Although the FLO has a quick-entry program for new products that may fall within existing standards for other products, the organization still must analyze local market conditions to confirm the price is fair.
In many cases, although producers or artisans may be paid a living wage, there simply isn't a certification system in place to evaluate the fair-trade standards for that particular product yet.
 If you have questions about how a product is produced or where it comes from and there's no label to assist you, the company may be able to provide some answers.Smaller companies and those that sell products produced by individual farmers or informal collectives may not have the funds or ability to have the products they sell fair-trade certified.
Many such companies often have pages on their websites that describe how their products are made and the conditions of the workers who harvest and process them.
You also may be able to find answers by calling the company's customer service number and asking about worker conditions. Ask what criteria the company uses to choose its suppliers, and how they verify working conditions and wages for the people who produce the products they sell.
Producer organizations that trade directly with nonprofit organizations or other retail collectives may not be certified fair trade, but nevertheless achieve the same goals of finding solutions to poverty and empowering people in developing countries.
 Even if they aren't certified, many companies issue statements on the production standards of the items they sell. Nonprofit organizations such as Oxfam America also investigate and report on global labor and working conditions.Smaller suppliers or collectives may not themselves be certified, but may operate under the same criteria as a larger supplier nearby.
Many nonprofits such as Catholic Relief Services have their own criteria to determine whether producers, artisans, and other partners follow fair trade principals and promote sustainable economic growth.
Keep in mind that fair trade certification often doesn't apply to goods produced in Western countries, only those imported from the developing world.
 A number of nonprofit organizations as well as fair-trade labeling organizations have lists available online of products that are certified fair trade. Many fair-trade products distributed globally by smaller companies are only sold online.Websites such as fairtradefederation.org and transfairusa.org have lists of products and producers that are certified fair trade.
If you're looking for fair-trade clothing, participating brands are more likely to be sold online than in brick-and-mortar stores.
You also may be able to find better prices online if you buy directly from the company than if you purchase fair-trade products at a grocery store or other retail shop.
 Retailers may include a fair-trade label on their doors or on the front page of their website for marketing reasons. However, these labels don't guarantee that most – or even any – of that retailer's products are certified fair trade.Keep in mind that stores may continue to display a fair trade lego even though they no longer sell fair trade products. Similarly, stores may express a commitment to fair trade without actually selling certified products.
Even if a store does sell fair-trade products, a logo doesn't mean that everything that store sells is fair trade. You still must verify from the product's packaging that each particular item was produced under fair-trade standards.
 If you want to see fair-trade products in your favorite store, fill out a comment card or speak directly to management and make your desires known.Keep in mind that a single voice may not be enough for a manager to start carrying a new product. Talk to your friends who also shop at that store, or circulate a petition in your community to demonstrate demand for fair-trade products.
If the store is a chain, individual managers may not have much control over the products they carry. However, you can start a petition online and drum up support using social media to encourage the company to start carrying fair-trade products.
 If you're concerned about fair trade, buying the products you want or need directly from the artisans and growers provides the strongest assurance that everyone is being compensated fairly.Buy produce in season, and shop at your local farmer's market, rather than buying produce in the grocery store that was imported from developing countries.
Connect with nonprofit organizations to buy clothing and housewares that are hand-made by artisans who are paid directly for the goods they produce.
Find out if there's a co-op or other collective in your area that you can join to purchase locally sourced products from individual growers.

