 If your eyes are starting to feel strained and tired from doing close-up work, reading, or looking at a screen, take occasional breaks to focus on distant objects and give your eyes a gentle workout. This will not only give your eyes a rest, but it will also help strengthen and loosen your tense eye muscles. For example, try the following exercise:Hold your thumb straight out in front of you at arm’s length. Slowly bring it in until it is touching the tip of your nose, focusing on it with your eyes the whole time.
Move your thumb away from your nose again, but this time extend your arm out horizontally to the right, still following the movement with your eyes.
Return your thumb to your nose and then repeat a few times, each time extending your arm in a different direction (forward, up, down, left, right).
You may wish to spend about three minutes on this exercise, repeating the routine 3-5 times a day.
 Eye yoga exercises are designed to relieve eye stress from close-up work. They can also improve blood circulation to the area around the eyes, and help keep your eyes from getting too dried out. Try a few basic eye yoga exercises every day:Eye stretches: Holding your head still and moving only your eyes, first look up as far as you can. Hold for two seconds, then look down as far as you can. Repeat this process, looking left, right, and diagonally in each direction (up and left, down and left, etc.).
Eye flexes: Relax your eyes and look up. Slowly rotate your eyes in a clockwise direction. Keep this going for one minute, and then repeat, this time rolling your eyes counter-clockwise.
Focus switching: Switch between focusing on an object close up (like text at reading distance), and focusing on something far away (like large text on a sign at least 20 feet away from you). Cover one eye, and spend a few second tracing the shape of the near object with your uncovered eye. Then switch to the far object. Cover your other eye, and repeat.
 These exercises do not actually affect your eyes, but they boost your vision by training your brain to interpret visual signals more effectively. Try a brain-training game like UltimEyes, which has been shown to dramatically increase visual acuity when used over a period of time.Be aware that brain training exercises may make your eyes feel tired at first. However, after a few sessions, you should start to adjust, and these symptoms will diminish.

