


The raw food diet is based on the concept that the human body evolved to consume whole foods rather than highly processed foods.
Many consumers mistakenly believe that the raw foods diet means you cannot cook any of your food. This is a misconception. Instead, the raw foods diet involves choosing food items, which are all natural such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, and seeds.
Learning about the principles behind the raw food diet will provide you with reason to pursue and stick with this diet program.;
, Once you learn the basic concepts and principles of the raw food diet, it is important to carefully study food lists to determine which foods are acceptable on the raw food diet. It is fairly simple to identify foods that can be eaten on this diet. Raw foods include fruits, vegetables, legumes, seeds and nuts. Any foods that have been processed or have artificial additives are not a part of the raw food diet.
 The biggest obstacle for many individuals who attempt the raw food diet is that of the fast food concept. This obstacle is not limited to fast food restaurants. Instead, the obstacle is characterized by all the foods sold in grocery stores and in restaurants that are highly processed and extremely quick to prepare.


Raw foods are more difficult to prepare because they require cleaning, chopping or slicing, seasoning and cooking. Foods such as potato chips, processed lunch meat, processed cheeses or other highly processed foods are convenient and easy to grab and eat on the go. Planning out your meals ahead of time is a great way to overcome this obstacle. When you plan each of your meals in advance, you will not be tempted to simply grab something that is highly processed and will negatively affect your health.
You can write out meal options at the beginning of the week and even prepare meals ahead of time and keep them in labeled containers in the refrigerator.
 The best way to ensure your success with the raw food diet is to rid your home of unacceptable food items.


If the foods are in your house, you will be more likely to slip up and eat them.
Our bodies can actually become addicted to the artificial and processed components of many processed food items. When we are exposed to these foods on a daily basis, we are more likely to consume them because of an intense craving or during a moment of weakness.
By eliminating these foods from your house, you will not be tempted to eat them every time you visit the kitchen.



One of the reasons why consumers fail when they try the raw foods diet is that they become burned out on the repetitious flavors and food items. Because you are severely limiting the types of food from which you can choose, it is easy to get sick of these food items if you don't use spices and flavors to add variety to your prepared meals.
There are many different spices that you can use to increase the variety of vegetables or other raw food items.
Variety will prevent you from getting frustrated with the raw food diet and giving up.
 Any diet is easier to manage if you have a reliable network of support that is as dedicated to your success as you are.


If you include your friends and family members in your determination to try the raw food diet, you can drastically improve your chances of success.
You may be even more likely to succeed if you and your family decide to try the raw food diet together.
When you are not alone in your attempts to revolutionize your nutrition, the process becomes much easier. Even if you are experiencing a bad day filled with temptation, your dieting counterpart may be able to encourage you to stick with the diet.
 Positive reinforcement is a great way to encourage yourself to continue with the raw food diet. During the transition to a raw food diet, your results may be too gradual for you to notice unless you keep a careful record of your daily experiences in a journal.


Begin keeping a journal a couple of weeks before you begin the raw food diet. In the journal, write down your daily meals, your energy levels, your weight, any negative health side effects, your sleeping habits and your mood.
When you begin the raw food diet, detail the changes in your journal. By going back and comparing your current situation to your health before the diet, you can see the dramatic changes that your body is experiencing.

