 While formal education is never required for art, it will help you learn the basic illustration techniques like shading, adding texture, and composition.Sign up for a drawing or illustration class at your local community center or find a college that offers classes. Research different courses that are provided and choose one that interests you.


Even if you've been drawing independently for years, taking a class may teach you something new and will surround you with other illustrators that you can give you feedback.
Things to consider when looking for classes include the class schedule and the cost of the courses.
In addition to these basic techniques that every illustrator should have, there are also more advanced techniques used by many illustrators that include etching, stipple, and crosshatching., Doodling or drawing images to take notes in class can help hone your skills, however, dedicated and concentrated practice enables you to make vast improvements in your technique.Set aside extra time each day to sit down and seriously draw something in your newly developed style. Pinpoint areas that you are weak in and deliberately practice drawing things you have difficulty illustrating.


For instance, if you are great at drawing faces but bad at anatomy, take extra time to draw the human body until you become more proficient.
Make sure that you're in an environment that you feel comfortable so that you can get the most out of your practice.
 Even though your style is unique to you, it's important that you don't let your ego get in the way of actually improving. Though art is all subjective, there are things that you can do to improve your technique regardless of your experience. Have open and honest conversations about your drawings and take the advice if you feel it is valid.


Many art classes will have critiques where other artists will comment on your work and talk about how you can improve.
Don't let a suggestion get you down. Instead of being upset, examine what's being said and consider that it could improve your art.
You can say, "My feelings won't be hurt. I just want to know how I can make my drawings more appealing to people. Can you give me some advice?"

, Now that you've gotten the basics down, you should try to develop your own style that's unique to you. Take inspiration from different artists, different styles, and different techniques and combine your favorite things about each of them. Don't just become a carbon copy of another artist. Try to stand out on your own.


For example, you can use the dynamic colors of Matt Lyon and combine it with the thick lined, black and white style of Matthieu Bessudo to get a unique style that's your own.Experimentation will lead to your results that you may be able to incorporate into your style.

