 Bacteria on your skin can turn old sweat into smelly armpits.Shower daily to wash away the sweat before this happens.


Try ending your shower with a minute or two of cool or cold water. This will lower your surface temperature, making you less likely to sweat right away.
Pat your armpits dry with a soft towel. Vigorous scrubbing can stress your skin and cause more sweating.;
, Ordinary deodorant only hides smell. To stop soaking your clothes, you'll need a product with antiperspirant. Apply this just before bed and right after you wake up, or after drying off from your shower. Your skin is usually cool and dry during these times, so the antiperspirant can easily reach your sweat glands and block them.If your armpits are sweaty, dry them first using a hair dryer on a cool-air setting.Most antiperspirants include aluminum compounds that can cause yellow armpit stains.Launder stained clothes soon, before the stain sets.
 A lightweight cotton T-shirt, for example, will wick moisture away from your skin. Having your shirt absorb moisture may sound like a bad thing, but this will keep your skin cool. A heavy or synthetic shirt will keep you hot, causing your body to sweat more.If you still sweat through these clothes, wear a light undershirt as well.
 These cotton pads stick to the underside of your shirt and absorb sweat so less of it soaks into your clothing. Look for these at drugstores, sold as "underarm shields," "armpit guards," and similar names.
 Baby powder (talcum powder) absorbs moisture, so it can prevent soaked clothing. This is generally not as effective as antiperspirant deodorant, but won't stain your clothes.


Talcum powder has been tentatively linked to cancer, but studies show mixed results. You may wish to avoid inhaling it or applying it to the female groin., Whenever you feel hot or thirsty, drink a glass of cool water. This will bring your internal temperature down, so your body won't have to lower it more by sweating., Many people suffer from hyperhidrosis, or excessive sweating, for genetic or hormonal reasons. Whatever the cause, certain foods and substances can worsen the problem. Consider the following changes if they are part of your daily habits:Quit smoking or other nicotine sources.

Reduce your alcohol intake.

Stop consuming caffeine.
Eat less spicy food. Eat less garlic and onion intake as well, since these add odor to your sweat.
Ask a doctor for alternatives if you think your medication causes sweating. Blood pressure and diabetes medication can do this, but don't quit them without medical advice.
 Sage tea is a traditional treatment for excessive sweating. This has not been tested one way or the other in scientific studies.If you try it, drink it daily in the evening, so the heat of the tea doesn't cause sweating during the day.


Consult a doctor before taking large doses of sage supplements, as they can have serious side effects. Sage in dietary amounts is mostly harmless, but may harm people with diabetes, epilepsy, bleeding disorders, or an allergy to the plant.
There are many types of sage. Typically, this treatment uses Salvia officinalis or Salvia lavendulaefolia.

