 Many advanced graphing calculators will have a “conversion” function key. If your calculator is equipped with this, you can use it to convert measurements from one unit to another. The Texas Instruments TI-83, TI-84Plus and TI-86 have this feature.On the TI-86, you can find the “Conv” label above the 5 key. To activate it, you need to press the “2nd” key and then the 5 key.
 You first need to tell the calculator what units you want to convert, and then you can perform your conversion. This will be slightly different on different model calculators, but the basic steps are the same.On the TI-86, begin by pressing “2nd” and “5.” This will open a menu of physical properties that you can convert.
 Upon opening the conversion feature, your screen will show a list of options: Length, Area, Vol (Volume), Time, Temp. Since none of this is what you want, press the “More” key to move to the next screen. You will then see five more options: Mass, Force, Press (Pressure), Energy, and Power. You will want to select the F2 button at the top of the calculator for Force., As soon as you select that you wish to convert “Force,” your screen will show a new list of options, of various units of force. You will need to choose the unit that you are starting with for your conversion.First type in the number of Newtons that you want to convert. Then choose the F1 function key labeled “N.”

In the example, you are converting 5 N to kg-force. Therefore, first enter “5” and then press F1. Your display screen should show “5N” followed by an arrow and a blinking cursor.
 After entering your beginning value and its unit, you need to choose the unit to convert into. The list of units should still be displayed on the screen.In this case, you want to convert Newtons into kilograms of force. You will want to choose the button labeled “kgf,” which is the F4 function key. When you make that selection, your screen display should show “5N→kgf.”


, When the screen display shows the conversion that you want, just press the “Enter” key. The calculator will perform the conversion and show the value on the display screen.With this example, the TI calculators generally display up to 12 digits, so your display should show 0.509858106489.


