 Criticism should be about the situation and not your personal feelings about your coworker or the person’s character. If you are dealing with a coworker that you are not too fond of, think of how you would address the situation with a different coworker. Using a passive voice instead of an active voice can help you focus on the situation instead of the person as well.For example, you would say, “The project had a lot of typos and errors. It seems like it was completed in a rush,” instead of “You are unorganized and careless.”
Avoid starting any criticism with “You did/didn’t” or “You are.”

, In this method, you place the criticism in between positive feedback. This will help your coworker be more receptive to the criticism. This is also called the Positive-Improvement-Positive (PIP) method.Start with a strength. If you are discussing a specific piece of work, talk about what was good about the work.
Discuss the things that you did not like and the areas that need improvement.
End the conversation by reiterating the strengths you mentioned and the positive outcomes that will happen if your coworker makes the suggested changes.
You may say, "The paper had clear writing and a lot of good content, but it could benefit from some reorganization. If you make the organizational changes, the paper will be even stronger. You will turn a good paper into a great paper."

, A specific concern is much easier to address than a general statement. Being specific also forces you to focus on the issue at hand and not bring up complaints that you have been thinking about for a long time. General statements may also make your colleague feel that you are nitpicking without reason.For example, if your coworker is always late, talk to your coworker about a specific time they were late instead of simply saying, “You’re always late.” You may say, "I noticed that you were late to our team meeting this morning, is everything okay?"
A specific example of a problem will also prevent your coworker from denying the behavior that you are criticizing.
 Try to be as polite and friendly as possible. Even if what you are saying is true, the wrong tone can make the conversation go badly. Avoid being sarcastic, condescending, angry, or aggressive. Remain calm when discussing your issues with your colleague. The last thing you want is to have a heated discussion that will more likely make you both defensive. Angry discussions will close all avenues of future dialogue and make the work place a negative environment.Instead of sarcastically criticizing a presentation by saying, "Isn't it terrible when someone can't speak clearly and get their point across?" You may say, "I get nervous when I have to present and mumble sometimes. Does this ever happen to you?"
The wrong tone will cause the colleague to become defensive and resentful, and the outcome of your discussion will be negative.
If you are experiencing some negative emotions, smile before you have the conversation. It is easier to be positive when you smile.
 This way your colleague will see that you are trying to help and that you are not just on a rampage to tear their work apart.Additionally, your coworker will recognize that your interests are in making sure that he succeeds also and that you are all working together for a positive outcome.


You can also say, “Everyone makes mistake,” or “I understand the choice you made.” Even if you have not made the same mistake, this will keep your coworker from feeling as upset and becoming unmotivated.Your coworker needs to know that you understand them and are on their side.
You may say, "I completely understand why you turned in that assignment late. I get overwhelmed at times and it's hard to prioritize. Next time let me know that you're super busy. We can figure something out together."

, Listen to your coworker’s explanation and point of view. Also ask your coworker what they could have done differently and what do they need to correct their work in the future. This turns criticism into a collaborative project. Your coworker may also be more receptive to the criticism if they are included in the problem solving process.


Be open to any feedback that your coworker provides. You may learn something.

