;
,,

,,

, The first thing you are going to have to do is name your restaurant. Name it whatever you want, but try to name it something that will attract customers such as "________'s Japanese Eatery" or whatever.
, Your first customer should come into the restaurant and order Ikura Maki. To do this, you will need to use the rice and fish egg. To make the dish, click on each of the ingredients to place them on the roller. To roll the ingredients into the dish, click on the roller to roll it. Now the dish should be placed on the conveyor belt and brought out to the waiting customer. If you get the recipe wrong or put the wrong ingredients in, you will see a little blob of brown goo on the plate. This, in the game, is known as a "foul dish." The customer will not accept this and you must attempt to make the dish again.
 Later in the game, you probably will have memorized all the recipes, but for now, check your recipe book whenever you cannot remember a recipe. The longer you take to get your customers' food ready, the more unhappy they will get and the less tips they pay you, so don't spend too much time looking at your recipe book or fiddling around with the ingredients.
 In the lower-right corner of the game screen there is a black telephone. If you click the telephone, you can order more rice, toppings, and sake. Use this when you are running low on ingredients, but don't wait until you run out.
 The longer you take to make their dishes, the more unhappy your customers get. Earn time by performing knife tricks or serving them sake. If a customer is extremely unhappy, they will leave your restaurant.
 After your customer has eaten their Ikura Maki, the empty plate will still be on the table. Get this out of the way by clicking on it. You will earn a bonus for picking up three or more empty plates at one time.
 Since this is Japan, you will be earning yen instead of dollars or pounds. Using your yen, you can order more ingredients and buy upgrades for your store. After each "day" of working at your restaurant, you can buy many upgrades such as a faster conveyor belt to serve your customers faster, a digital telephone allowing you to order up to three toppings at once, more comfortable chairs for your customers, new curtains, wallpaper, and much more!

, Each "day" you work at your restaurant, another ingredient or recipe is added to your recipe book. Make sure to find out what you can make with your new ingredient so you're familiar with it.