 You may struggle to feel laid back if you're overcommitted. Prioritizing what truly matters to you can help you simplify your life. This will reduce stress and may result in you having a more relaxed, laid back approach to life.


Consider how you spend most of your time. Try writing a list of everything you do during the course of a day and roughly how much time that all takes up. How much time are you spending doing what you want? Compare that to how much time you spend on errands, events, and other tasks you feel you have to do.Is there anything you could stand to do less? Are there any events or activities you pack into your life that aren't particularly fulfilling or personally important to you?It's perfectly okay to work at a pace that seems comfortable and reasonable for you. You may think you have to put in overtime hours each week to make more money, but are you really getting to enjoy that money? Try to spend your time more wisely, giving yourself space to rest and relax., Many people who consider themselves high-strung or overstressed have trouble saying "No." It's important to remember that just because you can do something does not mean you have to do something. An important step to becoming laid back is accepting that it's okay to tell someone "No."


It's very difficult to be laid back if you have no time for yourself. Many people feel obligated to say yes when a friend asks a favor or when an organization needs volunteers. There's nothing wrong with wanting to help out, but before agreeing to something pause and ask yourself if you really have time. If you're already suffer from a lack of downtime, sometimes it's okay to give yourself some needed rest and relaxation.You'll actually find it's easier to accomplish things if you commit yourself to less. Needlessly packing your schedule means your energy will be spread out across 10 different tasks. Instead, pick one or two tasks to focus on and do a really good job. The pressure to be perceived as successful often translates to feeling a need to be busy. Business does not equate success.For example, say your friend is going away with her boyfriend for the weekend. She asks you if you could stop in twice a day to feed her cat from Friday to Monday. You could do it, but it would mean sacrificing much of your own weekend as your friend lives across town. You have a fairly stressful job and weekends are important to you as it's a chance to unwind. Do not feel guilty about telling your friend "No." While you technically could look after her cat, you should not feel obligated to do so simply because you can. It's important for you to have time for yourself, to relax, rest, and have downtime. No one can truly be laid back if they're busy all the time.
 People who are laid back tend to be able to relax and unwind easily. However, when caught up in daily obligations and stress people often struggle to find pleasure and levity. If you open yourself up to embracing small pleasures, you'll find yourself feeling more laid back throughout the day.Try to count the simple pleasures you encounter each day. Begin when you get up in the morning. Even something small can provide great joy. For example, really take a moment to enjoy the taste and smell of your morning coffee. Appreciate the great song that's playing on your iPod on your morning commute.
Take time to indulge in pleasures. You might not have time to treat yourself to a lavish dinner out, but maybe make yourself a cocktail when eating at home. If you want to go on a hike this weekend but have a work commitment, take a half hour stroll around your neighborhood instead. Embracing pleasure throughout the day can help you feel more laid back.
 Oftentimes, we pay a lot of attention to the lives of those around us on social media. This can lead to a fear of missing out. If you want to be more laid back, try to be content with yourself, your friends, your life, your job, and your own experiences.


Many people are online for the majority of their days. This fuels a lot of anxiety about missing out. If you're on your phone or your computer constantly, it's only natural you'll develop curiosity about what others are doing. Anxiety about missing out and comparing yourself with others is inevitable. This can lead to feeling high strung and feeling pressure to participate in certain social events or rituals.Make a conscious effort to disengage. This does not necessarily mean deleting your Facebook account and ditching your smart phone. Even short breaks from your phone or computer, about 10 minutes in length every few hours, can help reduce feelings of anxiety over missing out. Get off the computer every few hours and go for a walk with your phone turned off or in your pocket out of sight.