 The spine is a complex and congested collection of joints, nerves, muscles and blood vessels.Thus, there are many structures that can create pain if you move the wrong way, experience trauma or over-stress the area. However, lower back pain (even when severe) can fade away quickly without treatment — often within a few days. This is because the body has a powerful ability to heal and most back pain is due to being a little "out of whack" instead of damaged. Be patient if you feel lower back pain, stop any aggravating activities and see if it fades away on its own.


Bed rest is no longer recommended for most types of lower back pain. The medical consensus is that at least some light exercise (walking, stair climbing) is helpful for lumbar pain because it stimulates blood flow and can help "loosen" or "unjam" any irritated spinal joints or nerves.
If your lower back pain is caused from exercising at the gym, then maybe you're working out too hard or with bad form — ask a personal trainer for advice.
If your lower back pain is work related, speak to your boss about changing to lighter work duties or altering your work area — a cushioned mat for underneath your feet or a chair with lumbar support, for examples.;
, While you're resting your lower back and being patient for a few days, consider applying cold therapy. Applying ice or frozen gel packs to any acute (sudden or new) musculoskeletal injury is effective because it numbs the pain and reduces inflammation.Crushed ice, ice cubes, cold gel packs or a bag of frozen veggies should be applied to the most painful area of your low back for between 10 – 15 minutes every hour, until the discomfort starts to fade away. Once improved, reduce the frequency to three times per day.


Always wrap anything frozen in a thin cloth before applying it to your lower back in order to prevent frostbite or skin irritation.
Compressing the cold therapy against your lower back with an elastic bandage or support can also help prevent inflammation from building up.
Remember that cold therapy is usually not appropriate for chronic (long term) back pain because it can aggravate symptoms — moist heat often provides more relief.
 If your low back pain is chronic and has bothered you on and off for many months or years, then applying moist heat is likely better because it promotes blood flow and relaxes tight muscles and other soft tissues.A good source of moist heat is microwavable herbal bags, especially the ones infused with relaxing aromatherapy, such as lavender. Put the bag in the microwave for a couple of minutes, then apply it to your lower back while sitting or lying down for about 20 minutes. Cover the bag with a towel to insulate it and prevent heat loss too quickly.


As an alternative, soak your lower back in a warm Epsom salt bath for at least 20 minutes a few times a day until your symptoms fade away. Epsom salt contains magnesium, which relaxes muscles and reduces swelling.
Don't make your bath water too hot so that it scalds you and remember to keep well hydrated — warm salt baths pull fluid from your skin and can dehydrate you.
Applying moist heat or soaking in a warm salt bath is usually not recommended for acute back pain because it increases blood flow and tends to promote inflammation.
 OTC non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), naproxen (Aleve) or aspirin can be effective short-term solutions for acute lower back pain because they reduce inflammation and pain.On the other hand, chronic lower back pain may be better served by taking OTC painkillers, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol), because they alter the way your brain perceives pain.


NSAIDs can be harmful to your stomach and kidneys if taken in large doses or for long periods of time (more than a few months), so be cautious and read labels carefully.
Acetaminophen is not so hard on your stomach and kidneys, but it can damage your liver, so don't overdo it.
Another way of relieving low back pain, but without the risk of stomach, kidney or liver irritation, is applying a cream or gel that contains NSAIDs, acetaminophen or natural analgesics such as menthol and capsaicin.
 Your sleeping position and/or sleeping environment may be contributing to or causing your lower back pain. For example, sleeping on your stomach can cause too much of an arch in your low back, which compresses and irritates spinal joints and nerves.The best sleeping positions for your lower back are the recumbent position (on your side similar to the fetal position with your hips and knees bent) and the supine position (on your back with your legs elevated by a pillow). Both of these positions take pressure off your lower back joints and reduces the chances of irritation / pain.


Changing your sleeping environment usually means making sure what you sleep on is supportive for your spine. In general, beds that are too soft tend to promote back pain, whereas firmer orthopedic beds tend to reduce the incidence of lower back pain.
Everyone is a little different, so a good way to judge your bed is if you're waking up sore or not. If you wake up sore, then your sleeping position/environment is an aggravating factor. If you're more sore at the end of the day, then it's likely your job/activities/exercising is to blame.
Keep in mind that most foam and spring mattresses only last about 10 years with constant use, although it depends on your weight. Rotate and flip your mattress on a regular basis (every time you wash your sheets) to increase its longevity.
 Too much slouching while you sit and stand can increase the strain on your low back and lead to irritation or pain. Improving your posture can help reduce back strain and relieve existing back aches. In fact, improving your posture can also help prevent recurrence of lower back pain.However, improving your posture is a difficult task that requires daily effort and dedication.


Strengthening your core muscles is a good strategy to help improve your posture. Core muscles are those in your low back, lower abdomen and pelvis — they all connect to your spine and/or pelvis in some way to help hold your body upright.To maintain good posture while standing: stand with your weight distributed over both feet and avoid locking your knees. Tighten your stomach and buttock muscles to keep your back straight. Wear supportive shoes and alleviate muscle fatigue by periodically resting one foot on a footstool.
To maintain good posture while sitting: choose a firm chair, preferably one with armrests. Keep your upper back straight, but your shoulders relaxed. A small cushion placed behind your lower back can help maintain the natural curve of your lower back. Keep your feet flat on the floor, using a footstool if necessary., Though there is some disagreement about the best way to lift, as it varies depending on the circumstances, but there are a few basic rules you should try to follow.


Test the weight of the load so you are not surprised by and unexpectedly heavy or shifting load. If the load is too heavy, ask for help.
Stand as close to the load as possible before lifting, and keep it as close to your body as you can when you are carrying.
Do not twist, stretch, or turn at the waist — if you need to turn, do so with your entire body.
Appropriate lifting posture may include a squat lift (bending at the knees and hips while keeping your back straight), a stoop lift (keeping your legs straight while bending your back), or a freestyle lift (a semi-squat that allows you to rest the load on your thighs).

