 One of the best ways to get zinc is to eat shellfish. Shellfish contains significant levels of zinc. Oysters have the highest amount of zinc. For 3 ounces of oysters, you will get five times the daily value (DV) of zinc. You’ll get 74 mg and 493% of your daily value.3 ounces of crab contains 6.5 mg of zinc (43% DV). 3 ounces of lobster contains 3.4 mg of zinc (23% DV).
Include a meal of oysters at least once a month. If you don’t like oysters, include crab or lobster once or twice a month instead.
Some fish also contain zinc. One serving of flounder contains less than 10% of your daily amount of zinc.;
, Meat products contain significant amounts of zinc. You can get a lot of zinc from healthy sources of red meat, pork, and poultry. 3 ounces of beef contains 7 mg of zinc (47% DV). Pork contains 2.9 mg of zinc (19% DV) for 3 ounces.When eating poultry, make sure to eat the dark meat. 3 ounces of chicken contains 2.4 mg of zinc (16% DV). Turkey contains 3.0 mg of zinc (21% DV).
4 oz of lamb has 35% of your daily value of zinc., Nuts provide a small amount of your daily recommended amount of zinc. You can eat cashews, almonds, or peanuts for some zinc. A 1-ounce serving of cashews contains 1.6 mg of zinc (11% DV).


1 ounce of almonds contain 6% of your daily amount of zinc.
You can also include nuts as a snack every day. Most nuts contain zinc, though not at very high levels.
 Dairy sources contain zinc. You can include a few sources of dairy into your diet each day to increase your intake of zinc. Yogurt contains the most zinc out of all dairy products. 8 ounces contains 1.7 mg of zinc (11% DV).1 ounce of Swiss cheese has 8% of your daily value of zinc, and 1 ounce of cheddar or mozzarella has 6%.
1 cup of low-fat or skim milk has 7% of your daily value.
 Certain grains have enough zinc in them to add a significant amount to your daily value. One packet of instant oatmeal has 7%. Some cereals are fortified with up to 25% of your daily zinc for one serving.Quinoa has 18% of your daily value for 3/4 cup.
Check the labels on any fortified foods that may include zinc.
 Seeds have significant amounts of zinc. You can include seeds into your main dishes, yogurt, oatmeal, cereal, salads, or even snack on them. 1/4 cup of sesame seeds and pumpkins seeds both contain 25% of your daily value., Legumes and beans are a good source of zinc. This source includes tofu, tempeh, soybeans, kidney beans, black beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, and peanuts.Half a cup of chickpeas contains 9% of your daily value, and kidney beans include 6%.Soak your beans and legumes before you cook them. They contain phytates, which block absorption of minerals, and soaking will remove the phytates.
 If you are struggling getting enough zinc through your diet, you can take a zinc supplement. You can buy a supplement in tablet form to take daily. Most supplements come in a 30 mg form, which is 200% of your DV.See your doctor to determine if your zinc levels are deficient enough to take a supplement.
Be careful to not overdose on zinc if taking a supplement by following instructions and dosing information.

