 In the herd, horses are natural followers.Within the herd, one horse needs to be a leader. In your relationship with your horse, your horse should see you as his leader. One way to establish the leadership role with your horse is to lead him.


It may not seem like asserting your leadership is showing your horse you love him. However, horses need boundaries and leadership. When he sees you as a good leader who will be attentive to his needs, he will trust you and feel safe with you.Lead your horse from various positions—the lead position (ahead of your horse), partner position (beside your horse), and drive position (behind his withers).Leading your horse teaches your horse to respect your personal space.
As you lead your horse, be assertive, yet gentle, with him when maintaining and establishing the boundaries of your personal space., Yielding to pressure is another way for your horse to see you as his leader.Horses use pressure with each other to assert dominance.Therefore, when you apply pressure to him, you are asserting your dominance over him—once again establishing your leadership role.


Use your hands to apply pressure on your horse’s body. The pressure should be gentle yet firm—not enough to push him, but enough to make him a little uncomfortable.
Do not release the pressure until your horse has moved away from it.Practice applying direct pressure to different parts of his body (e.g., shoulder, muzzle, legs)., Indirect pressure involves the use of driving aids, such as a lead rope, to get your horse to yield.Practice this by standing about three feet in front of your horse, with his lead rope attached to his halter. Point your index finger at him and begin to wiggle the lead rope. Your horse should begin to move backwards.Your horse may not understand what you are trying to get him do to the first time around. He may stand there, or move to the side. Wiggle the lead rope with more force until he steps back, or at least leans backwards.Stop wiggling the lead rope as soon as makes the backward motion.
 It may take some time for your horse to learn that you are his leader and that he should respect your personal space. Practice for a few minutes each day until your horse readily and consistently accepts your leadership role with him.