 This type of tumbling composter sits atop a wooden structure and turns on an axle, such as a PVC or steel pipe, that runs directly through it. You’ll need to purchase or obtain a plastic or steel barrel, between 20 and 55 gallons (75-200 liters), including a 48 inch (1.25 meter) length of 2 inch (5 cm) schedule 80 PVC pipe, or a length of 1 1/2 to 2 inch (3.8-5 cm) galvanized steel pipe. You’ll also need:


2X4 treated lumber
Nails
Circular saw
Jigsaw
Drill motor, drill paddle bit, and drill bits
Hole saw
Basic hand tools (hammer, measuring tape, flexible metal ruler, framing square)
Hinges
Latches
Door handle
“L” brackets

, Measure the diameter of each end of your barrel, and then divide that measurement by two to determine the center point. Your holes should be large enough to fit the pipe you’ll be using as the axle. If you can, cut off a small piece of your axle pipe, place it over each center mark, and trace a circle along the outside of the pipe. If you can’t, measure the diameter of your axle pipe and draw a circle of the same size around each center point. Once your circles have been created, use a drill paddle bit or hole saw of an equal size to create your holes.
 Using a 1-inch (2.5 cm) bit space 15-20 holes evenly along the sides of the barrel. This will allow oxygen to flow freely throughout the container.
 Before you start cutting out a door, trace the shape of the door you want along one side of the barrel using a flexible metal ruler and a framing square. The measurements for the door will differ depending on the size of your barrel. If your barrel is on the smaller size, like 20 to 30 gallons, trace a 12” by 12” square. If it’s a 55 gallon barrel, you can outline an 18” by 12” rectangle. The longer side should be parallel to the length of the barrel.


Make a couple small holes in one of the corners using your drill to allow space for your jigsaw blade to start cutting. Continue to use the blade all the way around the outline of the door until the shape is removed.
The door will likely be a bit flimsy once secured. If your barrel is plastic, secure two pieces of wood to the inside of the barrel, one along the side where you’ve placed your hatches and the other on the opposite end where you’ll place your latches and handle. If your barrel is metal, use two steel plates instead of wood. Consider flattening two “L” brackets to use for your steel plates.To secure the door, install two hinges at the top corners, then install two latches at the bottom corners to lock the door. You can place a handle at the center point of the two latches to help with opening and closing the door.
 A long spare piece of galvanized sheet metal bent into an “L” shape and bolted to the interior wall of the barrel will do this nicely. Put the fin opposite from the hatch, so as to weight balance the empty container.
 When you’re ready, slide the pipe through the center holes. The length of pipe sticking out of each side of the barrel should be long enough to rest each end on the wooden structure you’ll create.


If you’re using a plastic barrel, the weight of the compost inside your tumbling composter can break the plastic, so before inserting the pipe through the holes secure two slabs of wood to the barrel to distribute the weight of the compost.
Take two slabs of wood, such as 2”x4” pieces, and drill into each piece a hole large enough to fit your pipe through. Line each hole up to the holes on either end of your barrel and nail the boards to the barrel.
Alternately, you can secure an “L” bracket to each side of the pipe, which will also distribute the weight of the compost.
 Nail 2 sets of 2x4s (pieces of wood that are 1.5″ × 3.5″ or 38×89 mm in terms of height and width, respectively) in an x-frame, and nail two 2x4s across the feet at the bottom for support.
, If it does, you can now fill your tumbling composter with leaves and other compostable material, and allow your new "garden helper" to do its job.

