;
, You will then be redirected back to the home page.
 A menu will pop up and from here you will see the triangle-shaped icon labeled "Drive". Click on it and you will be redirected to the "My Drive" main screen.
 This creates a new untitled document that you can now edit just as you would on other word processors such as Microsoft Word.
 First, create a running header by clicking on the "Insert" option on the top left of the toolbar and select "Header" from the drop down menu. Click the box next to the "Different first page header/footer" pop up to place a check mark into it. Make sure the blinking cursor is on the left hand side of the page and type "Running head:" followed by the title of your paper in all capital letters so it looks like this: "Running head: TITLE OF YOUR PAPER".
 Click the "Insert" tab on the top left again and hover your cursor over the "Page number" option. Select the first choice in the pop up images that appear, with the numbers proceeding in sequence on the top right of the preview pictures of the pages. Clicking that will cause a number 1 to appear right after your title in the header.


This is where it gets a little tricky. Click before the number one to put your blinking cursor before the number one and after the last word of your title. Then press the "tab" key and/or spacebar on your keyboard to bring the number one all the way to the right hand side of the page. This step is so tedious because although Microsoft Word has a way to input two separate pieces of information in the header and justify one to the far left and one to the far right, Google Docs does not have a way to do this, thus we manually justify the page number to the right. After you have your running head and title to the left of the header and your page number on the right, exit the header by clicking anywhere else on the page outside of the header field.
 Do this by first clicking on the icon in the toolbar with the centered horizontal lines and the pop up message "Center (Ctrl+Shift+E)" when you hover over it with the mouse. Further to the right is the line spacing icon, composed of a vertical arrow pointing up and down and more horizontal lines. Hovering over this icon will prompt a pop up message that says "Line spacing". Click this icon, and from the drop down menu that appears, select "Double".
 This does not need to be precise.
 "Title of Your Paper". Press enter.
 Include first and last name (middle initial is optional). Do NOT include titles (Dr., Mrs., Mr., etc..) or degrees (PhD, Master's, etc..). Press enter.
 Press enter.
 You have made your APA title page via Google Drive! Good luck with the rest of your paper!

