 They may not know how to offer social or emotional support to others, and a few may display extreme unfriendliness and detachment. Other autistic people deeply care about others, but are unsure how to act appropriately and help the people they love.


This lack of responsiveness is one reason for the difficulties that some autistic people face in securing and keeping employment, and making friends.
Keep in mind that even an extremely unresponsive child can probably still hear you; they just don't have a way to communicate yet.;
, While many children pick up social skills naturally, just by observing and participating in groups, autistic children often need direct instruction. Parents and special education teachers can and should spend considerable time teaching autistic children to socialize politely (often, at first, following “scripts”) and recognize the needs and emotions of others.
 Many autistic children begin, over time, to express an interest in making friends–especially if they are offered many opportunities to do so. Set up brief playdates and visit fun places where other children will be present. If your child doesn't socialize well, explain to them that it is for a limited time only, which will help them feel less overwhelmed.
 Interacting with non-autistic children helps your child develop more attentive and responsive behaviors. Fellow autistic children teach your child that there is nothing wrong with them, and that there are other people just like them. For older children, autistic peers can offer support and insightful tips on a level that no one else can.


Some school programs offer various degrees of “mainstreaming,” in which autistic children spend time in regular classrooms. Depending on your child's learning abilities, this may be a good idea.
 Instead of punishing, encourage your child whenever he or she makes an effort to respond to others or engage in social situations. Praise your child, applaud his or her efforts, and offer a reward – a gold star, a trip to the ice cream place, or anything else that motivates.


Don't punish/criticize the child or push them to do something if they aren't comfortable, because they'll associate social interactions with negative feelings. The child should feel respected and be able to meaningfully say no.

