 Rather than divulging something you’ll later regret, or responding harshly, lightly change the subject or offer a vague response. Deflection basically sends the message that you are not inclined to discuss the topic, without having to expressly say that.


You can use humor to deflect. Say someone asks how much your bonus was this quarter at work. You can say, “My bank account swallowed it so quickly I hardly noticed!”
Or, you can act like you didn’t hear and change the topic by catching someone else’s eye and saying, “Oh, Clarissa, the dessert is just divine!”

, Nosy people are rarely called out for their meddling. Do yourself and others in the future a favor and shut them down politely. Explain as graciously as you can how the question causes you discomfort.You might say, “I’m uncomfortable discussing money. I’m sure you understand, Greg.”

, You may be tempted to fudge your answer, but don’t lie. Lying can quickly ensnare you because once you start it’s hard to stop. Instead of flat-out lying offer a carefully dosed version of the truth.For instance, your mom asks about your troubled relationship. You say, “Mom, it’s really hard for me to talk about.” She says, “But what happened?” You can reply by repeating yourself, “Like I said, Mom, it’s hard for me to discuss right now.”

, Humor is a great way to respond in a friendly manner without revealing any information. Next time someone tries to ask an uncomfortable question, respond with humor. This may encourage the other person to stop prying.For example, if someone asks, "How much do you get paid?", you can respond, "Half of what I am worth."

, If you are at a stage in life in which certain nosy questions are common, go ahead and prepare a response in advance. This can prevent you from replying with sarcasm or getting wedged into a corner.


For instance, your family and friends regularly ask, “So, when are you having a baby?” You might spit out a tailored response like, “We’re focusing on our marriage right now. It’ll happen when we’re ready.”