 There are several publications online that offer law-school rankings.You will want to read through these and take them into account when deciding to which law school to apply, but take care not to place too much emphasis on these rankings.Outside of the top-14 schools (commonly referred to as the "T14"), the rankings shift yearly and do not necessarily represent the best law school for you.


Be aware that the higher ranked a law school is, the less likely it is to give financial aid. High-ranked schools do not need to provide as much incentive for prospective applicants as do lower-ranked ones.
Also keep in mind that the primary and most oft-cited source of law-school rankings, U.S. News, is a for-profit company and therefore not a definitive source. When looking at any rankings list, be sure to take into account the factors that went into making those rankings.;
, If you already know what kind of law you want to practice, make sure the law school offers a good amount of courses in the subject areas in which you are interested.


However, don't let this be the sole factor in making your decision because the education you will receive in law school will be generalized, and most of the special training you will receive in your chosen area will be attained after law school once you enter the workforce.You might also change your mind about the type of law you want to practice once you have been in law school for some time.
 You will want to research what types of internship/externship programs, legal clinics, study-abroad opportunities, etc., that the law school offers.Law school courses give a great overview of the theory behind the law, and how to think like a lawyer. Hands-on experience, though, is offered through programs like internships, externships, and clinics.


Make sure the law school has a robust offering of these sorts of practical programs so you can supplement your academic learning with actual practice experience.
 You will want to research the law school's actual facilities themselves to determine if the school will provide you with the quality education you are looking for. Make sure it has a good library with plenty of legal resources and competent staff to assist you in your research. Also check to see if there are adequate spaces to study and that the classrooms and teaching facilities are of good quality (integrated technology, comfortable chairs, etc.).


It is also a good idea to consider how important the law school is in relation to the university as a whole.The more important the legal program is to the university of which it is a part, the more money will be allocated to the legal program, which results in higher quality overall.
 It is important to also examine the quality of the faculty that will be teaching you the law. Look into what your prospective professors have accomplished in the past, where they have worked/taught before, whether or not they publish regularly and, if so, where they have been published.


Be sure to also get a sense of how accessible your professors will be so they can help you outside of the classroom. If they are involved in a lot of things outside of their role as a professor, you might find it hard to schedule one-on-one time with them to discuss problems or seek mentorship.
Inquire as to how many classes the professors teach each year.The fewer classes each professor is responsible for in a given academic year, the more time and effort they can afford each one.
 Smaller classes are good for interaction and extended discussion between students and professors, allowing for a deeper understanding of the particular topics covered. Larger classes are good for being exposed to a diverse variety of opinions and reasoning, allowing for exposure to differing opinions or methods of arriving at a particular legal conclusion.You will probably want a mix of both, so check to see what the law school offers.
Pay attention to student–faculty ratio as well, as you will want to make sure the law school has enough professors on hand to make sure each student receives the best legal education possible.
 This is one of the most important factors to consider when choosing a law school. The school's location will determine your cost of living, the climate in which you will be living for three years, whether you will be in an urban or rural setting, and how far you will be from home. You will also want to pay attention to what the location offers outside of school, because you will have free time and will want to spend it doing things you like.


Be aware that public law schools favor residents of the state in which they are located during the admissions process.Most law graduates take the bar exam and become licensed in the state in which they went to law school.This means that you will likely be working in the state in which you attend law school.
Also keep in mind that a law school's reputation is strongest in the area in which it is situated. The law school's career center contacts are also likely local.
 This is also an incredibly important factor to consider, as the cost of a legal education is very high. While loans are available, you will want to keep your costs as low as possible, so weigh the cost of a particular law school against the scholarships you might receive to determine if it is in your budget to attend.


If you are looking at a public university, and you are a resident of the state in which the university is located, you will receive in-state tuition, which is considerably less than what an out-of-state student would pay. If you are an out-of-state student, inquire about the possibility of achieving in-state status for tuition purposes by working for the school in some capacity, such as being a research assistant for one of your professors.
Look up the percentage of students receiving financial aid from the law school, and also research the average amount of financial aid awarded for students attending that school., The law school will not exist in a vacuum, and therefore you will have access to the facilities of the university at large. So check to see what sorts of amenities the law school's parent university offers (e.g., gyms, sports fields, pools, etc.).
 You will have free time in law school, and so you will want to make sure that the school offers activities in which students can participate and get to know each other outside of class. Look for things like student organizations, law journals, and moot-court opportunities., This is the reason you went to law school—to find a job. Look into where the school places its graduates, which employers recruit at the school, the bar-passage rate of graduating students, and the percentage of students able to find employment in the legal field after graduation.This will help you get a sense of whether or not your three years of school and considerable financial investment will be worthwhile.
 As you are researching different law schools, compare your GPA and LSAT scores to those of recently admitted students to get a sense of your chances of admission at different schools.While other factors are important during the admissions process—like work experience, extracurricular activities, leadership experience, etc.—these two numbers are the most important predictor of admission., Once you have carefully considered the above criteria, make a list of between 6 and 12 schools that fit the mold of what you are looking for in a school. This will help you narrow down your options and make the application process more palatable.


One or two of the schools on your list should be "reach" schools (schools you would like to attend, but whose admissions numbers are higher than yours) and one or two should be "safety" schools (schools whose numbers are lower than yours and to which you will likely be admitted). The rest should be on par with your numbers such that you have a reasonable change of getting accepted.
 Once you have an idea of the schools to which you will be applying, it is best to take some time and visit the schools you are most interested in attending. While you are there, talk to students, professors, and the administrative staff. Also be sure to explore the campus and surrounding locale to get a feel for the place you will be spending the next three years.


The student body at some law schools is extremely competitive, while at others it is more collaborative and supportive. Get a sense of the campus attitude by talking to people around the law school when you visit, and decide if that environment is right for you.
If you can sit in on a class, do so. This will give you a great idea of how you will be spending most of your time over the next three years.
 After you have finally decided which law schools you would like to attend, it is time to actually apply. Then all you have to do is wait for your acceptance letters. Best of luck!

