 If you're normally shy and reserved, or very nice, then you'll have to change. It would be good to change over the summer holidays, or if you're moving schools.;
, If you're allowed makeup at school, wear it. If you put emphasis on your eyes, then don't put emphasis on your lips, and vice versa. Make sure you cleanse, tone and moisturize every morning and night to keep your skin clear and free of spots. If you do get any spots, then cover it with makeup.
 If your school doesn't have a uniform, then this is a must. Make a dress code, so that you won't be wearing the same thing everyday. Wear modern fashion and styles. Look in magazines for tips. If your school has a uniform, personalize it. Make a look that symbolizes you. Hitch up the skirt, or wear different coloured stockings.
 Look around at what seems the most fashionable hairstyle right now. Is it a side fringe? Is it short hair? Straight or curly? Well, if these are what's "popular" right now, then don't be afraid to start a new trend. Just make sure it looks good, and isn't messy.
 Every popular girl has one. They are other popular girls who follow around the main popular one. It doesn't have to be a properly classed clique with an alpha, beta, etc. It can just be a group of populars who always hang out together. You should go everywhere together, and on weekends have sleepovers and go shopping together. Make sure you're the boss of them.
 You don't have to be mean directly to someone's face, but just get them to do what you want. If you want them to give their seat to you and move somewhere else, just tell them. They probably won't refuse. If they do, then call them a meanie and glare at them all day. Get your clique to do it too. Just don't bully them or be really mean.
 Chat to teachers randomly at the end of lessons, or if you see them in the corridor. Always smile and be polite, and show off just a bit. Don't boast, because this can upset people. It helps if you're really clever, because then you can answer questions in class lots and get really good grades on homework and tests. Make sure you get better than everyone else.
 Click a picture of yourself for your profile picture and Photoshop it. Making it black and white is a popular one. Get lots of friends, just random people you've heard of at school or other activities. Then chat heaps to your clique on Facebook. Make sure you're never idle. Put heaps of photos on there, but only let your friends see them.
 If someone's being weird then give them that, "What the heck?" look.
 Like how someone got a low mark on the science test or you heard that person one is going out with person two, etc. Don't be mean AT ALL, as it can really hurt someone's feelings and they'll hate you.

