 If you suspect your teenage daughter may be pregnant, first stop and consider her personal history. If you have reason to believe she's sexually active, then she may be pregnant.


Has your daughter talked to you in the past about becoming sexually active? Does she have a steady boyfriend?Has your daughter engaged in risky behavior in the past? If your daughter has a tendency towards sneaking out or substance abuse, she may participate in behaviors like unprotected sex.However, keep in mind these are just general guidelines. Any teen can become pregnant if they are sexually active. You cannot gauge if a teen is pregnant based on her past history and behavior alone. Always consider other signs.;
, There are many physical symptoms of pregnancy you may notice in your teen early on that could indicate pregnancy. Pay attention to sudden changes in physical behavior is you suspect your teen may be pregnant.


Cravings and nausea are common symptoms of pregnant. Changes in diet can be a sign your teen is pregnant. She may be nauseated by the site of her favorite foods. She may also suddenly be eating strange foods, new foods, or odd combinations of foods.Increased fatigue is also a common sign early symptom of pregnancy. Your daughter may complain frequently of fatigue and take naps more often.Many women urinate more frequently during pregnancy. If you notice your daughter suddenly using the bathroom more often, this could indicate pregnancy., If you keep menstrual products in the house, like tampons and pads, you may suddenly notice you're not replacing them as often. This could mean your daughter may not be using them. A missed period is usually the first sign of pregnancy.Keep in mind many teens take a few years to establish a regular menstrual cycle. Also, factors like stress can cause hormonal changes that result in a missed period. While unused menstrual products can be a sign of pregnancy, consider other factors before jumping to conclusions., Hormonal changes in pregnancy can affect mood. Many women become increasingly emotional during pregnancy and may experience mood swings. Such effects are often magnified in teens due to social pressures that come with teen pregnancy.Teens are frequently prone to mood swings, however, due to hormonal changes that happen during puberty and stress from school and social life. If you notice changes in mood, watch for other signs of pregnancy before concluding your teen is pregnant.
 Changes in physical appearance usually happen later in pregnancy. However, every body is different. If your teen is very petite, you may notice some weight gain. You teen also may suddenly start wearing baggy clothes to hide changes in her body.

