 Keep in mind that they should consume plenty of protein each day, as well as fresh vegetables and fruits and complex carbohydrates. Settle on some of the favorites as staples (i.e. chicken, tuna, broccoli, green beans and rice).;
, Use your freezer to store excess meats, fruits and vegetables. Purchase fruits and vegetables in season and freeze (or even dehydrate) them for later use. Even strawberries, peaches and blueberries can be delicious in smoothies or with yogurt after they are frozen. Also purchase items in larger sizes. A 25-lb bag of rice or pasta can save money per pound and will be used up more quickly than you might think. If you worry about pests, store in a plastic bin.    Purchase the most natural, highest quality food you can obtain or afford. If grass-fed meat and butter are not in your budget, go for good quality, natural options. Organic fruits and vegetables are best, but know which ones are most highly contaminated and therefore most important to buy organic.
 A vacuum sealer can be helpful for freezing items.
 The extra fat is actually valuable for the developing brain.
 Other snacks might include raw carrots with hummus or healthy dairy dip, peanut butter on celery, pretzels or hard-boiled eggs.
 Do not hesitate to try new things and encourage your athlete to explore different foods. Simple herbs and spices can also add flavor if some things taste bland, and many have health benefits as well.
 These usually contain hidden sugars, artificial sweeteners or unnecessary or harmful preservative ingredients. Breakfast cereals are generally over-processed, so if these are a must, look for those with lower sugar content and some portion of whole grains. Granola is simple to make and can be delicious and more nutritious than store-bought cereals.
 You can make enough for several meals at once and freeze or refrigerate extras, which saves on cost as well as time. For example, cook a whole chicken and vary the presentation over several meals to maximize one effort.

