 The most common signs of the illness are associated with lameness. For example, the gait of a dog suffering a flare up is described as "walking on eggshells.", The affected joint will be stiffer and have a reduced range of movement compared to other joints. There may be some cracking and pain associated with gentle flexion of the joint. The stiffness is usually worse when the dog gets up from rest, and may ease a little with gentle exercise depending on how mild or severe the flare up is. In severe cases it is too painful to walk and the dog may refuse to get up.
 The individual joints that are affected may be swollen. The disease usually affects the wrist, hock, knee or elbow, so inspecting these joints is a good idea.Usually more than one joint is affected, and it is often the matching joint on the opposite side that is sore, for example both elbows or both wrist joints.If in doubt about whether a joint is swollen, compare one joint to its matching joint on the dog. However, this may not be helpful if the joints on both sides are affected.
 The joint may feel hot to the touch. This can help signal that the joint may be arthritic.Lay your palm over a normal joint and then compare how it feels with the suspected joint to see if their is a temperature difference.
 Some dogs will be feverish in addition to have problems with their movement. If you don't have any way to take your dog's temperature, you can look of the signs of a fever. Dogs with a fever are liable to be listless or lethargic, and lose interest in food.Tiredness in combination with losing interest in food can signal a variety of different illnesses. If your dog has these symptoms, it should be taken to its veterinarian to have its health assessed.
 The symptoms of polyarthritis usually wax and wane. The dog may be stiff and sore for a few days and then seem to recover, only to relapse at some point in the future.If your dog has experienced any incidences of lameness, its best to get it checked out by a vet. In fact, it is better to get the condition treated before it becomes a constant issue for your pet than to wait for the problem to get really bad.
 The condition can develop at any age. In fact, polyarthritis is actually more common in young or middle aged animals, than older ones., If your Beagle shows any of these signs, then get it checked by your vet. Your vet will take a thorough history, including any recent episodes of ill health and your beagle's vaccination status.


The vet will watch the dog walking and feel all the joints to see if any are painful, swollen, or have a reduced range of movement.
 This will make the cost of your veterinary visit more expensive but will allow your veterinarian to make a more specific diagnosis. If the vet is suspicious of polyarthritis they will run blood tests to look for markers of inflammation and changes in white cells, which can indicate a general reaction to inflammation, and also to rule out other causes of fever or ill health.


To specifically diagnose polyarthritis, the vet will want to test a sample of the joint fluid for markers of abnormal inflammation and to study the types of white cell present.In addition, the vet will take radiographs. Sometimes, if the problem has been ongoing for a while, it is possible to see erosions in the joint lining where the immune system has 'eaten away' at the lining of the joints.These tests may need to be done under sedation as they are likely to be uncomfortable for your dog and will make it sore afterword.
 Treatment involves the use of immunosuppressive doses of anti-inflammatory drugs, such as steroids like Prednisone.In this case, the idea is that immunosuppressants suppress the immune system enough that it stops attacking the joints enough for them to heal.


In an immune-mediated condition, the body turns its defenses on itself and attacks its own tissues. The reasons it does this are often times puzzling and in some cases no reason is identified, in which case it is known as 'idiopathic'. But in other cases there is a link to trauma (causing inappropriate swelling which triggers the reaction), cancer, drugs, vaccine reactions, or genetics, which triggers an episode.
With polyarthritis, what seems to happen is the antibodies trigger an inflammatory reaction, which releases a cascade of chemicals and inflammatory agents. This encourages more antibody complexes to flood into the joint and a vicious cycle of inflammation develops.Some veterinarians that use alternative medicine treatments may also suggest using homeopathy to treat the illness. Instead of suppressing the immune system, this treatment seeks to find the underlying source of the problem and treat that.