 Draw and cut out a circle from plain cardboard. The diameter of this circle will match the diameter of the pom pom.For a small pom pom, you could trace around the mouth of a standard drinking glass, creating a circle with a diameter of about 6 inches (15 cm).
For a medium pom pom, consider using a diameter of about 12 inches (30 cm).
For a large pom pom, create a circle with a diameter between 24 and 30 inches (61 and 76 cm).
 Using a straight razor, cut a second circle out from the center of the larger circle. The diameter of this circle should be no more than one-third the diameter of the larger circle.


You can discard the small circle. The only piece you need for your pom pom is the large cardboard ring.
 Follow the previous steps to create a second cardboard ring identical to the first.


You can make the process easier by tracing the outer and inner edges of the first ring onto the cardboard you'll use for the second ring.
 Cut a piece of skinny ribbon long enough to wrap around the outer circumference of the cardboard rings. Sandwich this piece of ribbon in between the two rings.


If you don't have ribbon, you could use string, twine, or yarn. To create a more durable pom pom, consider using a more durable material like coated wire.
Form a U-shaped loop with the ribbon and lay it flat on top of one cardboard ring. It should lie between the two edges of the ring. Place the second ring directly on top, aligning the edges of this ring to the edges of the bottom ring and securing the ribbon in between both., Cut 1 to 3 yards (1 to 3 m) of tulle, depending on the size of the ring.


Small rings need 1 yard (1 m), medium rings need 2 yards (2 m), and large rings need 3 yards (3 m).
You can use one or two colors of tulle. If using one color, cut the tulle to the full length. If using two colors, halve the lengths; for instance, use 1/2 yard (1/2 m) of one color and 1/2 yard (1/2 m) of the second color to wrap a small ring instead of using a full 1 yard (1 m) of both colors.
 Position one end of the tulle along the outer edge of the cardboard, then wrap the tulle over the surface, through the empty center, and back around the other side of the ring.


Continue wrapping the tulle around the cardboard sandwich in this manner, working until you run out of tulle. Use your fingers to adjust the placement of the tulle as needed so that the entire ring is evenly covered.
If you use two colors of tulle instead of one, treat the two pieces as one piece. Do not wrap them separately.
 Slide a pair of scissors over the tulle folds. Cut these folds around the entire outer circumference of the ring.


Work carefully to avoid accidentally cutting the ends of your center ribbon.
After cutting the tulle, you should see two distinct sides connected only at the center.
 Carefully separate the two cardboard rings, opening them just wide enough to reveal the center ribbon. Tie this center ribbon into a tight knot around the center of the tulle.


It's crucial that you tie the ribbon into a tight knot. If you tie it too loosely, the pom pom will fall apart once you remove the cardboard.
 Carefully pull the cardboard rings off either side of the tulle structure.


After removing the cardboard, you should be able to see the basic pom pom shape.
 Gently pull the edges of the tulle pom pom toward the center, fluffing and positioning the pieces as needed to create a rounded ball.


During this step, you should use the tulle to cover the center string. If the string is too long to hide, trim off a portion of the ends.
If the edges of the tulle appear uneven once you fluff the pom pom, use scissors to carefully trim away any excessively long pieces, giving the pom pom a more rounded shape.
 Once you're satisfied with the shape and fluffiness of the pom pom, it's done and ready to use.

