 Take a few minutes to write down the names of some people with whom you’d like to reconnect. Gather their contact information, such as their phone, email, and social media screen names, and put it on your list, too.Carefully consider which people you want to bring back into your life. Focus on reaching out to people you had a good relationship with in the past. Avoid people who had a negative influence on your life.;
, If you haven’t talked to someone for a while, ease back into the relationship gently. A short email or phone call is a good way to start the process of renewing the relationship. Don’t put pressure on yourself or the other person to have a heart-to-heart conversation or a long visit right away.After making the initial connection, arrange to meet for a simple, low-pressure activity, like getting coffee or taking a walk. You might say, “I’ve been cooped up inside for a while…Do you want to go out for coffee some time?”

, If your loved one wants to know where you’ve been, be up-front with them. There’s no shame in struggling with depression – many people will battle it over the course of their lifetime.Your family and friends will probably want to make you feel better. Help them understand what you need, whether that means a listening ear, a hug, or a visit. Say something like, “I’ve been experiencing depression for the past few months. You don’t have to be worried, but it would be nice for you to visit more often. I feel really alone.”
Be aware that being overly negative can drive people away. While it’s okay to express your feelings, your loved ones may become frustrated if all you talk about is how bad you feel.
You may also want to be forthcoming about your treatment plan for depression so that friends and family are able to participate, if they like. They can participate in support groups for loved ones and accompany you to appointments.
 There’s nothing like a face-to-face conversation, but if the people you want to reach live far away, the internet can be a great way to get in touch. Send an email, search for someone on a social media site like Facebook or Instagram, or schedule a Skype call with a family member or old friend.If you’re not feeling up to meeting with others in person yet, connecting over the internet can be a good first step towards rebuilding a relationship. Just make sure not to commiserate with other people online. This is unhealthy and it can make you feel worse.

