 Before (and after) applying Bactroban to your skin, wash your hands with warm water and soap. Make sure your hands are completely dry before applying Bactroban to your skin. Work the soap into a lather and thoroughly spread it across your hands (palms and back) and fingers.You may use any kind of soap you want, but those of the antibacterial variety are recommended.
Washing your hands before applying Bactroban serves to wash away dirt and bacteria before touching your infected area; washing after application serves to get the ointment off your hands so you don't get any in your mouth or eyes.;
, Do this using warm water and soap, in much the same way you did for your hands. Dry the area thoroughly using a clean cloth or towel before applying Bactroban. If your infection is located in a hard-to-reach area, it may be easiest to complete this step while showering.Use a scent-free soap to wash your infected skin. Soaps with perfumes and artificial dyes can irritate your skin and may be painful if your skin infection is severe.
 This should be done by first squeezing a small amount out of the tube and onto your fingers or palm, then spreading it evenly across your infected skin. Typically, only a small amount of ointment is required; follow the instructions provided by your doctor or on the label.If you have impetigo, then you will need to apply Bactroban ointment twice a day for five days. You may cover it with gauze and reassess if there has not been any improvement in three to five days.
If you have a bacterial skin infection, then make sure that you limit the area where you apply Bactroban. The area where you apply the Bactroban should be no bigger than the size of your palm (100cm2).
Bactroban ointment won't be completely absorbed by your skin when you first apply it; you should be able to see a thin layer of the cream on your skin.
You can cover the infected area with a bandage after applying Bactroban if you wish as long as it is a relatively breathable material (such as gauze).
 It is very important that you use the Bactroban ointment for the full period ordered by your doctor (typically around 10 days), or as advised by the package insert. If you stop using the ointment early because your infection appears to be gone, you might end up with a stronger infection that could even be resistant to antibiotics.Apply the ointment three times a day for 10 days for a bacterial skin infection. Consult your primary care provider if you see no improvement in three to five days
This is a good reason not to use Bactroban without a doctor's prescription, even if you are in a country where you can get it over the counter.
If you accidentally miss a dose of Bactroban, apply it as soon as you remember to do so unless it is already time for your next dose; in such a case, skip the missed dose. You should not use a double dose without your physician's approval.

