 Think about things you've always wanted to do and then plan how to make it a reality. You are never too young to start working on accomplishing all the things you wanted to do in your life.Go for it with all the gusto you have.


Make a to-do list every day. Make the most out of your day by focusing on how much you can accomplish each and every day.;
, If your weekly schedule is monotonous, mix it up a bit. You might find excitement by changing something as simple as the route you take to work.Try a new dish at your favorite restaurant, or even try a new restaurant! Look for free introductory classes in your community, such as a Zumba exercise class, or participate in a flash mob.
 Paint your walls. Move your furniture. Switching things up around your home can be a fun project that keeps you busy. Creating a change in your environment can help bring about a change in yourself, too.
 Even if you have great fashion sense already, it's all about changing things up to keep life exciting. This may seem a bit unnecessary, but a new look can lead to meeting new people, and maybe even a new job. You do not have to transform from small town farm girl into a late night clubber. Getting a new look can be as simple as trying a different haircut or color.


Wear what you like and don't worry so much about what other people think. When you stop caring if others are judging you for being you, life will seem more fun.Go to a clothing store you like and ask an assistant to help you pick out clothes that are right for you. Try on some clothes that another person pictures you wearing and see how you like them.
If you don't know what kind of hairstyle you want, ask your stylist. Let her try what she think would look best on you. Put a little trust into her. As a stylist, making people look good is her job.
 Make an extra effort to get out of the house, even if you have no idea where you are going. Whenever you walk out that door, the possibilities are endless. Make every outing a new adventure by finding ways to occupy your time out in the world instead of at home.


Go out with different friends than usual, or visit a nearby place you've never been before. It may seem a bit simple, but a changing your scenery can do wonders.
 Make the most of your weekends and time away from work. Don't let it slip away while you watch television. Go for a hike, learn to rock climb, take a road trip, rent a kayak and explore a nearby river use your free time to create incredible memories and great stories.
 Volunteering can be personally rewarding and even exciting. You will likely have the opportunity to meet a lot of new people and have a lasting impact on their lives. Knowing that you make a difference can definitely make life a little more exciting.

