 Using any web browser, visit the eBay website or your local eBay site.;
, Click the “Sign in” link on the top left corner of the home page. You will be brought to the “Sign in” page. Enter your email address, or user ID, and password, then click the “Sign in” button to access your account.
 Access your eBay dashboard or summary by clicking the “My eBay” link at the top right corner of the page.
 Do this by clicking the Account tab on the header of the My eBay page.
 This is where you change your settings for payment, selling, etc.
 Scroll down on the Selling Preferences section until you see the Unpaid Item Assistant. Click the “Show” link beside it, and the setting will be expanded.


Click the “Edit” link that appears, and you will be brought to the Unpaid Item Assistant Preferences.
 Click the “Yes” option to enable the Unpaid Item Assistant to open and close unpaid item cases on your behalf., After selecting the “Yes” option, the same box will be expanded to show you configuration items related to Unpaid Item Assistant.


The first option you can set is for the duration. This is the number of days you have to wait after you’ve sold an item on eBay to receive payment. You can choose among 4, 8, 16, 24, and 32 days. The longer duration you set, the more time you allow your buyers to pay before an unpaid case is opened against them.
 Set your preferences so that you get email updates whenever the Unpaid Item Assistant opens and closes a case. You can choose between “None” and “Real-time.”


If you choose “None,” you won’t receive any email from eBay when a case is opened and closed. Whereas, “Real-time” will send you updates every time a case is opened and closed.
 You can also automate the relisting of the item after an unpaid case is closed. Select “Yes” from the drop-down list if you want this.
 If you have your personal list of buyers to be given special and manual attention, you can exclude them from the rules you’ve set for Unpaid Item Assistant. Input their eBay user IDs under the Exclusion list box.
 Click the “Save” button to save your changes and exit the page. You can now resume your eBay activities.