 If you’re looking to get your stories noticed by editors and readers, consider submitting work to literary magazines. There are hundreds of literary publications with calls for work on a rolling basis. A list of literary journals and magazines can be found here.


Each literary magazine has a unique perspective and a unique readership, so its important to read the literary publication before you submit work to the publication. This will help you get a sense of the voice, style, and genre(s) of writing the magazine publishes. You can then determine if your stories might be a good fit with the mandate of the magazine.Always follow the submission guidelines of the publication’s submission page, as most publications will not read submissions that do not follow their guidelines. You will also need to send a short cover letter with your submission that includes your bio and any previous publications.
 Many literary publications will hold writing competitions for the best short story in a certain genre or around a certain theme. These competitions can lead to monetary rewards, as well as publication in the magazine. Most competitions are judged by esteemed writers who will read and choose from a shortlist of finalists. So this means your current living literary hero could potentially read and choose your writing from the pile.


Keep in mind there is often a fee for submitting work to writing competitions to cover a reading fee and to help support the publication. Before you submit to a competition, read back issues of the magazine and the work of previous year’s winners to get a feel for what type of writing the magazine tends to publish.
 Self publishing, or DIY direct, means the author does all the work on their own and hires any outside help like a book designer or an editor. Self publishers will also need to provide retailers (book sellers) with finished, ready to go files or books.If you are feeling frustrated by traditional publishing avenues and want to get your stories noticed on your own terms, self publishing may be an option.


Keep in mind the retailer will take a cut of the sales, but the author is not exclusive to a publisher. This means the author can deal with each retailer on an individual basis.
Self publishing allows the author to maximize their earnings from the sale of the books. This also allows the author to get the highest percentage of sales. The author also retains complete freedom over the work so they can adjust or edit it on the fly, and can control the pricing of the book.
But, self publishing can become a full time job if the author is aiming for high profit and high quality. You will need to also market and promote your book on your own to find an audience for your work.

