 Copying information over and over again can help commit it to your brain. When you write, you will be actively thinking about the words you're reading. If you're really struggling to retain a particular concept, vocabulary word, date, name, or other aspect of your course material, try writing it down a few times. You may remember it better later on.If you don't like handwriting, you can also type out your notes again and again. Just make sure to pay attention to what you're typing.
You can also try copying your own notes. You may understand terms better if they're already phrased in your own words. This can help you retain the information later on.
 Mnemonic devices are means of associating new information with phrases, terms, or images. Many people use mnemonic devices to help them commit new material to memory. For example, "Richard Of York Gave Battle In Vain" is a mnemonic device many use to remember the colors of the rainbow, as the first letter of each word in the sentence corresponds to a color of the rainbow: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.If there isn't a well known mnemonic device for the material you're trying to learn, you can make up your own. Have fun and be creative. Make up a visual you can easily remember and use to recall information later.
 In addition to mnemonic devices, you can make other associations that help you retain information. You can make visual associations in your mind, for example, or look for certain patterns.For example, say you're trying to remember John Steinbeck wrote East of Eden. You have a friend named Eden and a friend with the initials J.S.
In order to remember this information, picture your friend with the initials J.S. standing next to your friend Eden. Imagine the two of them holding compasses pointing in the direction east.
 Flashcards are a wonderful way to help you retain information. They are particularly helpful when trying to remember things like dates, names, and vocabulary terms.You can make flash cards by writing information on either side of the card. For example, say you're making flashcards for vocabulary terms. Use index cards. Write the definition on one side and the word on the other.
If you don't want to make physical flashcards, there are many websites that allow you to make flashcards online.
 Testing yourself is one of the best means to retain information. Merely re-reading or studying the information is not as effective as actually testing yourself on the materials. In the weeks leading up to the exam, test yourself frequently.You can make up your own test by writing down questions as you re-read your notes and course materials. Think of questions that are likely to be on an exam. When you get done reviewing, try to answer your own questions.
You can also see if your professor provides practice tests. You should take any practice tests your teacher offers, as this will help prepare you for the exam.
If you have any old quizzes lying around, try retaking them.

