 Do this to show proof of residence. If you do not have one, then a learner's permit or a receipt for a learner's permit will work. Additionally, a tribal I.D. with your name, address, photo, and a signature is also considered a valid I.D. If you do not have any of these, then you can provide a proof of residence by:Providing a college student I.D. with a housing list.
Providing a Notice of Late Registration if you were not able to register to vote within 20 days of the election.
By telling the election judge your previous address or name if you are a registered voter who has changed their name or moved, but you still reside in the same precinct.
 plus a document with your current name and address. You will need to do this if you do not have a valid I.D. to show proof of residence. Your photo I.D. can be expired.A driver’s license, state I.D., learner’s permit, U.S. passport, U.S. military or veteran I.D., tribal I.D., Minnesota university/college/technical college I.D., or a Minnesota high school I.D. are all considered valid forms of a photo I.D.
Valid documents include a bill, start-of-service statement, or account due or dated within 30 days of the election; a rent or residential lease agreement valid through Election Day; or a current student fee statement.
 Do this if you do not have a valid I.D., or a photo I.D. and a document with your current name and address indicating your proof of residence. You can have a registered voter from your precinct or a staff person from your residential facility vouch for you by confirming your address.The registered voter must sign an oath confirming your address.
The staff person must prove employment at the facility by bringing a badge/I.D. or a staff list to the polling place.
 To find out where your local polling place is, you can call your county election office. Visit http://www.sos.state.mn.us/elections-voting/find-county-election-office/ to obtain your county election office’s phone number.

Alternatively, go online and copy and paste this website URL, http://pollfinder.sos.state.mn.us, into your Internet browser. You will be directed to a page where you can either enter your zip code or county to find your polling place.
 You will be able to do this once voter registration eligibility has been confirmed. Fill out all of the required information and submit the application. Then go vote!