 One of the best ways for you to move on from your ex is to admit the relationship is over.Although you may be holding onto the hope that you and he will get back together, you need to let that hope fade. The relationship is over and he is your ex, not your boyfriend. Understanding this will help you move on and focus more on your current boyfriend.


Avoid still thinking of your ex as your boyfriend. He’s not. Try to avoid thinking of him at all.
Write in your journal or talk with a friend about the relationship ending. Be sure to refer to the relationship in the past tense to emphasis that it is over and include the reasons you broke up.
Every time you think about him, also think about why you are glad you aren’t together anymore. Make a list of reasons you’re glad if you need to.
 Sometimes, when we love someone, we overlook or ‘forget’ the reasons why they are not a good match for us. We remember the good things about the person, but skip over the bad. Thinking honestly about why you broke up can give perspective on the situation and help you accept that your new boyfriend might be better for you right now.


Did your ex do something wrong like lie to you or cheat on you? Were you two not compatible or did you grow apart?
Did he leave you for someone else or simply break up with you for no reason? Did you do something that caused the relationship to end?
Write a letter to yourself listing all of the reasons why your ex wasn’t right for you. Refer to it as often as necessary.
 If you are not invested in your current relationship, and you are not over your ex, you may want to evaluate if you are ready to date right now. It might be best to have some alone time to process your feelings before trying to force yourself to feel a certain way for your current boyfriend.


Ask yourself: Am I dating him because I really like him or for some other reason? Am I trying to get revenge against my ex or make him jealous? Do I just like the idea of being with someone and I don't want to be single?
Consider that, if you still love your ex, you may not be ready to enter a new relationship and you need to spend some time working through your feelings and healing before you are ready to date.
Spend some time with friends and family, work on achieving personal goals, and improving your self-esteem while you get over your ex.
 Unless there is a very good reason, you should not be in contact with your ex, and especially not on a regular basis.Keeping in contact will make it harder for you to move and have you stuck loving him. Eventually this will get in the way of your new relationship.


Don’t call, text, email, or go by to see how he is doing. He is fine.
Consider temporarily blocking him on social media so that you don’t have his posts popping up on your timeline remind you of him or tempting you to comment on them.If you must have contact, keep it to a minimum and avoid talking about your past relationship.
 Some relationships end for very good, clear reasons — someone cheated, or the relationship was toxic and unhealthy. But sometimes a relationship ends without an obvious reason — you love each other but you want different things, one of you had to relocate, etc. — and these can be especially hard to get over. Your ex may be an awesome person that is deserving of your love, but it just wasn't right. So how do you get over this person? Try to separate the familiar, admiration-type of love from the romantic type of love you had hoped for. Realize that loving them in a certain way — as a friend and someone you care about and respect — is okay, and you can do that while loving your new boyfriend in a romantic way.
 As time passes you will think less and less about your past relationship and eventually you will get over your love for your ex. It may take weeks, months, or even a year. But, you have got to be patient and allow time to help you move on.

