 On high ozone days, don't breathe the extra fumes -- so take it easy. That invisible gas exhaust and smokestack fumes in the sunlight or hot weather -- can kill cardio cells, throw off your heartbeat, and increase the odds for a heart attack, even if you have a normal heart..


Exercise indoors on high-ozone days to avoid exhaust-choked city streets.
Get out from behind diesel buses and trucks; their tailpipes spew chemicals, tiny particles -- that can inflame lungs and arteries, cause or rupture plaque buildups, thus encouraging blood clots, and also boost blood pressure.;
, Are you taking low-dose aspirin (like 1/4 of a regular aspirin) for any reason -- then check your supply and get more, if it's low.Caution: Stopping aspirin suddenly could triple your odds for dangerous clots within the next week or two. If you've got surgery scheduled, have a careful talk with your doc now about the way and reasons for and against stopping your little aspirin tablets. Taper off as instructed.
 Anything in your health history (and relatives') showing problems of high blood pressure, diabetes and kidney function is a sign of heart trouble to ask your doctor -- about "trouble in your family tree":


Kidneys are a waste-disposal system, but in many adults -- about 1 in 9 (more than 10%) -- these hidden little filters aren't working very well. In time, that triples your chances for heart problems because low kidney function stiffens/hardens your arteries and fires up lots of inflammation.
Get checked for high blood pressure, diabetes (which may have only small symptoms), and inherited genes are "hidden", and will all weaken your kidneys, without your noticing (find free screenings at http://www.kidney.org). Keep all those under control, urgently.
Check delicious foods, vegetables, low fat, lean meats and such that can lower your blood pressure, blood sugar and avoid "bad" genes being triggered by habits (over eating, sugars, carbs and risky fats).
 Having parents with early heart problems will up your chances. But did you know that a brother or sister with heart disease "before age 60 doubles your own odds of heart trouble triggers"? Tell your health profession about this part of your family-tree.


Stay healthy (eat whole grains, green veggies, walk, exercise -- and don't smoke. Set a new goal for healthy habits today -- and do it! Get serious about maintaining normal blood pressure, lowering LDL (bad) cholesterol and inflammation levels.


Floss, brush and swish: Gum disease fires up internal inflammation, not just in your mouth.
 A bad marriage can lead to emotional and physical troubles. Also, if your "friends" are described as: "with friends like these, who needs enemies" -- they raise heart risk 25%. Break out of your irritating life. Find real friends. Work on improving your marriage (everyone may have to do so at any point). Your blood pressure will drop, your arteries will be cleaner, and, hey-hey-hey, you'll be happier! (Friendships, and long term relationships, "can" help you live longer in better mental shape.)

, Can't swing a getaway right now? Do a "staycation": Fill up the tub or wading pool, turn off the phone, get off the computer, rent your favorite movies, take long walks, do or don't cook, relax, then unwind. Get that laid-back blissful vacation, and easy-feeling. Your heart will love you.

