 As with cleaning carpets, upholstery should be pre-cleaned before steaming. This is so loose dirt, hair, and debris won't be ground into the fabric when you steam clean it. Use a vacuum with an upholstery attachment to do this.


If you don't have a vacuum or yours has no attachments that can be safely used on furniture, use a sticky lint roller to remove as much visible debris from the fabric as possible. This may require several passes to get it all.
Be sure to get into the crevices of the furniture, as these areas tend to trap the most dirt.
 If your furniture has a stain or a particularly dirty spot you wish to get clean, pre-treat this area by spraying it with an upholstery cleaner designed for this purpose. You might need to let the spray set for three to five minutes before continuing (or as recommended).


Don't over-saturate the upholstery with the spray cleaner. Follow the recommendations on the bottle to avoid this.
Once you have let the cleaner set in, blot the area with a clean, color-safe towel. You should be able to soak up excess wetness this way, but the spot will still be damp.
You may wish to wait for the spot to dry and assess it before moving on. By doing this, you can determine whether the spray cleaner was enough to remove the stain and whether steam cleaning is still necessary.
 After spot-treating stains, pre-clean your upholstery with a fabric conditioner such as a soil emulsifier or fabric shampoo.Use a soft-bristled hand brush (one that will not damage the upholstery) to gently scrub the conditioner into the fabric. This is only necessary for furniture that is very dirty. You can purchase these items at any home store that sells or rents steam cleaners.


Before doing this, check the tag or label on your furniture to make sure the fabric will not be ruined if it gets wet. If there are special cleaning instructions printed on the tag, follow these. If the upholstery can't get wet, you won't be able to steam clean it.
On microfiber upholstery, use a sponge instead of a brush; brushes (even soft-bristled ones) can damage microfiber.
Remove detachable cushions in order to more easily and thoroughly clean all fabric surfaces.
You do not need to rinse or clean off the fabric conditioner before steam cleaning.
 Not all steam cleaners are the same, so you should choose one that is specifically designed for cleaning upholstered furniture. Carpet steamers might not include attachments for furniture, so these won't work for your purpose. Upholstery-specific steamers usually have a free-standing tank attached to a long hose with a tube-shaped attachment.


Make sure the steamer you choose has an attachment you can safely use on your furniture. Some might include stiff bristles around the mouth of the nozzle, which could be too rough for delicate upholstery.
Whereas some carpet steamers can even be rented from grocery stores, upholstery-specific steam cleaners are somewhat more rare. You will probably have to go to a home supply store such as Home Depot or Lowe's to rent a furniture steamer.
 The cleaners intended for use on carpet may be too harsh for your furniture fabric. Choose a cleaner made specifically for upholstery and mix it into the steam cleaner's tank with hot water. Be sure to follow the instructions on the cleaner bottle and on the machine itself to ensure you use the correct proportions of water and cleaner.


Spot-test the cleaning solution on the underside of a cushion or some other place where any color damage won't be visible. Rub the solution on a small patch of the upholstery and let the solution sit for a few minutes. Check to make sure it doesn't cause the fabric to change color.
Make sure you like the smell of the cleaner before using it on your upholstery. Some cleaners are scented and could make your furniture take on their smell. Avoid any cleaner you think is too fragrant or harsh-smelling.
 Position the furniture in a place where it can easily dry and won't be touched while it is still wet. Make sure you can reach all the fabric surfaces and remove all detachable cushions or covers. Use the trigger or button on the steamer handle to release the cleaning solution as you move the wand across the fabric. Release the trigger and slide the wand over the same area to vacuum up the solution.


Start with the cushions so they will have more time to dry.
Start at one corner of the furniture or one of its cushions and work your way across the fabric gradually to avoid missing spots.
Watch the steamer tank so you know when it's time to refill. If the machine runs out of solution, you will notice that the fabric no longer looks wet after holding down the trigger.
 If possible (and if the weather is not too wet or cold), open a window or door near the furniture to help it dry faster. For cushions, consider propping them up against a clean surface in a place where they will be in direct sunlight.


Use a small heater and/or fan to speed up the drying process if you live in a humid or rainy climate. Don't place heaters too close to furniture, or they could damage or burn the fabric. Don't leave heaters unattended.
Keep cushions and covers off the furniture until everything is completely dry. It may take an entire day or more for cushions or padded surfaces to dry completely, as they tend to soak up water.
If possible, hang your cushions up while they dry so they do not sit on a damp edge for too long (which will make it harder for them to dry). If you cannot do this, rotate them every hour or so wherever they are sitting to make sure all surfaces get good exposure to the air.

