 Toast and other bread type breakfast foods are common in many people’s diet, as they are quick and easy to prepare. There are many healthier breakfast options, however. In particular, opt for eggs with veggies and your favorite herbs.To save time in the morning, cut veggies and scramble your eggs the night before. Store everything in the fridge, and you can cook them up on a well-seasoned skillet in no time.
If you’re accustomed to eggs with a side a toast, swap out the toast for a half baked sweet potato or a side of steamed veggies.
Plain, low-fat Greek yogurt is another great breakfast option. Stir in some fresh fruit and honey to sweeten.;
, If eggs or yogurt aren’t your style, oatmeal is an equally good alternative of a bread-based breakfast. This is partly because oats offer plenty of fiber, which is something you'll want to account for while eating less bread.


Note that whole grain oats are available in several forms, including steel cut, rolled, or instant. Each type has very similar nutritional value, but yields different flavors and consistencies.When making your selection, check the nutrition facts label for information about added sugar and salt.
For an extra fiber boost and additional nutritional value, add flaxseed meal or chia seeds to your oatmeal. These can also be included in other breakfast foods, such as Greek yogurt or a breakfast smoothie.
 One of the best ways to immediately improve your diet in general is by eating a salad for one of your meals everyday. You can still include the high protein ingredients you might usually eat on a sandwich, such as tuna tuna, chicken, or egg salad. Season salads with olive oil, vinegar, and pepper instead of packaged dressings.Even if you’ve been loyal to the classic turkey and cheese sandwich every weekday for a decade, you don’t have to fully abandon your go-to flavors. In fact, turkey, goat cheese, and cranberries go especially well on a bed of dark greens, such as kale or spinach.
 From garlic bread to pizza, the prevalence of bread in many favorite dinners can be hard to escape. Rest assured, however, that there are plenty of delicious and satisfying bread-free meals that will thrill both your tongue and your belly. In particular, start making bowls with either a brown rice or quinoa base. Add whatever veggies, spices, and nuts you favor.A protein is another great addition. Tofu and other soybean based proteins, like tempeh go especially well in bowl.
Get creative with your bowls. Try a salmon teriyaki bowl one evening, and a sesame kimchi bowl the next.
Look online for healthy food bowl inspirations, like the ones suggested here: http://www.foodiecrush.com/25-super-healthy-bowl-recipes/


