 Click the right arrow to move to the next page; click the left arrow to move to the previous page. The page number will update to show which page out of the total number of digital pages is being displayed.


Clicking the word "Pages" will show a thumbnail display of all the pages in the comic. Click the thumbnail of a page to display the corresponding page on screen, or click "Close" to close the display.
 Click the minus (-) button at the left of the slider to reduce the panels to their smallest size (letting you see 2 pages at once) and the plus (+) button to increase the panels to their largest size (letting you see half the current page). Click anywhere on the ruler between the buttons to move the slider to that position and adjust the display accordingly.
 A square magnifier appears on screen, letting you enlarge part of the text or picture. You can move this magnifier anywhere on screen with your mouse; to turn off the magnifier, click "Magnify Text" again.
 To turn this feature off, press the "Esc" key on your keyboard.
 The top of the information page displays the comic title, publication date, writer and artist credits, and provides an opportunity for you to rate the issue. The bottom half of the information page displays 3 tabs.


The leftmost tab displays the number of digital Marvel comics available under that title. You can select another digital comic to read by clicking the cover graphic or click either the left or right arrow to see cover graphics for the other titles.
The center tab displays the number of available e-comics related to the current comic. Click the tab to display cover graphics for these comics; you can select one of them in the same manner as for the other issues available in the original title.
The rightmost tab displays the cover graphic and write-up for a printed volume that includes the story in the digital comic you're reading. Click "More Info" to display the webpage on Marvel's website with a complete write-up of that volume. Below the write-up is displayed the phone number for Marvel's directory of comics shops as well as the option to search for comics shops in or near your ZIP Code.
To exit from the information page, click "Book Info" again.
 Clicking "Preferences" displays a dropdown menu with 3 sections: Display Modes, Panel Transitions, and Page Menu Options.


Display mode options include Smart Panels, which displays the comic panel-by-panel; Single Page, which lets you view an entire page at once; and Two Page, which lets you view 2 pages at once.
Panel transition options include Normal, which provides no automatic transition between pages; and Smooth, which automatically transitions between pages.
Page menu options include Show Unread, which shows the thumbnail images for all available pages in the e-comic; and Mask Unread, which shows only the thumbnail images of pages you have read.
 A popup window appears, displaying a list of Internet sites to which you can share the URL of the digital comic. Select one of the sites from the list, or enter a site in the search field at the top. Click "Close" to close the popup.
 The help page has 3 tabs which summarize the basic controls, keyboard and mouse controls, and means to customize the e-reader display.

