 Hearing loops are audio induction systems sometimes found in public meeting spaces such as auditoriums, town halls, houses of worship, and theaters. With a special headset, you can tune into the system to hear what is being said. They can also be used to listen to televisions or telephones.Hearing loops are typically installed into sound systems; they will not help you pick up on everyday noise outside.
Hearing loops are more commonly found in public meeting areas than FM systems or infrared systems.
Receivers are typically worn in the ears. They also come as headsets. If you have a hearing aid or cochlear implant with a telecoil, you already have access to hearing loops. Just flip the switch on so that you can access the induction system.Personal hearing loop devices can cost around $300 on average.;
, Personal amplifiers are devices that pick up on specific sounds in noisy places. Unlike other devices, the amplifier does not need any extra equipment installed. Personal amplifiers can be used while driving, walking, socializing in public, or running errands.These are ideal if you struggle to hear distinct sounds or voices in noisy public places.
Amplifiers typically have a handheld device that picks up on noise. This will connect to a neck loop (if you have a hearing aid or implant) or to headphones.
Devices can range in price from $30 to $250., FM systems use radio waves to transmit sounds. They are the most common type of device used in the classroom. The teacher will have a small microphone attached to a transmitter, which will be picked up on the student’s receiver. The receiver can also be tuned into public FM systems, for use in larger areas like an auditorium.FM systems need both a transmitter and a receiver. There may be some public FM transmitters, but you can also get a small one for personal use.
FM systems can be used with a hearing aid or implant by using a neck loop, or they can be used without one by using earphones.
FM systems typically cost between $600 and $2200. They are considered a more expensive although reliable system., Infrared systems are used in a similar way to FM, but instead of radio waves, the sound travels through light. For this reason, infrared cannot pass through walls, and it does not work in bright light. Still, it is often found in places where confidentiality or sound-proofing is important. They are primarily used in movie theaters and courtrooms.Personal units cost between $100 and $200. While cheaper than an FM system, they are also more limited, as they cannot be used outdoors or in bright rooms.
Since infrared systems are relatively rare, you may not want to choose this technology unless you visit court rooms and movie theaters frequently.

