 If you have been known to tell a fib or two in the past, you need to carefully examine this behavior and try to learn from it. Even if you are telling the truth in this situation, you may have developed a reputation as a liar. Look at other times you have lied or been caught in a lie. Brainstorm ways you could have prevented the lies and been honest from the start.Once you have made the decision to stop lying, you help convince others of your truthfulness by sharing details about your life upfront. By doing this, you remove the need to be questioned, and therefore, others don't have to wonder if your answers are lies.
 If you have trouble opening up to others, this may explain why someone is doubtful of your honesty. Learn how to be more open and honest in your close relationships by following these tips:Be more accepting of others and yourself. When you are constantly worried about what others will say or how they will look at you, you may lie just to say what you think they want to hear. Trust the people you love to care about you despite your flaws.
Don't put off important conversations. Schedule time to talk about important matters when both parties are free to speak and think clearly.
Live a life according to your values. Live your own truth, and then you don't have a need to lie.
Embrace constructive criticism. We may lie because we don't want others to judge or criticize us for our faults. When you are able to see criticism as a tool to improve, you won't have to rely on untruths to get you by.
 Evading others' eyes is often seen as a sign of dishonesty. Eye contact is an effective way to show honesty and sincerity. You are also able to forge a more intimate connection with another person by staring into her eyes. Just be sure not to overdo it. Too little eye contact can seem evasive, but too much can seem threatening or intimidating.Experts suggest maintaining eye contact longer for one-on-one conversations, about 7 to 10 seconds. The amount of time making eye contact and looking away should be around 30 to 60 percent --it's okay to make more eye contact when you are listening and less when you are talking., When we are telling the truth, we are more comfortable. In the midst of lying, we may be more uncomfortable. A liar may demonstrate closed off and unfriendly body language. On the other hand, a truth-teller will orient towards the other person, smile, nod, and uncross their arms and legs.Sometimes, even when you are telling the truth, you may put your guard up because someone is questioning your behavior or motives. However, the other person can wrongly interpret this as being defensive and think you're lying.
Take a deep breath and try to relax with the knowledge that, no matter what, you know that your words are honest. Don't allow your anxiety about being questioned undermine your ability to convey the truth. Be mindful of your body language. Avoid crossed arms/legs or clinched fists to demonstrate a more friendly demeanor even when you are sort of irritated about being questioned.

