 An investigator will contact you when a complaint is filed. Any member of the public may file a complaint. Also, your employer could file a complaint if your conduct was grounds for disciplinary action by the Ohio Board of Nursing.After the complaint is filed, an investigator or compliance agent receives the complaint. He or she gathers information from the person complaining and often reaches out to the nurse for information as well.
Compliance at this stage is generally voluntary. Instead of providing information, you should get a lawyer.;
, Hiring a qualified lawyer is critical to your defense. As soon as you are contacted by the Compliance Agent, you should get referrals and meet with different attorneys. Find one with experience in defending nurses before the Ohio Board.


See Find an Ohio Nursing Board Defense Attorney for more information.
 The person filing a complaint might have alleged that you committed a crime. If so, you could be criminally prosecuted as well. The following crimes can result in the Board disciplining you:You were convicted of or pled guilty to a misdemeanor committed in the course of practicing as a nurse.
You were convicted of or pled guilty to a felony or other crime involving gross immorality or moral turpitude. This crime does not have to have been committed in the course of practice.
You sold or gave away drugs or therapeutic devices for illegitimate reasons.
You illegally took drugs, including prescription drugs for which you have no prescription.
You assaulted or harmed a patient or prevented them from getting assistance.
You stole money or objects of value.
 Not all violations are crimes. Instead, the Board is empowered to investigate and take action against a host of infractions and other violations. For example, the Board can impose sanctions for the following:You engaged in the practice of nursing while your license was suspended or had lapsed.
You practiced outside your authorized scope of practice.
You aided or abetted unlicensed practice.
You failed to establish and maintain boundaries, e.g., by getting too involved in the personal lives of patients or by having a sexual relationship with a patient.
You are impaired by drugs, alcohol, or other chemical substances.
You have a mental or physical impairment which prevents you from meeting acceptable standards of safe nursing care.
You did not meet acceptable and prevailing standards of care. In other words, you exhibited a lack of competence.
You were sanctioned by another state for a violation (other than failing to renew your license).
 Not every complaint results in disciplinary action. After reviewing the evidence, the Board might feel there isn’t enough evidence to proceed. However, the violation also could be considered “minor” under the nursing regulations.You and your attorney should analyze whether your conduct might qualify as minor.
 The Board might believe there is sufficient evidence to proceed and that the violation is not minor. In that case, the Board will send you a Notice of Opportunity for Hearing or a Notice of Suspension.This notice will lay out the law or rules you allegedly violated.You should read this notice carefully.


The notice should tell you how to request an administrative hearing.
Give your lawyer a copy of the letter as soon as you get it.
 Follow the directions set forth in your Notice for requesting an administrative hearing. Don’t delay. If you miss the deadline, then the Board will consider that you have waived your right to an administrative hearing. In this situation, they can go ahead and impose discipline.You have 30 days to request a hearing. The clock starts running the day the notice was mailed, not the day you received it., The Board has the power to require you to undergo a mental or physical exam, or both. The Board might request these exams if they reasonably believe you have an impairment that affects your ability to provide competent care.You also have to pay for the exams, if they are required.
 In some situations, the Board will offer you a consent agreement.This agreement takes the place of a contested administrative hearing. If you are offered a consent agreement, your lawyer should receive it.
 A consent agreement generally requires that you make certain admissions. It is like a settlement agreement in that respect. Before agreeing to a consent agreement, you should carefully analyze the admissions.


You might not understand the practical consequences of some admissions. For example, the admission might prevent you from seeking a license in a different state later on.
Talk with your attorney so that you understand the full consequences of signing the consent agreement., You also will have to agree to certain discipline as part of the consent agreement. Generally, the Board might require any of the following:Fines.
Reprimand. A reprimand is a written punishment.
Probation. You might be placed on probation for a set amount of time. The Board can also require that you meet certain requirements while on probation, such as pass drug tests.
Suspension. For very serious violations, the Board might insist that you agree to have your license suspended.
Revocation. The Board can permanently bar you from ever practicing as a nurse again., The Board can also impose other restrictions on your right to practice, which might be temporary or permanent.For example, the Board could require the following:continuing education
periodic drug screening
psychological or dependency evaluations and counseling
restrictions on future practice, such as being barred from working in a financial position

, A consent agreement is only valid if the Nursing Board votes to adopt it.If the Board rejects it, then the case returns to the Compliance Unit.


If it is accepted, then there is no appeal.
 The administrative hearing is contested. An Ohio Assistant Attorney General will represent the Nursing Board. You can also have your lawyer represent you. Both sides will argue the case to a Hearing Examiner.You should find evidence that is helpful to your case.


No two cases are alike, so you should talk with your lawyer about what evidence would be helpful in your case.
For example, the Board might have alleged that you weren’t honest when applying to have your license renewed.In this case, you might want character witnesses to testify since your good character is in dispute. These witnesses could be other nurses or supervisors, or people you know outside of work.
 If you have a lawyer, then he or she should handle the hearing. Hearings are open to the public and anyone may attend. Each side may call witnesses and introduce documents into evidence.The Board has the burden of proof in your case, and you are presumed innocent.However, the Board does not have to find you guilty “beyond a reasonable doubt,” as they would in a criminal court. Instead, the standard is “preponderance of the evidence.” This means that it is more likely than not that you committed the offense.
After all evidence is presented to the Hearing Examiner, the Examiner writes up a report and recommendation. The Examiner then forwards the report to the full Hearing Board., The full Nursing Board will consider the Hearing Examiner’s report at one of their regularly scheduled meetings. You or your lawyer can make an objection to the Examiner’s report within 10 days of it being issued.The Board will then take up the issue and make a decision.


The Board could agree to adopt the Hearing Examiner’s findings and proposed discipline. The Board may also reject the Hearing Examiner’s recommended discipline and impose something more appropriate.The Board may increase the punishment because of “aggravating factors,” such as your lack of truthfulness or selfish motives.
The Board may also lower the punishment because of “mitigating factors,” such as a clean prior disciplinary record or your full and free cooperation with the Board.
 If the Nursing Board decides against you, then you can bring an appeal to the Court of Common Pleas.Before filing an appeal, however, you should talk with your lawyer about whether an appeal is worthwhile.


You should analyze whether an appeal would be successful. The Court of Common Pleas won’t overturn a decision unless the Court finds the Board’s decision wasn’t supported by substantial, reliable, and probative evidence.
Discuss how long an appeal would take. If your punishment is a brief suspension, then you might want to serve the suspension.
Also talk about cost. Your lawyer will have to do more work to prepare your case to present it to the judge. You might not want to spend the money.

