 Don’t just take a field trip when you take your class to an educational site. You may need to enlist the help of some other adults, but you can use community museums, zoos, arboretums, or historical sites as an interactive classroom for experiential learning. Talk to the curators or other directors of the sites before you visit to make sure this is okay. Then, use the subjects on display to teach your students about a given subject.For example, if you’re studying biology, visit a zoo and discuss how the animals adapt to their habitats.
If you’ve just finished up a history lesson on the civil war and there’s a battle site nearby, take a trip. Discuss the battle that occurred there, and what its impact was on the overall war effort.
 If your students are learning about drama or theatre, don’t just talk about it, try to see a performance. This might be a professional show, local amateur theater performance, or simply seeing the school play. However, attending the performance is not in and of itself experiential learning. Start students out with themes to consider while watching, ask them to write a review or complete a quiz following the show, or discuss the performance as a class.In some cases, you can work with theaters to schedule a question and answer session for your class with the performers and directors of the show. Call your local theaters to find out if they have any educational programs like this.
 You’ll be surprised how easily you can incorporate a walk in a nearby park or trip to a local store or restaurant into a class lesson. For instance, if your students are studying economics, have them visit several local stores and compare prices on specific items. You can turn a trip to a local park into a political lesson by discussing who runs the park, how the park is funded, and where the funding comes from., For many courses, this can be the most effective form of experiential learning. In addition to actually completing their internship or job shadowing, you’ll need to include avenues for reflection and application to your course to ensure the student is making these connections.


For instance, if your student is shadowing a local property attorney for your political science course, you may require them to research property law and how it fits into the larger context of the federal judicial system.