 The medium through which an object moves exerts a force on the object surfaces which, in aggregate, make up the frictional force acting on the object. The denser a fluid is (more viscous), the more slowly an object under the effect of a given force will move through the fluid. For example, a marble will fall more quickly through air than water and through water more quickly than molasses.

Viscosity of most fluids can be increased by lowering the temperature of the fluid. For example, a marble falls more slowly through cold molasses than molasses at room temperature.
 As noted above, fluids like water and air can generate friction as they move against solid objects. The friction force that an object experiences as it moves through a fluid is called drag (this is sometimes referred to as "air resistance", "water resistance", etc.) One of the properties of drag is that object with bigger cross-section — that is, objects that present a bigger profile to the fluid as they move through it — have greater drag. The fluid has more total space to push against, increasing the friction on the object as it moves through it.


For instance, let's say that a pebble and a sheet of paper both weigh one gram. If we drop both at the same time, the pebble will fall straight to the floor, while the paper will slowly drift to the ground. This is the principal of drag in action — the air pushes against the big, wide face of the paper, producing drag and causing it to pass through the air much more slowly than the pebble, which has a relatively small cross-sectional area.
 While the cross-sectional area of an object is a good general indication of how great its drag will be, in fact, drag calculations are slightly more complicated. Different shapes interact with fluids in different ways as they pass through them — this means that some shapes (for instance, flat plates), can have a greater drag than different shapes (for instance, spheres) made out of the same amount of material.Since the quantity that measures the relative amount of drag a shape makes is called a "drag coefficient", shapes with high drags are said to have large drag coefficients.


For example consider an airplane wing. The shape of a typical airplane wing is called an airfoil. This shape, which is smooth, narrow, rounded, and sleek, passes through the air easily. It has a very low drag coefficient — 0.45. On the other hand, imagine if an airplane had sharp-edged, boxy, prism-shaped wings. These wings would generate much more friction because they wouldn't pass through without great resistance. In fact, prisms have a higher drag coefficient than airfoils — about 1.14., In a phenomenon related to the different drag coefficients of different shapes, objects with bigger, boxier "body flows" generally generate more drag than other objects. These objects are made with harsh, straight edges and don't usually get skinnier toward the back of the object. On the other hand, objects with streamlined body flows are narrow, have rounded edges, and usually taper off towards the back of the object — like the body of a fish.


For example, consider the way the average family sedan is constructed today versus the way it was constructed decades ago. In the past, most cars had a boxy appearance and were constructed to have lots of straight, square edges. Today, most sedans are much more streamlined and incorporate lots of gentle curves. This is on purpose — streamlined body flows make a car have less drag, decreasing the amount of work that the engine must do to move the car (and thus increasing the fuel economy)., Some types of materials are permeable to fluids. In other words, they have holes in them that the fluid may pass through. This effectively reduces the area of the object that the fluid is able to push against, lowering the force of drag. This property holds true even if the holes are microscopic — as long as the holes are large enough to let some of the fluid pass through the object, the drag will be reduced. This is why parachutes, which are designed to create lots of drag to slow the speed of the user's fall, are made out of strong, light silk or nylon and not cheesecloth or coffee filters.


For an example of this property in action, consider the fact that a ping pong paddle can be swung faster if a few holes are drilled in it. The holes let air pass through as the paddle is swung, greatly reducing the drag and allowing the paddle to move faster.
 Finally, no matter what shape an object is or how permeable the material it's made from is, the drag it creates will always increase as it goes faster. The faster an object goes, the more fluid it has to move through, and, thus, the greater drag it experiences. Objects moving at very high speeds can experience very high friction due to drag, so these objects usually must be very streamlined or they will fall apart under the force of the drag.


For instance, consider the Lockheed SR-71 "Blackbird", an experimental spy plane built during the cold war. The Blackbird, which could fly at speeds greater than mach 3.2, experienced extreme drag forces at these high speeds in spite of its streamlined design — extreme enough, in fact, that the metal fuselage of the plane would actually expand from the heat generated by the friction of the air in mid-flight.