 The most powerful punches aren't actually the fastest ones. Your arm can move more quickly than the rest of your body, so waiting for your body to catch up to a punch slows the punch down. Even though a powerful punch is a slower one, there will be moments when you have just enough time to execute a slow but extremely forceful punch. It's worth practicing punching at a slower speed so you can feel the full power that comes when you give your body time to get behind your fist.


Try punching at half speed when you're training. Force yourself to slow down and focus on using your leg muscles and torso to maximize your power.
Remember where that power came from when you speed things up. While you'd never punch at half speed during a match, you can focus on using your legs and torso to generate as much power as possible.
 Speed is as important as power, since if you're too slow your opponent will have time to throw a lot more punches. Train with a speed bag and see how fast your arms can fly. Be sure to use the proper form and remember to keep your thumb tucked away from your knuckles as you punch.


The biggest part of the speed bag, the belly, should be hung at the same height as your nose. Hanging it too high will cause you to use improper form when you're training.Focus on keeping the bag constantly in motion and always under your control. Start slow, alternating punching with your right and left arm. As you gain control, speed up your punching.
 Doing some amount of strength training is a good way to keep your body in the best shape possible, but strength training alone doesn't make you a stronger or quicker boxer. You need to train your muscles to punch by punching, not lifting weights. That said, it's a good idea to have a strength training routine that strengthens your legs and core for maximum power.


Try deadlifts to build overall body strength in your legs, torso and arms.

Squats, push ups, and pull ups are good exercises for building strength that translates well to better punches., The best cardio workouts for building the kind of fitness you need to be a good boxer are swimming and jumping rope. When you need a break from regular training, look to these cardio workouts as good alternatives. Running, biking, and other cardio workouts are beneficial, but they don't build strength that specifically aids your body when you want to punch hard during a boxing match.
 An isometric muscle contraction happens with the muscle contracts without changing length. You can practice this type of contraction by pushing as hard as you can against a stationary object, like a wall. Using isometric training to exercise your arms teaches your body to store strength that can be quickly whipped out at maximum capacity. Try this routine to work out your arms:


Make a fist and push it into a wall as hard as you can. Use your entire body to push your fist for 10 seconds, then repeat with the other hand. Try doing 15 reps and 3 sets per arm per training session. Doing this exercise every other day will strengthen your muscles.

