 Just as with human kids, dog's can get bored with their toys. Your dog may be bored simply because it is tired of playing with the same old toys and it needs to be able to focus on something new. Get your dog some new toys and see if that perks the pup right up.Dog toys come in an astounding array of types, from stuffed animals to ropes and balls. If your dog isn't responding to a certain type of toy, try a different one.;
, To stimulate your dog's mind, you can make it do some work to get its meals. One way you can do this is by using a puzzle feeder. A puzzle feeder stimulates the dog's mind by making the dog figure out how to get its food out through a puzzle.Another way you can make feeding time more stimulating is by hiding your dog's food and making it find it. This is a good challenge for dogs that enjoy chasing scents.
 Depending on what type of dog you have, your dog may be bored because it is not using its natural skills. For instance, a dog that is a herding breed, such as a border collie, needs a job in order to be happy.If you have this type of dog, consider teaching it a skill or game that utilizes its natural attributes.


In the case of border collies, they can become very good at agility work. Teach your dog to jump over obstacles or to complete an agility course. This will give it something to focus its mind on.
 If you are unsure how to teach your dog a new skill then you can take it to a class where a professional can teach you and your dog a new skill. This could be an obedience class or a class that teaches your dog how to do an activity, such as agility work. This can be a great way for your dog to learn new skills, be stimulated, and avoid boredom.


To find a class near you consult with your local humane society or your veterinarian. These professionals can help you find a class and assess what type of classes and teacher might be right for your dog.You can also ask family and friends for suggestions of where to go or you can do an online search for a class nearby.
 If your dog never gets to go on walks, then you need to start taking it on daily walks. However, perhaps you do take it on walks but you always go on the same route. Your dog may be bored of going on that same route every day. In order to eliminate this boredom, try taking the dog somewhere new.A new route for your dog's daily walks can provide a wide array of new sights and smells for your dog to enjoy and investigate.
For an even more exciting change of pace, try taking your dog to a dog park at least once a week. If your dog loves interacting with other dogs, then this will be a special treat that will engage your dog's mind and body.
 The easiest way to relieve your dog's boredom is to do more with it. Take it with you when you can, take it for walks every day, and do activities with it, such as playing catch, that it enjoys. If you take the time to interact with your dog regularly, that can go a long way towards ending its boredom.If you have been neglecting doing activities with your dog and you want to increase them, put specific times in your calendar that you will spend with your dog. If you make a set appointment to spend time with it, then you are more likely to do it.
 If your dog is having a hard time being alone, then it might benefit from having a friend around when you are gone. If your dog doesn't get along with other dogs then this may not be the solution but if your dog is relatively friendly and enjoys other dogs, then its boredom may be relieved by having a new friend around all the time.


Getting a second dog is not a decision to take lightly. If your old dog doesn't get along with the new dog then you are still responsible for caring for that new dog.
Consider taking your old dog to meet some prospective new dogs before you commit to any adoption to see if it gets along with any of them. Also, after adopting another dog, make sure to introduce the dogs gradually, so that they get off to the right start.
 If you have to be gone a lot and your dog is bored, then you should consider taking it somewhere during the day where it can have fun and get mental stimulation. Taking it to a doggy daycare will allow it to interact with humans and other dogs throughout the day, while if it was at home it would be all by itself.


A doggy daycare is a good choice for a dog that loves interacting with other dogs and humans. If your dog doesn't like other people or dogs, then this may not be the best choice for your specific pet., If you don't want to take your dog to a doggy daycare then another option is hiring a dog walker. Perhaps you don't have time in the morning to drop your dog off at a doggy daycare or your dog doesn't like other dogs. If this is the case, a dog walker can come to your home, pick up your dog, and take it for a walk.


Different dog walkers structure their walks differently. Some take individual dogs for walks in their own neighborhoods. Others take groups of dogs for walks together. Before hiring a dog walker, discuss the system that they use to walk the dog and be sure that is what you want for your dog.
 One way to tell if your dog is bored is if it starts destroying its surroundings. A dog that chews up your favorite shoes or digs numerous holes in the yard is, in most cases, simply trying to amuse itself.Destruction that is rooted in boredom can come in a variety of forms. It could be chewing any type of item, digging, or even relieving itself inside the house.
 Excessive barking can be more common in some breeds but it can also be the sign that your dog is bored. A bored dog that is left alone a lot may bark due to unhappiness and loneliness.If your dog has not always barked a lot but has begun barking excessively when you are not around, there is a good chance that it is bored and that it needs more mental stimulation and activity.
 A young dog that is lying around all day is not getting enough mental stimulation and fun to stop it from becoming bored. While older dogs may need a lot of sleep, young dogs don't and they should so activities throughout the day.


However, lethargy can be a sign that your dog is ill. If your dog is less active than normal and hesitant to dog activities it normally loves, then it should be checked out by a veterinarian.If all your dog does is sleep, then you need to work on giving it some activities.

