 If your eyes are dry from exposure to cold winter winds or from spending too much time next to a warm furnace, you should place a humidifier in your home and office.The humidifier you select should be up to the task. For small spaces (up to 300 square feet) and medium spaces (300-500 square feet), use a small portable humidifier. For larger spaces, you’ll need a larger humidifier.When shopping for humidifiers, check the information label to discover what size space they were intended for.
Perform cleaning and maintenance on your humidifier as directed by manufacturer directions.
 Wearing contacts during the winter can dry the eyes out even faster than they might normally dry out. Use a lubricating or rewetting drop if you wear soft contact lenses. These are similar to regular eye drops, but specially formulated for people who wear contacts.Consult manufacturer directions for information regarding use with your soft contact lenses.
 When your house is sealed up tight against the cold of winter, you might be at greater risk for an allergic reaction that causes your eyes to become inflamed, itchy, or irritated. To limit the likelihood of such a situation, check the filters on your heaters. If necessary, change them according to manufacturer directions.Dust and vacuum your home regularly throughout the winter to protect your eyes from winter allergies.
An air filtration system might also be useful if you typically experience winter allergies. Place it in your home or office to improve the quality of your winter air and protect your eyes.
If you do experience an allergic response that affects your eyes, use eye drops.
 If dry winter air gives you dry eyes, an over-the-counter eye drop product can reduce irritation.These eye drops only treat dryness and itchiness. They will not protect you from UV damage.


Check manufacturer instructions for more information about how to use your eye drops.
Eye drops might also be referred to as “artificial tears.”
Ask your optometrist what type of drops are best for you.
 If you’re worried about protecting your eyes in winter, or if your eyes are extremely dry, bleary, or irritated during the winter, talk with your optometrist. They might have additional suggestions for you based on your medical history, or they might be able to detect some other factor that is causing you trouble with your eyes during the winter.For instance, in conversation with your optometrist, you might say, “My eyes are extremely dry during the winter. Is there anything I can do to prevent them from getting so dry?”

