 Exercising with weights builds up muscle and keeps your metabolism high for an extended period of time, helping you to lose fat.Even when you are not exercising, muscle will burn more calories than fat will. If you're new to weightlifting, get started by joining a gym and asking a personal trainer to help you with some beginner's exercises. Keep these tips in mind:


Work each muscle group. Make sure you do exercises to work out your arms, back, chest, abdomen, and legs for full-body fat loss.
Focus on performing 2-4 sets of 8-12 repetitions at 70-80% of your one repetition max. Do not simply lift the heaviest weights you can because form is more important than the amount of weight lifted, and form is usually sacrificed to focus on lifting heavier weights.
Don't overdo it. Make sure you have a few rest days between workouts, and don't work the same muscle groups two days in a row. Your muscles need time to repair after workout sessions to get stronger.
 Mixing resistance training with cardio workouts is the key to successful fat loss. Cardio exercises get your heart pumping and help you burn a lot of calories. Any type of cardio is fine, but try to choose an exercise you enjoy doing, so you'll be motivated to stick with your workout regimen.


The best type of cardio to do for fat loss is HIIT (high-intensity interval training). HIIT involves doing intense bursts of cardio with short rests in between. HIIT keeps your body guessing and burning more calories than long periods of steady intensity.
Cycling, swimming, and running are great cardio exercises. Do one of these activities for half an hour four times a week, or mix them all up.
Work out with a friend. Sometimes having a friend along can turn a dreary workout into a fun catch-up session. Find a friend with similar goals and motivations, and set up a schedule to exercise together several times per week.
 We burn calories throughout the day, not just when we're working out. Being more active in general can make a big difference in your daily calorie burn. Try these tips to be more physically active, especially if you have a job that involves sitting all day:


Take the stairs. This is a classic tip, but it really does make a difference! Instead of taking the elevator or escalator, walk up the stairs. When you leave the building, walk down the stairs.
Take a walk during your breaks. Even if it just means leaving the building to eat lunch outside, get up and go somewhere.
Take evening walks with a friend or partner. After dinner walks help you unwind, digest your food, and burn a few extra calories.
Walk, bike, or take public transportation to work. Driving involves less physical activity than any of these transportation methods. Even taking the bus or train to work requires more activity than driving, since you have to walk to the bus or train station first.

