 No hero is complete without a cape or a mask. Make sure it is as bright as possible. A superhero is no camouflage wearing commoner. Try running in an open area to get used of the cape hanging from your shoulders

, This is almost as crucial as the step above. Your costume should have an overall theme. Are you a popular to women and children alike superhero or a vigilante hidden in the shadows? You'll have to design something that catches the eye. It should have a color theme similar to your cape. Also add some insignia, a logo, or a Latin phrase somewhere on your costume. It ought to be easily recognizable and unique to you alone. No two superheroes are similar! If you need to hide your face (to protect your loved ones or just yourself from humiliation) then don't forget to create a mask as well.
 And since you're most likely not adept at tailoring purchase the necessary fabrics and hand them over to a tailor to create the costume of your dreams.
 A hero has to have persistent foe. Did that old man who took his dog for a walk in the park rubbed you the wrong way? Punch him! That guy bullied you again? Promptly humiliate him in front of the whole school (any prank works wonders). But in the end of the day whoever you decide to be your ancestral enemy don't forget to pick a fight with him/her as often as you can. After all they can't be your arch enemies unless they loathe you.
 This step is also extremely crucial. A name should reflect your alignment. Are you benevolent or malevolent? Law abiding or vigilante? Also it should hint at your superpowers. Also if you feel like it add a title to your name (i.e. Captain or General). And above all be serious with the naming procedure. Wildlife Lover is no good name for your bloodthirsty alter ego.
 Your superpowers don't have to be some sort of mind blowing body characteristic (like superhuman strength or hypersonic speed). Batman is a good example. A few sophisticated mechanical devices can easily do the trick. Below you will find tips on how to get some of the most common superpowers as well as ideas for some generic ones.

