 If you can't make it, fake it! With the right tricks, it's possible to use aesthetic tricks to make your eyes appear red and puffy as if you've just been crying, even if you feel perfectly fine. Because these tricks don't actually irritate your eyes, they're vastly more comfortable than some of the methods listed above. For example, try this makeup strategy to give yourself red eyes:Apply small dots of red eyeliner around the outline of your eye. You can also use a red eye shadow or red lip liner, but make sure that any lip liner you use is mild enough to use near your eyes before applying it. Place the dots along the entire bottom lid. For an even stronger red effect, you can also apply the dots along the upper lid.
Smudge the liner over your skin using a cotton swab or makeup smudge stick. In order to make your eyes look red, you will need to cast a somewhat muted red "shadow" around their lids. None of the original lines or dots should be visible, so continue smudging until you can no longer see the original dots.
 Another easy way to give your eyes a "reddened" effect is to wear specially-made contacts with a reddish tinge or with veins drawn on them. With these, however, it's important to choose a contact that makes the whites of your eye red, not the iris (the portion that's normally blue, green, or brown.) If you give yourself red irises, you'll look like a vampire or a demon, not someone who's just cried.


Some theatrical supply companies make custom-crafted contact lenses for movies and stage productions, so you may want to shop here if you're looking for a high-quality product. However, these aren't likely to come cheap — professional-quality lenses can easily cost over $100.
 If you're faking your red eyes for a stage or film production, it can be a good idea to accompany the tricks above with some actual tears to make the effect look more realistic. In this case, you may want to consider buying a "tear stick," which is a tool used by some actors that basically amounts to a stick of semisolid gel or wax containing menthol. The tear stick usually comes in a tube resembling lipstick and is applied by rubbing it beneath the eyes, where the vapors from the menthol stimulate the eyes to produce tears.


Note that since the "active ingredient" in a tear stick is menthol, this method works exactly like the menthol suggestion in the section above.

