 Each company has different rules and policies in place for business trips. Some companies may allow you to use a corporate credit card for your expenses or require you to pay for expenses up front with company reimbursements paid back to you after the trip. Don't book anything before you're certain, and don't be shy about asking: you'll only look conscientious if you ask about your financial obligations.


If you haven't been instructed already, make sure to ask your supervisor or other business travel representative, "Am I responsible for booking airfare and other travel arrangements? If so, am I reimbursed, and does reimbursement happen through a check or debit payment?"
Ask if you're allowed a per diem, or by the day, rate for food. Ask if specific meals are covered or if any food allowance limits apply.
Ask if gas is covered if you have a rental car. Ask if public transit or train tickets are applicable expenses.
Keep track of all receipts and as out specific company details on how to report them. For example, ask if you should make copies of receipts or submit originals in an expense report.
It is important to be familiar with your company's travelling policies, as your actions on the business trip will reflect on you and your ability to follow company policy.;
, Keep all of your required documents in one place, such as passports or visas. Include hotel and car reservations with your travel documents to stay organized. Make sure your passport or visa doesn’t expire within six months of your trip.Find out if your home country has an embassy or consulate in your destination country in case of emergencies or dangerous situations.Check with your company or check your destination country’s government website for border control to find out if you need mandatory vaccinations.
If you don’t have a passport, make sure to apply for one at least two or three months ahead of time, or follow your home country’s procedures to get an expedited passport.
 If you responsible for booking and reserving your travel accommodations, make sure you do so in advance. Reserve a hotel room, rental car, train tickets, or airline tickets, depending on your needs.Make sure to shop around for deals and compare prices, unless your company has designated airline or hotel partnerships.
If you are travelling to another country, double check to see if any major holidays fall during your trip. Make sure businesses are still open for the accommodations you need on those holidays.
Call your travel providers and hotel to confirm your accommodations within one to days before your trip. Don’t just assume everything is going according to plan.