 Talk to students in more advanced classes, or better yet, fluent Japanese speakers who have lived in or are from Japan. Speaking Japanese with someone who is fluent will help your pronunciation and clue you in to intricacies of the language that are impossible to pick up from a textbook.


Start a Japanese discussion group that meets at least twice a week. Plan to speak only in Japanese for a full hour. Each meeting can have a theme, or you could simply talk for an hour on any subject in Japanese.
Plan excursions with Japanese speakers so that you can practice speaking in different contexts and situations. For example, take a trip to the botanical garden and focus on learning Japanese words for different plants and trees.
Speak with Japanese speakers a little bit each day, even when you aren't meeting for a group discussion. Give someone a call and converse only in Japanese, or drop by your professor's office hours for a little extra practice.
 This is an excellent way to learn more about Japanese language when you aren't able to spend time with Japanese speakers. Replace your regular shows with anime and watch at least one Japanese movie a week to immerse yourself in the language at home.



Rashomon, Seven Samurai, and Spirited Away are popular Japanese movies.
You can start by watching the films with subtitles, but you'll get a better immersion experience if you turn them off and focus instead on the Japanese sounds and pronunciation.
 Taking a trip to Japan and spending as much time there as possible is the best way to learn Japanese, period. If you can arrange it, find a way to work or study there for 6 months or more so you can spend time soaking in the language and practicing all day long.


If you're enrolled in a college or university, look into study abroad programs in Japan. You may be able to take classes there for a semester or more.
You could also try to work there for a few months or longer. The organization WWOOF,which stands for World Wide Opportunities on Organic Farms, lets you work on a farm in exchange for room and board. This is a great way to immerse yourself in the language of another country for as long as you want to stay.

