 If you have a small business that routinely ships items, you may consider postage meter for your office. However, Stamps.com has a partnership with the USPS that allows you to print postage online that is usually cheaper than a meter contract. Visit the Stamps.com website to create an account.You can open a personal Stamps.com account for individual use too.
Stamps.com charges a $15.99 a month fee in addition to whatever postage charges you may incur. However, you can usually get a four week trial offer to test out the service and see if it works for you.
Stamps.com also provides a free digital postal scale for your home or office to make it easier to figure out your postage costs.
There are no contracts involved, so you can cancel your account at any time.
To open you’ll account, you’ll need to provide create a username and password, as well as provide contact and payment information.
 To print postage labels with Stamps.com, you need to download their software, which is free. You can find the link for the software at the bottom of the Stamps.com home page under the Support heading. Keep in mind that you can also print labels directly from the Stamps.com website if you log in.The Stamps.com software isn’t available for Mac users, so you’ll have to use Stamps.com Online to print your postage.
 Your return address is stored in the Stamps.com program, so you only need to worry about providing an address for your recipient. Double check the information for any errors because a mistake in the address may cause a delivery delay.You can import an existing address box that you might have in another program on your computer to Stamps.com, so you don’t need to transfer any information yourself.
 To figure out the cost of your postage, you’ll need to know how much the item weighs. Stamps.com provides a postage scale with your account, so use it to weigh the item that you’re sending and enter it into the designated field.If you’re estimating an item’s weight, always round up to be safe. Packages with insufficient postage will be returned.
 Next, you’ll need to choose what postage service you would like to use to send your item. Stamps.com will show you the pricing for each class of mail, so you can choose the service that meets your needs and your budget. The mail classes that you can print postage for on Stamps.com include:First Class Mail Letters and First Class Mail Large Envelopes
Priority Mail (Domestic and International)
Priority Mail Express (Domestic and International)
First-Class Package Service (Domestic and International)
Parcel Select Ground
Media Mail
Flat Rate Boxes and Envelopes
Regional Rate Boxes and Envelopes
APO/FPO Military Mail
Priority Mail Open and Distribute
If you’re sending packages internationally, you’ll also need to fill out customs forms for your item.
 Stamps.com stores your payment information, so they’ll charge the same credit or debit card each time you purchase postage. Once your purchase has gone through, you can print the labels with your usual printer and tape or glue them to your item.You can print your postage on plain white paper, labels, or directly on envelopes.

