 It's the blue app with a white "A" made from writing utensils on it, typically found on the Home Screen of your iPhone., It's in the bottom-right corner and has a magnifying glass icon above it., This option is at the top of the screen., You can do so by typing "printer app" into the search bar and tapping Search, or you can specifically look for one of the following apps:


Printer Pro - $6.99, though there is also a free ("lite") version. Printer Pro will print to most printers, and it also has a desktop version to which you can synchronize the app in order to print more documents from your iPhone.

Brother iPrint&Scan - Free. Works with a myriad of different printers.

HP All-in-One Printer Remote - Free. Works with HP printers from 2010 and later.

Canon PRINT Inkjet/SELPHY - Free. Works with Canon printers only.
 If you're purchasing an app, this button will be replaced by the app's cost instead., It will be in the same location as the Get button., Doing so will prompt your app to begin downloading.

If you've recently logged into the App Store, you won't have to perform this step.
If your iPhone uses Touch ID, you may be able to use your fingerprint here instead.
 While this process will vary based on the app you downloaded and the printer you're using, most cases will entail making sure your printer is online, adding the printer to your phone's app, and setting up preferences (e.g., default printing in black-and-white or color)., If you're trying to print a photo or note, for example, tap the item in question., It's a box with an upward-facing arrow in one of the corners of your phone's screen.
 These options include things like Copy and Print., It's on the far-right side of the bottom row of options. Doing so will bring up a list of apps you can use with your selected option., Doing so will enable it for use with your current app (e.g., Photos).

If you don't see the app listed here, you'll need to open your document or file from within the app itself.
Your selected app may not support the location or file type you're attempting to print (for example, the Notes app isn't supported by some printer apps).
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen,, It should now appear in the bottom row of apps. Doing so will open the app., In most cases, you'll simply have to adjust any settings for the file in question (e.g., number of pages) and then tap a Print button. As long as your printer is on and connected to the Internet, your document should begin printing.