 As you figure out alternate ways to work and make a living with MS, you should start by making a list of the different aspects of your jobs that gave you pleasure. This can range from a part-time job you had years ago to your current career. Any work you have done may lead to a new job.For example, you may enjoy the group of people you help through your job, the importance of the work you do, or the product your job creates.
You may also enjoy the financial independence or insurance benefits of your job.;
, After you make your list of aspects of your job that you enjoy, decide which skills or parts of your job are affected by your MS. Beside each skill, write “not affected” or give a one to two sentence description of how your job is affected.For example, you may not be able to stand for eight hours, or interacting with customers causes fatigue.
Having this list gives you an idea of what duties you are able to perform and which ones causes your MS symptoms to flare up. Being aware of these details can help you figure out ways you can still work.
 After you have gone through the steps of listing the things you like about work and then figuring out what your MS affects, you can make decisions about your career. You can start by talking to your company about making accommodations to your current job based on your condition or changing jobs internally to something you are able to do. If these two things are not options, you can look for a new job based on your skills.For example, if you teach, you may switch to an older group of students who will take less energy from you to teach. You may also transition into administrative work, such as an administrative assistant in the main school office or county office or a guidance counselor.
If you are a manager with a physical job, you might consider switching to human resources or finding a job at a different company where you are in a less physical and strenuous position.
 If you have a job that you are unable to do because of your MS, you may consider changing careers or jobs. Just because you can’t do one job full-time doesn’t mean you can’t do a different job with different physical and emotional requirements. Think about ways you can change your duties at your current job or try something completely different.For example, you may consider getting a job as a phone operator or telemarketer. You may also be able to get a job as an office administrator where you do light office work and are able to sit and take breaks.
You may also try getting a job as a sales associate or customer service representative.
 If you are unable to work full-time, this does not mean you have to stop working completely. Consider talking to your job about going down to part-time hours. If your job won’t let you cut your hours, look for a part-time job in your area.A part-time job can help supplement your household income and help keep you working, even if it is for less hours each week.
Examples of part-time jobs can be retail jobs, such as a cashier or retail associate. You can also try being a substitute teacher, which you can do when you feel up to it.
 If you have a career where you can work from home, consider discussing this option with your boss. Your MS may make it difficult to go to an office, but you may be able to work from home.You may look into work you can do from home, like freelance writing, editing, tutoring, or running an online store.
Working from home may give you the freedom to arrange your hours so that you work around your symptoms. You may also be able to complete your work during your best hours of the day.
 One way to ensure that you can work for as long as possible is to follow your MS management plan and your doctor’s instructions. This helps reduce flare-ups and any unpleasant symptoms from avoidable triggers, like stress or unhealthy diets.A healthy diet may be one way to manage your MS. Eating unhealthy foods that offer no nutrition can worsen MS fatigue and weakness. Focus on eating healthy foods full of nutrients to keep yourself stronger and energized so you can focus on working.Regular exercise helps manage MS symptoms. Try swimming, walking, toga, or tai chi.Manage your stress while you work. Work adds stress not related to your MS, so focusing on relaxation and managing stress is particularly important when you have MS. 