 Cut off any dry or damaged stem ends with a sharp pair of kitchen shears. At this time, you should also inspect the bunch for damaged or wilted leaves. Remove these leaves, as well.


Consider trimming the stems under cool, running water. Doing so causes less shock to the herb, and since the ends will be immersed in water anyway, they can get wet without worry. Keeping the ends as fresh as possible is actually preferred since they will be able to draw up more water that way.
 If the leaves have any noticeable moisture on them, you should dry them off with clean, dry paper towels or by running them through a salad spinner.


Even though the stems will be wet for this method, it is important that the leaves remain dry. The cilantro will wither much quicker if you allow the leaves to remain wet.
Note that for this method, it is better to clean the cilantro before you are ready to use it instead of now, when you are only trying to keep it fresh. Waiting minimizes the amount of water touching the leaves.
 Fill the bottom quarter of a sturdy glass jar with cool water. Arrange the cilantro inside the glass after that, making sure that all the cut stem ends are submerged.The cut ends should be submerged, but the leaves should remain above the surface of the water. If a few leaves dip under the water, either reduce the amount of water in the jar or trim off the bottom leaves.
 Place a resealable plastic bag over the top of the cilantro. Let the opening of the bag remain loose.


Do not secure the bag onto the jar with a rubber band or anything else.
The opening of the bag should fall below the mouth of the glass. In other words, the leafy portion of the cilantro needs to be completely covered with the bag.
 You will need to change the water every few days. Knowing when to change the water is as easy as simply taking a look at the glass. As soon as the water starts to become discolored, it is time to swap it out for a fresher water supply.


Check the condition of the cilantro when you change the water. Snip off any dried ends or wilting leaves before returning the cilantro to the fresh jar of water.
 Store the glass cilantro in your refrigerator. When using this method, cilantro can stay fresh for up to two weeks, if not longer.


The cold temperature is just as important to this method as the water itself, if not more important. If you leave the cilantro out at room temperature, it will only last for a week at most. Cilantro kept in this manner has been known to remain fresh for a little over four weeks when stored in the refrigerator.,