 Fit one decorating bag with a drop flower decorating tip, like tip #2D, and fill it halfway with medium royal icing in the color desired for the flower petals. Place a round tip, like tip #3, on the other piping bag and fill one-quarter with the center color icing.

Prepare the work surface by covering it with parchment paper or wax paper, taping it down as needed to prevent the paper from peeling up as you work. Use enough paper to hold as many flowers as you wish to make.
 Position the drop flower tip directly over the parchment paper, holding it so that the tip just barely touches the surface.

Keep the bag at a 90-degree angle from the work surface. If you tilt it, you'll distort the shape of the flower.
Rotate your hand one-quarter turn without piping the icing. The back of your hand should face away from you. If you're right-handed, your knuckles should be at the 9-o'-clock position; if you're left-handed, your knuckles should be at the 3-o'-clock position.
 Gently squeeze the pastry bag while slowly rotating your hand. Continue squeezing and rotating until your hand returns to its normal position.Your knuckles should return to the 12-o'-clock position, so you'll end up rotating 90 degrees (one-quarter turn).
 Immediately stop squeezing the bag once you complete the turn. As soon as the icing stops flowing, lift the tip away.

Lift the tip straight up. Removing it at an angle can distort the shape of the petals.
 Hold the round tip bag at a 90-degree angle in the center of the flower. Carefully squeeze a small dot of icing into the center.

The tip should almost touch the flower itself, and the icing you squeeze out should come into direct contact with the petal icing. Keep the tip buried as you pipe the center dot.
Stop squeezing once the dot looks large enough. When the icing stops flowing, lift the tip up and to the side so that no tail hangs off.
 Allow the flower to dry for 30 to 60 minutes, then carefully peel it away from the parchment paper. Store the dried flower in an airtight container until you're ready to use it.

If you plan to make multiple flowers, form all of them before letting them dry. Make sure that each one dries for at least 30 minutes.
You can apply these flowers to the surface you wish to decorate with fresh icing.

