 Making a budget is essential because it shows you what you make, what your expenses are, and where you can afford to cut. Sticking to that budget can be difficult, but doing so can help you get closer to affording that second child.Start by figuring out exactly how much you make. Of course, your income may vary, but do your best to figure out what your total income is.Next, figure out your expenses. As you do, make sure to figure in a 10% buffer. That is, if you think you need $200 for groceries, figure on $220, and do that with all of your bills.Use technology to help. You can use an app on your phone to help you stay on budget. For instance, you can use it to track what you spend every day.;
, Everyone needs a little extra for every day fun things and needs. However, you have to make sure you're not spending more than you should. Setting a weekly allowance of how much you can spend can help.Go into an allowance with the understanding that when it's gone, it's gone.Try taking it out in cash, as it's easier to visualize it dwindling.
 Sit down and take a hard look at your expenses. Decide what is really necessary and what can be cut. While this process can be hard, doing so can help you free up cash to pay for childcare.For instance, maybe you can cancel your cable bill or your magazine subscriptions. These small luxuries may not sound like much individually, but they can add up.
Another way to cut expenses is trade eating out for eating at home.Another sacrifice you could make is cutting out your second car or even your only car. However, you do need to weigh the cost and effort it could take to go without a car, especially if public transportation in your area isn't great.
 When you go to the grocery store, make a list before you go. Make sure you only buy things on the list and don't stray off for extras.Look for coupons. There are many websites available where you can find and print coupons. You can also look at your grocery store's website, as many have digital options for adding coupons.Another option is to use saving apps, where you either use them at the store or you upload a picture of your receipt afterwards in exchange for cash.
Buy the cheapest brand. When choosing which item to buy, always look to see which is the cheapest per ounce. Most grocery stores have the price per ounce on the price tag, which makes this process easier.Skipping impulse buying is also important at other stores, as well., You probably already know to compare prices on items that you buy, especially for big purchases. However, you might not think to do the same when you're looking to hire someone for a service. Nonetheless, prices for services, such as plumbing, can vary widely, and you should compare prices online or call around.You can use grocery ads online to compare prices on the foods you buy.
Always look at reviews while you're looking at prices for services. If the service is done poorly, you're not saving any money, especially if you need to get it done again.
 When possible, repair items when they break down instead of buying something new. Repairing can save you money over time, as you can repair the item yourself or pay someone to do it for cheaper than it would be to buy a new one.For instance, sew up that small hole in your shirt, or get someone to come repair your computer when it starts acting up.
If you don't know how to repair something, try looking up a tutorial online. You'll likely find one for the exact thing you need to do.
 Often, in-home daycares are cheaper than larger centers. These daycares are usually run by a single person or a couple in their home, so they have fewer costs.Check with your state to make sure the daycare you choose is licensed.
Always take time to check out the daycare and the owner to make sure you feel comfortable leaving your child there., Some daycares offer a discount for a second child. Your daycare may be one of them, which can help you save money.Ask what the sibling discount is the next time you take your child in.
While the sibling discount may not be a whole lot, every little bit can help.
 If you wait until just before your first child is going into school, you'll only have one child in daycare at a time. While it's not a solution if you're already pregnant, if you can plan ahead, it can help keep your expenses down.Don't forget to consider how long you will be off with maternity leave. For instance, if you are able to take a month or two of maternity leave, factor that into your time calculations.
With most schools, this method will put your kids at about 4 1/2 to 5 years apart. It can be even less if your child goes to an all-day preschool.
However, you do need to consider where your child will go after school. After school programs can be cheaper than full daycare, but you'll likely still have some expenses. One option, though, is to hire a teenage babysitter to watch your kid, which can be cheaper than other options., Hiring a nanny for two children can be expensive. However, if you share costs with another family or even two families, you can cut down on costs significantly.Consider other families with similarly aged children who might be willing to share costs with you. You can find nannies on caregiver websites. You can also try an au pair, which is a foreign student who would live in your house. This student would take care of your kids, and in return, receive a stipend as well as room and board., If you're eligible, you can get a credit on your taxes for childcare. You won't get assistance throughout the year, but you will get help when it comes time to file your taxes. To be eligible, you must have a child under age 13 or a dependent over 13 with a disability. You also must have earned income in the previous year, though you can also qualify if you are a student or disabled. File your taxes with your partner if you're married. If you're single, just file your own taxes. When you do, you'll need to add form 2441 (Child and Dependent Care Expenses) to your taxes, which decides the amount you receive., Some workplaces offer this benefit. A FSA is an account where you can set aside money specifically for daycare. The benefit is the money is non-taxable.However, you can only put a certain amount in, limited by the federal government. As of 2016, you can contribute $2,500 if you're single or $5,000 in total if you're married.You also must keep up with your expenses, as you must submit records to get the money. In addition, any money left in the account at the end of the year is lost., If you're working for a large company, it may provide childcare at a reduced cost. Other companies offer credits for childcare because they want to keep you on staff but realize costs are skyrocketing. Talk to HR to see what your company has to offer you., Another option is shifting your schedule or your partner's schedule to cover childcare. For instance, you could work Sunday to Thursday, while your partner could work Tuesday to Saturday. That way, you would be available to cover childcare on Friday and Saturday, and your partner could cover Sunday and Monday. In turn, you would only need to pay for daycare 3 days a week.Another option is one of you working nights, while the other works days, so someone is always there.You could also work part time to help save money on childcare., You can get childcare assistance from the government if you are low income. However, this assistance is managed through a state office, so you will need to find your state's office.To find your state's office, use the Office of Childcare website, http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/occ/resource/ccdf-grantee-state-and-territory-contacts.
Find your state or territory to find the contact in your state.
 Once you find your state, you will need to make sure you are eligible for assistance. Generally, your eligibility is determined by your income.Most of of the time, the state sets a percentage of the federal poverty level as the upper limit, such as 150 percent of the poverty level or 300 percent.
As of 2016, the poverty level for a three-person family, if it's just you and two kids, is $20,160. For a family of four, if you have a spouse, the poverty level is $24,300.That means if you're a family of three, and your state sets the limit at 300% of the poverty level, you can be making up to $60,480 and still qualify for assistance. However, it varies greatly by state.
 Most of the time, you'll be able to apply online. If you can't find an application online, contact your local office to find out more. You should be able to find the contact information on you state's childcare website that you found from the federal site.You'll likely need proof of income when filing, such as a tax return or a pay stub.
You'll also need basic information about your child, as well as biographical information about yourself.
 If you need help finding your local office, dial 2-1-1 on your phone. This number is in place to help people find the public assistance they need. Nonetheless, in some states, childcare is not managed through this line, though they will probably be able to redirect you to the correct line. You can also go to 211.org on the internet.