 Unless you are willing to travel (which many people do once they become addicted to mud runs) search Google for mud runs in your area. Many mud run companies travel from city to city setting up temporary facilities for one or two day events. Often smaller companies or charities host local events, which are also temporary and only one day per year. There are a couple of courses such as THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ in St. Louis, MO and the USMC Ultimate Challenge in Columbia, SC that are permanent but they too, only have a few events per year. There is one website mudruns.net that gathers upcoming event info about all race organizations.;
, All mud runs advertise toughness, fun, party, etc. but each one is geared more towards one genre or another.
 The Distance/Amount of Running- races can be anywhere from 1 mile (1.6 km) to 10–12 miles (16–19 km) or more. Typically local and charity benefit races are 5K’s.


WarriorDash = 5k
Tough Mudder = 10–12 miles (16–19 km)
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ = 5 miles (8.0 km)
MS Muckruckus = 3 mile (4.8 km) or 5 mile (8.0 km) option
USMC Ultimate Challenge = 5.2 mile (8.4 km)
Spartan Race = 3 levels; 3, 8, or 10 mile and 48 hour death race

,, Check out your venue to see who’s playing.
, Although permanent courses like THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ and USMC Ultimate Challenge are introducing more challenging courses due to their ability to build large permanent sturdy structures.
 This course cannot be done without your teammates! Tough Mudder offers a lot of camaraderie also because it “isn’t a competition”.
 The Guantlet Time trial challenge is the closest to American Ninja Warrior or Wipeout available in the mud run market today.



WarriorDash = St. Jude's
Tough Mudder = Wounded Warrior
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ = USO
MS Muckruckus = Multiple Sclerosis Society
Spartan Race = Homes for our Troops
USMC Ultimate Challenge = Greater Columbia Marine Foundation

, The sooner you sign up the lower the costs. Prices also vary by location so the below is just an average.


WarriorDash = $50- $80
Tough Mudder = $90 - $200 + required $15 insurance fee
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ = $60-$100
MS Muckruckus = Base $40-$75 Plus $100 donation requirement
Spartan Race = $90-$205
USMC Ultimate Challenge = $160 team of 4

,
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ = Event participation, Qualification to attempt The Guantlet Time Trial Challenge, THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ Moisture Wicking T-Shirt, THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ Finishers medal, music and Post Party Activities- including access to Cedar Lake Cellars Winery, Post-race snack and beverage (Yes, a free beer!), Race bib with timing chip, Interactive Individualized online results – find photographs and videos of yourself!, Mobile event updates to your friends and family letting them know where you are on the course, Social Media race updates that can be posted to your Facebook and Twitter accounts including an Online Finishers Badge
MS Muckruckus = Event participation, Muckruckus T-Shirt, 1 Free Beer (sometimes- depending on event location)
Spartan Race = Event Race Shirt (If you finish), Chip Timing and individual race time, Awesome Finisher Medal, Post Race Party – music
USMC Ultimate Challenge = Event participation

,
Most events are held on farmers land, off-road mud terrain parks, or in other remote locations. Consider “destination” sites like THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ which is located on a winery property which allows for a place for your friends and family to hang out while you are running, provides a place to have an air conditioned meal, and make a day of the event. This kind of a place is great if you’re a runner but your significant other isn’t- it allows you to do what you love but still spend time with your partner.
What are you kids going to do during the event?
Some of these events such as MS Muckruckus and THE BATTLEGROUNDS™ have kids courses. If you have a family this may be important to help your kids feel involved and understand the value of fitness and fun getting muddy! Tough Mudder has a “least amount of clothing” category in their costume contest, which might not make it a good place for you to bring your little ones.



WarriorDash: All spectators are corralled into one area. We could only see the Start Line, Finish Line, the fire obstacle and 1 mud pit.
Tough Mudder: You could wonder around pretty freely. You could easily see Electroshock Therapy, Mount Everest, The Fire pit, army crawl, an icy mud pit, and monkey bars.
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™: Had long berm which spectators could stand on. You could see 15 obstacles and you could walk up next to the 5 biggest obstacles in the main arena, including the 100 foot (30.5 m) water slide, rope traverse, 15 foot (4.6 m) wall, 12 foot (3.7 m) jump, The Trenches and mud hills. They also had a 20 feet (6.1 m) tall observation tower you could go up in.
MS Muckruckus: All spectators corralled in 1 area but you could see many obstacles including the Spinner, Big Balls, the cargo nets, the start and finish lines.
Spartan Race: All spectators corralled in 1 area but you could see Start, Finish (complete with Gladiators), fire jump, rope climb, an a-frame structure, a rope traverse across a lake, traversing walls, and off in the distance some mud pits. Spartan Race by far had the most activities for spectators to participate in throughout the day.
USMC Ultimate Challenge: I haven’t been as a spectator so am unsure what spectators can see.
 All of the events typically have additional food and beverage for sale.


Warrior Dash: Additional $10-$20 parking fee per car. Merchandise for sale.
Tough Mudder: $20 per spectators fee and additional parking fee. Activities available for spectators to participate in but it cost to throw the barrels. Merchandise for sale. Additional mandatory insurance fee.
THE BATTLEGROUNDS™: None- The Battlegrounds offers free warm showers, free parking, and free spectator viewing. However do bring money if you plan on sipping wine next door. Merchandise for sale.
MS Muckruckus: None- they do a great job of making it an all-inclusive no need to bring money day. No merchandise for sale.
Spartan Race: Additional parking fee. Merchandise for sale.
USMC Ultimate Challenge: Unknown

, Every race will require a waiver. Keep in mind this is a dangerous sport. In order to participate you must sign a waiver.
 Once you’ve picked the race that is right for you, your significant other, and family register and register as EARLY as possible. Many events sell out and prices increase the closer it gets to the event.
 Although in most events you can bypass an obstacle and if you walk no one really cares, it is still in your best interest to train in order to prevent injury. Practice running on local trails to get the stabilizer muscles in your ankles, legs, and hips toned up to prevent sprains and to help you get a feel for how to place your feet when trail running. A little practice will make the event more fun!

