 When food is processed, important nutrients get stripped away. When your diet consists mainly of processed foods, you may find that you have a nutrient imbalance because your body is not getting its daily requirement of vitamins and minerals. When you do not get the nutrients you need, your body counteracts this imbalance by getting your nutrient supply from different parts of your body, which causes your body stress.


There are many types of processed food, but some common processed foods include refined flour, white sugar, and trans and saturated fats.;
, Natural or whole foods refer to foods that have been processed as little as possible and are free from additives and other artificial substances. These foods are generally packed with natural proteins, complex carbohydrates, fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals that your body needs to function efficiently and remain stress-free.While there are many whole foods out there, some of the most common whole foods include fresh fruits and vegetables, and whole grains.
 Soda is laden with caffeine, refined sugar, and, often, high fructose corn syrup. These ingredients, when taken in excess, can do some harm to your body, and can especially put stress on your kidneys.


Because of this, try to keep the amount of soda you drink to a minimum, and consider cutting it out of your diet entirely.
 Drinking a small amount of alcohol may help prevent heart disease and stroke, but excessive drinking can be harmful and stressful for your body. The amount you limit yourself to depends on your gender and age; women of all ages and men older than 65 should stick to one drink a day, while men 65 and younger should limit themselves to two drinks a day.One drink refers to 12 fluid ounces (350 ml) of beer, five fluid ounces of wine, or 1.5 fluid ounces (44.4 ml) of distilled spirits., A balanced diet refers to one that includes all of the major and minor nutrients your body needs to remain healthy and stress-free. A balanced diet includes carbohydrates, proteins, fats, vitamins and minerals.


It is advisable to consult a dietitian with your particular individual requirement for these nutrients because they differ depending on your weight, height, physical activity, sex and other factors. But, generally, 60 % of your total energy requirement should come from carbohydrates, 20% from proteins and another 20% from fats.
 Eating in variety means making sure to consume nutrients from different kinds of sources. Variety ensures that the body is getting all the nutrients it needs. Having a balanced and varied diet supplies your body with sufficient nutrients that help to prevent physical stresses.


For example, let’s look at your protein for the day. If you had an egg for breakfast, try having fish for lunch and another protein, like a chicken breast, for dinner.
 Staying hydrated helps your body with processes like digestion, transporting nutrients, temperature regulation, and removing waste. When you become dehydrated, these processes can slow down and cause your body stress.


The amount of water you drink each day depends on the amount of exercise you do, and what sort of temperatures you are exposed to. As a general rule, adult women should try to drink roughly 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water a day, while adult men should drink around 3 liters (0.8 US gal).