 This is so you can tell apart the white from the blue thread which makes up denim. If you skip this step then your whole shorts could get ruined because all the threads will be white and impossible to tell apart.;
, If you look closely at the denim you can see white and blue threads running horizontal against each other. Cut two horizontal lines across the shorts using scissors, leaving a strip of fabric in between the slits. Cut them the length you want your distressed/worn patch to be. Using a tool you want to remove the blue threads from the fabric you just cut. You could use a needle, safety pin, or food/salad clamps to remove the blue threads, you need to do this constantly until all the blue thread has gone and you only have white strings showing, it takes quite a while so do this when you have a bit of time, don't rush otherwise you could be left with just a frayed hole.
 You may want to leave some white and just cut it short to leave threads hanging to give an even better look!

, All you need to do is put the shorts in the wash and that will separate the threads even more to have more exaggerated holes and to remove all the excess thread that's not needed.
 Don't use a tumble dryer as the threads can get caught and break from the shorts, once they're done you're ready to start bleaching! Always wear protective gloves as bleach does burn straight through skin! Now, I wouldn't personally recommend any brand of bleach because you're not looking for the hygiene job, just how thick the bleach is. Of course you can't test the bleach in-store so you're going to have to find the best brand for you out of trial and error. Buy the thickest bleach you can afford and water it down when its in the bowl/container.
 If you only want a half an half effect there's no need for bands. Don't use red rubber bands otherwise the red dye used in the bands will leak onto the shorts leaving red stains and patches. Here are the methods to get the look you want-


All of the shorts in- All shorts will turn a whitey-blue colour.
Half of the shorts in- A two tone white and blue effect.
Tie rubber bands around shorts in a ball- Random spotty tie dye effect.
Tie rubber band knots randomly- Small clouds of white.
 Don't use any other methods to dry the shorts otherwise the effect and colour could change. Leave the shorts for 3 days to make sure they are definitely dry otherwise you could burn yourself testing if the shorts are still wet.
 But you can add more items to your shorts! Lots of DIY and accessory stores sell chains, studs and gems which you can sew or glue onto your shorts. Even though studding may take a lot of time it make shorts look even better and shop bought. You can write or design anything using the gems/studs! For example your initial, just covering a pocket or making designs like a cross or a skull. Id recommend HobbyCraft for their choice in clothes decorations.
 Blue isn't enough this summer and colour range all over the rainbow! Fabric dye can be very easy to get hold of and its not expensive either, you can buy fabric dye at all hobby stores or general DIY stores. Fabric dye doesn't contain anymore bleach so your shorts won't get ruined.
 Lay shorts in liquid for 30 minutes then take out and lye on newspaper to prevent staining. Leave shorts to dry naturally without any heat and there you have it! Your own pair of bleached, distressed jeans! Enjoy!

,