 Some suggestions include reading books, drawing/painting, learning simple arithmetic, engaging in basic grammar exercises, learning a foreign language, picking up an instrument, and learning new vocabulary words through drawing pictures.


Feel free to pick up toys, games, art supplies, workbooks, flash cards, and other commercial learning materials for your children. You can also create your own or make them with your children.
Make sure this is quality time that you are spending with your children, so sit down with them and watch as they complete the activity. Don't hand them a book and walk away. Even if they are capable of reading on their own, it's more fun for them if they have your company, so let them read aloud to you.






Children love spending time with and getting the attention of their parents. If you can let "academic time" be a regular and fun part of their routine, your children will associate learning and teaching others with satisfying feelings.;
, Tell them that the hour right after school must be set aside for homework time, but they are free to play earlier if they finish their work earlier.


Instead of making your kids work right after school, you can also designate a set amount of free time and then schedule the hour of work time. It's usually easier to get the kids inside to do homework before they've begun to romp around outside, however.
Scheduling a routine "work period" for each day of the week at an early age is important because their homework is relatively easy and enjoyable. As young children are malleable, they will gladly follow your guidance and complete their homework right after school. If you continue to enforce this as they age, they will begin to want to set aside this time on their own in the future.
On weekends, you should also set aside an hour (e.g., 3 p.m. - 4 p.m.) for your kids to complete homework assigned by the school or academic work prepared by you. This would be a great time to continue activities mentioned in step 1.
 Late elementary school or early middle school (5th - 7th grade) is a good time to do this, depending on how quickly your children mature.


Start by reminding them to start their homework right after school, but don't micromanage the process of how they choose to complete it. You don't necessarily need to know what all their homework is before they do it. However, you may want to continue checking their assignment sheets and knowing the due dates to ensure that your children are completing the work.
In middle school, your children will begin to have homework from multiple classes with various due dates. Discourage them from starting an assignment the night before it's due. Instead, make sure that they do a little bit of work every day. This way, they will be forced to start their assignments early.
 Do they continue to complete their homework after school without your prompting? If so, congratulations: you have successfully instilled effective study habits! If not, punish them for their irresponsibility and continue to monitor their work time as necessary.


Tell your children that if they show self-initiative in completing their work and therefore can earn your trust to manage their work independently, you will reward them by backing off.
 Suggestions include:


Writing down every task in a to-do list or agenda booklet with the due date
For long-term projects, setting due dates for certain stages of the projects before the actual final due date






Making flash cards for memorizing vocabulary words, key figures, dates, foreign language concepts, etc.






Starting to study for tests at least three days before the actual day of the test to maximize retention of the material
When studying for midterms or final exams, dividing up the studying into units and deciding when you want to study each unit beforehand
Finding classmates to create study groups
Taking meticulous notes in class and reviewing them after school to reinforce the material early on (so that when the night before the test arrives, absorbing everything will be much easier)

, Even if you don't ask your children to divulge the details of their planning, your question will remind them to start ahead of time, create a plan, and finish early. You should continue to show that you care about their academic success and that you will reward them for their good study habits.

