 Start teaching your child early about how to recognize a healthy portion size and how to serve themselves. During toddler years, present them with different sized spoons or scoops and ask them which is larger or smaller. Get them used to comparing portion sizes to familiar objects, like baseballs or card decks., Children under age ten should consume about six servings of grains, and at least half of that amount should consist of whole grains. Look for bread, pastas, and cereals that are labeled whole wheat.A day’s worth of grains could be: a baseball-sized portion of whole grain cereal or oatmeal for breakfast, a sandwich (with two slices of whole wheat bread) for lunch, and a baseball-sized portion of pasta with dinner.
Keep in mind that the portion sizes listed on a package may not always be appropriate for younger children. For example, a child between the ages of 2 and 3 will only need half the portion that is indicated for an adult.Adapt the portion size for your child as needed.
Make sure to teach your child how to recognize when they are full and allow them to stop eating when they get full., Younger children (ages 2 to 6) need three servings of vegetables per day and older children (ages 7 and up) need four servings of vegetables per day. Try to mix up the veggies you serve by color and kind.In other words, try to serve a combination of leafy greens (lettuce, kale, or broccoli), orange veggies (carrots, peppers, or squash), and legumes (beans or peas). You and your family don’t have to have all the veggie groups every day, but try to have at least of portion of each every week.A day’s worth of veggies by portion size could be: 3/4 cup (180 mL) of vegetable juice (like tomato juice) with breakfast, a baseball-sized portion of mixed green salad or carrot sticks with lunch, and a baseball-sized amount of squash or medium-sized sweet potato with dinner.
 Your child under ten needs two servings of fruit per day. Fruits offer great options for midday snacks, or can easily be incorporated to breakfasts.A tennis ball-sized apple, orange, or pear counts as a serving of fruit. A cup (240 mL) of 100% fruit juice will also do just fine. Mixing 1/2 cup (120 mL) of raisins or dried cranberries into oatmeal for breakfast counts as a serving of fruit, too.
 Your younger child (ages 2 to 6) will need two servings of dairy daily and older children (ages 6 and up) will need two to three servings of dairy daily. A serving of dairy is one cup of milk or yogurt, or 1 ounce of cheese. For healthiest options, go for low or nonfat milk and yogurt., Younger children (ages 2 to 6) should consume two daily servings of protein that should add up to 5 ounces. Older children should consume two daily servings of protein that add up to 6 ounces. The best sources of protein are lean meats and beans.A day’s worth of protein by portion size could be a piece of chicken the size of a card deck for lunch and a piece of grilled fish the size of a checkbook for dinner. Other healthy protein portion sizes include a ping pong ball-sized amount of peanut butter, one egg, and 12 unsalted almonds, which each account for about a fifth of your younger child’s daily protein need.

