 A primary responsibility of any teacher is getting to know the students and developing an understanding of their learning strengths and needs. Make an effort to learn all of your students’ names within the first couple of weeks; if you have trouble remembering names, you can make flash cards with defining student features. Another good trick for remembering names is to use popsicle sticks for class discussions; write each student’s name on a stick and pull them randomly during discussions. The student who answers is the one whose name matches your stick.


Keep a journal with reflections from each day. This will help you determine strengths and needs of certain students, as well as which lessons went well (or didn’t) and why., No teacher or student likes a messy learning environment. Between classes be sure to push chairs back in, straighten desks, pick up dropped papers or pencils, and organize materials.


Ask the lead teacher before doing any major reorganizations in the room. Many teachers are particular about where they like having things placed., Because your role as an assistant provides you with many opportunities for dialogue with students, you should practice how to provide assistance without actually completing work for the students.


Learn how to answer a question with a question; if a student needs help doing a particular task, ask what they remember about what they learned to guide them through getting their answer. Students remember more by figuring out tasks for themselves, not by being spoon-fed every step of the way., Most students love to see their work displayed publicly. This is also a chance for you to get creative. Your school should have a main supply room where you can find colored paper and bulletin board borders.


Gather supplies and get to work decorating. Let students know which projects you intend to hang up for display., When your class makes outings, there is a need for as many adults as possible to assist with keeping a head count of students and helping with various tasks like passing out snacks or lunches and keeping everyone quiet during guest lectures. You can also help students get interested in the field trip by talking about your own experiences (if any) in visiting the place where you’re going., Teachers can often use all the extra time during the day that they can get for planning lessons and grading papers. If you can cut down on the teacher’s need to leave class by walking students to where they need to go, she will probably be very appreciative., Teacher’s lives are often full of giving tests in order to keep up with district and state requirements. Sometimes when students are absent on testing days it makes it complicated for teachers to find the time to give a make-up exam. Offer to take students out of the room, to the library or other quiet area, to give them the make-up test. It can be extremely helpful to both teachers and students alike., Some teaching assistants are hired specifically to help certain students; in these cases you will find out immediately which students are “yours” to assist. In other cases, such as assistants for whole classes, it will be up to you to figure out which students could benefit most from your extra help.


During lessons, watch for students’ responses and levels of participation. The ones who aren’t participating as much or who look confused are ones who could benefit from some extra one-on-one assistance.
Ask to look through student records. Again, some records may be confidential according to the district, but you can ask what you’re allowed to look through in order to gain extra insight into the needs of specific students.
For students who do need extra support, or to whom you are assigned to in the class, be sure to provide support without hovering over the student. A student with extra special needs may become clingy to an assistant; in these cases be sure show your affection toward the student while also encouraging them to join peer groups and develop friendships., Students who are falling behind on certain concepts in class can often use some extra time with the material. When the rest of the class is ready to move onto the next unit, offer to spend time reviewing the old material with the students who need extra help. You should be able to find extra practice work in the room by asking the teacher., Remember that you are an authority figure to students, yet you do not make final decisions regarding classroom procedures. Remembering this balance in your role will help you to create a smooth classroom environment.


If questions arise by students regarding rules and you are unsure of the answer, it is okay to say, “let’s check with the teacher first.” At the same time, if students do not listen to you because you’re not the “real” teacher, it is okay to remind them that you are an adult in the class and you should be treated with respect just as any adult should be treated.
Always be a model example for students; do not participate in side conversations with students while the teacher is talking, and maintain your composure if a student is creating disruption. Don’t lose your temper or become emotional with either students or the teacher.