 To download SoundCloud songs, you'll need to use one of these browsers on your computer. Once you download the songs you want, you can sync them to your iPhone using iTunes.
 Use Chrome, Firefox, or Safari to open the page for the song you want to download. Make sure you open the page for the individual song, not an artist's page.


If the free Download button is available, use it instead. This helps support the artist, and will give you a higher-quality file.
 This will open a sidebar with a variety of different developer tools.


If you're on a Mac, press ⌘ Cmd+⌥ Opt+I.
 This will open the network timeline in the sidebar.
 You'll see that the Network tab resets, and various bars start appearing in the Timeline column.


The song needs to be playing in order to find it.
 Sort the column so that the largest items appear at the top of the list.
 It will usually appear at the top of the list, since it is almost always the largest file on the page. The file will not have a recognizable name, but it will say "audio/mpeg" or "mpeg" in the "Type" column.
 This will open the MP3 file in a new tab in your browser. You won't see anything but the playback controls.
 Once the MP3 file has been opened in a new tab, you can save it to your computer. Make sure to give the file a recognizable name, since the filename will likely be a jumble of characters. The process is slightly different depending on your browser:


Chrome - Click the Chrome Menu button (☰) and select "Save page as".
Firefox - Click the Firefox Menu button (☰) and select "Save Page".
Safari - Click the "Safari" menu and select "Save page as".
 After you've downloaded the files, you can add it to your iTunes library so that you can easily transfer it to your iPhone. Open iTunes and click the Music button, then drag the MP3 files into the iTunes window. This will add them to your iTunes music library.
 Once the files are in your library, you can quickly add them to your iPhone by dragging them and then releasing them on your iPhone that appears in the left frame. If you have Wi-Fi syncing enabled for your iPhone, you'll just need to be connected to the same wireless network as your computer.


You can enable wireless syncing by connecting your iPhone via USb and then checking the "Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi" box in the Summary screen in iTunes. You'll be able to sync your music and other media as long as you're on the same network as your computer.

