 Sometimes anxiety can actually be a symptom of some other illness. Therefore, your doctor should check you out first. For instance, psychological symptoms can be a symptom of a neurological problem. They can also be the result of a medication you're taking., Though it may be embarrassing to you to talk about how pervasive your anxiety is, your doctor needs to know the full extent of the problem. In fact, it might be helpful if you keep a journal of when you are having negative thoughts and the results, such as it stopped you from enjoying the moment or from going on an outing., Once your regular doctor checks you out, she will often recommend you see a psychiatrist, since psychiatrists are more qualified to prescribe psychiatric drugs. Therefore, if your doctor doesn't make a recommendation, ask about seeing a psychiatrist., Like you did with your regular doctor, you'll need to describe your symptoms thoroughly. You'll also need to be able to talk about their effect on your life.You need to be comfortable enough to talk freely about your symptoms. If the psychiatrist you see at first is not a good fit, don't be afraid to find another one., You need to approach this topic delicately, since the doctor may become suspicious if she thinks you came in just to get this medication; as noted, Xanax is often abused. However, it doesn't hurt to ask for what you want.


For instance, you could say, "I've heard Xanax and other drugs like it can help with anxiety. Would that be an option for me?"
Never lead with this question with any doctor. Talk about your problems first, to help establish that you really do need it.
 Another option is to ask for Xanax as a sleep aid in relation to anxiety. Some people take a very small dose before bedtime to help them sleep. Once again, never lead with a request for the prescription. First, describe how you have trouble sleeping due to racing thoughts or anxiety, then move on to asking if Xanax could be a possible solution.
 You may feel like everything is going wrong or is about to go wrong, and you can do nothing to stop it. Alternatively, you may feel a sense of panic about the situations in your life.Some people feel like they are always on edge or that everything in life can lead to something horrible.Some people have panic attacks, which are a sudden onset of fear that can feel overwhelming., Though everyone feels anxious from time to time, anxiety that is persistent and pervasive is a bit more serious. If you have had major anxiety in your life for half a year or more, you should talk to your doctor about it.
 Anxiety doesn't just manifest in psychological ways; you'll also notice physical symptoms. For instance, you may shake, sweat, or breathe too quickly. You may also have a rapid heart beat. In addition, you could feel very tired, or you may not be able to focus on what you need to do.


You could also have symptoms such as stomach problems, dizziness, headaches, or even chest pain.
 If you are just upset by anxiety every once and a while with few side effects, that likely means you don't have an anxiety disorder. However, if your anxiety affects your life everyday, whether by consuming your thoughts or stopping you from doing things, you may have an anxiety disorder.
 Depending on the type of disorder you have, your anxiety can look somewhat different. In addition, what triggers it can vary widely from person to person, or it may have no trigger at all.


Generalized anxiety disorder means you may feel excessive worry about your everyday life, even if nothing bad is happening at the moment.
Panic disorder is when you suddenly have attacks of fear or anxiety that often last for just a few minutes but can last much longer.
Social phobia is essentially a fear of being embarrassed. This embarrassment may keep you from doing certain things or going where you may want to go because you're afraid you'll do something embarrassing.
Focused phobias are a fear of one particular thing or several things; in other words, when you are exposed to your phobia, you have fear or anxiety.
 Xanax is a type of sedative.It belongs in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, which in turn are grouped under central nervous system depressants.Xanax essentially slows down your nervous system, which is why it's considered a tranquilizer. It does this by binding to receptors in your brain, slowing down your neurons., Most often, Xanax is prescribed for anxiety. You may also have it prescribed for panic disorder,though sometimes doctors are reluctant to prescribe it for this condition, as you often get panic attacks when you are relaxed.Sometimes, it is used a sleep aid in a mild dosage.Xanax can stop or lessen panic attacks.
Xanax can get you through a crisis, such as a stressful exam or difficult meeting. The correct dosage will get your anxiety out of your way so you can focus properly.
It treats the symptoms, not the cause. Xanax is not a cure for an anxiety disorder. Talk with your doctor about what treatments can help you in the long term.
 Xanax can become addictive over time.Therefore, this drug can be abused,and it has been a factor in many overdose cases.