 Having a full night’s rest before you present your speech will ensure that you are clear-minded and not tired when you present. Get 7-8 hours of sleep to ensure you are well-rested.
 Eat a healthy breakfast to give you energy for your speech. You may not be able to eat much if you are nervous, but you should try to eat something. A banana, yogurt or granola bar is good for a nervous stomach.
 When you are giving a presentation, you should dress for the occasion. Typically, you should dress nicely for a formal presentation.


Wear something that makes you feel confident yet comfortable. If you are too uncomfortable, you might spend too much of your attention on how your feet hurt or your neck is itchy.
If you’re unsure of the dress code, ask the organizers. Shoot for more formal over less formal clothing.
 Breathing deeply can help calm your mind, slow your heart rate, and relax your muscles.Try the 4-7-8 method: Inhale through your nose for a count of 4. Then hold your breath for a count of 7. Exhale out your mouth for a count of 8., Meditation is a great way to slow down your mind and be present in the moment. This will help reduce your anxiety over your speech by bringing you away from your anxious anticipation. You will instead focus on what is happening in this precise moment. Try this simple method of meditation:


Find a comfortable seat or bed in a quiet spot where you won’t be disturbed.
Relax your body and close your eyes.
Start breathing deeply, inhaling for a count of four and exhaling for a count of four. Focus your mind on your breath.
When your mind begins to wander, acknowledge the thought and let it go. Return your focus to your breath. Breathe in. Breathe out.
Try this meditation for 10 minutes every day to reduce overall anxiety. Make sure to meditate the morning of your speech.
 Visualizing that you are a successful public speaker will help you when you are actually doing it. Run through your speech and imagine how the audience might react at different points. Think about different reactions, such as anger, laughter, awe, applause. Take deep breaths as you imagine each of these reactions., Get your blood and oxygen pumping a little bit by taking a short walk or getting other exercise the morning of your speech. You will burn off some of your stress with the exercise. It will also give your mind a chance to focus on something else for a bit.
 Caffeine can contribute to jittery feelings, exacerbating your anxiety. Your usual cup of coffee in the morning might not make a big difference. But when you’re already feeling anxious, coffee or caffeinated soda can add fuel to the fire.Instead, try a calming herbal tea, such as chamomile or peppermint.

