 It’s been said that practicing for 10,000 hours on something will help you perfect a skill. If you can’t put in that kind of effort, you’ll likely fail. Therefore, choose something that you’re willing to put in time and effort to work towards.


For example, you’ll need a lot of time to train if you want to run a marathon. You can’t expect to run for a week and then have the endurance or physical strength to make it 26.2 miles (42.2 km). You’ll need to give yourself time in order to achieve that goal.;
, You may as well feel good about yourself if you’re going to put in all that time and effort to become an optimally functioning person. Choose to work on something that makes you feel good about yourself.


Perhaps choose something you’ve always wanted to achieve. You could also work towards helping your community, a talent you’ve wanted to showcase, or just something that helps you become the best version of yourself overall., Values are the ideas and beliefs that drive your life. This may seem like a no-brainer, but you're more likely to stick to a goal if you actually believe in it. Think about your personal values and then build goals that go in line with them.


For example, if you value family, you might have difficulty achieving your goal if it always pulls you away from your loved ones. Make sure your goals support your values instead of pushing against them., It's nice to set goals that help you improve on your weaknesses, but you're more likely to enjoy and commit to goals that focus on your strengths. Pay attention to the things you're really good at. Build your goals around these strengths.


For example, you might set a goal to master something you are already good at, such as a certain sport, a specific subject, or a favorite hobby. Working towards becoming better at something you are already good at can make your goals more achievable., Challenge yourself each week to get you closer to your goal. Set time aside each day to work on that task. Write down what you’ve done each day to hold yourself accountable. Long-term goals are necessary, too, but more immediate goals help you build healthy habits and boost self-confidence.

For instance, you might have a long-term goal of starting a business. A more immediate short-term goal might be to learn bookkeeping or marketing, which will help you achieve the long-term goal.
Don’t beat yourself up too much if you miss one day. Simply get back to it the next day and try to stay on track as best as possible.