 We can achieve this in many different ways, such as listening to music, changing our appearance, experiencing a recent success, and so forth. This sort of confidence fades away in a mater of days or minutes. No material object can give you self-confidence except yourself.

Long-term self-confidence is more of a state of mind. You do not receive long-term self-confidence just by receiving a complement from a stranger. Long-term self-confidence involves knowing that you look good even before the complement. It is a matter of knowing that you are unique and special. You gain long-term self-confidence by thinking positively about yourself. Achieving goals and accomplishments will help fortify your self-image and give you proof of your self worth until it becomes a fact to you.;
, When you think about it, doesn't it sound silly to be so concerned about what someone, let alone a stranger, is thinking? So many of us spend a good amount of time trying to please others so much that we get lost in their opinions and forget about our own. In the end, is this really making us happy? Pleasing others is a falsehood to happiness; humans crave attention, and that is alright, but make sure you get it from yourself first.


We are afraid of displeasing others and crave approval. Are my clothes in fashion? Is my skin perfect enough? These anxieties make us jump in a safety net and do what is "in" and not what we necessarily want. We end up not doing what we want to do or liking what we want to like because we are fearful about perceptions.
 Trying to please others can become a tiresome circle. No one wants to be judged, but if you do everything a person wants of you, someone new will come along and tell you that you have it all wrong. The only way to stop caring what others think is to make a decision to stop caring. You will find that most people around you are too wrapped around themselves to even find the time to judge you. Not to mention, everyone's opinion is just an opinion. There are an infinite amount opinions in this world. The only way to be happy is to stick with your opinion. Everyone is different, so embrace it.
 Being positive is one of the many ways to gain long-term self-confidence. Most people think you have to feel happy to think happy, but they are wrong. It is simpler than that. What you think can have an effect on your mood. If you focus on positive thoughts, your mood will adjust to match those thoughts. Yes, your situation in life can affect the way you think, but you can learn to control your thoughts and live as a positive thinker. This way you worry far less about mistakes, judgments, or disapproval by others. A person is only capable of thinking one thought at a time, so it is your choice to make that thought positive or negative. Never put yourself down.
 When you start smiling, your cheeks will send a message to your brain telling it to let happiness hormones release, which stops the production of stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline.
 Look in the mirror and find one thing, or as many things as you can, that you like about your appearance. Maybe it is your eye color or your nose. Whatever it is, remember it and use it to your advantage. Whenever you start thinking negatively about your appearance, push those thoughts away by replacing them with something that you like about yourself.


Write down a list of ten things you like about your personality. Then write three things that you have accomplished in your life. Remember these traits and accomplishments and look back to the list whenever you find it difficult to stop thinking negatively.
Brush off negative situations and focus on your accomplishments and the things you like about yourself.



Smile
Stand straight
Speak clearly and slowly
Listen with ears and eyes
Walk with your head high
Look clean.

