 Encoders convert your webcam's video feed into a customized live stream which usually has much better quality than the in-site encoders that online streaming platforms provide. Using your own encoder will give you more options and higher quality video and sound. If you want complete control over your broadcast, you should consider using an encoder. Here are some of the best encoder programs available:


Open Broadcaster Software (OBS) is a free, open-source encoder that is highly customizable and easy to use, though it is not as professional as some encoders. It easily streams to popular hosts like Twitch, YouTube, Hitbox etc... Open Broadcaster is one of the best options for a free encoder.Flash Media Live Encoder (FMLE) is also free and offers many of the same high-quality features as OBS. However, it tends to be a resource hog on your computer, so you will need a powerful machine to run it with a consistently high performance.Wirecast is a professional encoder that also functions as a video production switcher. That means it has far more features than both OBS and FMLE, which are both fairly bare-bones compared to Wirecast. Despite having more features, Wirecast is also highly efficient and streamlined. The downside is it costs $495 for the most basic version.Windows Media Encoder (WME) is specifically meant for PC which is its main positive and negative. The encoder is streamlined and optimized for PC but many people don't have access to a PC or want an encoder that works on both platforms. If you do own a PC, WME is solid choice, as it's free and can be used to encode more types of media, meaning you don't need a webcam to use it.
Whichever encoder you use will have detailed downloading and installation instructions.
 Encoders still require you to have a live streaming platform like those discussed in Method 1. Those platforms have their own encoders, but using your own can net you better results. Follow the same steps in Method 1 to set up your account and channel.
 Go to a reputable search engine and search for "connection speed test." This will give you a variety of options. Run the test and write down the upload speed for future reference.


The upload speed should be in Mbps (Megabits per second).
 The purpose of the encoder is to push your live stream to the limit.


Set the bitrate to 64 percent of your internet's upload speed. Tests have shown this rate to be the optimum balance between quality and compression.The bitrate determines the amount of information in each frame of video, so higher bitrates make for better quality. If your upload speed is 5Mbps, set your bitrate to 3.2Mbps. You can go up to 80 percent, but beware of visible compression artifacts that may show up if you push your bitrate.
Set the buffer rate the same as the bitrate.
Set the base resolution the same as your desktop. You can check this on your computer's properties or settings.
Set the output resolution based on your bitrate: 480p for 1-2 Mbps, 720p for 2-3Mbps, 1080p for 3-5Mbps, and 1080p HQ for anything over 5Mbps.Set your FPS (Frames Per Second) to 60 if possible. Check your streaming service to see if they allow 60FPS, because some only allow 30FPS.
Test your stream on various settings to get the quality and speed you want.
 Most encoders have most platforms listed as possible streaming services. If yours doesn't, select "custom." Your encoder should give you a stream key to copy and paste into your platform which will link the encoder to your live stream.


Every encoder and every platform does this differently. Generally speaking, you will usually be given a stream key or URL to copy and paste into your streaming service. If you have trouble finding this, go to the "Help" section of your encoder.
 Just streaming from the encoder won't make the stream live. You also have to start broadcasting on your streaming platform after you've linked your encoder to the platform.


Make sure the encoder stream is functioning properly before you start broadcasting on the platform.
You can change the source of the stream in your encoder's settings. If you want to broadcast your webcam, make sure "Video Capture Device" or some equivalent is selected.

