 Soften the butter to room temperature so that it blends easily with the other ingredients. The quickest way to blend everything is to use an electric mixer, but stirring your mixture with a spoon can be just as effective, though slower. Continue mixing until everything blends together into smooth dough.





;
, Scoop about 2 tablespoons of dough out at a time. Roll the peanut butter in your palms until you've created small, smooth balls. For reference, your peanut butter balls should be no larger than a ping pong ball.
 Line a cookie sheet with wax paper. After you've rolled all of the peanut butter dough into balls, place them in rows on the wax paper. Pop that into your fridge and let them chill for at least 30 minutes.By chilling the peanut butter balls, they'll maintain their shape better while you add the chocolate coating., Place the chocolate in a double-boiler and heat the water so that it is simmering, but not boiling.Continue to stir as the chocolate chips begin to melt from the heat. Once the chocolate is smooth and creamy, add the shortening. Continue to stir frequently so that your chocolate mixture doesn't burn.









If you do not have a double boiler, you can simply nestle a heat-safe bowl inside a pan of water. You can see how to do that here!
You can also very carefully melt your chocolate in the microwave. Put your chocolate in a shallow bowl, and heat it for one minute on medium high heat. Stir it thoroughly, and put it back in the microwave. Continue cooking the chocolate for 15-20 seconds at a time, stirring after each interval. Do this until your chocolate is completely melted., Once the peanut butter balls are thoroughly chilled, poke a toothpick into the center. Make sure that the toothpick can support the weight of the peanut butter ball without breaking. You will need to be able to hold the peanut butter ball with the toothpick while you dip it into the chocolate.

If you created larger balls or simply can't hold it with a toothpick, you can use a fork to hold the balls. Because they'll create multiple holes in the dough, smooth the holes over with your finger after you remove the fork.
 Dip the balls about halfway into the chocolate, so that they aren't completely coated in the chocolate. This will leave a bit of the brown peanut butter exposed, giving it the appearance of a buckeye.After coating the peanut butter, place the buckeye on wax paper, chocolate-side down. Don't forget to remove the toothpick.
 This will allow the chocolate to harden.It can be difficult to wait for them to firm up, but it's worth it! Remove your buckeyes from the refrigerator, and enjoy!









You can keep your buckeyes for about two weeks at room temperature, or a bit longer in the refrigerator. If you pop them in your freezer, you can save them for several months!