 Buy a paper tourist guide or download an electronic copy to your Kindle. You can also download a travel app, such as TripAdvisor, to use as you move throughout the city. Make sure that whatever you use has a good, updated city map that goes along with it. Going with an electronic option will help you to blend in and is less likely to mark you as a tourist., If you have the money, you can pay to have a guide escort you through certain areas of the city, such as Chinatown. Or, you can reach out to a volunteer guide group, such as the Global Greeter Network. Contact the NYC Tourist Board for more information and suggestions on individuals who can help you.You can expect that a volunteer option may request a donation. A casual tour given by a local, as opposed to a professional, may also be a cheaper option.
 Look for extended visiting hours at popular destinations, such as the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Sometimes they will stay open late on weekends or even on random weekdays. This can also provide you with another option if you would like to avoid hitting a bar or a similar place on your own., You have a much higher likelihood of getting a single ticket to an in-demand play or show than if you need multiples. Go to the TKTS booth in Manhattan or Brooklyn and inquire about which seats are available and when. Be prepared to be flexible and you just might get lucky. You can also go directly to a box office, although you may need to wait longer in line for this option.You will get the best discount if you ask for a single ticket to a same-day show., Browse NYC tourist websites to see which restaurants get the best reviews by single diners. To be the most comfortable, you may want to look for ones with ample bar seating and service. If you eat at the bar, you can blend in with crowd while enjoying your meal.It is also a good idea to eat breakfast at one of the many bakery-cafés spread throughout the city. You will likely feel less self-conscious than in a traditional restaurant and you can also enjoy some great people watching.
For example, Casa Mono is a Spanish restaurant known for counter service and large crowds. There is also plenty of entertainment as the kitchen is open for viewing.You can also choose to browse a grocery-laden area, such as the Flatiron district. Some of these mega grocery stores allow you to wander around and sample their wares., If you would like to avoid the hustle and bustle of Broadway, but still want to see a show, you might try one of the smaller theaters or even a more intimate music club. These spaces often get packed, so you can lose yourself in the crowd.For example, you could go to The Iridium to hear some original jazz. Or, perhaps attend a reading at the Poetry Project.
 NYC is home to a wide array of green spaces that will give you plenty of spaces to roam around and relax. Some of the spaces, like Central Park, can get rather crowded, but you can usually find more secluded and quiet areas a bit deeper in. You could even grab some finger food to go at a local restaurant and have a picnic.Shakespeare Garden is a good example of a more secluded space and is generally more quiet than its crowded counterparts., Hit a thrift store on the Lower East Side if you are looking for a bargain. Or, perhaps visit a shop specializing in vintage records, such as Black Gold Records. Many vintage shoppers choose to “hunt” alone, so this is a great way to spend your time if you’d like to blend in when solo.