 Even if you think it's garbage, the girls go to clubs and parties all the time. This should give you some ideas for decorations, food, dress, etc.;
, This can be any colors you want, although yellow, green, brown, or orange aren't really ideal. Try something like pink/black, red/black, silver/red/black, gold/pink, purple/white, purple/black, etc. Be creative!

, If it is going to be a dance party, over 25 people.
 This should be big enough to hold all the people you want to invite. Look around for some places that hold formals, proms, and dance parties like yours. Some people even have theirs in a church.
 This should be a date where most of your friends are in town and sometime around your birthday. If it is a dance party, often at night, choose a time such as 6 PM- 10 PM.
 If you are making paper invites, make them either colorful and fun or simple and classy. Use the colors you chose for the color theme. You want them to look nice, though, not messy! These should include: A 5-10 word intro (i.e. "You're Invited To Lilly Povich's 17th Birthday Party!), the date, the time, instructions to the venue (if necessary), and any other information such as DRESS CODE, the food, the activities, etc. All of the above goes for any other invite method, such as Facebook, text message, etc.
 For this type of party, doing a formal dress code, such as dresses/skirts and heels for girls and suits or shirts and ties for guys would be ideal. Something formal and slightly dressy. In The Hills, the girls wear dresses and the guys wear sports jackets.
 Or, you can make a disc of your favorite songs and play it in a CD player with big speakers!

, These should be very party-esque! You should have at least a set of strobe lights, a disco ball, and some tablecloths on the tables. You may also want to include a "Security Guard" (or two). These "Security Guards" can be your dad, uncle, cousin, best friend, etc.. They should guard the door and make sure no one gets in that's not allowed like at a real club. You may also want to give one of them a list of all the guests that should be attending, so they can check the list for each person so no unwanted guests get in! \You can also set up some chairs or even a couch and a fake bar to simulate the nightclub experience. Set up four areas: one for food, one for gifts, one for dancing, and one for sitting/mingling. The food should be on a cloth table

, Chips, salsa, any type of Hors d'oeuvres, and fruit/veggie platters is a good idea. For drinks, Mocktails (fake and non-alcoholic cocktails) and other "virgin drinks" if you are underage. If you want, you can even serve Pizza.
 Make sure it has enough room for everything and everyone.
 Get supplies, food, decorations, tablecloths, whatever you need! It may help to make a list!

, and it's clean and fits you well.
 Put up everything but the food.
 Style it however you like! Get dressed and head off to the venue to set up!

,, Be sure to send thank you cards to everyone who gave you gifts!!

