 For this method, which makes a trampoline that automatically shoots you up, you'll need a sticky piston block. You can make this from a slime ball and a normal piston.To make a normal piston, craft it from the following at a crafting table:Top row: Three wood planks

Middle row: Cobblestone, iron ingot, cobblestone

Bottom row: Cobblestone, redstone, cobblestone





, Place the sticky piston facing up. On top of it, build a flat layer of slime blocks. You'll probably want at least a 3x3 square so that you can land on the trampoline easily.



Note: If you're giving your trampoline a frame, be sure to make it out of obsidian. Most other building materials will stick to the slime when the piston moves it up.
 Now, you need to start building the mechanism to power the piston. Make a two-block high wall on opposite sides of the trampoline. Put a row of tripwire hooks on the inside of each wall facing each other.


You can craft a tripwire hook by arranging an iron ingot above a wooden stick above a wooden plank at a crafting table., Stretch string from one hook to the one directly across from it. Repeat for each set of opposing hooks. You should now have a set of tripwires that completely cover the trampoline. To get to the trampoline, you should be forced to touch the tripwire.


You can get string from killing spiders or by mining it from tripwire traps in the game., This is the tricky part. You need to connect the piston to the tripwire trap so that when you touch the strings, the piston will shoot you upwards.


First, wire the string traps to the ground with redstone. Redstone can move up and down one block at a time, so you may need to make "stairs" to get it to ground level.
 The front (the end with one torch) should point towards the piston. The comparator should be in subtraction mode.
 This circuit should start in front of the comparator (on the same side as the piston) and connect to the comparator from the side. Put a redstone repeater in the middle of this circuit. The front of the repeater should face toward the piston.


See this helpful video for a good visual guide. This article on comparators and this article on repeaters may also be of assistance., Now, if everything is wired correctly, when you move onto the trampoline, you'll trigger the tripwire, which will activate the piston. The piston will push the slime blocks up, shooting you into the air. The repeater in the circuit will cause the piston to keep firing, sending you up again and again. Congratulations! You've built an automatic trampoline.


Try putting a small pool of water (or some slime blocks without a sticky piston) just to the side of the trampoline. You can fall into this when you want to get off.

