 Clean your nail and remove any old nail polish, if necessary. Trim and file your nails into a shape that you like next. Finish off by pushing back your cuticles and applying some cuticle oil.
 This will make cleaning up easier. When you are done with your nails, all you have to do is wipe the petroleum jelly away, along with any mistakes. You can also use white school glue instead, just be sure to let the glue dry before moving on to painting your nails.
 This is a must. Even though you will be using white nail polish as your base color, you still want to protect your nails. The base coat will also help your manicure last longer.
 You can also use a warm, off-white color instead. You can use this nail art on every nail, every other nail, or just one accent nail. If you aren't going to do a plaid design on every nail, then paint the rest of your nails a matching color: red, orange, or brown., Dip a thin, pointed brush or striper brush into a bottle or red nail polish. Starting at the bottom of your nail, paint a thin, vertical line along the right side of your nail.You will continue using a thin, pointed brush or striper brush for the rest of this method. If this is your only brush, clean it with nail polish remover before switching to a new color.
 Use the same red nail polish and brush for this step. Paint the two lines as close together as your can.
 Keep the line between the red line and the cuticle area. Start at the base of your nail, and move the brush in an upward stroke., Try to get as close to the tip of your nail as you can. You need some space between the orange and red horizontal lines., Try to get as close to the orange line as you can. There should be a fair gap between the brown line and the two red horizontal lines below it., Start with an orange vertical line. Next, paint a brown line, between the orange line and the cuticle area. For each line, start at the base of your nail, and move the brush upward in a smooth stroke. Remember to clean the brush between colors., This will help protect your nail polish against chipping and help it last longer. You can use regular top coat, or you can use a matte one for an interesting twist.
 If you use any petroleum jelly or white school glue around your cuticle area, now is the time to wipe/peel them away. When you are done, use a thin brush or Q-tip dipped in nail polish remover to wipe any stray nail polish away.

