 Determine how short you want to make your pants, and therefore how much length you need to hem. Use a measuring tape to decide how much of the length should be removed (while you’re wearing the pants). Typically, the bottom of the pants should be about ½ an inch from the floor, although this is dependent largely on personal preference.;
, Take the pants off and lay them out flat on a smooth surface. Use a measuring tape to measure the distance from the current hem to the bottom of the pant leg. This is typically about ½ an inch, but will vary between styles of pants.
 Use a series of straight pins to pin across the leg of the pant at the point you want your alteration to be made; this is the place you will hem the pants to. Then, add a second row of straight pins above the new-hem-line in the measurement you just took from the original hem to the bottom of the pants (normally ½ an inch). The original hem will remain intact through the process, so the second row of pins compensates for the small amount of added length that the original hem adds.
 Remove the first row of pins nearer to the bottom of the pant leg. These were used to give you the proper location for the folded pant leg - with the added measurement for the original hem. Save the pins though, as they will be needed for holding the leg in place in the next step.
 Turn the bottom of the pant leg inside out, and fold the bottom of the leg up to the row of pins that are still in place. Smooth out the fabric of the pants to remove any wrinkles and folds, making sure that the fold is even on both sides of the leg. Use the pins you just removed to pin the fold in place ½ an inch below the original hem.
 Use a straight stitch on your sewing machine to sew across the folded portion of the pant leg. Sew just below the original hem on the leg (it should be folded upwards and located near the top of the fold). Keep your stitching straight and even all the way around the leg, then tie off the sewing and cut the threads.
 There now should be a loop of fabric located on the bottom of the pants that you have just hemmed. Turn the leg of the pants right-side-out by folding this small looped section back to the inside of the pant leg. You have successfully hemmed your pant leg!

, Although you can cut off the loop of excess fabric from the hem, it is easier (and more practical) to simply iron the portion of the pant leg. Adjust your iron settings for the type of fabric you’re working with, and run it across the hem to flatten out the loop of fabric. Use plenty of steam in this process to make pressing the hem flat easier.