 They are self-serving, arrogant and a bit intimidating. They command people left and right, even when they are not in the position to be giving the orders. (See the Enemy Within, char: Charles Kawalsky);
, Be arrogant, but do not be a bastard. There is a difference.
 They are known for their elaborate clothing. Take a look at the clothing of people today if they go into battle. Tight, form fitting, usually pants. The Goa'uld (even the male personality ones) wear things like long dresses and loose clothing. They don't fight using strength and hand to hand combat because they have technology that allows them to pwn your face from afar. It's kind of ridiculous seeing that the symbiote gives the body increased strength and everything.
 They wore chain mail looking outfits showing no more than their hands and face. In the movie, Stargate, the guards wore schenti, sandals, a top (usually midriff bearing) and their totem masks.
 In today's world, that's your choice. Many people are starting to get interested in the older style of things, so you may not look too alienated if you went the elaborate clothing style versus the war mode style.
, They'd be very commanding and intimidating, blasting people around with their hand device and ribboning everyone into submission.
 This is the chainmail style that looks reminiscent of Ancient Egyptian style, but updated for the sci-fi look.
 They achieved the blend of sci-fi and Ancient Egyptian culture very well. I think it was probably the colors and the fact they wore actual loin cloths instead of a weird rigid schenti.
 Take an acting class to learn how to speak more fluidly and move in a controlled manner. Walk and talk slow as if the world needs to slow down and move at your pace. Learn to control conversations you enter into. Act mostly non-interested in other people and as if you have more important things to attend to.
 Acting like a Goa'uld can lead you to be loved by many people because if done correctly, you can come off very strong and sure of yourself rather than a tyrant and rude bastard.
 Apophis was not above making Sokar think he was all loyal and following of him. Therefore to be a Goa'uld you must be cunning and sneaky. Never let anyone in on your plans unless they have undying loyalty for you. Note: This can not be a person who is of very high self esteem or arrogant themselves, it may eventually lead into a battle of who is more powerful of the two of you, literally. Conceal your motives.
 Money is power in today's world. Money can earn you the loyalty and respect of people because they follow the person with the most paper in their pockets. These are the flunkies that eat out of every rich person's palm. Get wealthy and then protect your wealth. Invest and build a literal empire.
 So, do not neglect your followers. Goa'uld mostly played on their claim to divinity and using their technology to look Godlike. Unfortunately, this tech is not available to do that. So, do not treat your underlings like crap. That's why there are many revolts going along. Listen to your followers, do not allow them to get out of line, but listen to them. People will follow a reasonable ruler who is down their in the fray with them rather than a removed ruler who makes it appear as if they do not matter to them.
 Goa'uld are not real and neither is Stargate. Behaving too strictly to this list may earn you a beating from people who don't like your attitude. Don't pick up behaviors that you can't back up.

