 When a cat becomes lost and scared, it will often run to the first hiding place it sees. Search in dense foliage, under porches, in crawlspaces, and in garages and sheds. Start near the place the cat was lost and search outward.


Also check under in sewer drains, and inside pipes and vents.
 Many cats will hide and stay silent for a few days until they respond to your calls. Go back over the same ground near your house and have the person the cat will most likely respond to call out for them.
 Even a declawed cat can still climb, especially when scared. Look up trees, on rooftops, and in high corners. The cat may even have crawled into the join between the roof and the walls, if there is an opening there.
 If the weather is cold, your cat may get stuck behind a heating appliance, crawl into a heating vent, or even climb onto the engine of a car from below.
 Knock on the doors of all homes and businesses within a few doors of the location where your cat was last seen. Ask permission to search the areas around their buildings as well, again focusing on hiding places.


If there is any way for a cat to get inside those buildings, ask if the owner would be willing to search inside as well. Suggest searching for the cat yourself if they are not willing or able.
 Here are a few examples of how cats are sometimes trapped:Construction sites often contain pits, rubble, or equipment that could trap the cat.
The neighbors may have locked the cat into a garage without noticing. Phone neighbors who recently left for vacation, or have another reason for not returning their car to the garage.
Your cat may have jumped into a car, delivery truck, or moving truck and been driven away. This is more likely if your cat enjoys car rides or exploring cars.
 Your cat could be trapped or injured underneath furniture, in a locked room or closet, or in an area you rarely visit such as an attic or basement. It could even just be hiding, especially if there are currently loud, unfamiliar noises in your house or neighborhood.


Search recliner chairs, mattresses or mattress boxes, the chimney, dresser drawers, tangled drapes, behind the books in a bookcase, behind access panels, and behind appliances.