 Foil fencing requires rapid reflexes and lots of endurance. There is only one way to score in foil fencing - by touching an opponent's torso with the foil. Because the torso is such a limited portion of the body, opponents usually engage with one another in close quarters and the foil requires almost non-stop movement during combat.


In general, the foil is best wielded by an athlete who is shorter than average.
The foil offers lively, engaging combat for those who are nimble and can think very fast on their feet., Rapiers have long, narrow blades that are ideal for an offensive cut-and-thrust style of fighting. The edges of a rapier aren’t that sharp, since the emphasis is on the pointed tip rather than the blade itself. They can slash and slice to some extent, but their main purpose was for lunging and thrusting.


Details can vary from rapier to rapier, but in general these swords are thin, lightweight and intended for unarmored single-combat.
Rapiers were originally Medieval swords used by both the military and civilians., These swords originate from different time periods and cultures, but all of them feature a curved blade with a single sharpened edge meant for violent combat. They were sharp enough to slice off the limbs and head of an opponent in a single stroke.These blades could be used for combat in close quarters and also worked well if you were on horseback.
Even when wielded by an unskilled swordsperson, these swords could cut through most armor and inflict massive damage and deadly wounds., The katana was one of the sacred swords of the Samurai. It features a long, extremely strong blade that is best used in combat on an open battlefield rather than close in close quarters. It was equally effective when fighting on the ground as it was on horseback.


The blade of the katana is slightly curved, single edged and usually at least 24 inches in length.
Katana are some of the most revered swords ever to have been forged, made of very durable, high quality steel.They were and still are considered works of art.
 These Medieval swords featured long grips that allowed the swordsman to wield it with both hands. The blade was usually double-edged and quite long, but the sword itself wasn’t overly heavy, so it was a very versatile weapon that could be maneuvered quickly and easily.


The longsword could slice, slash, cut and thrust with lethal force.Wielding a sword with both hands on the hilt allowed the swordsperson to deliver very powerful blows.
 All martial arts can be dangerous, but the sword is particularly hazardous because of the sharpness of the blade. Train with good instructors and always handle your sword with the utmost attentiveness. One mistake could result in severe injury and even death.


Always keep your sword stowed somewhere safe when not in use.
Small children should never have access to your sword in the house.

