 Before you start setting up your tripod, it is best to know where you want to take your photo.Be sure the backdrop will work for your photograph, and decide on the direction you will want to take your photo.;
, Point one of the legs in the same direction that your camera will face. Doing so will create a space between the other two legs for you to stand. This will make it easier and more comfortable for you to work while focusing and shooting.
 Open the latches that release the legs and extend the sections. Start by extending the thickest sections first as they will provide more stable support than the thinner segments., If you are on an uneven surface you will have to readjust the legs until you can get the length just right. When on soft ground or sand, push the tripod legs all the way down until it is pressed against something solid.


To give the tripod some extra support, you can add some weight on to the center by hanging your camera bag.
 Some models come with a level built in on the top of the tripod. Otherwise, you can step back and make sure the center post of the tripod is perpendicular to the ground., The three legs of the tripod provide much better stability. Using the center post will make your setup less stable. Only use the center post as a last resort, or to make minor adjustments when you need an inch or two of additional height.
 Most tripods have a plate that screws onto the base of the camera and locks into place on the tripod. This allows you to quickly attach and remove the camera when shooting. Remove the plate from the tripod by using the quick release latch., Place the screw of the base plate into the hole on the bottom of the camera and rotate clockwise until tight. You can do this before you even go out to take pictures if you want to save yourself some setup time.
 Put the camera on top of the tripod so that the base plate is between the tripod and the bottom of the camera. Some tripods will lock the camera into place automatically, so listen for the camera to click into place.
 If the tripod has a release bar, lock it back into place. Be absolutely sure the camera is secure on the tripod before you let go of it. Even if it seems okay, wiggle the camera a bit just make certain it will not fall off.
 You may need to loosen a knob just below the camera baseplate to adjust the angle. Once you settle on the desired angle, be sure to tighten the knob to secure the camera in place.
 You will likely need to set your camera settings differently when switching from handheld shooting to a tripod.


Turn off image stabilization, since the camera won't be moving on the tripod.
Turn on mirror up. If you have a camera remote, utilize the mirror lock setting on DSLR cameras. The motion of the mirror can cause vibrations, so locking the mirror prior to taking your shot can help to stabilize your images.Turn off Auto ISO. Take your photos from the base ISO of your camera. This will help to reduce the amount of noise and give you a dynamic quality photo. The base ISO for most cameras is between 64 and 200., If you have a self-timer, set it to create a two-second delay from the time you snap your shot.This way the camera will have an extra moment to stabilize

, After all the time you have spent preparing your camera and tripod to capture the perfect picture, don't risk messing it up by bumping the camera or moving it inadvertently when you snap your shot. Instead of pressing the button on the camera, use a remote to snap your pictures., For example, if the shutter speed is set at 1/60 seconds and you are using a 100mm lens, you need a tripod. So if you're using longer lenses and photographing in low light environments you will like benefit greatly from using a tripod.
 If you need high resolution or oversized prints of your photo, you will want to employ a tripod use low ISO levels that will slow shutter speeds. This will help increase the quality of your pixels when you go to blow up your photo., Most photographers will employ a tripod when shooting landscapes to get the highest amount of details in their photos. Taking macro photos will almost always require the use of a tripod to take precise, close-up shots as well.Certain techniques, like time-lapse photos, will require the use of a tripod to get multiple shots from the exact same position. A photographer may also elect to use a tripod to create a motion blur effect, take panoramic shots, or blend multiple shots., Figure out how much you will need to move. Sometimes if you're taking pictures of sports or wildlife you won't be able to remain stationary to get the shots you want. It isn't feasible to keep moving and setting up your tripod, so you're better off to go without it. Instead, turn up the shutter speed on your camera to get your handheld photos as crisp as possible. You can do this by switching your camera from auto to manual, or from switching from "Aperture Priority" to "Shutter Priority" on you camera settings.Avoid using the tripods in crowds. The wide base of the tripod makes for a big obstacle in crowded places. Your shot could get ruined if someone bumps one of the legs. Someone might even knock over your equipment or trip and get injured. Instead, you may want to look into getting a monopod for photographing in such situations.
Skip the tripod when using the flash as the light source. Since a flash is brief you won't need a tripod when using it as your main source of light.
 Check the base of the camera and the plate on top of the tripod. Be sure that the camera will be able to attach to the tripod. While most professional cameras will work with professional tripods, not all products are universal.Be sure you check to be sure your equipment will work together.
 Flimsy tripods may seem tempting, but they will not provide much stability.If you have an expensive camera, the last thing you want is to have it broken because the wind blew your lightweight tripod over. Check the weight of different models and find one that is going to be sturdy, but not too difficult for you to carry around.
 Tripods may all seem to do the same thing, but some are better than others. Purchasing a tripod with a hook for a camera bag or built-in level can make a big difference in getting better pictures. Look over the knobs and feet on the tripod legs, too. Then assess the overall value of the tripod before deciding on your purchase.

