 Find an area that is large enough to house the car and is extremely ventilated. A good suggested area would be an open garage, but if that is not possible, outside under the shade is a good area. Avoid direct sunlight.;
, Gather the materials needed listed in the Things you’ll need section.
 Before applying any type of plasti dip to the car, it must be clean. The plasti dip is an overlay so it will form a separate layer on top of any surface as well as dirt, raised surfaces, or bird poop found on the car. In other words, you want a clean surface to work with.
 Personally I use Meguiar's Water Magnet Drying Towel, but you can use any terry towel. Avoid using shirts with designs or logos and paper towels.These will create scratches.
 Although plasti dip is already easy to remove, you would want to prepare the area. Preparing the area you wish to apply the plasti dip reduces the hassle of removing the over spray later. Using painters tape and newspapers, cover windows and any designated area that you do not want to get plasti dip on.
 As with any spray-on material, it will need vigorous shaking. Shake the can for 1 minute.
 For example, add a first layer to the hood, while the hood is drying add a first layer to the roof, etc. You do not need to start on the hood. You may start wherever you like.- important note! do not touch Plasti dip on car at any point in time during the process as to avoid any mis-painted spots. Plasti dip is safe to touch after curing. It is recommended to wear a mask and eye protection.
 This will allow the rest of the layers to bond and stick to the paint. Spray in a clean sweeping motion, making sure to hold the can 6–8 inches (15.2–20.3 cm) away from the area. Allow plasti dip to dry 15-30 minutes depending on climate, before adding the next layer

, The average amount of layers is 4-5. Any additional amount of layers is up to personal satisfaction. The layers after the first will be light  layers in which you will fully coat the area. Spray in a clean sweeping motion, making sure to hold the can 6–8 inches (15.2–20.3 cm) away from the area. Remember Allow 15-30 minutes of drying time in between each layer.
 Remove before plasti dip dries.
 At this point the plasti dip will take 4 hours to fully cure. At ALL costs, avoid any form of liquid, or any substance that may cause damage to the area. It may ruin the curing process.
 Spray onto emblems or grille only.    - important note! if the car is currently in the curing process, wait until car is fully cured before preparing the area. Spraying the car accessories can be done while painting the main body of the car.
 Follow respective car manual on how to remove entire wheel from car. Repeat steps 1-11 for the rims. It is completely optional to cover the rubber of the wheel as plasti dip is easily removable. But covering the rubber ensures easy clean up. (Wranglerforum.com)

