 Does your doll like fine dining or quick snacks?;
, Use a small square cardboard box to make the table as follows:


Remove any of the top flaps from the box. Leave the bottom flaps intact––these will be the top of the table shortly.






Turn the box upside down.






Draw arches of the same size on each side of the box. Do not draw them to the edges though––stop them about 1inch or 2.5cm from each edge and the top of the box.






Cut out each arch. You should be left with four legs that use the box corners and the tabletop still intact.






Paint or cover the table with paper or a tablecloth.
 Improvise with containers or small boxes. Choose anything that is wide enough as a seat but lower than the table. For example, turn a large yogurt container upside down or use small tissue boxes.
 Make a small sauce bottle and a small salt and pepper set.


Use things like the lids off toothpaste tubes, tire tube ends, etc. to make condiments from.






Alternatively, borrow things from your doll house.
 Cut out a piece of paper that is small enough to turn into a doll size menu. Write down the dishes that your restaurant serves, in small print.


You could also design this on your computer and print it off.
 You can borrow miniature food from your toy box or doll house, or you can make it from paper, molding clay or anything else you can think of.
 Use a box for this area, making it tall enough for a doll to stand behind and use the cashier's till. For the till, either print off a picture of one from the Internet and stick to a small box, or make one by drawing it.


Add a bowl of chocolates or mints next to the till.
 Use fake plants from your toy box.
 This step is optional; if you have a miniature TV set, you might like to include it. This is more likely to be suitable for a diner rather than a restaurant.
 If you have child or baby dolls, you might like to include a children's play area using small toys. If you have a toy high chair, add this to the setup too.
 Make a uniform for her, with an apron.


She'll also need a notebook for taking orders and a check or bill book.
 If you want to make a kitchen area, you could also do this. It would faster to use existing kitchen toys to make up this area.
 Have the customers come in and have your AG dolls work and dine in the restaurant.


If you only have one AG doll, decide whether she'll be a guest or the waitress and use other dolls and toys to play the other roles.

