 Whether you are the buyer or seller, understanding the financial aspect of a real estate deal is the single most important thing when negotiating.


If you are the seller, you should know what financing you would be willing to accept and you should have the evidence to support your claim. For example, you may only be willing to negotiate with buyers that have been pre-approved for a mortgage that would cover the price of your home, minus any down payment the buyers can make. Put another way, you may only want to negotiate with potential buyers that you know have access to the funds and loans necessary to purchase your home.
If you are the buyer, you need to understand that a lot of sellers accept deals based on your financing arrangements. Therefore, if you have not secured financing for the purchase, you may not even get to the negotiating table. In addition, you will want to show the sellers that the financing you have is secure and stable. For example, being able to show the seller a mortgage pre-approval letter will go along way in securing a spot at the negotiating table. On the other hand, if the only financing you have is a personal loan from a friend, the seller may have trouble trusting your ability to pay.;
, The first step in securing financing on a home is gathering enough cash to make a down payment.A down payment will generally be at least 20% of the real estate purchase price.If you are a buyer, the more money you can put down, the more bargaining power you will have during negotiations. Sellers like cash deals and, in general, the more cash you have, the lower the purchase price will go.
If you are the seller, you should understand how much cash they are willing to put on the table. Be willing to work with the buyers if they offer more cash. However, if they are unable to offer a large down payment, you may decline their offer to purchase the property or request more money.
 Before you can get a home loan you will need to check your credit score. The higher your credit score is, the lower your interest rate will be.This is the case because banks and other lenders are taking less risk in loaning money to someone with a history of paying back loans.


To check your credit score, you can call Equifax, Trans-Union, or Experian.You can also get your credit report for free once a year from annualcreditreport.com., When you shop for a home loan, you need to know how much home you can afford and the type of loan you are likely to be qualified for. Allow lenders to estimate how much mortgage you will be able to afford.To do this, you will provide potential lenders with certain information about your credit history, income, and debts, and they will give you an idea of what you can afford.As a buyer, a pre-qualification letter can help you negotiate with sellers. This is great evidence that tells sellers that you are able to get financing., Once you have been pre-qualified, you can begin the search for a mortgage that fits your needs. When looking for a mortgage, you should look at the interest rate, the loan term, the size of the down payment, and the fees associated with each loan., A pre-approval is a firm offer from a lender to give you a loan.Once pre-approved, you will be able to make an offer on the home of your dreams, so long as it is within your finances.


As a buyer, a pre-approval letter is a powerful negotiation tool and it tells the seller that you are ready and able to make the deal.

