 After brushing the hair, make a part on one side of the hair, and then comb the hair towards the opposite shoulder. Gather all remaining hair to the shoulder opposite of the part.


If your part is on the right side, the hair should be over the left shoulder, and vice versa.;
, Take the hair in both your hands and pull it apart into two even sections. Make sure the sections are neat and no hairs are connected between the two parts.
 Holding your hair on the side of your head with both hands, begin the fishtail braid. Take a small section of hair from the edge of one of the outside strands, which adds a third strand of hair for the moment. Cross the third, smaller strand over to the inside of the other strand. This third strand now becomes part of the other section. You should now have two sections again.


Repeat this step with the other strand. Take a small section of hair from the edge of section you haven't taken hair from, which creates a third strand. Cross this third strand over to the inside of the first strand. The third strand now becomes part of the first section. You have two sections again.Pull tight by pulling the two strands away from each other.
 Add a small section of hair from the outside of the strands and cross them over to the inside of the other strands as you did in Step 3. Make sure to tighten after completing each level along the plait.


Fishtail braids will appear to be an inverted braid. There are only two strands being woven together, giving it the distinct fishtail shape.
 Fishtail braids are most commonly worn in a slightly messy and slept in way. To achieve a messy look, lightly pull the sides of the braid to loosen them, making the braid look textured.If you are having trouble doing this braid yourself, place a hair band around your hair after you sweep it over your shoulder. It should be a side ponytail. Follow the instructions to complete the braid. Then, carefully use a pair of scissors to cut the hair band from your hair. It will give you the same loose look as if you braided it without the band. Loosen the braid after you remove the hair band.
