 You need to spend at least an hour each day playing the trumpet, but you shouldn’t dedicate more than ten percent of your playing time to high notes. That means if you practice for an hour a day, only six minutes of your practice should be devoted to improving your range. That’s because being able to effortlessly play notes in the mid range actually improves your high range. It’s twice as hard to play a C above the scale as it is to play the middle C tuning note. The easier it is for you to hit middle C, the easier it will be to play high C., Practicing lip slurs helps to develop your lip strength, and it is the key to learning and being able to maintain high notes. You can find lip slur exercises online, or you can do something as simple as slurring up and down a chromatic scale. In fact, slurring the chromatic scale is a great way to train your ear to hear sharpness and flatness on higher notes. Because you are playing a series of notes each just half a step apart, you should hear if one of the notes isn’t in tune., Playing high notes is a challenge, but playing high notes in tune can be even more difficult. When you’re working on your range, keep an electric tuner on your stand, and make adjustments to lip, tongue, and mouth position as well as airflow, if you notice your pitch becomes flat or sharp on high notes.


A good way to start is to slur up and down a chromatic scale. Because you are not tonguing to change the note, you really have to concentrate on adjusting the mouth and airflow to hit the notes.
You may also want to try playing a melody you’re familiar with up one or more octaves. Because your ear is already trained to recognize the melody, you are more likely to hear when the pitch goes sharp or flat.
You can also try out some trumpet standards that have high notes such as "Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy" or Chuck Mangione's classic "Feels so Good.", When you're learning a new skill or sharpening skills you possess, it’s important to find a support system of other trumpet players. It’s sometimes difficult to assess your own skill level, especially as you’re learning, so ask a friend who plays trumpet to sit in and listen to you play. If there’s a band mate who seems to really excel at playing high notes, approach them and ask if they would consider working with you on your technique.


You may also want to consider hiring a professional trumpet instructor to take lessons, if you don’t already do so. These professionals offer essential advice and practice tips to help you improve every aspect of your trumpet playing ability including your range. Additionally, lessons help you stay accountable to investing time to practice every day.

