 The blade of a wiper is made of rubber; thus, it will naturally wear out after several months of wiping off snow, rain, and dust, from your windshield.;
, Some consumers will take the car to an auto maintenance garage and ask the mechanic to change the rubber blades, or the whole wiper blade. The new blade will likely cost from fifteen to twenty dollars, plus a fair labor cost of around ten or twenty dollars. The alternative is to buy the wiper blades from chain store, or from the internet and install them yourself (an easy process).
 In general, windshield wiper blades are made with three basic parts:


1. The lower metal arm is the part that extends from the base of the windshield;
2. The wiper blade is the part attached to the metal arm; and
3. The rubber blade is the part that actually wipes the snow, rain or dust off the windshield glass for you.
 Many modern cars have curved windshields, so the blade needs to curve too, to make good contact as it wipes. There are many brands of wiper blades with various kinds of packaging, some of which you can see through and some of which you can't. Straight wiper blades are suitable for car with a flat windshield, while slightly curved wiper blades may be more suitable for car with streamline windshield.
 You can measure the length of each blade yourself, but in general, most places that sell wiper blades provide a manual where you can look up the lengths for your car make and model.
 Many wiper blade brands include more than one adapter type in their packaging. These are designed to make the blades compatible with various types of metal arm.
 Different kinds of wiper blades can range in price dramatically. Do a little comparison shopping to figure out what wipers fit your price range and are still of good quality.
 When you're ready with your new blades, you can install them yourself to save labor costs of a mechanic. The process is simple, as outlined in this section.
 Be careful, since the metal arm is spring loaded and could snap back and crack the glass.
,, The cloth also protects the glass from being scratched, if for some reason the wipers unexpectedly swipe.
, See the insert in the package for detailed installation instructions.
