 You might want to make a music video, a dramatic series, or a movie parody. Figuring out the kind of film you want to make is the best way to get started. Then you can focus on how to create the environments and characters you will need to tell the story.
 That's the best way to make your movie a good one. Get your creative juices flowing and write a creative plot. Once you have an idea where the story is going, you can figure out how you want to film it.


Keep your characters manageable. Don't make too many or your viewers will have a hard time remembering who is who. Also, try to make sure you characters don't appear too similar. Make them visually unique in their appearance to avoid confusion.
 Creating a storyboard can help you to figure out your camera angles and progression of scenes before you spend a whole bunch of time setting them up. Draw your ideas on paper first and take your time. A well thought out story will keep viewers interested.
 You probably don't want to use the same two angles, so figure out where you want your cameras to be. You can set up to five different camera angles, and record as you pan from one camera to another.


Press Tab on your keyboard.
Move your Sim to the location you would like to place a camera.
Press "CTRL + 5" (You can also select 6, 7, 8, or 9 to set up multiple cameras).
Move away from the location, then press "5" to see the camera pan to that location.
 The Sims 3 has hot keys to make capturing the on-screen action even easier than before. Take your time with filming because this is one of the most important steps. You might want to have your actors do a couple takes until you get the shot just how you like it.


Use screenshots. Press "c" to capture a still of the screen.This can be useful when you want to capture a Sims expression or posture and hold it on the screen for longer.
Hit the "tab" key to switch to cinematic view before shooting your scene., You can make them into a full blown episode or movie.


If you don't have video editing software, you can create a Sims movie with your clips on the Sims website.You can reorder clips, add music, transitions and subtitles, however, you won't be able to add voiceover.
 If you have video editing software you can add voiceovers to help tell the story. You might need some friends to help create different voices for each of the characters.


If you don't want to use voiceover, you can add subtitles to tell a story. You can do this through your own video editing software or through the free movie creation tool on the Sims website.
If you are looking for some music for your movie, there is also a pretty good selection on the Sims website.
 You can show it to friends and share it on online. You can load it to the Sims community or anywhere else you'd like. There are lots of great movies online, but if you are creative and take your time you can easily make yours great, too.

