 If you find a stripped hole, place a doorstop under the open door to hold the temporary drop of the weight. Remove the hinge with the stripped hole by removing the screws holding it in place from the door jamb and frame, and if necessary, from the door’s face. Dip an appropriately sized dowel into carpenter's glue and insert it into the hole – you can find these at any large hardware store. When the glue dries, predrill a hole with an appropriately sized bit, then replace the hinge and its screws., If you’ve gone through a basic check and tightened hinges, but your door still sags, your screws might not be long enough. Remove a screw from the top hinge. If it’s not 2 1/2 to 3 inches long, the screw won’t be able to reach the wall stud through the jamb and the door’s weight won’t be fully supported. Remove the old screws and pre-drill into the jamb and wall stud before replacing them with longer ones.Check the level of the door after replacing each screw.
When the longer screw catches the wall stud, it should pull the door inward. Make sure not to over-tighten.
 Make shims with thin pieces of cardboard, wood, or playing cards to fit between the hinge and jamb and help align the hinge and door. Remove the appropriate hinge, often the top hinge, and trace and cut out its shape from your shim material. Use the thinnest materials possible so you can add layers to the hinge mortise one at a time until the door is level again.You might have to install shims on more than one hinge. This technique involves some guess and check work. Adding or subtracting shims until the door is square might be necessary after each shim adjustment.
 Alternatively, you can also “mortise” one or more of the hinges. For this, you’ll need to score an outline around your hinge before removing it. Then, once you’ve taken off the hinge, you’ll carve out a deeper new pocket with a chisel.First, score the outline of the hinges you want to mortise with a utility knife. Remove the hinges.
Take the chisel and position it on the scored line perpendicular to the door jamb. Lightly tap the chisel to deepen the scoring a bit. Do the same around the whole perimeter.
Once you’ve finished the perimeter, use the chisel to make a series of cuts about 1/8 inch apart. The mortise depth will depend in part on how much the door sags. You want to adjust it so the hinge is mounted flush with the door.
Last, hold the chisel flat and tap it to clear out the waste. Replace the hinge

