 This is one of the most commonly used home remedies for getting rid of the pesky onion smell from your hands. After you've finished handling the onion, grab a stainless steel spoon. Run your hands under warm water while rubbing your hands and fingers with the curved area of the spoon. The sulfur in the steel helps draw out the odor in your skin and can eliminate the smell.


You can use any object that is stainless steel. Knives and other utensils are often made of this material. You can also rub your hands along your sink or faucet because they are often made of stainless steel as well.
They also make stainless steel shaped like soap that you can buy to keep in your kitchen.;
, Take about a palm full of coarse salt. Wet your hands slightly with warm water. Rub the salt all around the areas that smell. Then, rinse your hands with warm water. This should help draw the odor out of your skin.


You can also add a little bit of lemon or lime juice to the mixture. This will help reduce the odor and leave your hands smelling citrus fresh.
This method has the added bonus of being a natural exfoliation technique. Not only will your hands smell fresh, they will feel smoother and softer., One of the most widely used odor eliminators is baking soda. Whether it is your smelly refrigerator or shoes, baking soda helps get rid of odors all over your house. Your hands aren't any different. Mix baking soda with a small amount of water, forming a paste. Rub the baking soda paste into your hands, gently scrubbing the most odorous areas. Rinse and dry your hands well., Fill your hands with a generous amount of used coffee grounds. Slightly wet your hands. Wash your hands with the grounds like you would with soap. Rinse and dry your hands. Not only can this help reduce the smell of onions, your hands will smell delicious like coffee.


Make sure you do this method with used coffee grounds. Fresh grounds won't have the desired effect., Take a small amount of vinegar. Rub it into the skin that smells like onions. Rinse your hands under hot water and dry them. The acid in the vinegar can help draw out the odor in your hands.


Your hands may smell too much like vinegar after you do this. The good thing is that, unlike onions, the smell of vinegar will come out if you wash your hands with soap and water., Sprinkle dry mustard into the palm of your hand. Wet the area, mixing water with the mustard to make a paste. Rub it on your hands. Rinse and dry your hands. The components in the mustard can help draw out the scent in your hands.Make sure you use the right kind of mustard. Don't use a dried clump of bottled mustard. The kind of mustard you want is dry mustard. It is a yellow powder that is used in many recipes. It can be found with the spices in most grocery stores.
 Toothpaste often has baking soda and other odor fighting ingredients. Much like it helps eliminate bad breath caused by onions, the toothpaste may help with the smells on your hands as well. Put a dollop of toothpaste about the size of a pea in your palm. Rub it in to the odorous areas of your hands. Rinse and dry your hands.


Make sure you use the white paste kind of toothpaste and not the gel kind. The gel toothpaste does not have the same kind of properties as the white kind.
This method will also leave your hands smelling minty fresh.