 Choosing the right college is an important decision. The amount of financial aid you receive may help you narrow down your choices. Pell grants are financial awards given based on economic need to low-income undergraduates and some students seeking degrees beyond college.If you think that you may qualify for a Pell grant, consider the following:


Pell grants do not need to be repaid like student loans. Therefore, if you qualify for a Pell grant you can significantly reduce the amount of your college tuition with no further financial repayment obligation.
When choosing a college, you should check with the school’s financial aid office to make sure that they participate in the Pell grant program.
When researching schools, be sure to identify the Federal School Code for each school so that you can include it on your financial aid application. By identifying this information before filling your application, you ensure that your financial aid information is sent directly to those schools.You can locate Federal School Codes at https://fafsa.ed.gov/FAFSA/app/schoolSearch?locale=en_EN here.
 The U.S. Department of Education uses a student’s FAFSA to decide a student’s eligibility for federal student aid. In order to be eligible for a Pell grant or numerous other federal student aid funding possibilities, you must complete a FAFSA. You can apply for FAFSA online at https://fafsa.ed.gov and will be required to provide the following information:


Your social security number or, if you are not a U.S. citizen, your alien registration number;
Your most recent federal income tax returns, W-2s and other documents showing your income;
Bank statements and/or investment information;
Information showing any un-taxed income, if applicable; and
Your FSA id. If you do not have an FSA id, you can register for one at https://fsaid.ed.gov/npas/index.htm.
If you are a dependent student, you will need to provide the above information for your parents.
You can include the college codes for up to 10 schools to which you plan to apply.
 Once your FAFSA is reviewed, you will receive a Student Aid Report that is based on the financial information included in your FAFSA. Your SAR will provide you and the colleges to which you apply the following information:


The information that you included on your FAFSA.
The Expected Family Contribution, which is the financial amount the government expects you to contribute to your education. This number is used by colleges to determine the amount of your eligibility for financial aid.Your SAR will indicate whether you are eligible for a Pell grant., After you submit your college applications and you are accepted, the school will provide you with your financial aid package. If you were eligible for a Pell grant and the school participates in the program, then the Pell grant should be included in your aid package.


You can also apply to schools before filling out the FAFSA.

