 One function of the human resources (HR) department is to hire good staff for all departments. Be sure the HR department is staffed well.


Hire as many team members as your departmental budget will permit. The number of employees your HR department needs will depend on the size of the company you are working for, and the functions your department is expected to perform.
Hire specialists for each function, such as a Benefits Administrator, Trainer and Recruiter. Or, if you have fewer employees, hire Generalists who can manage multiple functions.;
, Make sure all the members of the HR department understand their responsibilities.
 Your HR department will run more efficiently if the company employees know which team member to contact for payroll questions, benefits enrollment, etc.
 The HR department has access to a lot of personal information. The department also handles sensitive issues such as harassment complaints and labor disputes. Discretion is essential.
 The company's workers as well as its leaders should feel comfortable coming to HR for assistance.
 This will help you cover vacations, sick days and other time off. No one will have to wait for help if one of your employees is absent.


Allow your department's team members to train each other. This will ensure everyone understands the basics of each person's job.
 Allow your HR staff to take seminars, classes and attend meetings that will further their knowledge of the HR field.


Suggest opportunities if there are areas of weakness on your team. For example, if attracting talent is something no one specializes in, look for classes or publications and recommend them to your team.
Keep yourself updated on the developments and best practices in the HR field. Join professional organizations such as the Society for Human Resources Management (SHRM), sign up to receive newsletters and network with other HR managers.
 Maintaining a professional and positive demeanor yourself will help your department do the same. This attitude will then spill over into the entire company.
 Complete reviews on time, keep your budget on track and report to management as required.

