 In order to provide the best care possible, therapists are expected to maintain appropriate boundaries by limiting contact with their clients outside of regular appointments.This includes, phone calls, emails, texts, and social media. If a therapist does not respond to your messages outside of work hours, then they are maintaining healthy boundaries. If you and your therapist spend time together outside of your scheduled appointments, such as going bowling together, then they are violating their code of conduct.If you are, for instance, in a relationship with your therapist, they are definitely in violation of ethical codes.;
, If you feel that you could not function without your therapy sessions, or if you feel that your therapist is causing you to have a dependent relationship with them, they are behaving unethically. For instance, if your therapist suggests that you stop spending time with all your friends and family and suggests that they are the only one who can help you, they might be engaging in manipulative and unethical behavior.There are certain cases in which a therapist will recommend that you stop spending time with someone. Listen to your therapist’s reasoning in each case to determine if the person they encourage you to stop spending time with is truly harmful to your physical or emotional well-being.
 It should never be unclear for whom the therapist is working. For instance, if your therapist is hired by your employer to evaluate your fitness for a job, they should let you know that (and should also let you know if they will be providing information about you to your employer). Alternately, if a therapist is a witness in a court case, they should make it clear whether or not they are advocating for (or were hired by) one side or the other., During the course of therapy, you will get to know your therapist – their likes and dislikes, their personality, and other personal details that tend to crop up naturally in conversation over time. But overall, when you seek therapy, the therapist should focus on you. If your therapist seems to emphasize themselves, their life, and their problems, seek treatment elsewhere., When you see a therapist, you should expect that the information you share with them will remain confidential. If the therapist shares information about you with third parties – insurance companies, teachers, or spouses, for instance – they are in violation of their professional role as confidantes.In some cases, the therapist must turn information over to third parties such as law enforcement. For instance, if you’ve committed a crime or if you are the victim of a crime and there is an eminent threat to yourself or others, your therapist might be required to turn that information over to the authorities.
When you begin working with a therapist, they should lay out the limits of their confidentiality and disclosure practices, including how their records are stored.
If your therapist does not share this information with you, you should not seek counseling with them.
It is important to make sure that you understand the confidentiality agreement between you and your therapist, and recognize that this has certain limits. For example, if you express a desire to harm yourself or others, then your therapist is mandated to report this. Otherwise, everything you discuss should remain confidential.

