 An ultrasound is a painless procedure that uses sound waves to visualize and create pictures of certain parts of the body.This test can only be used to diagnose aortic aneurysms.
 This procedure uses X-rays to take pictures of the structures in the body. A CT scan is painless and provides more detailed pictures than an ultrasound. It’s a good choice if the doctor suspects aneurysm or wants to rule out other possible diseases.During the procedure, a doctor will inject a dye into your vein that makes the aorta and other arteries visible on the CT-scan.
This can be used to perform a diagnosis all types of aneurysms.
You can have a CT scan done as part of your routine check-up even if you don’t suspect an aneurysm. This is a great way to identify aneurysm as early as possible.
 This procedure uses magnets and radio waves to visualize organs and other structures in your body. It is also painless, and is useful for detecting, locating, and measuring aneurysms.Instead of just 2D, it can create 3D cross-sliced images of the blood vessels in your brain.
An MRI can be used to diagnose any type of aneurysm.
In some cases, MRI and cerebral angiography may be performed together to support each other.
With the use of computer-generated radio waves and magnetic fields, an MRI can produce more detailed images of the brain’s blood vessels compared to a CT scan.
The procedure is safe and painless.
Unlike an X-ray, an MRI does not involve any radiation and is safe to be used by people who need to avoid radiation, such as pregnant women., This procedure uses X-rays and special dyes to visualize the interior of your affected artery.This will show the extent and severity of artery damage – plaque build-up and artery blockage are easily seen with the help of this procedure.
Cerebral angiography is only used to detect cerebral aneurysm. This procedure is invasive because it uses a small catheter inserted into the leg and guided through the circulatory system.
This procedure will indicate the exact location of the ruptured artery in the brain.
After the dye is injected, a series of MRI or X-ray imagings will then follow to create a detailed image of the blood vessels of the brain.