 If the person is a long-time or best friend, this is usually not the best tactic for ending the friendship completely. If you just want to step back a little (maybe going from besties to just friends, or friends to acquaintances), the gradual withdrawal can work. But if you want your oldest friend out of your life, you owe it to the friendship to have a conversation with her. Still, you may want to start the process by putting a little distance between you and her.If the person is in your life 24/7 (you have every class together, hang out in the same group, and involved in the same activities), you probably want to try the gradual approach. Telling her point-blank that you don’t want to be friends when she’s this entangled in your life will probably make a huge mess.If the friendship seems to be on its way out anyway (like if neither one of you seems to be able to find time for each other), just let it fade out on its own. It’s not necessary to tell her you no longer want to be friends.
Don’t cut her off completely with no explanation. Gradually withdrawing from a friendship is different from “ghosting,” which means you ignore her attempts to reach out to you and basically pretend you don’t know her. This is hurtful, confusing, and will probably lead to some drama.
Be aware that this method can still cause hurt feelings. Even if you don’t tell the person “I don’t want to be your friend anymore,” he or she will probably figure it out and feel confused and upset.
 When your friend wants to make plans, tell her you’re really busy. Homework, family, religious obligations—these are all reasons you can give for being unable to hang out. Be slow in responding to her texts and try not to talk on the phone as often. When you do talk, keep the conversations relatively short.


Remember, don’t be mean or abrupt with her. You’re not trying to hurt her feelings here, so just keep it light and say things like “I’m sorry, I’ve really got to run!”
If you’re uncomfortable pretending to be busy when your friend calls, then GET busy. Join a club or activity that interests you but not your friend. You can meet new people this way and have legitimate reasons for being too busy to hang out.
Spend time with other friends, reconnect with family, or even venture out on your own.
 If you used to tell her about ever interaction with your crush, or confide in her about family problems, start to dial that back. Keep your conversations surface level, sticking things like school work.


If she wants chat with you for hours about her boyfriend, try to find a way to avoid the conversation or keep it really short. You can tell her you're busy and can't talk, or that you only have about five minutes to talk before you have to be somewhere else.
 Immediately unfollowing and de-friending will make it pretty clear to all your mutual friends that you are severing ties with your friend, possibly before ‘’she’’ even knows that’s what happening. Removing her from all your social media makes your private decision to end this friendship public, and ruin the subtlety of fading out of her life.Instead of de-friending her, try just hiding her from your news feed.

