 If you engage in low to moderate intensity activity every day, your body will get used to that level of stress or physical exertion over time, making it less likely that the activity will aggravate your rosacea.You may have to deal with mild flare-ups initially, but maintaining a consistent level of physical activity will put less stress on your body ultimately.
In contrast, if you only exercise two or three times a week, there's a much greater chance that your symptoms will flare up, even if you're only engaging in low- to moderate-intensity activity.
 If you have rosacea, hydration is one of the most important things you can do to help prevent and control flare-ups. Hydration also is important if you're exercising, regardless of the intensity.Try to drink at least 2.2 liters of water a day if you’re a woman or 3 liters of water a day if you’re a man to stay well hydrated. You can use the urine test to determine if you're drinking enough water. If your urine is clear, that is a sign that you're well hydrated.
When you exercise, you lose water in the form of sweat. Weigh yourself before and after exercise to determine how much water weight you're losing. Drink a large glass of water (between 16 and 20 ounces) for each pound of fluid you lose during exercise.
 Foods that are common in the typical Western diet, such as pizza, salad dressings, and processed meats like sausage, contain inflammation-causing omega-6 fatty acids that increase the odds of a flare-up.Try to stay away from foods that are known to cause rosacea, such as dry fermented foods, spicy foods, vinegar, alcohol, fruits and vegetables, dairy, soy, liver, chocolate, cheese, and food high in histamines.
Replace these foods with foods that have more omega-3 fatty acids, such as grass-fed organic meat and dairy and wild fish.
Fish oil and flax oil reduce inflammation, but vegetable oils such as corn or sunflower oil promote inflammation. This means you should avoid fried foods that are cooked in these oils.
 Any stimulants or diuretics, such as caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol, can wreak havoc on your skin and cause flare-ups. Additionally, they can cause vascular dilation and inflammation of your skin.Diuretics cause dehydration, which can cause your skin to break out or rosacea symptoms to flare up, even if you are drinking plenty of water. Caffeine and alcohol have a diuretic effect.
 Rosacea is more than just a problem with your skin. Any allergies or sensitivities to certain types of food may cause inflammation that puts you at greater risk for flare-ups when you exercise.Some common triggers include yeast, alcohol and caffeine, dairy, sugar, processed foods, and trans fats.
Hot drinks such as cocoa, coffee, tea, and cider can trigger a flare-up.
Don't eliminate everything from your diet at once. Rather, start a food diary and eliminate one thing at a time so you can accurately gauge your body's reaction. If eliminating one type of food doesn't change anything and it's a food that you enjoy, you can introduce it back into your diet.
 Properly moisturizing your skin, especially when you have flare-ups, helps rebuild your skin's natural defenses and will make your skin less sensitive and uncomfortable for you.Stay away from chemical-based moisturizers and face washes, including moisturizers and face washes that contain alcohol. Choose products that are formulated for sensitive skin or prescribed medicated products.
Ask your dermatologist for their recommendations. They should be able to suggest good over-the-counter products that you can use without aggravating your rosacea.
 Your dermatologist may know of a prescription cream or lotion, as well as other medical treatments that could improve your skin and reduce your likelihood of flare-ups.If you're reluctant to try natural remedies, or if you've tried them and found they were relatively ineffective, you might want to try a prescription product to get some relief.
Tell your doctor exactly what you've tried or done in the past, as well as what specific activities triggered the flare-ups. This will help them identify the best possibilities for you to try.
It’s important that you work with your dermatologist to prevent flare-ups because the condition can worsen if it’s not properly treated.

