 Some online retailers may retain older stocks of toys or will know how to source them for you. Check out stores that specialize in online toy sales, and more specifically, that have a focus on discontinued toy lines, to see what they have on offer. It is also a good idea to check out stores that carry used toys in good condition.


You can use a site such as Flipkart or Andromeda.;
, There are quite a few of these around the world, and there is a big possibility that someone, somewhere is selling that toy you're after. The trick is to not look just in your own backyard, but to search worldwide. Some auction sites are international, while some are country-specific. This means that while you'll likely have no problems finding things on the international sites, be sure to also check sites available in the countries where the item was originally manufactured, especially if this is not China.


Some sellers specialize in selling discontinued or hard-to-find toys through sites such as eBay and Etsy.
 Such sites may have forums, trading places and other ways to connect with fellow fans or collectors of the toy you're after. Be prepared to either pay a fair price, plus shipping, or to give something of equal value in exchange.
 Sites that allow giveaways, such as Freecycle, are great places to check for old toys. Join up, then browse through the lists of freebies available in your area. If nothing is showing up that is relevant, place a "Wanted" request and wait. Someone may just have the toy you're after.
 These are the stores in out of way places, such as the countryside or a suburb with mostly elderly residents. They may still carry stocks long exhausted in the larger urban areas. Do a phone around of such stores, including country or rural toy stores to see whether they have old stock not yet sold. You can even extend this search to stores in other countries, where the toy may not have sold out as quickly or have been as popular as your own country.
 The item will likely be used but in many cases, you can often find old toys in good condition. In lucky cases, the item might even still be in its box, unused. However, this is a very "hit and miss" method, so you'll need to have a good eye for sifting through junk boxes and prepare to be disappointed a lot of the time.
 If the stores stock toys, there is a chance that your toy might be there, especially if it's a collectible. To save time, it can be easier to call the store first. If it turns out that they stock the items, head on down to check out their supplies; if not, keeping phoning around.
 If they deal in toys, it is possible that they might have your toy if it was discontinued in recent years.
 They might have online catalogs or it might be easier to call and ask if they have the toy coming up for auction and whether they know of a collector who might be willing to sell one.
 These are fun, so you can plan to go to one just to enjoy it. It might be a good opportunity to find that old toy. In many cases, there is a premium placed on the condition of the toy, including coming with its original box or packaging, so if that's what you're after, toy auctions are a great choice.
 Sometimes old toys get caught up in storage places or become part of liquidated assets of failed businesses. This is a long shot, as it requires turning up to all sorts of auctions that don't identify the stock necessarily, but if you like rummaging and think auctions are fun, you just never know what might turn up. If toys are mentioned, it might be worth going; even if all you get is something cool to trade with.

