 Thinner blades are more delicate and will require gentler tools to effectively blunt them. Thicker blades, on the other hand, may be dulled with heavier tools without as much worry about damage.


Generally speaking, you should use manual techniques for long, flimsy, and thin blades. Sanding machines work best for the larger ones.;
, An industrial belt grinder is the most effective, but a heavy belt sander can also work. You may want to consider using an orbit sander, as these are common tools and will be easier to control than a belt sander.Regular sandpaper may tear or lose its grit easily when dulling a metal blade. Emery can be used, but silicon carbide or aluminum oxide paper is preferred in a relatively coarse grit, like 40 or 50.
 Wear gloves and a mask to prevent metal shaving from harming your hands and eyes. Be sure the belt of the sander is running away from you. This way, if you lose your grip on the blade, it isn't launched in your direction. Then:


Position the blade above the top of the running sander. Slowly turn the blade into the sanding belt, so tip of the edge of the knife descends to the belt.
Keep a firm hold of the knife, so the motion of the belt doesn't fling the knife from your hand. Allow the sander to run against the tip of the knife to blunt it.
Alternate sides of your knife, so that your blade is dulled regularly on each side. Be careful when switching sides that your clothing does not get caught in the sander.
The motion and the angle of pressure you use with your knife will feel like you are folding the tip of the edge of the blade over., If using a handheld sander or sandpaper to dull your edge, you should clamp your knife extremely tightly in a vise. You may want to remove the knife from its casing so that you can clamp the entire blade in the vise. A loose clamp may result in the knife flying free and doing harm or damage. After the knife is secured:


If you have a directional sander, make sure the belt is running away from you. This way, if the blade comes free of the vise, there's less chance of personal injury.
Slowly lower your sander to the tip of the edge of the blade. Try to approach your blade on a slight angle.
Alternate sides of the blade. It may take some time before you notice your edge start to blunt.
Much like using a stationary sander, this motion will feel like you are folding over the tip of the edge of the blade., While blunting your blade, it's likely that small burrs in the metal have formed. In some cases, slight imperfections may have formed during the dulling process. Run your file back and forth over both sides of the blade to remove burrs, shavings, and smooth the finish of the blade.


If you notice visible irregularities in the metal, you may want to pay special attention to these spots with your file until the knife looks regular and smooth., Run your finger perpendicular to the blade so it brushes against the metal left to right and right to left of the blade. Use caution when doing this. It's possible that you missed a spot while dulling the blade, and you could cut yourself if you're not careful. If the blade has dulled acceptably, use a dab of metal polish to restore the blades appearance. If the blade still feels sharp, it may need another pass with the sander. You may need to replace your sandpaper several times during this process, especially if you have to perform this procedure several times.

