 In order for you to have a Gunslinger, you need to create a Novice first and level it until you have reached job level 10; otherwise, the quest won't be available for you to take and complete.


Make sure you have distributed your Novice’s skill points by pressing Alt + S; assign the points to your desired skills and then press Okay (a Novice will only have Basic Skills).;
, To get to Einbroch, talk to the Kafra to teleport to Prontera; from Prontera, use their service again to go to Izlude. Once you reach Izlude, head south of the map then follow the small bridge leading to east where an airship is stationed.


You're required to pay 1200 zeny to get to Einbroch.
 He's inside the building located at the center of the Einbroch, a huge box-shaped building found in your mini map.


Talk to the NPC in front of the entrance and tell him that you want to sign up.
 After enlisting for the Gunslinger job, you will be told to head to Payon Town to meet the Old Man.; he is found at the southern part of the mini map, just right at the southern entrance and a few steps to the east. He's an old man with long white beard, holding a cane.
 This guy is found at the southern part of the mini map, just right at the southern entrance and a few steps to the east. He will tell you to gather some items for him:


3 Fluff
3 Zargon
3 Green Herb
3 Rainbow Shell
1 Trunk
10 Shell
1 Milk
The Milk is a secret item; the Old Man won’t tell you that he needs it unless you gather the rest of the items and bring them to him. To avoid going back and forth between towns, just get 1 Milk in advance.
Except for Zargon, which can be bought from the Geffen NPC, all these items can be obtained from Prontera.
 Head to Prontera using the Kafra Service in Payon Town, and then teleport to Geffen. Once you reach Geffen, enter the building in the western part of the city.


Zargon is sold for 480 zeny; since you will be needing 3, the total would be 1,440 zeny, so make sure you have enough money for this.
You can kill monsters to obtain Zargon, but these monsters have higher levels; you will inflict little to no damage against them. The best option to get Zargon is to purchase it or to ask from other players.
 Right after you purchase Zargon in Geffen, head back to Prontera using the Kafra Service. Now follow the road that leads west until you find the Milk Ranch NPC (southwest of your mini map) and purchase Milk there.


1 Milk costs 25 zeny.
 Continue west then exit the city using the west portal. In the field, kill Fabre to obtain Fluffs and Green Herbs. Kill Chonchon or Pupa to get Shells.
 Now head north and enter the portal to move to the next field. You will find Stainer, which is a monster that looks like a ladybug. Kill it to obtain Rainbow Shell.


Make sure to bring a lot of red potions as these monsters have higher defense compared to other monsters.
 Now that we have obtain some of the items, it's time to head back to Payon Town using the Kafra NPC in Prontera. In Payon, exit the town through the southern portal and kill Willows for Trunks.


Be careful while exploring the field as the monster Wanderer haunts this place; it can kill low-level players with one hit.
 The old man won't tell you the secret item unless you hand in the other requirements. Talk to him to hand in the items and then keep on talking until he gives in, telling you that he needs 1 Milk.


Since you have already purchased Milk, simply talk to him again to give him the Milk and complete his item quest.
 Take the airship again in Izlude to reach the Einbroch. Enter the building at the center of the map and then talk to the NPC at the entrance. He will congratulate you for completing the test and then turn you to a Gunslinger.


For Gunslinger items, simply go deeper into the building to find the second NPC. This NPC sells weapons such as rifles and pistols, including ammunition.
Keep in mind that you need ammunition to use guns, same as how archers need arrows.

