 A variety of different materials can be used to make art and each of these materials will create a different visual effect. For example, sculptors can use stone, marble, wire or wood to create their art. Similarly, painters can use watercolours, oil, chalk, and pencil. When you are looking at art, comment on the materials or medium used to create the image. If you can't identify them, look at the label., In order to sound knowledgeable while discussing art, learn to identify the style of art. For example, some common and recognizable styles include abstract, realist, expressionist, surrealist, or impressionist. A piece of art that uses realism can be easily identified because the artist attempts to create an image that looks real, almost like a photograph.Alternatively, an abstract piece of art does not attempt to mimic reality and instead, can include random splatters of paint or lines to create a thought provoking image.
Familiarize yourself with the different styles by searching online for images of the different styles of art. For example, search for "impressionist images."
Visit museums, which often group art by style. You may find yourself in a room of surrealist paintings, for instance.
 The style of art can also be described by looking at the content of the image. For example, learn the differences between portraits (image of a person), landscapes (image of a place), or still life (image of an object) works of art., It is also a good idea to know some descriptive words that you can use while describing art. You can use them to describe the mood of the painting, as you perceive it:Dynamic
Intimate
Suggestive
Challenging

, You may have heard of renaissance art, modern art, or cubism before. These are a few different time periods and movements within art history. To talk about a work of art, check its time period. Consider how the historic moment impacted the way that art was created.


Consider the movements that were happening at that time. For example, Cubism was a type of modern art that was developed in the early twentieth century. Artists, such as Picasso, departed from the romantic and realistic artwork of the late nineteenth century and began creating more abstract images.Think about any major world events, such as war, that may be reflected in the piece.
Consider what was taboo at the time and place the art was made. Works that may not seem shocking now might have been, then, or vice versa.

