 Raising a newborn takes a lot of work, and it can be stressful at times. It’s important to communicate your needs - including the tasks you could use help with - to your partner or others in your life. For instance, if you’re feeling tired or frustrated, don't hesitate to say something like, “Honey, will you change the sheets in Cleopatra’s crib this time?”Meanwhile, playfully take advantage of visitors too. For instance, charge one diaper change per baby cuddling session.
Make sure friends and family are aware of your schedule and resting times, and let them know the best times to visit. You can even ask them to take over baby duty while you catch a quick rest.;
, Sounds good, doesn’t it? Well, make your resolution something you’ll enjoy by making a point of getting enough sleep in the coming year. You’ll be healthier, happier, and more productive. Work out a schedule with others in your household that allows you to get to bed earlier or stay in bed later if you’re not getting enough sleep.True, you may not be able to sleep through the night with a newborn in the house. Accordingly, don’t feel guilty about taking naps when someone else is in charge of watching the little one.
Keep in mind that the first few months will likely be tiring as you adjust to having a newborn in your household. Just remind yourself that this is short-term and that babies’ needs and schedules change every few months.
 Self-care is extremely important, not only for your own sanity, but to help you be on your A-game as a parent. Accordingly, make sure you’re getting your heart rate up a couple times of week, and don’t feel bad about the occasional glass of wine either, but be careful if you are nursing the baby.Even if you have to force yourself to take breaks, it's important to do so.
A bit of downtime - and even some pampering - can prevent the feelings of burnout and resentment that sometimes accompany the chaos of raising a newborn. Just keep in mind that this will take some planning and organization, so set realistic expectations for the early months.
 For instance, keep in touch with the great outdoors. There’s nothing like sunshine and fresh air to refresh both your body and your mind. Fortunately, getting your daily dose is as easy as a walk around the block. You can even keep two resolutions at once by exercising a bit outdoors.Even just twenty minutes outdoors everyday will improve your mental health, and will help keep your skin and lungs happy too - not to mention the importance of self-care.
Remember that it is fine to take your baby outside with you as long as you dress them appropriately for the weather.
If the outdoors aren’t your thing, find another healthy daily reward that you’ll enjoy. The health component, of course, is as significant as the reward component.
For instance, if your palate contains all of your pleasure cells, opt for you favorite cup of tea and a few minutes of quiet reading instead of a bowl of ice cream and an episode of SVU.
 Maybe you already have a resolution in mind, and you’re wondering about how to stick with it. The most important factor: make it more specific.For instance, “I will be the best parent on the planet this year,” doesn’t mean anything in concrete terms. “I will spend ten minutes every day reading to my baby,” on the other hand, sounds like something the world's greatest parent would probably do.
 More to the point, lean towards resolutions you know you'll be able to work into your schedule. Pragmatically, it's not realistic to make a resolution that requires a sudden, significant, or unspecified time commitment. You'll be much more likely to stick with your resolution if you can work it into the regular flow of your day, and this is easier with shorter, more consistent time commitments.


For instance, instead of committing to running a marathon this year, commit to going for at least a 30-minute run five days a week. If you can’t fit in a run, then go for a quick walk around your neighborhood with your baby in an exercise stroller instead.
This way, you won't wind up surprised by how much time it takes to train for a marathon.

