 India grants many different types of visas, depending on your reasons for visiting the country. The following are some of the visas you can get to visit India:Business visa. You should get a business visa if your company has business in Indiana. A business visa is not an employment visa. In fact, many people illegally use a business visa when what they want to do is work in the country. You will need a company’s letter which shows a bona fide reason for going to India.
Employment visa. If you have an offer for a job in India, then you can get an employment visa. You will need proof, such as an employment contract.
Tourist visa. You can visit India as a tourist and stay for a maximum of six months.
Student visa. You can get a student visa if you have been admitted to an Indian educational institution. It will last for the period of your course of study.;
, Your passport should be valid for at least 180 days from the date you plan to enter India. If your passport expires within the next six months, you should renew it before applying for your visa.


Also make sure that there are at least two blank pages in the passport book. The passport book should not have been mutilated or changed., Upon submission of your application, it will take a minimum of three days to approve the visa application. It could take longer, depending on the circumstances.If you are of Pakistani origin, then processing time could take much longer—up to seven or eight weeks.Each visa is approved individually. If a group of people are applying together (such as a family), then the individual visas might not all be approved on the same day.
 You can apply for an India visa by visiting www.indianvisaonline.gov.in/visa. Click on “Regular Visa Application” to apply for your visa.


If you intend to visit India as a tourist for fewer than 30 days, then you should apply for an e-Tourist visa, if you are eligible.
 You will be asked for a variety of information. You should gather this information so that you can sit down and complete the visa application all in one sitting:your nationality
your date of birth
your expected date of arrival
the visa type that you are applying for
the name on your passport
your passport information (number, place of issue, dates of issue and expiration)
your location of birth
your religion

, You will need to upload a photo of yourself to complete the visa application. The photograph must meet particular requirements:JPEG format
be a minimum of 10 KB but not larger than 300 KB
of equal height and width
have no shadows on the face or the background
the head should be centered in the middle of the frame, with the full head shown (from top of hair to the bottom of the chin)

, You will have the option of selecting an appointment date with the Indian Mission before submitting the application.You could also choose not to select an appointment date online but instead print off your application and schedule a meeting with the Mission nearest you. In the United Kingdom, for example, there are Missions in London, Edinburgh, and Birmingham.
You will select the Mission nearest you on the first screen of the application. After entering your country, a drop-down box will appear with the list of Missions.
 The amount you pay will vary, depending on the type of visa you are applying for and how long you intend to stay. The amount will be displayed when you finish your online application.The fee amount is non-refundable, even if the visa is declined or you need to withdraw your application., You will have the option of printing out the application. Be sure to. At a minimum, write down your application identification number.