 Try to speak more calmly instead of being full of aggression. When in conversations, wait for people to finish rather than shouting to get your point across.;
, For instance, assume that you had an annoying little brother who was just joking around, trying to get on your nerves. Instead of taking matters into your own hands and shouting abuse at him, you could speak calmly, leave him to it, move away and you will not be blamed and the person causing the problem will get bored and give up.
 If, for example, somebody asks a question and you find it so obvious, do not belittle them or expect them to know because they are only asking an innocent question and do not deserve to be subjected to your derision. You will not gain anything and, as a matter of fact, you will lose friends and people close to you and you will be disliked.
 Do not speak to formal people such as teachers, headteachers or even parents in the same way you speak to friends. You may speak to your friends in slang, with attitude and with swearwords, though you can still honour your parent/s enough to be polite and can respect teachers who take out time to teach you!

, Take responsibility for your actions. When you are young, it is tempting to shift the blame to other people, never experiencing the negative consequences. However, this is a disservice, as these can be the types of situations that prepare you for the real world and will teach you a lot about life. You cannot imagine how respected you will be if you can just swallow your pride and say "it was my fault, I take responsibility and I'm sorry".
 Immaturity is when you find it funny or cool to bully, take the mickey out of or be rude to people in any way. Treat people how you want to be treated.
 There is a difference between confidence and egotism. Learn from other people too and you will be seen as mature.
 Do the right thing but see how it can effect people and try to approach it differently.
 Never chose the first idea that pops into your head such as hitting. Violence is and never will be the answer.


Calm down and think "is it worth it?". Take a cooling off period by removing yourself from the situation and coming back later.
Ignore or walk away, resort to communication, not fists.

