 There are a number of different ways to get into the pigeon pose prep position. As the name suggests, this pose will prepare you for the full pigeon pose, or the one-legged king pigeon pose, which provides the ultimate stretch for your quads and hips.Get on all fours on your mat, with your knees under your hips and your wrists directly under your shoulders.
Roll your shoulders down your back in line with your spine, and make sure your back is flat like a tabletop.
 Downward facing dog is one of the easiest and most common ways to transition into the pigeon pose prep position. To move into downward facing dog from all fours, roll over your feet onto your toes and lift your hips up toward the ceiling.Both your arms and your legs should be completely extended, so that your body forms an upside-down "V" shape. Pull downward through your heels and lift upward with your arms, drawing your bodyweight away from your wrists.
 To move into pigeon pose prep from downward facing dog, lift your right leg and then slide or walk it forward until your right foot is flat on the mat between your hands. From this point, you can go into a lunge as an intermediary step if you want.If you want to use a lunge to transition, extend your left leg out behind you, staying on your toes, and lower your hips. Your right knee should be at a 90-degree angle in between your arms, with your knee directly over your ankle and your shin perpendicular to the floor.
If you're not planning on completing a lunge, walk your right foot over until it is sitting next to your left hand. Rest on the side of your foot so your leg will naturally fall in the right position as you lower into pigeon pose prep.
 Whether you're moving into pigeon pose prep directly from downward facing dog or from a lunge pose, you'll get into the position by lowering your hips toward the mat in a slow and controlled movement as you exhale.Make sure your hips are squared forward, with your left leg extended straight out behind you and your right leg crossing in front of your chest at roughly a right angle.
If you're just starting out, you may want to modify the pose with rolled blankets or yoga blocks to keep your hips in proper alignment. If you can't lower all the way to the mat, these props enable you to stabilize your body in this position.
Square your hips by moving your core muscles, rather than trying to force your hips into position. Work on lifting your back thigh without raising your knee off the mat., You can keep your torso upright, especially if you're just getting started and find the stretch challenging. If you're able to lower your hips all the way to the mat, however, you may want to deepen the stretch further.When folding forward, hinge from the hips rather than the waist, and focus on keeping your back as straight as possible. Fold forward until you can rest on your elbows with your palms and lower arms on the floor.
If you can do so without pain, you can lower all the way to the mat so that your forehead is touching the mat. Extend your arms out in front of you or cross them over your head, holding elbows.
 Hold the pigeon pose prep position for 10 to 20 seconds, breathing deeply. Then slowly raise up and return your right leg behind you. Lift your hips to return to downward facing dog.You may want to shake out a little before you repeat the pose with your left leg.
 When you've been practicing pigeon prose prep for awhile, you may find that you can lower further towards the mat.Try to slide your back leg a little further out behind you, keeping your hips squared towards the front of you.
You also can extend your arms out over your head and lower your torso completely over your front leg to deepen the stretch. Try backing out of the fold a little with every inhale, and then folding forward a little more deeply with every exhale.

