 Physically, taking short rapid breaths can cause an adrenaline rush. This may be because people often breathe quicker in response to danger. If you want to stimulate an adrenaline rush, try taking a few short and quick breathes and see if you feel an increase in your heart rate and overall energy.Be careful. If you feel yourself losing control of your breathing, stop. You do not want to accidentally begin hyperventilating.
 Action sports are a great way to increase adrenaline. Regular physical activity is also great for your overall health. If you're looking for an adrenaline rush, try something like mountain biking, snowboarding, or surfing.For an added effect, pick an activity that scares you a little. This can increase your adrenaline. If you're a little scared of open water, go surfing.You can also try engaging in team action sports, like joining a hockey or football league in your area. Playing a sport that requires a lot of physical exertion as well as contact with other players may release some adrenaline.
 Interval training is a form of exercise where you alternate between an even, steady pace and exerting yourself as much as possible. For example, you may spend 4 minutes biking at a steady pace and then spend 2 minutes biking like you're being chased by a wild animal. Not only can this cause a spike in adrenaline, you'll end up burning more calories and building your overall strength.When first starting interval training, go slowly. The adrenaline released will often make you feel like you can push yourself harder. However, you should stick to 1 to 2 minute intervals of intense training to avoid straining yourself., Simply switching things up can sometimes help release adrenaline. Our brains are naturally wired to fear the unknown. Trying something new can result in a sudden increase in adrenaline. Try a new sport or physical activity in place of your regular work out. See if you notice an adrenaline rush., Coffee can stimulate the adrenal glands in the kidneys, releasing adrenaline and triggering a fight or flight response in your body. This can lead to an adrenaline rush. However, use this method with caution. Too much caffeine too often can result in fatigue, leaving you feeling more tired than you were before your cup of coffee. If you drink coffee, stick to one or two cups at a time.