 If you struggle with feeling pressured to eat in a certain way when you are out with others, you may want to take control and suggest a setting that you find comfortable. You may suggest to friends that you all eat at a restaurant where you know there are healthy food options or food options that you are comfortable eating. Or you may recommend a bar that is close to where you live and familiar to you so you are not intimidated by the setting.You can also try rotating where you eat out with others so you get at least one meal at your preferred spot. For example, you and your friends may agree to rotate three to four places when you go out to eat, with your preferred spot being on the list.;
, Though you may feel a lot of pressure to discuss your eating habits with others when you are eating out, try not to give in to this kind of talk. You may have friends who ask you, “Why didn’t you order food?” or “Why did you order fries instead of a salad?” Avoid answering them and try to ignore their questions. You do not have to justify your food choices to others, especially with friends or those you are close to.If the people you are with keep pressing you with questions about your eating habits, you may respond by saying, “I can eat whatever I want” or “I’m good with what I ordered, don’t worry about it.” Keep your tone casual but firm so everyone at the table is aware that you do not need to feel pressured about your food choices.
You can also confidently state why you are making certain food choices. For example, if someone gives you a hard time about ordering the grilled chicken salad, then you might say something like, “I chose that option because I am trying to drop a few pounds, and because I love salad!”

, You may find it easier to cope with social eating pressure by opting for a healthy option on the menu. Going for the healthier option will allow you to feel good about what you are eating and feel less judgement from others around you. You may also find that you enjoy your meals when you eat out with others more if you are having food that is healthy and will give you energy.For example, you may try to choose a salad on the menu and add protein like chicken or fish to it so it remains healthy. Or you may have vegetables on the side of your meal so you have a healthy addition to your meal.
If you are going to a party where there will be food shared with others, you may bring your own healthy food with you. Make a large salad to share with everyone or another healthy option so you have something to eat that you like at the party.
 It may help you cope by having portions that are balanced on your plate when you eat out. Rather than go for huge servings or large portions, you may opt for portions that are more standard and balanced. Having balanced portions can make eating in front of others less of a spectacle. It can also ensure you digest your food properly once you have finished eating.You can determine the ideal portion sizes on your plate by using your hand. For example, you should have a pointer finger length amount of cheese on your plate as well as one fist size glass of milk or dairy. You should also have one fist size portion of vegetables on your plate and a palm size portion of meat such as chicken, beef, or chicken.