 Use a comb with revolving teeth, which are better suited to the curly hair of this breed. Comb your cat’s coat at least once per week, but more frequently if your cat has a longer coat. If you have a long haired LaPerm cat, you can comb it three times a week. The cat may even request a comb, since it loves the affection.You can spray some water mist on the coat to keep it looking fresh.
Regular brushing will reduce shedding, although this breed does not shed too much.
 Cats with curly coats like the LaPerm are prone to getting greasy skin.This issue can be resolved with regular bathing. Place a non-skid surface on the bottom of the bathtub, which should help your cat feel a bit more comfortable. Then, fill the tub or sink with lukewarm water. Gently bathe your cat. Dry the coat with a clean towel and then let it air dry.You should avoid using a hair dryer to dry the coat, since it will result in frizzy hair., Declawing your cat is highly discouraged. Instead, you should trim its nails weekly.Hold your cat on your lap in a quiet room. Massage each toe pad until the nail extends, then snip only the white part of the nail with cat nail clippers. Cut only one nail at a time.Your cat may be skittish at first. If this is the case, you should spend time getting your cat used to the sound of the clippers and the feeling of having its paws massaged.
Give your cat a treat as a reward for a successful session.
If you are having troubling trimming your cat’s nails by yourself, get help from your vet or groomer.
 You should brush your cat’s teeth at least once per week, but preferably every day. Use a cat toothbrush and toothpaste, which doesn’t require rinsing. By keeping your cat’s teeth clean, you can prevent periodontal disease.Do not use human toothpaste to clean your cat’s teeth--the fluoride can harm your cat.
 Use a damp cloth to wipe out any discharge from the corner of their eyes. In case there is an infection, you should use a separate cloth for each eye., Start by taking a look to see if they are dirty. If it looks like they need a cleaning, use a mixture of half cider vinegar and half warm water. Wet a clean cloth with this cleaning solution and wipe out their ears.You should avoid using cotton swabs, which can damage the interior of a cats ears.

