 The Rag is an ordinary piece of clothing or hand towel that is made of cotton, with the rag also being thick and smooth. With the rag being thick and smooth, it is easier to clean and does not become stiff to where it is uncomfortable to use.;
, The Polish is the wax or cream that is applied to the shoe. To use, refer to the Polish Rag on how its used. When applied to the shoe, the shoe becomes dull, but then is buffed off and makes the shoe shiny and water resistant.The Polish can come in a variety of colors, most being black but the Polish can also be blue. The Polish comes inside of a round tin for wax, and inside of a tube or little glass jar for cream. The wax will make a better shine, but seals the shoe to where it can't breath, and shortens the life span of the shoe. The cream will make a duller shine, but will be absorbed by the shoe and will not decrease the lifespan of the shoe.
 The Brush is a wooden block containing nylon or horsehair bristles that can be scrubbed against the shoe to brush off any dust, boot polish, or dirt. To use, scrub the shoe with little pressure and quick brushing motions. The nylon bristles are usually stiffer and can scrub off debris easier than horsehair brushes, but scratch the leather easier. Horsehair is softer and won't scratch the leather and will also buff the shoes a bit, too.
 The Buffing Rag is used to buff the shoes quickly to that glossy shine. To use, hold each end of the Rag, apply the middle of the Rag to the toe with moderate pressure, and then scrub the toe left to right very quickly. Then ball up the Rag, and then scrub the shoe with moderate pressure. The Buffing Rag is a 4 to 6 inch (10.2 to 15.2 cm) wide rag that is about 1 and a half foot long. It is made of cotton or nylon.


Optional 1, Polish Brush. The Polish Brush is used to apply the polish to the shoe, similar to the Polish Rag. The Polish Brush is used the same like the Polish Rag also. The Polish Brush, however, can prevent large build ups of polish and can get in crevices that the rag cannot. The Polish Brush can scratch the shoe however.






Optional 2, Water Sprayer. The Water Sprayer can add a small amount of water to a certain surface to add with polishing. Use by pointing the nozzle of the sprayer at the desired location and pull the trigger to spray water.






Optional 3, Shoe Shining Box. The Box can help out with containing all of your equipment for shoe shining in a small area. The Box can also have a foot rest on top to aid with the buffing of the shoe. The box can be maid with a wide choice of materials, with wood being the most common.






Optional 4, Heating Device. This Heating Device is anything that can heat the shoe polish to where it melts. This melting of the polish can aid with making the black mirror of the military honor guard's shoe's, but can also clump the polish up, making the shoe look bad. The objects used for heating can be a hair dryer to a stick lighter. Use by applying the heat directly to the shoe polish until it starts to melt then apply the melted polish to the shoe.







