 The resist is a cover that will protect part of your glass bottle while uncovered parts get etched by a sandblaster. Whatever material you choose as a resist, it should be sturdy and able to stand up to sandblasting without peeling away.


Two common kinds of resist that you might use in your abrasive etching include sturdy varieties of contact paper and strong vinyl adhesive tapes/sheeting.
The key requirement when choosing a resist for sandblasting is a strong adhesive. If your resist peels away while blasting, your design will be ruined., In addition to your resist, you'll also need a handheld sandblaster and some safety gear. Sandblasting releases small bits of sand at a high speed to wear away surfaces quickly. This can cause irritation or damage to the skin, lungs, and eyes without the proper equipment. You'll need:


Clamps (optional)
Drop cloth
Gloves
Googles
Pen or pencil
Respirator mask
Sandblaster/glass etcher, You should only operate your sandblaster in a well ventilated, wide open area or sandblasting cabinet.While blasting, surrounding objects may be effected, so make sure all unnecessary equipment and items are moved away and/or covered with a drop cloth. Then clean your bottle with mild soap, water, and air dry it.The process of abrasive etching erodes the outer layer of the glass with tiny particles of sand sprayed at high speeds. Because this is a physical process, you don't need to worry as much about fingerprints as you would with chemical etching.
 Take a suitable pen or pencil and draw your design on on your resist. Be sure that all parts of your design form closed shapes. Simple designs might be the best option for beginners.Holding your vinyl up to your glass can give you a better idea of the best size and placement for your design on the resist.
If you aren't very artistic, you can copy a professional looking design with some tracing paper and transfer that to your resist.
 Take your utility knife and press it into the outer lines that you drew on your resist to cut away the inner parts of your design. Avoid cutting from the edges, as this can create gaps where the sandblasting etches the glass where you had not intended.


Exercise caution when cutting. Your utility knife might press through the resist and make cuts in your work surface. To prevent this, you can use a cutting mat.
At this point, your resist should be in one piece, with holes where you've cut free your design.
Unused pieces of your resist can be thrown away, though you may be able to reuse these in other projects., Depending on the kind of resist you've chosen, this process may vary. In many cases, your resist can be applied by removing its adhesive backing and applying it to your water bottle.


Smooth bubbles and irregularities in your resist especially around its edges. These areas are susceptible to being pulled loose during abrasive etching., Proper safety equipment is a must when abrasive etching. Little bits of sand or glass can get in your eyes or lungs, causing serious discomfort or permanent injury.Make sure that:


Your gloves are without holes and fit your hands well. Gloves that don't fit well may make it difficult to operate your sandblaster.
Your respirator is comfortable and properly fastened, with no spaces between it and your face.
Your goggles are comfortably, firmly attached to your head and allow you unobstructed visibility.
 Depending on the weight of your water bottle and the power of your sandblaster, you may need to clamp it in place or use a sandblasting cabinet.Generally, the longer you sandblast, the more etched the glass will become, though sandblasting too much may cause the glass to weaken or break.


When using a clamp to hold your bottle in place, keep in mind that the parts of your glass covered by the clamp will not be etched.
If a sand blasting cabinet or clamp are inconvenient, you could use objects you don't mind blasting with sand, like cinder blocks or a cement wall, to support your bottle.Avoid holding your sandblaster on an angle while blasting. Working on an angle has a much greater chance of lifting the resist and spoiling your design.
There are many different kinds of sandblaster. Always follow the directions on your equipment for the best results, and avoid holding the blaster too close to the glass.
 Glass dust and sand will be on the surface of your bottle, so you should handle it with gloves until you've rinsed it thoroughly under warm water. If there isn't a suitable faucet around, thoroughly wipe the glass with a clean, damp cotton rag.


Glass dust and sand can build up on your rag when wiping it clean. As your rag dirties, switch to a clean part and continue until the whole glass has been wiped., Since the adhesive of most abrasive resists needs to be strong to stand up to blasting, you may have some difficulty removing it. A brief soak in soapy water can loosen this adhesive. Then pull the resist free and enjoy your handiwork.In some cases, you may be able to use the tip of your utility knife to lift a corner of the resist and pull the rest free.

