 One of the most obvious and distinguishing features of Welsh Black cattle is the color of their coats. Most Welsh Black cattle are all black, but there is an increasing variance in coloration that is now common, even among pure-bred Welsh Black herds.There is a certain degree of deviation in the shade of black that most Welsh Black cattle exhibit. Some are a rusty shade of black, while others are jet black.
Some Welsh Black cattle have a recessive red gene. They are still acknowledged as being Welsh Black, but those that show red do not have any genes for black coloration.Many Welsh Black cattle have a subtle white underline. These cattle are still considered Welsh Black, so long as the white is confined to the underside below the navel.;
, The coat on a Welsh Black will look very distinct, especially during colder months. It should appear appear thick, long, and shaggy. In fact, some breeders describe the Welsh Black winter coat as "mossy" due to its scraggly appearance.The winter coat of Welsh black cattle developed as an adaptation to the harsh environments that they have historically inhabited.Many Welsh Blacks that reside in warmer regions have lost this distinguishing feature, and predominately appear as short-haired varieties.
 In summer, Welsh Black cattle lose their thick, mossy coats. Some Welsh Black cattle who live in warmer climates may never have shaggy coats. A short-haired Welsh Black, whether in summer or in hotter environments, has a smooth and sleek coat. It may be almost glossy in appearance., Welsh Black cattle are considered a medium-sized breed.Mature cows weigh an average of about 1,100 pounds (about 500 kg). However, they can get much larger. It's not abnormal for mature Welsh Black cows to weigh anywhere from 1,300 to 1,750 pounds (600 to 800 kg), while bulls typically weigh 2,000 to 2,500 pounds (950 to 1,150 kg).They are not a very muscular breed, which is typical of Continental cattle breeds., The majority of Welsh Black cattle have horns.However, some Welsh Black cattle are naturally polled, meaning they are born without horns. This has been an increasing trait among both black and red Welsh Black cattle.The horns should be moderately long, with the tips fine and pointed.
Horns should start straight from the head and extend outward. There is no official direction in which horns should turn, though upward-turned horns are often preferred by breeders., The hooves of Welsh Black cattle are generally uniform. They tend to be tough and hard, and they're usually all black.Red Welsh Black cattle may have slightly lighter-colored hooves. Regardless of coloration, the hooves of Welsh Black cattle are not very prone to injury and are built for rugged terrain.
 Welsh black cattle tend to grow much faster than other British breeds of cattle. Not only does their rate of growth exceed that of most other breeds, they also tend to have the highest average weight at any given age among their British counterparts. Because of this, Welsh black cattle could potentially be identified with a trained eye by their size and growth over time., Welsh black cattle are generally able to forage through fields, eating grass and other naturally-occurring plants. They do not typically require the costly feeds that many other breeds of cattle rely on, due in part to their hardiness and the landscape in which they've evolved over time., Welsh black cattle are native to Wales, of course. But breeders have managed to raise and transport them around the world, and they've successfully held populations in the rest of the U.K., as well as Canada, the United States, New Zealand, Australia, Spain, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Uganda, and Jamaica.Breeders who specialize in Welsh black cattle should offer a pedigree certificate upon sale of the cattle.You can purchase Welsh black cattle semen from specialty breeders, especially in the U.K.In the U.S., many breeders select for polled (hornless) cattle.However, horned Welsh black cattle are still bred in North America.

