 When talking to your partner about their smart phone addiction, you need to be polite. If you’re not polite, they won’t take your concern to heart and may just get angry at you.


Let them know you are appreciative that they are listening you and taking your concerns seriously. For instance, start off by saying “George, I really appreciate you listening to my concerns.”
Avoid calling your partner names.
Don’t use curse words or vulgarities., When talking to your partner, make sure you have positive body language. If you don’t have positive body language, you’ll send nonverbal signals that you are angry or upset with their behavior.


Don’t cross your arms in a defensive posture.
Try to smile.
Use a relaxed posture., Perhaps the most important thing in communicating effectively is to stop yourself from getting emotional. If you get emotional, you may not be able to properly articulate the reasons why you are upset with their phone usage. In addition, you may wind up inadvertently escalating the conversation into an argument.


If your partner says something that angers you, breathe deeply. For instance, they might blow off your concerns. Instead of getting emotional, talk to them about it later.
Stay focused on what you want to say to your partner.
Use humor, if you can possible. Joke and say, “are you going to marry your phone?”, While you want to be able to articulate your perspective, you also need to listen to how your partner responds to you. Without listening, you won't be able to get a fuller understanding of the situation.


Don't talk when your partner is responding to you.
Let your partner know you are listening. For instance, say "I know you might see this differently. I'm happy to hear you out."
If your partner has a good argument about how their smartphone is necessary for work, listen to them.
Avoid thinking about your response as your partner is talking. If you're thinking about what you'll say next, you won't be able to internalize what they are saying., In the end, you'll want to reach some sort of agreement with your partner. By reaching a compromise, you'll feel better about the relationship and your partner won't have to completely change their phone usage. Some compromises might include:


Your partner won't use the phone during meals or family time.
Your partner won't use the phone when you are talking to each other.
Your partner might lower their data plan.