 You can maintain a sound much more clearly and protect your throat much better if you make sure that your throat is moist before you begin. Lukewarm and warm beverages tend to be better for your throat than cold fluids.


Warm tea with honey is one of the best options, but you could also settle for lukewarm water or room temperature juice.
Avoid cold drinks.
Stay away from drinks containing caffeine or alcohol, since these will only dry out your throat more.
 Form your mouth as though you intend to make the long "eee" sound. You do not need to actually make the sound, though.


The “ee” sound is the same as the “ee” in “feet.”
Exhale gently before the next part. This screaming technique produces sound on the inhale, so your lungs need to be emptied out for you to make it.
 Close your throat so that only a small gap exists for you to push air through. Essentially, you should try to make this gap as small as you possibly can while still producing a sound from it.


Move your tongue close to the roof of your mouth as you do this, but do not let it touch the roof. Moving your tongue in this manner should make it easier to tightly narrow your airway.
 Put a great deal of energy into the inhale, activating your vocal chords as you go. You should end up producing in inhale scream or pterodactyl scream.


Note that, as with the basic scream method outlined here, this method will only produce a single scream within the course of a song. You will not be able to use it to sing the lyrics of an entire song.
 You will probably need to practice for several weeks at a consistent yet gradual pace before you can perform this scream correctly.


Note that this technique can be more difficult to master than a basic scream, and not everyone will be able to master it. If you still cannot get the hang of it after several weeks, you would be better off sticking with a more traditional scream.
An inhaled scream like this should not cause your throat to get sore like an exhaled scream will, but it is still a good idea to take breaks in between practices and drink warm tea with honey, or another warm drink, to soothe your throat.

