 If you make something sound bad, the child will think the same thing. For the first dose of a new medicine, just say "Here, take this medicine." If the kid refuses, call the medicine "super drops" or "strong pills."


Tell young kids that their favorite character from a movie or book took medicine to become strong, smart, or fast.;
, Explain why the medicine is a good thing. Look up the details and try to explain them. Pictures might help get the kid interested.


This works best for older children, but it can work for more logical young kids too.
 Show the child what to do by bringing it to your lips and pretending to take it. Say "yum!" and smile. This is not all that effective, but it's an easy first step for young kids.


You can pretend to feed a stuffed animal too.
For older children, give yourself a cup of "medicine" that's really fruit juice.
 Pick something the child wants, and it will be a strong incentive. Try candy, or a sticker on a reward chart that leads to a bigger prize. For some children, verbal praise can be enough.


Older children might start expecting a reward every time, or demanding more.
You can give hugs and kisses, but don't offer them in advance as a reward. If the child doesn't cooperate and you refuse to hug, this can lead to bad feelings and more stubborn behavior.
 This often leads to power struggles, making the child more stubborn. Use it only after extreme misbehavior, or when the medicine is very important to health. Let the child know that if he does not take the medicine, you will take away a favorite activity or event.
 The colder and sweeter the drink, the more it will hide bad tastes. You can mix liquid medicines directly into the drink. Pills should be taken first, then washed down with the drink.


Check the medication label first for "contraindicated" substances. These make the medicine less effective. Grapefruit juice affects many medications, while milk affects some antibiotics.
 Crush the pill and mix it with applesauce or mashed bananas. The child can't complain if he doesn't know it's there! If your child catches on, admit it's there and say you just wanted to make it taste good.


Check the medicine label to make sure it can be eaten with food.
 These drops increase sweetness and suppress some bitter tastes. Let your child choose the flavor.
 This can make bad-tasting liquid medicines much nicer.
 If the medicine is cheap and sold over the counter, buy another bottle from the child's section. There are usually several fruit flavors available.


Some kids like the adult versions, with no added sugar. Make sure you use a child-size dose.
Ask the pharmacist if she has the prescription in flavored form.
 You may need to attempt this when a child is too young to understand why he needs to take medicine. Use this only after trying everything else, and only for important medicine, such as antibiotics.
 Tell the child you will hold him still and give the medicine. Explain why it's so important that you have to do this. Give him one last chance to comply.
 Get another family member to gently hold the child's arms at her sides.
 If you need to, pinch the nose to get the mouth open. Feed the medicine slowly, so the kid doesn't choke.


Use a plastic syringe for young children. Aim it in the cheek to avoid choking.

