 Use a cotton ball soaked in nail polish remover to take off any current nail polish. Rub your nails from side to side, making sure to remove the polish on the side edges of your nail.









Be careful to not get cotton particles caught in the split of your nail. If you are worried about catching your nail on the cotton ball, remove the nail polish moving in the direction of the split.;
, Use scissors to cut off the top portion of an unused tea bag. The bag is what you will use to repair your nail, so keep the teabag paper intact, and pour out the tea leaves in the garbage.
 Depending on where the nail split is, cut the tea bag in a rectangle shape to completely fit on your nail, just past the split toward the free edge of your nail.For example, if the free edge of your nail has the split, cut the tea bag to cover the split and about half of your nail. If the split is deeper, cut the tea bag longer to reach just before your cuticle.









Be sure that the sides of the cut teabag reach to the sides of your nail.
Once the teabag is applied onto your nail, you can leave the end of the teabag hanging off the free edge of your nail; you’ll remove it later.
 Paint a thin layer of a clear nail polish as a base coat. Be sure to cover the split section of your nail.This clear polish will act as glue to hold the teabag in place.
 When the clear base coat is still wet, carefully place the rectangle piece of tea bag onto your nail to cover the split section. Gently smooth the tea bag out with your finger or a cuticle stick, to make sure there are no air bubbles underneath the surface of the teabag.Allow the nail polish to dry for about 5 minutes.
 Wait for the clean base coat to dry, then carefully cut away the rest of the teabag hanging off your nail.








It is okay to leave a little bit of leftover teabag hanging off your nail, because you can file it away later when it is less fragile.
 Now that the tea bag is secure on your nail, paint on another layer of clear polish.Be sure to extend the paint stroke past your nail onto the tea bag. Allow this layer of nail polish to dry for about 5-10 minutes.









At this point, the teabag will look see-through.
 Once the clear layer of nail polish has dried, use a nail file to file in one direction and remove the rest of teabag paper.








The nail file will help sand off any paper particles remaining on the edge of your nail.
 To seal everything down, paint on another thin coat of clear nail polish.This time, be sure to swipe along the free edge of your nail where the teabag had been cut off. Allow this coat of polish to dry for at least 10 minutes. You don’t want to mess up your nail after having the rectangle of teabag paper and three coats of nail polish applied.









Swiping along the free edge of your nail helps to prevent and lifting or fraying of the teabag.
 When your nail is completely dry, paint your nails like you would regularly.Try to keep the layer of the polish on the split nail light, as you already have three layers of polish on the nail, and it will take longer to thoroughly dry.