 This could be anything from a bad habit that you want to address to a good behavior that you want to cultivate, a skill that you want to develop to something that you want to achieve. Once you have an objective in mind, you can start applying kaizen to achieve it.For example, you may want to improve your fitness, stop smoking, enrich your social life, or spend your free time more meaningfully or productively.
 Again, you want to approach your objective one step at a time, so start by planning your first step. Don’t try to tackle everything you want to change at once; focus on breaking your goal down into targeted, measurable actions that you can take to improve., After you’ve listed all the possible actions that you could take, it’s time to decide on the order in which you’ll pursue them. How you choose to prioritize the tasks is up to you.If you’re feeling overwhelmed, start with the action that will be easiest to implement and go from there. If you’re feeling motivated, start with the action that will make the biggest difference.
 You want each step to be an action that you gradually develop into a habit. Thus, as you plan, you should determine a timeline for each step or action that lays out your incremental improvements.For instance, if you’re trying to stop smoking, create a plan for how much you will reduce your consumption of cigarettes each week.
If you want to improve your fitness, start small by taking the staircase up to your office each day instead of the elevator. Once you’ve made that routine, you might start exercising for 20 minutes two times a week and gradually increase the duration, frequency, and/or intensity of your workouts.
 You want to be able to review your improvement over time, so you need to create a system for recording it.Since kaizen is a daily practice, a calendar is a good tool for recording and checking your progress. Simply write down what you do towards your goal each day. Other options include charts or checklists, so that you can see if you’re sticking to your plan.
Keeping track of your progress will also allow you to make adjustments as needed. Remember, kaizen is an ongoing process, so you will need to keep planning, acting, and adjusting as you go. If you’re not getting the results that you want, it’s time to change the method.
 Once you’ve optimized one process or successfully integrated one practice into your life, it’s time to move on to the next step that will help improve the whole.