 You can follow one of the links listed below, or search for "international space station satellite chart" online. These charts contain several useful pieces of information that will help you figure out when a viewing is possible. Choose a website that allows you to enter your address, city name, or zip code; if you enter inaccurate information, the information listed may be incorrect.


Try the charts at Heavens Above, NASA, or SpaceWeather.
Some sites may attempt to automatically detect your location based on your internet service provider's nearest server. This is not always accurate, so check for a name of the city or location used, and switch to a different site if inaccurate.
Some websites may abbreviate the International Space Station as "ISS".;
, Sometimes, from your location, the ISS will only take a few seconds to cross the visible portion of the sky. Other times, it will take two minutes or more. Look for appearances that last as long as possible to give yourself the best chance of viewing the station. Write down several of these appearance.


Appearances at night, within a few hours of sunset or sunrise, will be easiest to see. More information on brightness is provided in the next step to help you find out whether the station will be visible during the day.
Some charts will list the length of the appearance in its own column, while on others you may need to calculate the appearance length yourself by subtracting the start time from the end time. These times are usually written as three numbers, in hour:minute:second format. Check whether the site uses a 24 hour clock or the a.m./p.m. system.
 Most charts should list the space station's "brightness" or "magnitude;" find another one if yours does not include this information. The brightness scale is a little odd: a negative number, such as -4, is actually brighter than a positive number, such as +3! Here are some guidelines to help you understand what brightness ratings may be viewable:A magnitude of -4 to -2 is the brightest the space station typically gets, and may even be visible during the day.
-2 to +4 is usually visible at night, but you may have difficulty seeing it if there are bright city lights in your area.
+4 to +6 is dim, approaching the limits of the human eye. If the night sky is clear and there are few ground lights in your area, you might just be able to see the station. Binoculars are recommended.
To get a rough idea of how bright the station will be, compare it to these approximate magnitudes : the sun during the day has a magnitude of about -26.7; the moon has magnitude -12.5; and Venus, one of the remaining brightest objects in the sky, has magnitude -4.4.
 Once you've picked a time when the station will be bright and visible for a relatively long period, look up the weather forecast for that day. Try to find an hour-by-hour weather forecast if possible, to see whether there will be cloud cover blocking your view during this time. Weather forecasts are often inaccurate more than a day in advance, so check again 24 hours before the station is due to appear to get an up-to-date prediction.
 Refer to the space station appearances chart you found in the last section. It should have a column labeled with one of the following: "where to look," "appears," "azimuth," or "Az." Look at the contents of this column to find out the general area of the sky the space station will appear in:


Look N(orth), E(ast), S(outh), or W(est) according to the letter or word listed in that column. The chart may give you a more specific instruction between one of these four directions. For instance, NW (northwest) means halfway between North and West. NNW (north-northwest) means halfway between North and Northwest.

Read about using a compass if you are not sure how to find a direction.
 The same chart should have a column labeled "altitude," with numbers listed below as "degrees" (or the degree symbol, º). Astronomers divide the sky into many segments called degrees, so they can refer to a specific position in the sky. A position of 0º is at the horizon, 90º is directly above your head, and 45º is exactly in between 0º and 90º. To find rough positions in between these numbers, extend your arm fully in front of you and close your hand into a fist. The distance from the horizon to the top of your first is roughly 10º. If you are looking for 20º, for example, place your fist just above the horizon, then place your other fist on top of the first. The point above your second fist is about 20º. Keep alternating fists to find positions at higher degrees.It may seem strange that the space station suddenly "appears" in the middle of the sky, instead of coming around the horizon. This can happen because the space station is only visible when light from the sun is reflecting off it. When the space station moves out of the earth's shadow, it suddenly becomes visible. It may also not be visible near sunrise or sunset until it has moved high enough in the sky to escape the bright background of the sun's glow.
 At the time specified on the star chart, look for the space station at the direction and height you found in the earlier steps. The space station usually looks like a moving dot or small, white or yellowish sphere. It does not blink or flash repeatedly, but if you're lucky, it might flare brighter for a moment as sunlight glints on an especially reflective surface.


It will not have multi-colored lights.
There will not be a contrail.
 Binoculars make it easier to see fainter objects. A 50mm binocular typically lets you see brightness up to +10 on the magnitude scale described in the previous section.However, it may be hard to find the space station with binoculars alone, since you can only see a small part of the sky through them. It's best to find the station with your naked eye, then lift binoculars to your eyes without looking away from the station.


A telescope allows you to see even fainter objects, but it can be almost impossible to find the space station unless you have a way to precisely measure where the telescope is pointing. Use a similar strategy as described for binoculars, but pick a time when the station will be visible for several minutes if you are not experienced at using your telescope.

