 Both caffeine and nicotine are stimulants that will interfere with sleep, so you should avoid them too close to going to bed. Though alcohol is a depressant, it still leads to more waking at night and a lower quality of sleep., A cool, dark, and quiet location are all key to falling asleep and staying asleep.This also means avoiding watching TV in bed or sitting in bed with other electronic devices such as phones, tablets, and laptops.If dead silence hinders more than helps your sleep—or even if you want to mask outdoor noises—you can use a white noise machine that creates a low, consistent sound which won’t interfere with sleep.
Light has just as much impact on falling asleep as it does waking up. If possible, try to set up your room so it’s dark enough to fall asleep while still letting in the morning sun to help you wake the following morning., Stressful or exciting activities increase alertness, making it more difficult for you to fall asleep. Establish a relaxing routine before bed, such as reading while drinking a soothing cup of herbal tea. You may also find a hot bath a nice pre-bedtime relaxation techniqueYou may also find deep-breathing exercises beneficial, such as those found at How to Breathe Deeply.
 Frustration over an inability to fall asleep just compounds the issue. If you can’t fall asleep after twenty minutes, then try getting up and doing something relaxing to help make you sleepy, such as reading or listening to tranquil music.Do not turn on the TV or another electronic device as staring at a bright screen will only wake you up more.
Try not to stare at the clock as you try to sleep either. This is another way to simply frustrate yourself over being unable to sleep., Avoid the temptation to stay up late and sleep in too late on the weekends. The best way to sleep well consistently is to standardize your body’s internal clock by going to bed at the same time each night, sleeping a solid seven to eight hours, and waking at the same time each morning.Note that the amount of nightly sleep should be closer to nine or ten hours for school-aged children., Late-afternoon napping can also interfere with your ability to sleep well at night.If your tiredness from sleeping poorly at night catches up with you in the form of an afternoon nap, then you might be perpetuating the cycle. Push through the late-day sleepiness for several days in a row to sleep better at night instead.
 Eat your last meal of the day two or more hours before you go to sleep. Additionally, if you do any evening snacking, make it something light.Eating heavy foods before bed keeps your digestive system working, causing you to stay awake well into night.


Indigestion is also a common cause of insomnia. Avoid foods likely to cause heartburn in the evening.
 Nothing can tire you out like a solid exercise routine. However, working out releases a stress hormone associated with alertness, so exercising too late in the evening can actually contribute to keeping you awake.If your schedule necessitates getting your gym time at night, then try to do it at least three hours before you go to bed., If you find your sleep disturbed by regular trips to the bathroom at night, then you may be drinking too many fluids too close to bedtime.Try to balance intake in the evening so that you neither wake up due to thirst not due to a trip to the bathroom.

