 A good moisturizer won’t solve the problem of sagging skin, but it will mask the effect. Moisturizing will make your skin look fuller and improve the skin’s appearance, at least for a while.Apply a moisturizer to your face and body often, ideally at least once per day. Do this after a shower when your skin is saturated with water, to lock in more moisture.
Avoid creams that are too heavy, as they tend to clog pores. Choose a cream that’s formulated to your skin type, i.e. oily or sensitive skin. Try also to pick a “non-comedogenic” kind, which means that it won’t clog pores.;
, Topical retinoids like Retin-A, Renova, Avage, and Tazorac are derived from vitamin A and, when applied to the skin, partially repair damaged collagen. You can use these over-the-counter substances to reduce your fine lines and other wrinkles and even help the skin renew itself faster. Usually, you apply them overnight.Look at your neighborhood pharmacy for such creams. Usually they cost under $20.
Apply topical retinoids at night and rinse off in the morning. Then put on a good sunscreen and protective clothing, as they can make your skin burn more easily.
Also be aware that, in high doses, retinoids can make your skin scaly, itchy, or excessively dry.
 The idea behind exfoliation is to remove the outer layer of dead skin, which leaves your skin brighter. If done right, exfoliation over the long-term can stimulate collagen production and make your skin more youthful looking. It can also make other topical treatments more effective.Try to exfoliate with a scrub or a motorized scrub brush. Again, you should be able to find these at most pharmacies for a reasonable cost. You might also try an at-home, 2% salicylic acid wash.
Be careful not to be too aggressive. Over-zealous exfoliation can damage the skin and leave the redness or discoloration. Avoid exfoliation if you have rosacea or inflammatory acne, for example.
Talk with a board-certified dermatologist to see what the best kind of exfoliant is for your skin, as well as how often you should exfoliate.
 There are tons of non-prescription aging creams on the market, and some of them can modestly improve your skin quality. How well they work depends a lot on active ingredients, however – creams with retinol, alpha hydroxy acid, antioxidants, and peptides will work better.Most non-prescription creams have less active ingredients than prescription creams. The results may therefore be temporary. Look carefully at ingredients. Also read reviews or ask your dermatologist to suggest an effective brand.
Pick a product that suits your skin type as well as one that is hypoallergenic and non-comedogenic.
Have realistic expectations. Don’t think that a cream will make you look ten years younger overnight. No cream can have the same effect as a surgical facelift.
 Be proactive when it comes to your skin. Save yourself further damage and sagging by protecting it from the sun and avoiding other behavior that promotes aging. This won’t solve the problem or tighten the skin, but it will avoid making the situation worse.Stop sunbathing and using tanning beds. Avoid any over-exposure to the sun, which can damage your skin and cause wrinkles and sagging.
Use sunscreen whenever you go outside with at least SPF 30. Apply it at least 15 minutes before you go outdoors. Also wear protective clothes, a hat, and seek shade when possible.
Drink less alcohol and more water. Alcohol dehydrates the skin and, over time, can damage it, making you appear more aged.
Stop smoking, as well. Smoking speeds up the aging process and can make your skin look dull and sallow.

