 Advertising In the newspaper and online will attract the most people, but not all of them will be ideal. There may be other ways of advertising for the space in your house, such as:


By word-of-mouth through friends






Advertising only at work






Advertising on a club bulletin board, or through your hobby






Asking family if they know of anyone, etc.





;
, It is important to get a feel for whether or not you're going to "click" with this person. And this is an ideal opportunity to ask them lots of questions, particularly focused on household habits and expectations, finances, and expected length of stay. Find out about their background, such as whether they're working, studying, or in transition. The trick is though, do this casually, not as if you're the Spanish Inquisition!


Note financial warning signs such as long-term unemployment, casual work rather than regular work, etc. It doesn't mean they won't be a good bet if they're conscientious but you don't know that yet.






Ask about their schedule, such as what times they normally work and sleep? It may prove difficult to live with someone if they are clamoring around the house while you are trying to sleep.
 It's hard to live with people who won't pull their own weight, such as washing the dishes, keeping clothes off the floor in the common areas, and skiving off cleaning duties.
 Gauge from their reaction to this discussion whether or not you think they'll be a good fit.
 If your house is non-smoking and the prospective housemate is a smoker, is that something you can put up with (perhaps with outside-only smoking rules), or is it something you can't tolerate at all? Other things to find out about are their preferences about coming in late, holding parties, having friends or family over to stay, dietary needs, and any religious considerations.


Find out about medical issues. Do they need special medication or treatment if anything goes wrong? Can you handle that or not?

, If this is going to be a problem, disqualify this person immediately.
 Get at least two references from places they've lived in in the past. Also ask real estate agents they've rented from because they're less likely to be friends or family.


If you can't contact the referees, be wary as they may not exist.
 Tell them that you've enjoyed speaking with them and that you'll be in touch as soon as you've decided; make it clear that there is a range of contenders and you need to think things over first.

