 As with any illness, the more time you can give your body to rest, the faster you will likely recover from the infection. Most acute coughs are caused by the common cold or the flu, and taking time to rest can enhance your immune function and your ability to fight off the bug.


If you cannot get time off work, see if you can cancel other commitments to give your body more rest.
Get extra sleep if this is at all possible in your schedule. Sleep is one of the best ways to boost your immune function.;
, Drink at least eight 8-ounce glasses of water per day.


It can also be helpful to use a humidifier — which vaporizes water into the air — to ease symptoms of your cough.
The steam from a hot shower can also help to clear your airways and to improve your cough., Note that using OTC cough medications is only useful if your cough is caused from an acute respiratory infection, such as the common cold or the flu.


Over the counter cold and cough remedies are generally not recommended for children under six years old, and their effectiveness in this age group has not proven to be effective.
 Lozenges can be purchased at most grocery stores, or at your local drugstore or pharmacy.
 The first thing to do if you have an acute cough is to determine whether you need to go into the Emergency Room, or whether it is okay to wait to see your family doctor. Indications to go straight to the Emergency Room include:


Shortness of breath compromising your ability to breathe
A fever indicating a possible infection
Other underlying health issues that leave you immunocompromised (such as having HIV/AIDS or an organ transplant)

, She may offer you:


Supplemental oxygen
A bronchodilator, which is a medication that will relax the bronchi and bronchioles in your lungs
Positive airway pressure, such as a CPAP or BiPAP machine
In rare cases, ventilatory support

, He will ask you questions like:


When did your cough begin?
Have you had a cough like this before?
Is your cough getting better or worse?
Does it come in episodes, or is the cough constant?

, Things she may ask about are:


Is it a productive cough?
Is there blood in your cough?
Is there a wheezy aspect to your cough?

, Things to tell your doctor about include:


Chest pain — and whether this radiates anywhere else in your body
Shortness of breath
General fatigue
Lightheadedness, dizziness, and/or fainting
A fever

, Let your doctor know if you have a history of:


Diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or ongoing heart disease
Ongoing respiratory disease prior to the onset of your cough
Acid reflux (GERD) or symptoms of heartburn, indigestion or frequent sour tastes in your mouth
Allergic rhinitis (hay fever), which can cause a cough due to post-nasal drip
A condition that compromises your immune system (such as HIV/AIDS or an organ transplant)

, The stethoscope can detect crackles in your lungs when there is fluid buildup (such as in cases of pulmonary oedema or pneumonia). Your doctor will also look for other signs on physical exam, including:


An elevated "JVP" (jugular venous pressure, which assesses the amount of blood in your neck veins) — this can indicate whether there is fluid buildup such as in congestive heart failure and/or pulmonary oedema.
Signs of hypoxia (oxygen deprivation) by assessing the circulation in your hands, and around your tongue and the inside of your cheeks (these areas show it more quickly if you are deprived of oxygen).
Other abnormal breath sounds, such as wheezing or stridor (a harsh, vibrating sound) or decreased air movement.
 A chest x-ray may show signs of an enlarged heart, such as in congestive heart failure. It may also show fluid buildup in the lungs. It will show pneumonia if you have it, and it can also detect lung cancer.


If the x-ray alone is inconclusive, your doctor may request that you proceed with a CT scan to look at your lungs in more detail.
However, in many cases, the x-ray alone is sufficient to make the diagnosis and to begin a treatment plan.
 Some causes of an acute cough (such as heart-related causes, or a pulmonary embolism — a blood clot in the lung) can be ruled in or ruled out via an ECG. This is a quick and easy test to obtain so, if your doctor suspects a heart-related cause or a pulmonary embolism as the reason for your acute cough, you will likely receive this investigation.
 Your doctor may decide to do a computed tomographic (CT) scan of your chest, which can provide your doctor with more detailed images of your lungs than an x-ray. This can be used to rule out serious afflictions.

A PE (pulmonary embolism, which is a blood clot in the lung that can lead to an acute cough) can be ruled out with a CT scan.
 This can reveal if there is an infection present, and also what type of microbe is growing there so that the antibiotic treatment can be specifically targeted to the bacteria that has infected you (if it is indeed bacterial).
 Spirometry is a type of lung function test. It can be used to diagnose asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), among other things. A COPD "exacerbation" is a common cause of an acutely worsened cough, so this is something that your doctor may wish to consider in the diagnostic process.


Chronic bronchitis and emphysema are types of COPD.
 In more severe cases, you may need positive airway pressure (such as a CPAP machine or a BiPAP machine) or, rarely, ventilator support.


Bronchodilators such as albuterol are also used in the event of bronchospasm.
It is key to ensure that you are getting adequate oxygen delivery before proceeding with further treatment.
 This is not true in all cases (it depends upon the risk level of your infection, and whether it is believed to be bacterial). Your doctor can guide you as to whether antibiotic treatment is needed in your case.


Note that, in a viral infection (or an infection caused by any microorganism other than bacteria), antibiotics will be of no benefit.
 An example of an IV blood thinner is Heparin. An example of an oral blood thinner is Warfarin (Coumadin). The purpose of blood thinning medications is to prevent any further formation of blood clots (or growth of the current blood clot), and to allow your body's natural mechanisms to dissolve the clot that is currently there.


Note, however, that if your pulmonary embolism is severe — leading to a severe cough and debilitating shortness of breath — you may need "clot busting" drugs to break the clot apart, or a surgical intervention to remove the clot.
 You may need:


Diuretics
Venodilators
Blood pressure medications
Medications to reduce your cardiovascular risk factors
Treatment of the underlying cause of your heart failure

, You may also need to begin oral steroids (such as Prednisone) for a short period of time, to get your cough and shortness of breath under control.


Systemic and inhaled steroids are also used in acute bronchitis and bronchiolitis.
If the cause of your COPD exacerbation is a respiratory tract infection, you may also need antibiotics.
 A more rare cause is:


Cardiac tamponade, which is when blood pools around your heart leading to compression of the heart, fluid build-up in the lungs, and a resulting wet and productive cough accompanied by chest pain and shortness of breath.
The treatment for a cardiac tamponade is "pericardiocentesis" (a needle inserted into your chest cavity to remove the blood that has pooled around your heart).
In the event that the cough is due to acid reflux, H2 blockers or PPI's may be helpful to relieve symptoms, and also lifestyle changes (avoiding spicy and acidic foods, elevating head of bed for sleep).
If the cough is due to allergic rhinitis, nasal corticosteroids may prove helpful as well as oral antihistamines.

