 Completely peel your each shrimp ensuring that there are no pieces of tail or legs left behind. Peel them from the middle of their torso, where the legs are located, out. Once peeled, carefully cut them in half lengthwise. For the carrot, slice off each end and peel the outer layer. Chop the carrot into smaller pieces about two-inch each. Julienne each two inch piece into smaller matchstick-sized pieces.


If you love cucumber, feel free to add to the recipe. Not only will the cucumber add to the taste but it will also add crunch to the rolls. Remember to peel the cucumber and julienne into matchstick sized pieces.;
, Gather your ingredients together to speed up the wrapping process. Keep your carrots, shrimp, noodles, mint, lettuce and bean sprouts together as a wrapping station.


Having a wrapping station is especially helpfully if cooking a large amount of spring rolls or working with your kids to create a fun assembly line.
 Upon opening the rice paper wrappers, you’ll find they are similar to a hard piece of paper. In order to soften them, you want to fill a large pot or deep plate with a small amount of warm water.Lay a singular paper in the pot and count to five slowly.Gently remove the wrapper from the water once you find that it is soft and pliable and place it on porous cloth. A cotton pillowcase or tablecloth should work well.









Don’t soak a wrapper too long and only soak wrappers one at a time. Soaking more than one wrapper at once will cause the wrappers to stick together. Soaking a wrapper too long will make it too soggy and it will easily fall apart.
 Lay down your filling across the middle approximately two thirds into the wrap. Start by laying down the mint. Mint can be overpowering so try using three to four leaves per wrapper depending on your taste.Next, lay four to five pieces of shrimp over the mint.Add a small amount of carrot or any other vegetables. Lastly, cover this layer of vegetables with noodles and lettuce.









Keep in mind that the mint and shrimp will act as decorative colors through the paper. Try alternating where you place them to keep your rolls looking fresh and beautiful.
Always keep your vegetables in the middle of the roll. Rice wrapper paper is very fragile and will tear easily. By sandwiching the vegetables, you prevent the hard carrots from poking through the wrap.You want the filling to take up approximately 60% of the roll’s length. When laying the filling across the roll, ensure you have left enough room on each side of the filling for the wrapper to be lifted and tucked around the filling., Lift the sides over the filling. To prevent your rolls from falling apart, you need to keep it tight. Don’t pull too hard or allow the sides to become sloppy. After the ends are folded over the filling, tuck the shorter remaining end over the pile of filling.Now you should have a roll that has three edges of the wrapper tucked around the filling. Using care, roll the paper and stuffing towards the last remaining edge.








Always use two hands to roll your spring rolls. It may take some getting used to, and your first few rolls might not be the prettiest, but you’ll find that each successive roll becomes easier., When storing your spring rolls, keep them laid on the side with the exposed wrapper. This will prevent the wrapping from lifting or the spring roll from becoming undone. As Vietnamese spring rolls are eaten uncooked, your rolls are now ready to be devoured.


Try serving these spring rolls with peanut sauce. This can be made by mixing hoisin sauce with peanut butter, and a sprinkle of water.Adding sriracha for some heat.

