 Turn the clipper on. Move the clipper smoothly and evenly through the hair beneath the invisible disconnect line. You can start on the left and move around the back to the right, or start on the right and move around to the left.If you want to fade the undercut, set the clipper to the setting you wish to use. Cut the hair on all sides to a point about halfway to the disconnect line.
If you wish to do undercut hair for a man who wants a more dramatic contrast between the hair above and below the disconnect line, just cut all the hair beneath the disconnect line to an even length using the single-length clipper.
Use long, steady applications of the clippers and shake off hair that accumulates at the front of the device. This will prevent the clippers from getting clogged, and allow you to see where you’re cutting.;
, If you intend to blend the top edge of the hair below the disconnect line into the hair above the disconnect line (“fade” it), use a comb and scissors. Turn the comb so that its teeth are pointed up. Use the comb and draw out a short length of hair just above the halfway point below the disconnect line (the point up to which you previously cut using with the clippers). Use the scissors to cut the hair off.Continue around the back and sides of the head to achieve the same hair length at the same height everywhere.
Then, use the comb again at a level just above the one you previously cut. Draw out a slightly longer length of hair, again keeping the teeth of the comb upright.
Cut the hair off, again working your way around the entirety of the head to achieve an even length at the level you’ve selected.
Continue in this way until the hair below the disconnect line gradually blends into longer hair on all sides of the head.
The length you leave the longest hairs of the fade below the disconnect line is up to you. There is no right or wrong length into which you should fade.
It is not necessary to fade the hair when doing undercut hair for men. Just ask the recipient of the haircut if they wish to have their hair faded, or if they prefer to keep all hair below the disconnect line at an equal length.
 Whether you apply a fade or not, you will need to change the position of the clipper and the direction it moves several times. For instance, when cutting hair on the left side of the head, you might find it easiest to hold the clipper in your right hand and move it toward the back of the head. When cutting hair on the opposite side, you might find it easier to hold the clipper in your left hand and move it toward the back of the head. Move your hand to a comfortable position when doing undercut hair for men.After each application of the clipper, brush the hair straight down with your comb. This will allow you an opportunity to evaluate your handiwork and figure out if you need to cut more or rework the line along which you’re working.

