 After you have thought long and hard about your reasons for wanting to move, it's time to have the discussion with your spouse. You have good reasons for wanting to move. Being open with your spouse about them could sway their thinking. When laying out your reasons, take care not to act like your way is the only way; doing this could cause them to shut down and not leave any room in their mind for negotiation.


Be sure to mention every advantage you can think of. These can include better schools, shorter commute to work, being closer to family or friends, or a safer neighborhood. If you want to move to a smaller home, bring up how your mortgage or rent is likely cheaper each month, how you’ll pay less for utilities, and how you may not have to do as much yardwork.If you and your spouse have long-term goals, talk about how moving can help you achieve them. For instance, paying a lower mortgage can help you save for early retirement, or moving closer to your extended family means your parents can help watch your kids, saving you money on daycare and babysitters.
 If you want your spouse to be open-minded about what you want, you also have to be open-minded as well, and this includes recognizing any possible downsides to moving. Without arguing or interrupting, let your spouse voice their concerns. Perhaps your spouse wants to stay for sentimental reasons, or doesn’t want to have to go through the stress of selling and buying a home. These are all valid reasons for wanting to stay, and showing that you understand that moving has its drawbacks could help your spouse realize you are willing to listen and validate their hesitation and not strong-arm them into doing what you want.No one wants to feel like they aren’t being heard or that their opinion doesn’t matter. Assuring your spouse that you get them and why they are hesitant to move shows you are supportive. This usually leaves the opportunity to discuss the matter further, instead of your spouse shutting it down immediately.
 Once you have heard your spouse's concerns, see if you can address them together and problem solve. If you have done your research, it may be easier to do this For instance, your spouse may be worried about crime in the new neighborhood. Having the statistics on how safe the area really is can help resolve the issue. It may also be helpful to take a break and discuss the move with outsiders, such as friends and family, who may provide a unique perspective.

If your spouse is nervous about moving away from their parents, for instance, you might say, “I understand that you’re reluctant to move because you don’t want to be further away from your parents. I think we can work out an arrangement so that you can still be there for them even if we don’t live as close as we did before,” then work on a plan together that includes moving and doing what your spouse also wants to do.This shows your partner that you hear them and are taking their concerns seriously.

