 Don't feel upset at yourself for being sad or angry. Grief is the natural process of dealing with trauma, and it may take some time to feel "normal" again. Common, emotions and symptoms of grief include:


Shock or emotional numbness
Regret
Depression
Anger, Don't feel "weak" because you want to cry. In order to come to terms with your emotions, you need to acknowledge them. Find a friend or family member to talk to, write down your feelings, or see a professional therapist to help move the coping process along.


Don't feel like you need to grieve in a certain way. This process is personal and you should accept the feelings and expressions that feel right to you.
 It is all too easy to let negative emotions overwhelm us and drown out the wonderful parts of life. Find things you enjoy doing and do them -- pick up an old hobby, chat with friends, cook your favorite meal -- finding the positive makes it easier to cope with hurtful feelings or emotions.


Many studies show that our mindset while coping with grief profoundly affects how we feel 1-2 years later, so positive feelings now will help you stay positive in the future., Even if you only jot your thoughts down in a journal, finding a way to express your thoughts helps you to face them head on. By writing or forming your thoughts through art, you make them tangible and easier to manage.


Music therapy, which is therapy done by listening to calming music or by playing an instrument, has been shown to take your mind off of pain and help you cope.
 There is a strong correlation between our physical and mental health,and taking care of one will benefit the other. Eat well, exercise, and get enough sleep, especially when you feel sluggish or unwilling to move., Talking to people who understand your pain is a valuable tool to learn about your feelings and cope with your specific issues. Know that you are not alone in your pain. A simple internet search for "Support Groups" in your area can help you find a group nearby.


The US Health Department has a detailed list of support groups and ways to contact people on their , There is no "correct" amount of time to recover from trauma, so don't let yourself feel rushed. With time, you will learn to cope with the trauma in your own fashion.