 After listening to the request, you should spend a little time evaluating it. This is important, as you should put some thought into the request before rejecting it. Ultimately, in order to reject a request, you should be able to understand the request and your relative's reasoning and situation.


Consider if your relative is going through a once in a lifetime change and may actually need help. If your relative is not going through a major (one time) life change, you may want to reject the request.
Think about major hardships your family member may face, such as the death of a spouse or parent. If your relative is not facing any major and unexpected hardships, you may want to reject the request.
Contemplate whether your relative has been financially irresponsible (in your opinion). If your relative lives beyond their means, you'll probably want to reject the request.
Determine if they will be able to pay back any potential loan in a timely manner. If they can't, you will probably want to reject the request.;
, After you’ve heard your family member’s request and quickly evaluated it, you should reject it very quickly. Rejecting the request immediately (during the initial conversation) will signal to your family member that the discussion is over and you will not be giving them a loan. This is the best course of action to settle the issue quickly.


Don't take any time to think the proposal over. That will only delay the inevitable.
If for some reason you cannot reject the request immediately, you should reject it as soon as possible.
Say something like "Sorry, I can't help you financially, but I'm here to support you.", After you reject the loan request, you need to let your family member know why you’re rejecting their request. You should be as honest as you can, without divulging personal affairs or hurting your family member’s feelings. Reasons for denying a loan could include:


You’re uncomfortable making loans to family members. Be honest and say something like “I sympathize with you, but I’m uncomfortable being put in this situation.”
You’re not in a good financial position. If you want to divulge this information, you can. Let them know that you’re facing hard times yourself. Consider saying, "I understand your financial hardship right now, but I'm also facing difficulties."
Other financial obligations, such as planning to buy a house or a car soon and needing to maintain as much money in your bank account as possible to avoid being denied a loan.
Don’t lie. If you say you’re in a bad financial situation and you’re not, lying will only hurt your relationship with your family member., Throughout the encounter with your family member, make sure that you are polite and compassionate to them. This is important, as politeness and being willing to listen to them can go a long way and blunt the disappointment of your rejection. In addition, there is no reason to be impolite and to make the situation even worse.


Listen to them and show interest in their situation.
Make sure you articulate that you are sorry that you can’t help.
Use “please” and “thank you” when appropriate.
Don’t lash out, raise your voice, or make any mean comments.
Avoid making comments like "Well, you should have been more responsible.", Be clear and remain brief when you decline to lend family money. Don't go into an extensive explanation. You don't owe your relative an explanation. It's your money and you don't have to lend it to anyone.


If you try to offer an explanation, it will just open the door for further questioning and negotiating.
The idea is to end the conversation as soon as possible.
Try not to leave open any doors of hope. Don't offer an excuse or explanation that suggests that if it were a different time, you may have said yes., Sometimes, you’ll encounter a relative who does not accept your rejection and will continue to persist. In this event, you need to stay strong and continue to reject their request.


Don't be forced into making an excuse or reiterating what you have already said.
Remain adamant, say as little as possible, and work on closing the subject.
Let them know you have other obligations to attend to, and have to end the conversation., While this might be rare, you should prepare yourself for an emotional response from your relative. Your family member might be mad or angry that you are denying the loan. They might do this because they think that you have a lot of money or that they are entitled to money from relatives.


If your family member becomes disrespectful and insults you, end the conversation immediately and leave.
If your family member threatens to get violent, let them know that you will contact the police.
Be supportive if your family member cries or is visibly upset., Depending on particular circumstances, your family member might need non-monetary assistance. In most cases, you may be willing to offer some sort of help or assistance. However, before offering help, make sure you completely understand their issue and make sure they are open to non-monetary support.


If your family member is just bad with money, help them develop a budgeting system and aid them in doing a little financial planning.
If your family member has a gambling problem, help them find a gambling support group and offer to go with them.
If your family member has a substance abuse problem, help them find a support group and offer to attend it with them the first time.
If your family member has medical issues, help them find other resources and ways to fund their treatment., When your family member approaches you to ask you for a loan, you should listen carefully. It is very important that you give your relative full attention and hear and let them know that you are hearing their request. This will let him or her know that you do acknowledge their troubles and do care about them.


Do not interrupt.
It would be discourteous of you to cut him or her off or blurt out a refusal without hearing the request.
Hearing his or her request in full will give you the information you need to offer him some alternatives in getting the funds., During your family member’s request, you should make signs that you understand and empathize with his or her situation. He or she will most likely be embarrassed asking, so make sure to let him or her know that you acknowledge their situation and can identify.


Make sure to not just stand listening motionless.
Occasionally nod your head approvingly.
If the request is long, every once and a while you should say “Yeah, I understand” or a similar comment., As your relative is asking you for money, make sure you maintain positive body language. Positive body language will let your family member know that you care and are engaged in the conversation.


Make sure to smile and hold your arms and hands in a positive and friendly manner.
Avoid crossing your arms or putting your hands in your pocket.
Stand upright and carry yourself as you would normally.
Avoid making weird faces or frowning.
 After the request for a loan (and your denial), you should continue the relationship with your family member just as it had functioned before the request. This is the best way to maintain the relationship.


If you talk to the family member less, you may initiate a chain of events that causes trouble or turmoil in your family.
If you talk to your family member more, he or she could take it as a signal that you are or will be open to granting such a request in the future.
Do not go out of your way to avoid or meet up with the relative after they’ve made the request. Act as if you would have before the request., An important part of maintaining your relationship with your relative is to keep the request in confidence. This means you should never mention the request to any other friends or family. Mentioning the request to someone else could wind up jeopardizing your relationship.


Avoid telling other family, even if the subject comes up.
If you tell your significant other, make sure they know that they should not mention the request to anyone.
If you do wind up mentioning it to someone else, and your relative finds out, they will probably be insulted or hurt., Make sure that you never bring up the fact that your relative asked you for money. If you do mention it, your relative might think you are holding it over their head or looking down on them. It is best to never mention the request or bring it up unless they mention it first.


Never mention the request while in an argument or debate with your relative.
If your relative’s financial situation improves, don’t bring the request up as evidence of their progress. This will seem like you are patronizing them.
Mentioning the request in the future could bring about an unforeseen set of events that could jeopardize your relationship., While you may be tempted to give a gift to your relative in the weeks or months following the request, this is a bad idea. Your relative may perceive such a gift in a way you may not expect. This could cause problems. Some misunderstandings may include:


Your relative seeing the gift as a signal that you will continue to make such gifts or may even make a loan if they inquire again.
Your relative may see such a gift as an insult. They may take it as a signal that you think they won’t or can’t pay back a loan.
The best course of action is to just continue any previous relationship standard – gifts included – as you had before the request.