 While you don't know your intended fiancée when you first meet her, since it is an arranged marriage, use the first meeting opportunities to assess your compatibility. To your eyes, she may be fair or unfair in appearance, but this is of little consequence. What truly matters is whether her behavioral pattern matches yours or not. A behavioral pattern refers to whether her temperament matches yours or not. If it does, you will be able to get along well once you get to know one another; if not, realize it is going to be harder but not necessarily impossible.


Ask her questions, if possible, to try to elicit some of the more important things before arranging the marriage. Base the questions on things that matter to you, such as behavioral patterns, preferred activities, goals, studies, career, etc.;
, Marriage is a partnership of two people who want to live comfortably together, running a household together and perhaps raising children (although not all couples wish for the latter). You might even end up working together or running a business together, making decisions as a team. Marriage is a team of two, in which you both share everything and support one another through thick and thin. On the other hand, it is unrealistic to expect marriage to solve your own personal problems or to provide you with free labor. Marriage is about mutual support, not oppression.
 Don't get influenced by your parents or her parents. Be strict about going ahead with your choice, since you are going to marry her and nobody else. If you get an answer that's not a good choice, you may wish to consider what or who is influencing your bride-to-be and work out whether this is going to create ongoing issues for you or not. If you feel that she is unduly swayed by her family or has unrealistic expectations, then she may not be the right choice for you.
 This can elicit a lot of information for you to understand her way of thinking. It may help to ask her about what she thinks are the probable causes of divorce and what causes unhappiness in married life. You can use her answers to help you to assess how willing and able she is to recognize problems and deal with them effectively, and how well she is able to communicate with you.
 Tell her what you think about having children after marriage or not having them, whatever your preference may be. If you don't want children now, but wish to delay growing your family, explain this to her.


Be sure that she agrees to take contraceptives after marriage or that she is happy with you taking them, in the case you do not want children now. If she is not happy with this, and appears to be overly influenced by the desires of her parents to produce offspring, then discuss this with her to ascertain whether or not she has the will to deny their wishes or is likely to comply with them, rather than with your preferences. If it seems that she is keen to have children before you're willing to do so, she may not be a good match for you.
 These family members may keep trying to influence her choices after marriage, meddling and making things unpleasant for the two of you. If you can work out whether this is the case and pinpoint who is the likely source, talk to this person about their intentions post your marriage. State clearly what your plans are for the marriage and how you expect that both of you will be treated with respect as individuals and that you will both make your own decisions about your future together, unimpeded by family manipulation. Do not compromise your wants for the preferences of persons who do not form part of the marriage contract.


This also includes your own family. What influences are they exerting on you to be a certain way or to do certain things according to their preferences and timeline? Keep in mind that family influence is a powerful force.
 Ask her some irritating questions. Follow through how she answers these questions to help you determine her ability to cope with challenging situations.

