 Now that you’ve referenced an outside work in your essay, you need to include the full citation in your reference list or works cited page. The proper way to create an entry on a reference list is described in the following steps.
 While you only use the author’s last name in your in-text citation, you use his or her full name in your reference list citation. Include the first and middle names or initials. You should be able to find the author’s full name on either the cover or title page of the book. Let’s say our author’s name is Kelly D. Brooks:


The citation up to this point would look like this one: “Brooks, Kelly D.”
Keep in mind that even if you end on a first name (not an initial), you will follow the name with a period. For example, if the author’s name was Kelly Darla Brooks, your citation would end in a period like this: “Brooks, Kelly Darla.”

, Again, this date should be found on the front or back of the title page.You should place a period after the date as you did with the author’s name. Your example would look like this:


“Brooks, Kelly D. 2003.”

, The title can be found on the cover or title page. Don’t forget to include the subtitle (separated out with a colon) if the book has one. Use title case with title, meaning you should capitalize all important words (but not prepositions, conjunctions, or articles unless they begin or end the title). Also, use italics for the title.Let’s say the title of our book is “Book Storage 101” and our subtitle is “The Books We Love and How to Keep Them.”:


“Brooks, Kelly D. 2003. Book Storage 101: The Books We Love and How to Keep Them.” Use a space after the colon in the middle, and end the title with a period.
 This is generally found on the back side of the title page.Use the city and state, especially if the city isn’t a major one like New York or Washington, D.C. Let’s say that your example book was published in Fort Worth, TX. Use a space, then add the place of publication with a colon after it:


“Brooks, Kelly D. 2003. Book Storage 101: The Books We Love and How to Keep Them. Fort Worth, TX:”

, This should either be found on the front or back of the title page (and sometimes can be found on both).Let’s say your example book was published by Cowboy Hat Press; you’ll add a space, the publishing company, and a period to complete the citation:


“Brooks, Kelly D. 2003. Book Storage 101: The Books We Love and How to Keep Them. Fort Worth, TX: Cowboy Hat Press.”

