 When tragedy occurs, you may want to post to send your thoughts, prayers, or support to the people involved. By doing this, you can show that you care and help process your grief. Sometimes, saying only a few words is better and more sincere than making a huge post.


For example, you may say, “My thoughts are with the families affected by this tragedy” or “My prayers are with the victims.”;
, Another way to respond to the tragedy on social media is share news stories, media coverage, videos, or other posts about the tragedy. Choose stories that reflect how you feel, or post a story you disagree with and add your own opinions to it.


Posting these stories gives you a starting point for discussion about the event. You can start by sharing your opinion about the media coverage, then responding to those who comment.
You may say, "This is a great article about what happened" or "This article sways the events in favor of one side. What do you think?"

, Tragedies can be a time where you spread awareness for causes you truly believe in. Share stories, personal accounts, or opinions associated with what happened. Explain to those who follow you why the paying attention to the tragedy and the surrounding issues is so important.


For example, you may talk about rape culture, racism, homophobia, or violence against transgender people in light of specific tragedies.
 Many people respond to tragedy on social media with vacant words and cheesy, cliched statements. This can make you seem shallow or insensitive.You may choose to say nothing. Just because something happens doesn’t mean you have to say something. You don’t have to respond to anything that happens. Sometimes, the best thing to do is to post nothing.
Before you decide to respond to a tragedy on social media, think about why you want to post. If you are not personally affected by the tragedy, be honest about your motivations for making a comment on social media. Do you want attention? Do you think it’s expected? Do you feel a strong sense of grief? If your answer is one of the first two, it may be better to not respond., A common response to tragedy is to respond to posts and update statuses angrily because people are posting and showing support for this tragedy but not another tragedy. You can air your feelings to bring awareness to other similar tragedies, but don’t belittle or diminish the emotional impact of the current tragedy.For example, when a bombing happens in a place that gets international attention, people get on social media to make angry posts about other places that have been bombed with no exposure. This also happens when victims of violent crimes are talked about nationwide, but other victims of the same crime get no coverage.
When spreading awareness of other tragedies, be sensitive to each tragedy.

