 If your stress balls do not diminish in a day or two, it might be time to seek professional help. Make an appointment with a massage therapist. Many spas, gyms, and yoga studios have massage therapists on staff, so ask the staff at those locations for some information, or get a referral from your doctor.Look for a massage therapist who is certified, licensed, or registered. Before booking your appointment, ask about her training, methods, and costs.
The massage therapist will apply pressure to the stressed muscles in order to work out any knots. Make sure to let her know if the pressure is appropriate for your body.
 Seeing a physical therapist can help to eliminate stress balls and prevent them from recurring. Physical therapy is a great option when any part of your body is under high levels of stress. Physical therapy involves working with your body to create an optimal outcome. Your physical therapist may use a mixture of both active and passive therapy.Active Therapy: This is all about taking action and restoring balance. This may include: stretching, strengthening your muscles through exercise, using pain relief exercises, and doing aerobic conditioning (low-impact of course).

Passive Therapy: This therapy does not require you to move your muscles at all. With passive therapy, the therapist may make use of heating pads, ice packs, electrical stimulation, and ultrasounds.
Ask your doctor to recommend a reputable, effective physical therapist.
 Acupuncture is a type of alternative medicine that uses small needles to puncture the skin at specific pressure points around the body, relieving pressure and pain. This method has long been used in Eastern medicines and is becoming more popular in Western culture. Many people rely on acupuncture to relieve different types of pain.Needles can be scary for some, but your acupuncturist can talk you through the process.
The needles are very thin, with a rounded tip. When they're inserted, they do not puncture any blood vessels or nerves, so there should be no bleeding or pain. The needle will create a tiny pinch, followed by pressure, and then you will feel relief.
Speak to your doctor to find the name of a licensed acupuncturist in your local area.

