 Nerds can excel at a whole host of subjects and skills — creative writing, computer programming, graphic design, playing music, you name it. Somewhere out there, you can probably find someone willing to pay for “as-needed” access to that talent. Websites like https://www.freelancer.com (one of many examples) can help you connect your skill to that someone willing to pay.Just a reminder: as a freelancer, you are technically an independent contractor (at least in the U.S.), and are therefore responsible for reporting and paying taxes on your income.
 Do you have a bunch of comic books? Video games? Action figures? As a subject expert in your particular “nerdy” passion, you probably have a good grasp on the value of the items in your collection. Take advantage of this expertise and sell some of what you have to others who share your passion. At very least, you can clear some space for new stuff and make a few bucks in the process.If your passion involves a craft of your own making, How to Make Money Selling Crafts offers some good tips on selling online and in person. It also includes information regarding selling at swap meets / flea markets — see How to Find Things to Sell at a Swap Meet as well.
 Perhaps your “nerdiness” has a more artistic bent. Do you write fan fiction for your favorite fantasy or sci-fi series? Do you write songs, or create short films? It is easier now than ever before to share your artistic output with the public, and to make money while doing so.


The internet, of course, will be your main resource for sharing your work with the public and selling it to them. How to Make Money As a Kid from Your Computer offers some solid advice on this topic.
 If you live in or near a place that gets a decent share of visitors — a big city, tourist stop, university, historic site, etc. — you may be able to make some money off your expertise about your home area. Walking tours seem to become more popular all the time, and many people will pay for the benefit of having a knowledgeable local guide.The extraordinary details you know about the battle that happened nearby 150 years ago, or the original lab of that renowned biochemist, or the locations used to film that blockbuster movie, may sometimes annoy your acquaintances. But that may be exactly what people seeking out a tour guide want.

