 Recognize if you have these common tendencies and work on changing them through simple intention, mental exercises, or therapy:


Sulking, whining, or complaining,
Manipulat­ing others to get sympathy
Continually seeking direction from others
Acting in a disorganized or irresponsible way
Procrastinating, carelessness, and frequently being late
Driving recklessly, or acting without regard to yours or others’ health and safety., Make choices in your life, whether they’re about colleges, jobs, relationships, or goals, because they are important to you and make you happy, not because your parents, friends, or other people tell you that you should.
 It may sound obvious, but just own up to the things you genuinely enjoy and that make you happy. If you like a band that most people you know would deem corny or outdated, don’t make excuses or say that you like them in an ironic, joking way; just enjoy them., Let go of any tendency to rebel against or defy those older than you or in a superior position. Listen respectfully to those above you, and know that just because you’re an adult doesn’t mean you don’t have to listen to others. On the other hand, don’t do everything you do just to seek approval of superiors in your school, work, or social life.


For example, if your boss or teacher tells you a report is due, listen and respond by completing the report on time. But don’t come back to your boss/teacher after every section of the report is done to seek his or her praise or approval before you can move on to the next step.
 Listen to and even seek out feedback from teachers, peers, bosses, coworkers, and others in your life, without jumping straight into defending yourself.


First, listen carefully to everything the person has to say about you or your performance. Then, decide which parts of their feedback you agree or disagree with, and what could be helpful to you. Finally, respond to them with mature and genuine questions, concerns, and thanks., Make goals that are both readily attainable (such as “Make a new friend this week” or “Go somewhere you’ve never been”) and more long-term (such as “Become a chef in a 5-star restaurant” or “Save enough money for a house”). Write your goals down to keep them in your mind, and reward yourself every time you attain one.
 When something goes wrong, avoid blaming other people or circumstances for the problem. Instead, follow this process to recognizing your mistakes without shame and using them to create better circumstances:


Acknowledge when you’ve made a mistake
Do whatever is possible to correct it
Think of how you can prevent it from happening again
Come up with a mantra or a phrase to repeat in your head to avoid shame, such as, “It’s over and it won’t happen again.”