 You don't want to wear something tight, scratchy, or otherwise uncomfortable if your'e going to be on a train overnight. Opt for loose-fitting clothing that's breathable. This will assure your personal comfort during the trip.Opt for clothing that you can wear around the train that's also comfortable. A pair of sweatpants or leggings with a t-shirt is a good option.
It's a good idea to pack a few changes of clothing, keeping comfort in mind. If your train ride lasts more than a day, you will probably want to freshen up with a new set of clothes.
Take the temperature in the region into account. If you're traveling from somewhere warmer to somewhere cooler, for example, pack heavier clothing for later in your trip.;
, You will probably want to walk around the train and slip your shoes on and off during your travels. Wear shoes that are comfortable over those that are tight. Something like slip-on shoes is best for train travel.You might want to bring a pair of slippers to put on during the night.
 You will probably want to freshen up at some point during an overnight train trip. While you can't really shower on the train, you can bring a few toiletries to stay feeling fresh.Bring the basics, like a toothbrush, toothpaste, and deodorant.
You can try to take a sink bath in the mornings, so bring some body wash.
If you like to keep your hair clean, go for dry shampoo.
 Sleeper cars are generally fairly expensive, so you'll probably be sleeping on your seat. Bring a pillow and large blanket for comfort, as most trains do not provide sleeping supplies. It's good to bring a regular pillow, as you'll be using it to sleep. You may also want to pack a travel pillow if you want something to rest your head on during the daylight hours., Trains usually have carts and cafes where you can purchase snacks. However, snacks you purchase on a train are often expensive. You also may not like the food, and sometimes cafeteria food is pricey. Bring some healthy snacks that you enjoy to keep yourself full during your train ride., If possible, check a bag under the train. This will cut down on luggage you have to keep track of during your trip. Check your ticket to see about your train's policy on checking bags. Many trains allow for a set number of checked bags per passenger.