 March is still a little wintry in some places, but April is a great time in the Northern hemisphere, choose, October if that's the second month of spring where you live. Still some spring clothes but definitely enough summer, May and June are too late, all the cool summer clothes will be out in May and June, unless you live somewhere that those aren't summer months. So April is a good time. Go with your Mom and a friend. You might think why a mom? Your Mom was once your age too. Whether she is a good mom, fashionable or not, she knows what looks good on you. If your mom isn't fashionable, your friend will know something.;
, Two is not enough. Go to a mall or whatever with lots of variety. It might be a good idea to set a limit of money. If you want to have a good summer wardrobe, don't underestimate the amount of money to spend. Check online to see what you like, and add it up on a calculator. Go $10-$20 above what you calculated, and then cut back on what you want. There are five main steps to picking something out—knowing the store, what size you are, what color(s) look good on you, if you really like it, and will you really wear it.
 Around the following is a good number of things:


Tops:

4 Flattering T-shirts perhaps with embellishment, and with a bright summery look. Look for florals or linen fabrics.


Tank tops: make sure to have some simple and some fun ones. For summer breezy florals are always nice, lace is always springy, keep the fabric light, and your colors fun! It's summer, relax.

5 Crossovers between dressy-and-casual (Check out places like Anthropologie, or J crew for nice cross overs, find good deals at TJ Maxx)
2 Short sleeved or quarter-length sweaters (just in case)


Bottoms:

Pairs of Khaki and Denim shorts!
If you're into them, a lightly colored pair of cargo capris might be in now. (Try an army green, inspired by Balmain's new collection)
A denim mini (not too short or ripped up, you don't want to look trashy)


Swimwear:

Have one or two swimsuits. It's nice to have one bikini and a one piece or tankini.
 Something thin is good. Terry cloth works also.
 after you have gotten your outfits.
 Black, brown, pink, red, and navy are good. White gets dirty too easily.
 Make sure to visit all the most popular stores in your area. You might even find some cute stuff at boutiques! Never underestimate them!

, Before any purchase and after choosing your clothes, see how many outfits you can create from only one store. The first store should have three tops and three bottoms. Get casual clothes first, and then eventually fancier clothing. If you have three or more outfits, you are good. If you have less, keep looking.
 Get cute jewelry, headbands, and shoes to make the outfits cuter. After all, accessories can really make the outfit. Match them with certain outfits. You should have two necklaces that can go with two outfits. Get two funky necklaces. Get three headbands—one plain color that matches what you have gotten, one cool, but not funky like metallic or one with sequins, and one funky with polka dots or another cool design. Make sure everything you have matches. You only need one or two bags, and you can go your own way with these.
