 In general, a balanced diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat/fat free dairy. It also includes lean (low-fat) proteins, such as poultry, fish, and beans. Your diet should also be low in saturate and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium (salt), and added sugars. The USDA has many resources available to learn more about how to create a balanced diet., In medical terms, a healthy weight is defined by something called a body mass index (BMI). The BMI estimates your appropriate weight range according to height and sex. A normal BMI is 18.5-24.9. BMIs below 18.5 are underweight, from 25.0-29.9 are overweight, and above 30.0 are obese.


Use a BMI calculator to find out your BMI.Adjust your diet and exercise to bring your BMI into the "normal" range.
 Checking nutrition labels for calories is a simple and efficient way to manage your weight. Make sure you stay within the recommended calorie range for your dietary needs every single day. You can estimate your daily calories needs by multiplying your weight in pounds by 10. So, if you weight 180 lbs, you should eat 1800 calories daily to maintain your weight.


Note that this number can vary depending on your gender, age, and daily activity level. For a more accurate number, use a calorie calculator.
The healthiest rate to lose weight is at about one pound per week. A pound of fat is about 3500 calories, so decrease your daily intake by 500 calories. (500 calories x 7 days/week = 3500 calories/7 days = 1 lb/week).
Use a calorie tracking website or phone app to help keep track of what you're eating., Eat meals slowly, and take small, thoroughly chewed bites for efficient digestion. Large, poorly chewed bites will add to how much time it takes for your stomach to break down food. You'll over-eat as a result. Eating quickly can also make you swallow too much air, which can lead to bloating.


It can take up to 20 minutes for your stomach to signal your brain that you are full. Because of this, people who eat quickly tend to over-eat.
 Unfortunately, there are no specific foods that have been scientifically proven to cure GERD. You can, however, avoid foods that have been shown to make it worse:


Caffeinated drinks (coffee, tea, soda)
Caffeine-like chemicals (chocolate, peppermint)
Alcohol
Spicy foods (hot peppers, curry, hot mustards)
Acidic foods (citrus fruits, tomatoes, sauces and dressings that have vinegar)
Large amounts of foods that cause bloating and gas (cabbage, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, legumes, dairy, and high-fat foods)
Sugar or sugary foods

, The American Heart Association recommends at least 30 minutes of moderate activity at least 5 days per week. Or, you can combine 25 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity 3 days a week with moderate- to high-intensity muscle-strengthening twice a week.If that sounds like more than you can manage, something is always better than nothing! Do your best to get as much exercise as you can. Even going for a short walk is better than sitting on the couch!The more calories you burn through exercise, the more calories you can eat! Many calorie-tracking programs help you keep track of how exercise affects how much you can eat on a day-to-day basis.
 Depending on the size and type of meal, your stomach takes 3-5 hours to digest and empty its contents.To avoid reflux, let most of that time pass or eat smaller meals before participating in such activities.
 If you smoke or use any other tobacco products, you should quit as soon as possible. Alcohol can also make acid reflux worse, so either cut it out of your diet or cut back significantly. Finally, avoid lying down soon after eating. If you can't do that, try sleeping with your head elevated by several pillows.

