 If you want a physical copy of a DVD, the most common way of renting discs is to use Netflix, or some other DVD delivery service. Netflix allows you to select a queue of movies that you're interested in, which will be packed into envelopes and mailed directly to your door in a few days. You can keep the movie for as long as you want and return it for free in the envelope included. You can use this service in addition to your streaming account, if you want, or you can select one or the other. To sign up to receive DVDs from Netflix:


Select a billing plan. There are a variety of options for packages, some more expensive than others. If you just want the streaming service, that's the cheapest option. If you want the streaming service and the occasional DVD, that'll be slightly more expensive. Check with Netflix for the most up-to-date billing options.
After you include your billing info and shipping address, you'll be able to search among the DVDs available and put them into your queue for shipping. There are many thousand more movies available on DVD through Netflix, compared to streaming.
 Other services offer similar experiences to Netflix, but may have a slightly different variety of films available for DVD delivery. If you're unhappy with Netflix, try one of the following:


Blockbuster
DVD Avenue
DVD Barn
Walmart DVD Rental

, If you don't want the commitment of a monthly fee, the next most common way of renting a movie is to find a RedBox close to you. Common outside of fast food restaurants, inside grocery stores, at malls, and in other locations, RedBoxes are touch-screen kiosks that allow you to select between a small variety of movies, pay for it with a credit card, then get the DVD disc instantly.


To find a RedBox, you can search on Google maps to find the closest one, or you can check in with their corporate website to enter your zip-code and find a list of RedBoxes in your area.
You can keep the DVD for as long as you want, but the cost will add by a dollar a day, so it's to your advantage to return it quickly. You can also return the disc to any RedBox kiosk, not just the one you rented it from.
 If you want a DVD without paying for it, the best option is definitely the local library. Most libraries have a large selection of new and old DVDs available for rent. While they may not have the newest films, libraries are a great place to find old classics and foreign films you may have never heard of. Plus it's free. How great is that?


Most libraries allow DVDs to be rented for up to a week at a time, and the late fees are usually slightly higher than that for books. You can usually check out up to five, but the specifics will depend on the library.If you don't have a library card, you'll usually need to provide proof of residence, but you can sign up for a card and usually check out at least one movie right away. Go to your library and talk to someone at the circulation desk for more information.
 While some franchises like Family Video and Blockbuster are still hanging on, online streaming has made it tough on local rental businesses, though some rental joints that cater to cult films and other obscure titles are still successful in certain cities. If your tastes run toward 50s drive-in monster movie schlock, babysitters slasher flicks, and Italian neo-realism, you might be able to find a treasure-trove in your city. Here are some obscure classics:


Plan 9 Film Emporium in Bloomington, IN
Scarecrow Video in Seattle, WA
Glebe Video International in Ottawa
Le Video in San Francisco, CA
Odd Obsession in Chicago, IL

