 It’s important to consider the motivations for bullying so you know best how to protect others from bullying.


Bullies want attention. They may think bullying will make them popular and make others like them. Bullies want to feel powerful and important. By picking on other people, they believe they make themselves powerful by comparison. Bullies are often bullied themselves. They may experience problems at home or with other bullies at school. Many are just mimicking what others have done to them.
Remember that bullying is about the bullies, not about those being bullied. Bullying comes from a place of insecurity.
 No bullies go after the strongest person around. They always choose those they think they can push around. Know that bullies want to have power over others. They choose people that they believe they can easily have power over and will not push back against them.
Bullies may pick on people that are easily upset. Being upset makes those being bullied look weak in a bully’s eyes.
Bullies pick on physically weaker people. Since physically weaker people look like they cannot stick up for themselves, bullies believe they will not put up a fight.
Don't label someone a bully forever. They can often change and become friends. Remember that bullying is behavior of a person, not that person’s only identity. , There are three main types of bullying. Be aware of these varieties of bullying so you can know how best to address each one. Verbal bullying is when others write or say unkind things. This can be in the form of name-calling, teasing, sexual comments, or threats.
Social bullying is when others try to hurt one's reputation or relationships. This can be in the form of leaving people out, telling others not to be friends with someone, spreading rumors, or public embarrassment.
Physical bullying is hurting someone’s body or possessions. This can be in the form of hitting, spitting, tripping, pushing, or taking and breaking one’s possessions.
 Just as bullying can take a lot of forms, it can also happen in a lot of different environments. Bullying often happens at school. This can be on the playground, in class, or before or after school. Consider the different school environments and how this might shape your response.
You may have a bully in your neighborhood. Bullies can be at places like the bus stop, at the park, or on your street.
There are a lot of bullies online as well. Think about social media sites, where bullies congregate, as well as Internet message boards and chat rooms.
Bullying also happens at the workplace. If you encounter any workplace bullies, tell your supervisor immediately.

