 During the day, put toys in your baby's crib for him or her to reach for.Do this during play time, not nap time.
Place the toys in the crib and encourage your baby to reach for them through the bars. After some time passes, place your baby in the crib to grab the toys.
By placing toys in the crib, you establish it as a safe, "fun" environment.
Do not let your baby play for too long in the crib, though. Your child needs to see the crib as a pleasant place, but you should not establish it as a place for play and activity.
 Once your baby gets over his or her anxiety toward the crib, start holding nap time in the crib.


This can be done gradually. For instance, if your baby takes two naps, you can let your baby take one nap wherever he or she usually sleeps. Place your baby in the crib for the other nap, though. Once your baby becomes comfortable sleeping in the crib for one nap, put him or her in the crib for both.
Being left alone in the dark could be a major cause for your baby's fear. As such, letting your baby adjust to the crib during the day, when he or she can see more, can greatly reduce initial crib anxiety.
 After your baby feels comfortable sleeping in the crib for naps, you can start placing your child in the crib at night.


In some cases, you might be able to simply leave your baby alone in the crib as you would for a nap. He or she may fuss at first, but after several minutes, your baby might fall asleep without much difficulty.
If your baby still exhibits signs of crib anxiety, you might need to take additional steps to introduce your baby to the idea of sleeping in the crib at night.
 Place the crib next to your bed so that your baby can still see you as he or she falls asleep.


If your baby is used to sleeping in your room, the scariest part about transitioning to the crib might be the change in surroundings. By moving the crib into your room for several weeks, you allow your baby time to adjust to the crib in an otherwise comfortable setting.
Your baby may still have trouble adjusting to the crib if it is placed on the far side of your room. If this happens, you may need to compromise further by positioning the crib directly next to your bed. Once your baby becomes comfortable sleeping next to you in the crib, gradually move the crib further and further away within the room.
When you baby is comfortable sleeping in the crib in your room, and has been so for roughly a week, it is time to move the crib back into baby's room.
 If your baby has trouble sleeping in his or her crib once you move it into baby's room, spend a few nights sleeping on a cot or sleeping bag in the same room.


Your presence can have a very soothing effect on your baby, which can turn an unfamiliar, uncomfortable set of surroundings into a safe place. By spending a few nights in your baby's room as he or she falls asleep, you can help to establish that room as a safe place.
Once your baby has comfortably fallen asleep in your presence for three or four nights, you can ween yourself away.
 Instead of spending the night in baby's room, only stay put while your baby falls asleep.


If necessary, pat or massage your baby's back while cooing or humming softly to make your presence known.
Begin by sitting nearby, making it easy for baby to see you. When your baby feels comfortable with the distance, move your chair back a little further. Each time your baby adjusts to the change in distance, move back a little more until, eventually, you are out of sight.
When your baby is comfortable falling asleep without seeing you, you can start leaving the room and letting him or her fall asleep alone.

