 Do what you can to relax your baby enough to make him or her drowsy.


Wear your baby out during the day. Filling your baby's day with stimulating play and other activities will naturally make your baby feel more tired and worn out at night. As a result, your baby will be less likely to kick up a fuss about where he or she is sleeping. It might be especially helpful to plan an activity an hour before bedtime to burn off extra energy.
Give your baby a warm bath before bed. Baths often have a soothing effect, and a warm bath can soothe your baby's muscles, making him or her feel physically relaxed. If your baby becomes more alert after taking a bath, however, you should avoid baths before bed.
Try giving your baby a gentle massage. Gently rub your baby's back, arms, and legs to relax the muscles. If this seems to invigorate your child, though, skip this action.
 On the other hand, removing these sources of discomfort will make it easier for your baby to sleep anywhere.


Give your baby a little food before bed. Roughly 2 or 3 oz (60 or 90 ml) of formula or breast milk can fill your baby's stomach enough to prevent him or her from getting hungry a few hours after falling asleep. For babies who are at least six months old, give them 1 or 2 Tbsp (15 or 30 ml) of cereal to accomplish the same task.
Make it easier for your baby to breath by introducing an air purifier or air filter into the room. Contaminants from fuzzy blankets or pets can get into the air, making it hard for your baby to breathe comfortably. An air purifier will remove most of these problems. The "white noise" from the purifier can also have a calming effect.
Change your baby's diaper. Make sure that your baby has a clean diaper on immediately before going to bed. Use "nighttime" diapers to prevent waste from leaking out and soaking your baby's pajamas.
Minimize teething pain. If you have your doctor's permission, you can give your child a small dose of acetaminophen to relieve the pain.
Make sure your baby has comfortable pajamas. Babies with especially sensitive skin tend to do better in nightclothes made from 100 percent cotton than they do in clothes made from synthetic fabrics.
 Creating a setting conducive to sleep will keep your baby mentally comfortable, as well. As a result, it will be easier for baby to feel comfortable enough to sleep in his or her crib.


Dim the lights. Many young babies can sleep with a little light, but others associate light with being awake and active. Keep the lights off in your baby's room and limit your use of the hallway light while your baby is trying to fall asleep. If your baby is especially sensitive to light, use opaque shades to keep the sunlight out of your baby's room in the morning.
Reduce noise. Most babies can sleep through a little noise, but it is generally a good idea to keep things quiet while your baby is drifting off. Otherwise, he or she may feel as though there is too much action going on to fall asleep. Do not let your television or radio share a wall with your baby's crib, and keep the volume as soft as possible when these devices are in use. Keep your voices low, and avoid having guests over while your baby is trying to fall asleep.
Play soothing music. Try playing recorded lullabies, or place plush toys that play classical music or other soothing sounds in your baby's crib at night. Soft music has a rhythmic quality that proves very effective in helping many babies drift to sleep.
Give your baby something with your scent on it, like a frequently-worn t-shirt.The scent will be familiar, making the crib feel more comfortable and familiar, as well. You may want to remove the item once your baby falls asleep, however, to prevent him or her from accidentally suffocating on it.

