 The early stages of a relationship are characterized by infatuation and spending more time with someone. Observe if you're still asking about the person's likes and dislikes, his hobbies and interests, and his beliefs. Notice if you are evaluating his personality characteristics and habits to see if they’re compatible with you.You’ll want to assess if you’re comfortable enough to continue being around him. For example, you may ask yourself:Is this person caring and friendly?
Is this person controlling or mean?
Does this person have a tendency to be unhappy or irritable?
Is this person generally fun to be with?;
, Notice if you idealize your partner, get easily excited by her, or think of her frequently.If you are not able to recognize her flaws, then you're still in the romantic infatuation stage.You're probably experiencing these physical signs of attraction when your partner enters a room:Blushing.
Trembling hands.
Racing heart.
Feeling weak or faint.
 Ask yourself if you are on your best behavior, go out of your way to please the other person, or make attempts to flatter and flirt. If so, you're likely still in the infatuation stage of dating, where there is more pressure to impress and build connection. You’ll be so excited by the attention you’re getting that you’ll try your best not to make a mistake.For example, you may spend extra time getting ready for dates, say “yes” to activities you might not normally do, buy or wear nicer clothes, and spend more time with him than by yourself or with other friends.
Keep in mind the importance of boundaries. For your relationship to grow and be successful, you’ll need to learn to be authentic and stop trying to impress your partner all the time. Giving up time with friends and family is not healthy for your relationship long-term., If you're spending more time together, feeling more comfortable with her, and getting to know her beyond the basics, you're now in an exclusive dating relationship. At this stage, you'll be discovering who the person really is and observing your compatibility on a deeper level. Ask yourself if this person:Understands how to comfort you and provide support.
Trusts you and is comfortable being honest with you.
Respects your family and friends.
Understands your sense of humor.
 Your expectations may be different and may affect the ability for your relationship to last. If you're considering these qualities and needs more, you're moving out of the infatuation stage and into a post-honeymoon type stage of more realistic love.Think about:

How you like to spend your free time, whether with friends or together.
How much alone time you need.
Who will pay for things when you go out together.
How much physical touch or affection you need.

