 Lego designers were once themselves kids who played with LEGOs.Playing with LEGOs is a fun way to learn how they work. It is also a good way to get some experience engineering.


For some jobs, LEGO will actually ask applicants to participate in a build-off, to see who can come up with the best designs.At its heart, LEGO is about fun and the company knows that. In interviews LEGO asks applicants what they do for fun, because they know that fun is at the heart of what they do.;
, With time you should try moving on to LEGO models that require complex mechanical and computerized parts. Try to understand what makes them work.You can buy cheap second-hand sets off the Internet, often in bulk.
Mindstorms RCX LEGOs in particular are capable of being programmed to do amazing things. People have managed to make flying devices with this model.
 LEGO’s digital designer is a free application that can be downloaded online. You can design your own parts to create models that might be difficult to build otherwise. This would be good practice for ultimately designing your own LEGOs.LEGO used to allow you to have these sets manufactured for you, so that you could have a hard copy of these designs. They have ceased doing this for the time being., LEGO’s are an educational tool to help you think about how things are built. Once you’ve gotten these skills down, you should try to move on to building new things.Consider building theses like mousetrap race cars, water bottle rockets, forts, catapults, and water balloon rockets., Through elementary, middle and high school you should build a record of academic success. If you get ahead and build your credentials early, it will be easier to get into a good college. Study hard and do your best at every level of your education.
 You should take every opportunity available to study math and science in high school. Take four years of course work in each and take advanced classes when possible. If there is a science or robotics club, join it.


During high school you can also consider taking some classes in science, math, engineering, or software design courses at a local college. Typically, you can take these over summer, so that it won't impair your ability to complete your regular coursework.
 You will need a bachelor's and possibly a masters degree in a relevant technical field to be a viable candidate for a job with LEGO. To make yourself particularly attractive, consider completing two majors or doing a bachelor's degree in one field and a master's degree in another.Consider mechanical engineering. Get a degree that focuses on robotics and automation. Many LEGO designs require the construction of complicated mechanical systems.Also consider a degree in computer engineering. LEGO now uses computer programming to give life to its designs and being able to contribute to these projects is important for securing a job at LEGO.
 LEGO isn’t just about creating things that move, it is about creating designs that are interesting and exciting. As a company, LEGO is interested in people with a background in art and design. These skill sets can be important for creating toys that look realistic and engaging.


Lego has hired artists to build gigantic installations at locations around the world., LEGO is an international company, based out of Denmark, with locations around the globe. It does have jobs available in English speaking countries, including the United States. The majority of the jobs in America, however, are in business and management, not design.The top locations currently hiring LEGO engineers are: Denmark, China, the Czech Republic, and Hungary. There are no jobs currently available for engineers in English language countries.Because LEGO is a Danish company, Danish would be the best language to learn.
Language acquisition can be a slow and arduous process. It also becomes harder as you grow older. You should begin studying no later than college. If you can find the time to purchase a language learning program and study prior to college, that could also be advantageous.
 If you can successfully build complex robotics with LEGOs, submit your designs to robotics competitions. LEGO might notice your accomplishments and begin to build a relationship with you.Consider using online media to publicize your accomplishments. Build a website advertising your designs, tweet it to LEGO or post it on LEGO's Facebook wall.
 LEGO lists all job openings on their website. Check in on them regularly and, if there is anything that you believe you are qualified for, send in your application. Sometimes it helps to start small and work your way up to more desirable jobs. If you get your foot in the door with a job at LEGO, you might eventually be able to move on to working as a designer., LEGO is interested in applicants who love LEGO. To prove that you love LEGO in in your interview, you should know something about the company. How old is it? Where is it based? How have LEGO toys evolved over time?, These two documents are how you will advertise your skills to LEGO. Prioritize accomplishments that will speak to your qualifications. Give detailed descriptions of jobs you have performed in the field of engineering, computer science, or art.


When writing these documents be as specific and precise as possible, including concrete numbers whenever possible. Do not say that you "Maximized efficiency" at your previous company. Instead, say that "Production increased by 30% within my first year."
Resumes are often read quickly and superficially. To be successful, they must be easy to digest and arranged so that information can quickly be gleaned. The most relevant facts should be near the top, where they can quickly be picked up by the reader.
 Even if there is no open positions listed online, you can apply when you have strong qualifications. Use Linkedin to see if you have any connections to the company. If so, ask that person to direct you to someone who would have the authority to hire you. Otherwise, use the company's website to find the head of a department that you would want to work for and send that person your application.

