 A lot of tax issues are complex, so an accountant can help. Remember though, many people use an accountant already, and nonetheless fail to take advantage of every break available. You need to do your own research.Ask a prospective accountant the following:


If they are a licensed CPA. The CPA designation denotes a level of education and expertise that you can't guarantee otherwise.
How long their firm has been in existence.
What other certifications are held by CPAs in the office. This can give you an idea of their focus. The Personal Financial Specialist (PFS) and Certified Financial Planner (CFP) designations can indicate particularly helpful specializations for reducing taxes in retirement.
Whether you can contact any of their clients for a referral. A reputable firm should have no problem with this.
Many retirees don’t itemize deductions, leaving billions to the IRS every year. Deductions are available for medical expenses and charitable contributions in particular. Make sure you’ve discussed possible itemized deductions with your financial planner at length., The tax rates for short term capital gains are the same as they are for earned income, like wages and salaries. Hold onto assets for longer than a year to save big. The tax rates on long term capital gains are no more than 20% (but usually not more than 15%), which is less than income taxes, so selling off assets is a great way to lessen tax liability.


For the gain to count as a long term capital gain, you have to have held the asset for a year or more.
You can also bundle your losses to minimize liability. This is known as loss harvesting, and it is a simple if overlooked way to minimize your tax bill.Your capital gains and losses can either be short or long term. You are entitled to use the net figure from all of these categories to arrive at one single figure.
So add up your long term gains (LTG) and losses (LTL). If your LTG is 10k and your LTL is 5k, that’s a net LTG of 5k.
Then add up short term gains (STG) and short term losses (STL). STG of 6k plus an STL of 7k is a STL of 1k.
Then add the net LTG and the net STL to get 4k in taxable LTG.
 Another option to reduce your taxable burden is to put more of your income towards paying down your home. You can refinance your mortgage on your current home to a shorter loan term. This will increase your payments and your deductible interest, as interest paid on home loans is deductible from your tax burden. Borrowed funds are not taxable., Reverse mortgages are a type of home equity conversion loan that is marketed toward senior citizens.The borrower gets a loan for the value of the equity in the home. Interest on reverse mortgages is not deductible, but any money advanced on equity is non-taxable.The loan can be structured in three ways:


The loan can be structured as a line of credit.The borrower can access the line of credit at any time for whatever reason, although there may be limits on how much can be accessed in a time period. The unused balance of the line of credit actually grows in value as the home increases in value.
The loan can be structured as a monthly payment for a fixed number of years, known as a term payment plan.The buyer receives the same amount of money each month even if the value of the home decreases.
The loan can be structured under a tenured payment plan, which means that the buyer gets a monthly payment for as long as they remain in the home, even if the amount of payments exceed the loan value.Even if payments under the reverse mortgage stop, the homeowner cannot be evicted from the home.When the homeowner dies, the title to the house can pass onto their heirs, but the heirs have to satisfy the amount of the loan or forfeit the deed. For this reason, reverse mortgages should usually be a last resort., Most people know that charitable contributions are tax-deductible. However, if you donate assets to charities wisely, you can really minimize your tax bill.


For example, if you want to donate $500 to a charity, instead of donating it in cash, you can donate $500 worth of stock that has appreciated in value while you’ve held it. That way you can claim the deduction and avoid paying the capital gains tax on the stock.The reverse goes if you’ve lost money on a group of stocks. Sell first, then donate the cash. That way you can use a capital loss to your advantage and deduct the contribution from your income for the year., You can reduce your own taxes by simply reducing the value of your total assets. One way to do so is to give appreciated or income-producing assets to your family members. Giving away appreciated assets can result in a tax benefit for you, whereas giving income-producing assets to family members reduces your annual income and taxes. Your family member will still have to pay taxes on the earnings or capital gains from the asset, though., Trusts can be used to separate your estate from your spouse for inheritance purposes, which can help you avoid exemption limits for estate transfers. If, for example, you and your spouse each hold assets equal to $2 million, and the exemption limit in your state is $3 million, the transfer of your combined $4 million to your heirs upon your death would be subject to additional taxes. However, if you created a trust for estate, this separate your money and your spouse's, allowing you to avoid the exemption limit.