 Take a shower or bathe daily, and wash your hair at least 3 times a week (more or less, depending on hair type). Wash your face, preferably with a face wash designed to fight acne, or a witch hazel toner. Your face will start to be more oily, so be sure to wash with soap and warm water every day, two times (preferably in the morning and before you go to bed). Also, moisturize your legs and arms, too - nobody enjoys seeing all that dry, wrinkled skin, but they do like seeing the flat, perfect skin.;
, Ask your hair stylist for an easy-to-maintain hairstyle that suits your face shape and is out of your face. The trims will help your hair not to get split ends. Plus, it will grow faster. Also, if you take a thin-toothed comb and brush from your roots frequently, your hair will become shinier. When you comb from your roots all the way down, it carries the oil evenly to your hair, making it shinier and more attractive. Try not to comb it so much that your hair becomes super greasy. If you want, add a little color strip or highlights, but make sure it matches!

, It might seem easier to skip brushing your teeth, but nobody likes someone with bad breath or yellow teeth!


After brushing, you should floss and use mouthwash. During the day, keep mints and mint-flavored gum in handy. This will keep your breath fresh.
 Will you need a bra? Don't wear one unless you feel ready and if you need to. Changing in gym will be very, very embarrassing if you don't have a bra to cover up. Try getting used to wearing a sports bra or camisole at first.
 In fact, you aren't even expected to wear makeup anyway. You are beautiful just the way you are.


If you want to wear makeup, however, wear a bit a blush or bronzer, light eye shadows, a bit of mascara and lip gloss! If you are just entering sixth grade and want to wear makeup to stand out, go easy. Don't wear too much eyeshadow, otherwise when you get older it will start making the skin around your eyes dry up. Wear it differently everyday; one day go neutral and another day dramatic.
 Wear modest clothes that fit well with your style and your shape. A few good stores middle school aged girls like to shop at are Hollister, Aeropostale, American Eagle, Forever 21, Delia's, and Charlotte Russe. Most sixth grade girls like miniskirts, jeans, graphic t-shirts, oversize sweaters/sweatshirts/jackets matched with skinny jeans, etc. Feel free to experiment, though. Come up with your own unique style, whether it's the fashionista type or the classic, all-American girl wear.
 They can highlight or enhance (make something beautiful out of a part you dislike) areas where you want them to. However, if you have freckles, a mole, or any other thing you are self-conscious about, don't freak out. Many people find these things cute and special, as a matter of fact.
 Don't forget the fruit and vegetables! Skipping meals is detrimental, so be sure to eat breakfast every day to keep you awake and energized. You don't have to have the figure of a supermodel; just stay healthy.
 If you play a sport, great! Join your school's sports team.
 Share the world your impressive ability.
 After doing this for a few weeks, you should notice that you have more energy and healthier skin. It will also make your breath fresher!

, You don't need to be thin, but you do need to be healthy. However if you're underweight already, don't over-exercise!

, These traits are very attractive to have. It will show others you're caring, very nice, and a good person to be with. You don't have to be loud, you just need to be confident. Some people, as a matter of fact, find very quiet people down to earth! Try some flirting if you want to. It could be fun.
 No one likes that.
 Don't be someone you're not. Have fun with your life. Being yourself shows everyone that you love you, for you, and that you love your life.

