 In many courts the debtor must submit a list of assets. Included would be the debtor's bank accounts, real estate, vehicles, boats, etc.


If the debtor did not fill out a Statement of Assets, see if the court will issue an order of examination. In such a case the judge calls the debtor into court to question him about assets. If the debtor did not fill out a Statement of Assets, you can file a form called an Order to Produce Statement of Assets and to Appear for Examination. This will compel the debtor to identify assets and answer questions about them. An example of such a form is here.
 You initiate the levy process by filing a Writ of Execution with the court. The court should have a pre-printed form for you to fill out.


Look online for a sample form if your court does not provide one. The sample will serve as a model for you to use in typing up your own writ. A sample California Writ of Execution is available here.
Typically you will be asked to provide the names of the parties (you and the debtor), what you are trying to accomplish (levy a bank account), the date of the judgment, the amount owed, and a description of the property to be levied.
 Have the sheriff deliver the Writ of Execution to the bank. The bank will then freeze the debtor’s accounts.


You may use a process server instead of the sheriff.
 Generally the debtor has ten days to respond to your motion. Under federal law a debtor can exempt certain funds from a levy. These funds include:


Up to two months of Social Security payments directly deposited in the debtor’s bank account, as well as other retirement funds. Child support payments., The bank has a period of time to turn over the money levied or to explain why it cannot do so. In California a bank has ten days. If the debtor claims that certain funds are exempt, you will be paid whatever the court deems non-exempt after it conducts a hearing.
 If the levied bank accounts cover the judgment, you will fill out a Satisfaction of Judgment form and file it with the court. Obtain the appropriate form from the court clerk.


Be sure to mail a copy to the debtor.

