 You want to be able to be clear and accurate about the exact ingredients that are gracing their plate or bowl.;
, Take it from gourmet chefs the world over: the best way to make a meal shine is to use fresh local ingredients and to keep it simple. Don't buy prepackaged foods, even if they say "gluten free" on the label. Prepackaged foods can have hidden dairy, cross-contamination, and are often high in sugar. Not only do you not have to read the label on a carrot, but people with food allergies often have a problem with histamines, which increase as food ages (i.e. leftovers).
 Fat is a macronutrient found in nearly all foods. Even an innocent carrot contains some fat. Sometimes, people can tolerate foods that contain higher amounts of fats like nuts, but not added fats such as olive oil, or vice versa, and sometimes not at all. There are sometimes reasonable thresholds where people can tolerate a small amount (i.e. olive oil), but not over. Sugar is a generic term. Cane sugar is in the grass family and it is not uncommon for people with gluten issues to have issues with cane sugar. While it is easy to avoid adding cane sugar to whatever you are making, some people are avoiding foods with high glycemic index. So, it is important to know your audience.
 There is a lot of misinformation surrounding gluten sensitivities, and there are varying thresholds of sensitivity depending on the condition and reason for avoidance. If you are new to gluten avoidance, to make it simple, all grains contain gluten.


It is a common misconception that only wheat, barley, triticale, and rye are the only gluten containing grains. These are the most frequently offending grains in Celiac Disease. However, there are hundreds of gluten sensitive conditions besides Celiac, and even Celiacs need to look carefully at their other grain consumption.
If you are making a meal for someone who is not only gluten sensitive but suffering multiple sensitivities, it is wise to avoid all grains. This means, don't substitute corn or rice for wheat or rye. Don't go buy something that says "gluten free" on the package (GF labeled foods often have sugar and dairy). See step #2, and stick with whole foods.
 Options are great for multiple reasons. No matter where we are in our food sensitivities journey, sticking out for it is never fun. Options during the meal are a great way to create great meals for everyone anyhow. We all love choices and we all like our bowls a little different. After all, we each have different and shifting nutrient requirements.


If you design a meal such as tacos for example, where everyone puts together their own, someone with food sensitivities can feel more comfortable that they won't stick out. (However, watch out for cross-contamination. If you put out cheese for others, make sure it doesn't get accidentally sprinkled into the lettuce.)

, This is really an extension of 'Options'. There is nothing more disheartening to all parties than to have all of the thought and effort that went into making a special 'sensitive-friendly' dish go to waste by one little ingredient spoiling the lot. When in doubt, put the sauce (or spice mix) on the side, so-to-speak. Go for it with the extras; just make them optional just in case.
 As you are cooking, be mindful of your ingredients and vigilant with yourself with what you are doing. Don't absently add butter to your pan to sauté veggies (the dairy sensitive can't have butter).

