 It is very important for your overall health to get at least eight to nine hours of sleep every night. A lack of adequate sleep will translate through your face with dull skin and dark circles under your eyes. Also, once you miss a night of sleep, you cannot make it up later by over sleeping because the damage is already done. In order to keep your skin looking fresh and bright, create a regular bedtime schedule.


Plan your sleep schedule accordingly so you can fit in the recommended amount of sleep every night.;
, By following the FDA regulated food pyramid, you are setting yourself up for a healthy inside as well as a healthy, glowing outside. What you decide to put into your body reflects on the outside through your skin and face. Our skin gets its nourishment from the vitamins and minerals in the foods we eat so be sure to eat fruits, vegetables, grains, and proteins, which are especially essential to our skin because it is what our skin is made up of.


Proper nutrition will help your skin steer clear of acne and pimples, whereas too much sugar can cause your skin to breakout.
 Water helps cure many problems associated with skin. It clears breakouts, creates more vibrant skin, softens and hydrates skin and helps even out skin tone. The minimum amount of water recommended per day is eight glasses, but if you can, drink even more. This is a vital step towards having a pretty face.Always carry water by your side throughout the day. This will encourage you to drink more water.
Water helps skin become supple and promotes healthy cell rejuvenation.
 A smile is one of the best ways to achieve a pretty face. The first thing people see is your face and the first thing they notice is your expression. Let everyone see your inner beauty by wearing a smile on your face as much as possible and laughing often.


When you greet someone or are having a conversation, flash them a smile to show them you are confident and happy.
Happiness radiates, and often a person's personality will come through as physical attractiveness to others.

