 Before you leave your overnight babysitter with your child, give them a tour of the household. Emphasize areas where your child is allowed to play or explore. Show your babysitter where toys are stashed so that they can retrieve them if your baby wants to play.If your house has a burglar alarm system, explain how it works and how to disarm it.
If the door to your home has a difficult sequence of locks, ensure your overnight babysitter can negotiate them.
 Your babysitter should know where you keep flashlights, candles, and fire extinguishers. Additionally, provide instructions to your overnight babysitter about where in the house to seek shelter in the event of a tornado.Leave a signed consent form behind authorizing your overnight babysitter to seek medical care for your child on your behalf in the event it becomes necessary.Ask your doctor to help you draft or obtain such a form.
Provide your babysitter with a map of your family’s escape route in the event of a crisis., Ensure that your overnight babysitter can obtain more diapers, baby formula, and baby powder if they need more. Additionally, check the stocks of these supplies before turning the house over to your overnight babysitter.If these supplies are low, refill them before taking your leave.
 If you have pets as well as children, make time for your overnight babysitter to meet them before taking off. Include feeding schedules in your notes and directions so that they get the care they need, too., If for some reason your babysitter needs to go out (for instance, to pick up supplies or drop your child off somewhere) they should be able to leave the house safely and securely. Give your overnight babysitter a set of keys for all the inside and outside doors and show them the door that each key corresponds to so that they are adequately prepared.A set of keys for all doors inside the house is important, too, since kids sometimes accidentally lock themselves into bedrooms or other rooms.
 If your overnight babysitter doesn’t have money, they won’t be able to pick up extra formula or diapers, should they become necessary. Plan on leaving about $50 with your sitter per night they’ll be staying over.In other words, if your overnight babysitter stays for three nights, give them at least $150.
Place the money in an envelope in a drawer somewhere in the house and show your babysitter where you’re leaving it.
Make it clear that this money is an emergency fund only, and not part of their payment for service.
Ask your babysitter to provide receipts for anything they obtain using the emergency money.

