 You may feel like limiting your fluids is the obvious solution. However, staying hydrated is vital. Remember, you may want to limit your intake so you are not drinking too much.When you drink, limit the drink to between six to eight ounces. Drink every hour or two.
Monitor the color of your urine. If it is light yellow or almost colorless, you are properly hydrated. It if it a darker color, you need to drink more.;
, Make sure to drink the right kinds of fluids. Avoid beverages that will trigger your bladder by increasing the urge to urinate. Don’t drink fluids containing caffeine, alcohol, or artificial sweeteners.Instead, try drinking plenty of water while you are out.
 There are also some foods that you should avoid if you have an overactive bladder. These foods include:Acidic foods, like citrus and tomatoes, or any foods that contain citrus or tomato products.
Spicy foods, like those that contain hot peppers or wasabi.
Foods that contain artificial sweeteners, such as aspartame, saccharin, sucralose, or any other artificial sweeteners.
Chocolate, such as candy, pudding, or brownies.
Salty foods, such as potato chips, canned soup, or other processed foods that contain a lot of sodium.
 You should schedule regular bathroom breaks while out. This helps you make sure to keep your bladder emptied often enough that you shouldn’t get too many urges.For example, you may schedule a bathroom trip every two hours. Depending on how overactive your bladder is, you may need more or less frequent trips.
 Go to the bathroom to urinate whenever you are near one. Though you may have a bathroom schedule, going when bathrooms are available can help. This may be important if you are going to unknown places where you do not know where bathrooms are.Even if you don’t feel the urge yet, go to the bathroom and void what you can.
You can find bathrooms using an app, like SitOrSquat, that lists the bathrooms in your area.
 You may not want to travel due to your urges. This doesn't have to keep you at home. You can easily get to bathrooms in airports and on planes. If you are driving, you can stop at rest stops or find fast food restaurants along the road.


You can wear a protective liner as you sight see and enjoy your trip. This way, if you have a small accident, you will be protected.
Space out your beverages. Don't guzzle down water, but drink when you feel thirsty.
Use the bathroom whenever you come across one. This can help ensure that you use all of your available bathrooms. Many restaurants and convenience stores have public bathrooms.

