 Keep it private. While it is tempting to try to get support among your friends and family for "your side of the story," don't. The last thing you want is for well-meaning friends and family to "take your side," while alienating or demonizing your spouse. If you must, choose one friend who you know will be supportive to both of you, and talk discreetly about your feelings. Better yet, talk to a professional, who can provide you with sound advise.
 There is no magic bullet. There will not be a magic moment when suddenly all is forgiven, all tears are dried, all wounds are healed, all anger is gone. You're both going to hurt for a long time. It can take years (2 - 5 years is the general opinion) to really feel like you've made the right decision, and that your marriage can truly recover. And after you have given it some time (this will vary, depending on the two of you).
 Oh horrors! Does this suggest you should pretend to be okay, even if you aren't? Actually, yes, to a certain extent. Does this mean you should never pout, sulk, act petulant, snap at your spouse, make snarky, snotty remarks - even if you're still feeling hurt, angry, etc.? Does this mean you're not entitled to an authentic response to your pain? No. You're entitled to your pain. But that response will not serve the restoration of your marriage. Does this mean that you should act like you want to be there, even if you want to run like the wind? Absolutely. You may feel like leaving every single day - heaven knows it may sometimes feel easier than going through all of this. But just put one foot in front of the other. Be polite. Act warmly. Be kind. When you want to make a snotty remark, instead, reach over to that person you were just about to snap at, and give him or her a little back rub without saying anything at all. When you feel lost or embarrassed, reach out and pat his or her hand. Doing things like this helps to rewire your responses, and redirect bad thoughts to doing good things. If you just act like everything is normal, one day you will realize that everything really is normal. It's a quiet realization - it won't come with fireworks.
 There are a million reasons to leave. After infidelity, life gets real hard for a long time. And there's really no obligation on the part of the injured party to try for reconciliation, so it can be doubly difficult to find reasons to stay. Still, whatever your choice is, whether it is because you have children, or because you choose to believe that your spouse had a regrettable incident, and is otherwise worthy of your love and devotion, once you have found the reasons to stay, cling to them, and remind yourself what they are any time you find yourself wanting to bail out. Every marriage has troubles, and goes through trials. This one is yours right now.





Let it go. The injured party will want to hang onto this longer than the one who cheated. The anger and the reactions that ensue are understandable, but verbal abuse is still unacceptable, and will do nothing to heal the marriage. After a certain amount of time, you must let it go, or else the person who had the affair will simply resent your behavior, and become sullen and hardened to this form of punishment. If you continue to berate him, recognize this as contempt, a behavior only seen in troubled marriages. It is now you who is in the wrong. Seek therapy from a skilled marriage counselor or help from clergy, to help you leave this in the past, or else all of your efforts will fail. Nobody will volunteer to be flogged daily forever, even after s/he accepts all blame for doing wrong. If you attempt to turn the punishment phase into a life sentence, your marriage is doomed.
 If you wake up one day and realize that you have accepted the incident, forgiven (or been forgiven for) what happened, and are glad you decided to stay with your partner, you've survived infidelity, and your marriage is intact, vital, and healthy once more.

