 Replace showers with a daily warm-water bath while you have hemorrhoids.Soaking in a warm tub for at least 10 minutes a day will increase your blood flow, soothing pain and speeding up the healing process. You don't have to use soap; in fact, soap could make the problem worse by irritating the affected area. Because soap remove naturally produced oils it can dry out and irritate the skin.Lingering moisture can also cause irritation, so pat the anal area dry with a cotton ball. You can also dry the area gently using the lowest setting on a hair dryer.;
, A sitz bath is an over-the-toilet bath for the hips and buttocks that can ease the pain of hemorrhoids, relieve irritation and pruritus as well as relax the anal sphincter. Rather than simply soaking in warm water, a sitz bath sprays the irritated area with a stream of warm water. These products are available at pharmacies and medical supply stores.


You can add Epsom salts to your sitz bath to further soothe the skin. Add 1 cup Epsom salts for every 2 quarts of water.Soak the affected area for 10-15 minutes in warm water, up to 2-3 times a day., Whatever you use for your cold compress, cover it with a towel so you don't make direct contact with the irritated skin. Applying cold to the irritated area reduces swelling and soothes itching.


Apply the compress gently for up to 20 minutes (less is okay)
Remove it if you feel discomfort/pain from the coldness.
Repeat 2-3 more times, allowing a few minutes between each application.
 Pure witch hazel is available at most drug stores, though it can come in different concentrations and application methods. For example, you can buy pads pre-soaked with witch hazel at some drugstores. Application methods and times will vary depending on the product you bought. Follow the instructions that came with your particular product and/or follow your doctor's instructions.


It's best to use pure witch hazel, but you might try a product that mixes witch hazel other substances like soothing oils and aloe. Avoid products with synthetic chemicals, which may make the hemorrhoids worse.
Draw a warm bath and pour in a few capfuls of witch hazel. Soak in the tub until the irritation has eased.
You can apply a diluted witch hazel and water mixture directly to irritated skin up to 6 times a day, or after bowel movements.
 Hydrocortisone is a steroid cream, and is the most effective way to combat for "pruritus" (localized itching) after bowel movements. Steroid cream should be applied twice a day for not more than seven days. In theory, it may help reduce inflammation and speed up healing because it's a steroid — but studies have not yet confirmed this.Even if it doesn't cure hemorrhoids, though, it at least controls the itching that comes with them.


Follow the instructions for application on the bottle, and do not apply hydrocortisone more often than recommended.
 Medical attention is important if your hemorrhoids are interfering with your daily life. Furthermore, their symptom can be similar to those of more serious conditions like colon or rectal cancer. Either way, it's important to have a doctor evaluate you if the following occurs:Symptoms linger after a week of home-treatment
Pain or swelling grows severe
Bleeding increases or changes in color (from bright to dark red, for example)
Stool changes in size, shape, or color (from brown to tarry black, for example)
Tissue from inside the body bulges out from the anus. If it doesn't retract within 3 to 7 days of home treatment, see a doctor.
 Tell your doctor about your symptoms and allow her to assess the area. After evaluation, she might prescribe medication based on:Pain: hydrocortisone ointment, analgesic sprays - benzocaine, dibucaine
Pruritus (itching): hydrocortisone ointment
Bleeding: astringent suppositories (Preparation H), hydrocortisone ointment

, It is usually effective at ridding you of your hemorrhoid. The doctor will use rubber bands to cut off blood flow to the internal bundles of hemorrhoids. This causes necrosis (cell death), and the hemorrhoid will eventually slough off.


There are two types of hemorrhoids: internal and external. This is determined by the hemorrhoid's anatomic location to the dentate line. Hemorrhoids are graded 1-5 with 1 being mild and 5 being severe. Symptoms of a hemorrhoid include bleeding with a bowel movement, fecal incontinence, wetness, irritation and pruritus of the perianal area. Diagnosis is made based upon history, a physical assessment and visualization of the hemorrhoids.
 In severe cases, hemorrhoids may not shrink with at-home treatment or prescribed medication. At that point, the doctor may recommend removing the hemorrhoid "hemorrhoidal artery ligation operation" (HALO). This procedure is effective and usually painless, so it's gaining popularity in the medical community.The more common response to persistent hemorrhoids is a hemorrhoidectomy, or surgical removal.


If you have further complications like prolapse, hernia strangulation, or large anal tags, the doctor will likely recommend surgery.
Although hemorrhoidectomy is a surgical process, it's not a major undertaking. It's usually performed in a relatively casual setting, either in a clinic or in an outpatient setting.
Most hemorrhoids heal within 48 hours with at-home care or prescription medications. Surgical removal should only be considered after those options have proven ineffective., This is an area where a large number of blood vessels connect together, raising the likelihood that pressure will cause dilation and hemorrhoid. Common causes increased pressure that causes hemorrhoids include:


Constipation and straining during bowel movements
Chronic diarrhea
Pregnancy
Liver Disease, Cirrhosis
Extended periods of prolonged sitting
Obesity

, Straining increases pressure during bowel movements, making hemorrhoids worse. Dietary changes can help decrease straining: stick to a normal eating schedule of multiple, small meals. Don't try to pass stool unless you actually feel like you have to, and when you do, decrease strain by using proper technique:Sit with good posture on the toilet, leaning slightly forward with a straight back.
Rest each forearm on your knees
Put your feet in a comfortable position, and raise your heels off the ground so you're on your toes
Keep your legs apart so they are not touching
Relax your pelvic muscles and anal sphincter as you feel your stool approaching your rectum.
Remember not to hold your breath. Breathe naturally with your mouth slightly open.
 Your stool will be softer, causing less strain during bowel movements, reducing the risk of the hemorrhoid enlarging.


The Institute of Medicine recommends that men drink 13 cups (3 liters) of fluids every day, and women drink 9 cups (2.2 liters)., Fruits and vegetables with lots of fiber help prevent and cure constipation. When you can pass your stool easily with less strain, you place less pressure on anal and rectal blood vessels. This prevents hemorrhoids, or speeds up the recovery process if you already have them. If changing your diet isn't an option, you might try a stool softener or fiber supplement like Metamucil or Critical. In general, women should take in 25 grams of fiber every day, and men 38 grams.Foods to work into your diet include:Dark, leafy greens like kale and spinachCooked asparagus, beets, mushrooms, turnips, and pumpkin
Broccoli, artichokes, squashes, sweet potatoes, string beans, and raw carrots
Fruits: apples, bananas, peaches, pears, tangerines, prunes, berries, figs, and other dried fruits.
Grains: brown rice, whole-grain breads, high-fiber cereals, whole-wheat pastas

, Dehydration can eventually lead to constipation, which can cause hemorrhoids to flare up or linger. As such, avoid alcohol and caffeine while upping your intake of other, more hydrating fluids like water. Processed foods like instant meals and packaged candy have high amounts of salt, sugar, and unhealthy fats that can impede digestion. Because these foods can also lead to constipation, you should avoid them at all costs to prevent and cure hemorrhoids.
 This can contribute to hemorrhoid flare-ups. Instead, wear loose undergarments in a breathable material like cotton to speed up the healing process., Avoid using perfumed soaps when bathing, perfumed detergent when washing your clothes, and do not use perfumed toilet paper. Look for unscented, dye-free products to replace them. Hemorrhoids are already irritating to the surrounding skin, so do what you can avoid extra, unnecessary irritation.

