 Arizona requires that you get an Arizona driver license immediately upon becoming an Arizona resident. If any of the following apply, you will need to visit your local Motor Vehicle Division (MVD) office as soon as possible:


You work in Arizona;
You are registered to vote in Arizona;
You have children in school in Arizona and don't pay nonresident prices;
You have a business that operates in Arizona that operates vehicles in the state;
You pay in-state tuition fees at a university;
You remain in Arizona for seven or more months out of the year.;
, If you are moving to Arizona from another state, and have become a resident of Arizona, you will need to fill out Form 40-5122 (Driver License/Identification Card Application). The form can be found at http://www.azdot.gov/docs/default-source/mvd-forms-pubs/40-5122.pdf?sfvrsn=5. You can also complete and submit the form online at https://apps.azdot.gov/mvd/Application/ApplicationForm.aspx. To successfully fill out the form, you will need the following information:


Your Social Security number;
Your personal information, including your Arizona address;
Disclosures about past license suspensions;
Medical alerts; and
Donor information.
 Before you visit your local MVD office, you will need to obtain acceptable forms of identification in order to prove your age, identification, and legal presence in the United States.When you visit your local MVD office, you will be required to show two documents, one of which needs to have a photo. If you do not have some form of identification with a photo, you will need to present three documents. Any document you present must be an original or certified copy.


One of your documents must be a primary document, which must show your date of birth and includes enhanced driver licenses from other states, birth certificates, passports, and military ID cards.
The other documents can be secondary documents, which do not have to show your birth date and includes Social Security cards, selective service cards, W-2 forms, concealed carry permits, credit cards, and school IDs., If you didn't complete your application online, print out your completed form. Bring the form, your various forms of identification, and your current license to your local Arizona MVD office.
 When you arrive at the MVD office, you will be required to surrender your current license from another state., While at the MVD office, you will often be given a vision exam.The exam is straightforward and is meant to assess the health of your eyes for driving purposes.
 In Arizona, license fees are assessed based on your age. This is due to the fact that Arizona licenses expire on your 65th birthday. Therefore, the older you are, the sooner your license will expire, and the cheaper it will be.


If you are between 16 and 39, the fee is $25.
You you are between 40 and 44, the fee is $20.
If you are between 45 and 49, the fee is $15.
If you are 50 or older, the fee is $10.