 The Able Sisters Shop can be found in the shopping district; simply head north, past the train station, and follow the cobblestones under the arch. Their store should be on the left side of the district.;
, After 10 days, the shoe store, Kicks, will be built and opened next to the Able Sisters Shop. If you have already spent 8,000 bells at the Able Sisters Shop before ten days have passed in the game, you can expedite the process by time traveling on the game’s calendar:


At the opening screen of the game, tell Isabelle that there’s something you need to change before playing, and select the “Change the date” option.
Adjust the calendar so that the proper amount of days have passed since your town’s creation.
 This 10,000 bells can be a purchase total at either store, for example, spending 4,000 at Kicks and 6,000 at Able Sisters.
 After 10 days, Shampoodle will be constructed on the second floor of Able Sisters.


If you’re in a hurry, time travel forward using the method stated in Step 2.
 Although you have now unlocked Shampoodle, you are not immediately given the option to change your eye color. The hairstylist, Harriet, will only give you the choice to change hairstyle or makeup when the salon is first built.


To get started on unlocking the Eye Color Change feature, visit Shampoodle during its operating hours, which are from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.
 Take a seat in the red chair on the left side of the room, and Harriet will approach you and ask what you want to get done today. Select the haircut option, and answer her questions to determine which style you will get.


It costs about 3,000 bells to get a haircut.
 On the 15th day, the Eye Color Change feature will be available to you.


Again, if you’re in a hurry, just time travel 14 days forward.
 This is because Harriet can only do one thing for a player a day, so she cannot do a haircut, makeup and change the eye color on the same day.
 Visit Shampoodle during their operating hours and sit in the chair. Harriet will approach and ask what it is you want to make over.
 Tell Harriet that you want to change your eye color. Harriet will then ask you some questions. Your answers will determine the color your eyes will change to:


To get black eyes, answer either “The vast sky” or “The large trees” to her first question, and “Pitch black” or “Their endless shade” to her second question.
To get blue eyes answer either “The vast sky” or “The endless ocean” to her first question, and “A clear, blue sky” or “A tropical blue ocean” to her second question.
To get grey eyes, answer either “The vast sky” or “The endless ocean” to her first question, and then “Like rain coming” or “A cold, wintry ocean” to her second question.
To get green eyes, answer either “The large trees” or “The endless ocean” to her first question, and “Their abundant leaves” or “An ocean of coral” to her second question.
To get brown eyes, answer “The large trees” to Harriet’s first question, and “Their sturdy trunks” to her second question.

