 Make sure to measure your child’s feet when he is standing, as the bones, muscles, and tissues in his body will actually compress his feet, making them larger when he puts weight on them.To measure your child’s feet you can:

Use a tape measure.



 


Have your child stand on a piece of paper. Trace around his foot using a pencil. Measure this traced image and then compare the length to an online shoe size chart.






Remember to measure your child’s foot at the end of the day. After a day spent walking around, your child’s feet will have naturally expanded. Because of this, you need to by shoes that will still fit after a day of active play.;
, Measure both of your child’s feet because most people tend to have one foot that is larger than the other. Once you have determined which foot is bigger, make sure to use that foot as a reference for which size shoe you should get.


The difference will most likely not be large enough that you need to get two different sized shoes.
 These should be the socks or style of sock that your child wears most often. Because your child wears socks when he wears shoes, it is important to factor that added padding in when determining the properly sized shoe.


Remember to bring a pair of socks to the shoe store when you go to buy shoes so that your child can try the shoes on with the socks he normally wears.
 You can identify your child’s foot shape by doing the “wet test” method. Wet your child’s feet with water and then have him stand on a piece of paper. Look to see if your child has a medium, flat, or high arch (the arch is the area that will be dry in the center of your child’s foot, as the arch should float off of the paper). Consider this when picking out shoes for your child.

Low arched feet or flat feet. Feet of this type need shoes that can control the motion. You need to get shoes that have rigid heel counters. Shoes with more foam in the middle are helpful.






High arched feet. Feet of this type are quite rigid. So you need to wear shoes that are meant for running. Get shoes that can absorb the shock of running. You need shoes that are quite flexible and have thick mid-soles.






Neutral feet. Feet of this type can use almost any kind of shoe.







