 Start the appointment with the vet by telling them as much as you can about the cat’s medical history. Mention any previous medical conditions the cat may have had as well as any it has right now. Cats who have urinary issues are usually overweight or have a genetic condition that predisposes them to these issues. Let the vet know if the cat has a history of medical issues, as this will help them make the proper diagnosis.For example, you may tell the vet, “The cat is overweight and older in age. It has had urinary issues in the past.”;
, Cats who have blood in their urine usually display other symptoms, such as going to the bathroom outside of their litter box or not going to the bathroom at all. They may also appear agitated, anxious, or on edge. Tell the vet when you started to notice the cat’s symptoms and if they have gotten worse over time.For example, you may say to the vet, “I noticed there was blood in the cat’s urine two days ago” or “The cat started showing symptoms 24 hours ago and they seem to be getting worse.”

, The vet will do a physical exam of your cat. They will also require a blood test and a urinalysis. This will allow the vet to check if the red discoloration in the cat’s urine is actually blood.Depending on your cat’s condition, the vet may also do an X-ray, a CT scan, and an ultrasound on the cat. The CT scan will be done on the cat’s urinary tract to get a detailed picture of what is going on in this area.
 Once the vet has run the necessary tests, they should be able to diagnose the cat’s issue. A cat with blood in its urine could have a number of issues, including:A urinary tract infection
Kidney stones
Feline Idiopathic Cystitis (FIC)
A bleeding disorder
Urinary tract cancer

, The vet will prescribe antibiotics to give the cat until the infection clears. The vet will recommend a specific dosage for the cat. You will need to make sure the cat gets enough fluids through access to fresh water and to wet cat food while it takes the antibiotics.The vet may prescribe antibiotics for a urinary tract infection and for Feline Idiopathic Cystitis (FIC).
 If the vet finds kidney stones or tumors in the cat’s urinary tract, they may recommend surgery to remove them. Kidney stones and tumors can be life threatening, so they should be removed as soon as possible. The cat will be under general anesthesia during the surgery.Surgery can be an expensive option. Your vet should outline the costs of the surgery before you agree to go ahead with this treatment.
 If the cat has a more serious medical condition like bladder cancer or a bleeding disorder, the vet should outline several treatment options. Depending on your cat’s specific condition, the vet may recommend removing cancerous tumors in the bladder with surgery. Or they prescribe dietary changes and medication to help treat a bleeding disorder.Each cat will be given a different treatment depending on its medical history and condition. Discuss treatment options in detail with the vet before you decide the best way to address the cat’s condition.
 Dehydration can be dangerous for cats, especially if they are predisposed to urinary tract issues. Make sure the cat has access to fresh water every day in its water bowl. You may also switch the cat to wet cat food instead of dry cat food, as this will allow it to get more liquid and moisture through its food., Cats who are active and get a lot of exercise every day are less likely to develop urinary tract issues. Spend time playing with the cat once a day, including play with a toy where the cat has to run or chase it. You can also set up a climbing area and a scratching post for the cat so it can be active on its own throughout the day., Cats who are overweight or obese are more prone to urinary tract issues. Reduce this risk by making sure the cat maintains a healthy weight for its age and breed. Ask your vet for the ideal weight for the cat and monitor the cat’s weight so it does not become obese.If the cat is overweight or obese, the vet may recommend a special diet to reduce the cat’s weight so it is healthy and less likely to develop urinary tract issues.

