 A forensic accountant needs to develop the skills to scrutinize and investigate computer and accounting data. Hone your critical thinking and problem solving skills as early as you can.;
, Research schools that also specialize in forensic accounting. You will need to receive a Bachelor's of Science degree in accounting and learn the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in order to move forward.


You may also want to specialize or add a minor in forensics, auditing or law. These are all skills that will eventually be studied in a forensic accounting curriculum.
 Becoming a CPA means taking at least 150 credits (mostly during your BS), taking ethics courses and passing the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination. You must also pass a best practices exam in your state, take an oath and complete a certain number of supervised hours.


Since you are required to complete a number of supervised hours, your CPA certification process will likely continue through your first year at a job.
 You may choose to apply for governmental jobs if you would like to investigate corruption as an auditor. You can also become an internal auditor that looks for errors, waste and inefficiency in governmental offices or businesses.
 Most of these programs are at the masters or doctorate level. Most of them require a BS in accounting and experience as a CPA.


Along with learning investigative tactics in looking at financial reports, forensics accounting students will learn the criminal law, law enforcement, business ethics, creative accounting, financial laws, psychology, sociology and information technology (IT). They will study past financial crime and learn how to analyze mergers, bankruptcy proceedings, stocks, bonds and venture capital investments.
You can also return to school for a graduate degree in business administration with a focus in forensic accounting.
 This is given by the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners. Alternatively, you can choose to sit the exam given by the American College of Forensic Examiners International (ACFEI), in order to become a Certified Forensic Accountant (Cr.FA)

, Forensic accounting jobs are available in accounting firms, large corporations, law enforcement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
 Use the connections you have made in school and as a CPA, so that you can get interviews and more chances at a better job. Accounting Today reported that 40 percent of the top accounting firms were expanding their forensic accounting departments in 2004.

