 This means that your hair should be longer on top and shaved down the sides., Run the handle of a rat-tail comb through the middle of your hair, starting at your forehead and ending at your crown. Brush the left side to the left and the right side to the right., If you don't have a hair clip, you can twist the hair into a loose bun and secure it with a hair tie., Go to the left side of your hair. Gather some hair from your hairline and slit it into three, equal-sized sections., Cross the left strand over the middle one, then cross the right strand over the middle one., Gather some hair from the left side of the part, right where your hair starts to get long. Add it to the left section to make it thicker, then cross it over the middle one., Gather from hair from your part. Add it to the right strand, then cross the now-thicker strand over the middle one.

Some people find it easier to cross the strand first, then add the hair to it., Continue adding strands of hair to the left and right sections before crossing them over. Keep the sections as small and tight as possible. Stop when you reach the back of your undercut and you have no more hair left to gather.

This style of braiding is also known as "French braiding."

, If you want a regular bun, tie your hair off now with a clear elastic into a ponytail. If you want braided bun, continue braiding your hair as normal until you have about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) left, then tie it off with a clear hair elastic., This time, start by crossing the right strand over the middle one first. Finish off with a ponytail or a regular braid, depending on what you did before.You don't need to tie the ponytail off, but you need to tie the braid off.
 Gather the two ponytails together into one ponytail, and secure everything with a clear elastic. Twist the large ponytail into a rope, then coil it into a bun. Secure it with two to three bobby pins., Bring the left regular braid up to the right French braid. Tuck the end under the braid, then secure it with a bobby pin. Next, bring the right regular braid over to the left French braid. Tuck the tail out of sight, then secure it with another bobby pin., You don't really have to do this, but it will help the braid last a lot longer.