 Purchase a wax that is designed to be used on sensitive areas. You can use heated or non-heated wax. Non-heated wax removal products often come with the wax already on a strip, which can provide a more precise application of wax on ear hairs. Heated wax is the most common method of waxing. Heated wax can reach too high a temperature and possibly burn the sensitive skin around the edge of your ear, so exercise caution when using heated wax.Many waxing kits will have artificial colors and fragrances, along with ingredients like tea tree oil and chocolate. Keep this in mind if you have any allergies. Always check the label.;
, Wash your ears carefully with a cloth and warm water. The wax and application cloths will not adhere as well to dirty ears. Let your ears dry completely before moving on to the next step., You can find a pre-epilation powder online or at a beauty supply store. A pre-epilation powder helps the skin absorb natural oils and moisture. This allows the skin to be in the best condition possible for waxing. Apply the powder to the parts of the ear you will be waxing.You can also use baby powder as pre-epilation powder.
 You should first read the instructions that came with your waxing kit. Most at-home waxes can be warmed up in the microwave. If the wax came in a jar, remove the cap and heat it in the microwave for about 20-30 seconds. If the wax came in solid block, cut up a few 1-inch (2.5 cm) chunks and put it in the microwave for 20-30 seconds.

Test the wax on a small area of skin before use to make sure it’s not too hot.
Some waxes take a shorter or longer amount of time to heat up.
 It’s best to start with the most sensitive area first. Use the application stick to apply the wax to this section of the ear. Continue to apply it until you have a nice, solid buildup of wax. You can then leave it on or apply paper or cloth strips on top of the wax.If you’re using non-heated wax, you will usually just need to apply the strips directly on top of the ear hair.
 Apply the wax to the rest of your ears that you want to be waxed, including the inner lobes. Again, apply it with the application stick until you have a solid buildup. Use the wax sparingly, since ear hairs tend to be fine and not deeply rooted.If you do use a heated wax, make sure it has cooled off somewhat before applying it to the outer edges of your ears.
 If you don’t have strips, you can move on to the next step. If you do have cloth or paper strips, press the strips firmly into the wax. Smooth out any creases or edges that are not in contact with your skin. Keep the strips long and thin to conform to the shape of your outer ear., If you have strips, quickly pull it away in one motion soon after the application of the wax. If you aren’t using strips, dig your nail up under the wax once it is completely dry. Then, pull it off quickly once it has started to lift from digging your fingernails under it.You will experience some pain while doing this, depending upon the amount of hair that is removed with each pass.
 Move on to the other ear once you’ve finished waxing the first ear. You may have some spots that weren’t waxed properly, so go back and reapply the wax to those areas. If you’re using strips, you may be able to reapply the same strip two or three times in rapid succession, depending upon the amount of wax you use.Keep in mind that your ears will be sensitive after the first application, so you might want to wait before reapplying wax.
 Wet a soft cloth with warm water. Apply it to the areas you have waxed. The warm water should remove the leftover wax., After you’ve cleaned your ears, use cool water to close the skin pores and hair follicles. The cold water will also soothe the skin., Vitamin E, tea tree oil, grapeseed oil, and 1% hydrocortisone cream will also work to soothe the skin. Apply whichever product you have to the sensitive areas and rub it in. This will help to reduce irritation.