 Do you want to find out what it is that you enjoy doing the most? Think about how you spend your free time; do you like listening to music? Reading? Writing? Talking to people? Analyze it and think deeply on why you like it. If you enjoy writing, what do you like to write about? What do you enjoy the most about writing? What makes you want to write? Think as much as you can about your ideal job in order to define your real passion. You should also think about the things that you are good at. If you are good at doing something maybe you will also love doing it for a living. It's pretty important to be good at what you like to do if you expect to make money from it.;
, Doing something well and loving to do it sometimes isn't enough, so you need to think about a way to make it work in order to get paid for doing it. For example: If what you love to do is exercising think about what you can do to get paid while you exercise. One way could be by becoming a gym instructor.
 If you already know what you enjoy doing the most, you have to start studying it. It is not enough to just think that you are good at it, you have to start improving your skills in order to get into the work force.


Try to read as much as you can from online tutorials and everything you can find on the internet about what you like to do.
Talk to someone that already works at it and tell him/her to teach you some basic things about it, and also to advise you about how you can start to work towards it.
You can also apply for a course if you have the money or find a free one.
try to practice it as much as you can.
 Sometimes you have to start like this in order to get some important connections before they hire you. You can start looking for freelance jobs online in order to make a portfolio if it is necessary. Or going around the neighbourhood giving everyone a taste of the great pie you made if you love to bake. You have to start letting people know what you can do and that you're good at it.


Remember that you want to make the best first impression (every time), so be nice to everyone and give your all without thinking about making money yet.
 You have to talk to people around you about what you like to do and tell them that you are willing to do it for them if they ever need it. For example: If you like cooking tell everyone about it and also tell them that if they ever throw a party you will be willing to help them with the cooking.
 You can't start thinking about being the boss of thousands of people at first. You have to be realistic and understand that at the beginning you will have to do some stuff that may not be your favorite, and that you will have to work for little or no money, but it will be worth it. For example: If you like writing and what you enjoy the most is writing about fashion, but someone offers you some money for writing an article about sports, do it. Give it your best effort. We all have to start somewhere. It could lead you in the right direction and perhaps meet someone new who can help you.
 Now that everyone knows about you and that you're capable and successful at it, you can start looking for great job opportunities. Don't be afraid to apply for the job you love once you have the experience and some great things to fill your CV or resume with.

