 Kids get wet, dirty, and tired of their clothes. Sometimes the shoes they have aren’t the best for the activities of the day. At the very minimum you should have an extra set of clothing for each child at all times. The younger the child, the more likely they will have accidents or messes.


Multiple diapers are absolutely mandatory for those still potty-training. Bring as many as you think you’ll need, then pack a few more.
 Pack travel tissues, some emergency toilet paper, and a multi-purpose, versatile wipe that is safe for hands, faces, as well as after diaper cleanup. Towels and paper towels should be kept around to soak up potential spills and messes.
 Kids are prone to travel sickness because they often aren’t accustomed to the differences between the vision and the inner ear. Have them travel with a small amount of bland food in their stomachs, look at stationary objects, and get fresh air whenever possible.Apply a cold cloth to their head as soon as they start experiencing issues.Don’t forget to pick up appropriate dosages of Dramamine or Bonine
An extra sturdy bag is a great idea for kids prone to motion or air sickness. The bags provided by the airline don’t handle large amounts of liquid very well.
When traveling outside the country, be wary of local produce and water.
 Traveling itself carries a potential for sickness because of new germs and allergens. Prescription medications are an absolute must. Consider children-specific medication like lower dosage, over-the-counter acetaminophen for the occasional fever or runny nose. Add in a few kids’ vitamins to keep their bodies healthy while traveling.


Have an emergency plan and medical location in case your child gets ill while in your travel destination.Research vaccination considerations for international travel.Pack children-specific sunscreen suited to the expected location and exposure to sun.A travel bottle of hand sanitizer can work wonders when curious hands start touching every foreign surface possible.

