 Starting with conditioned lips, dip a cotton swab into a small container of red fruit juice. Rub the juice over your lips, staying within your lip lines, and allow the juice to dry. Apply more layers for deeper color. Seal the color using a clear lip balm. Any of the following types of juice will work:


Cherry juice
Cranberry juice
Pomegranate juice
Strawberry juice (for a pinker hue)

, Cut off a slice of fresh beet, making sure the interior flesh is bright red. Rub the slice over your lips, squeezing gently as you go to release the juice. Let the juice dry, then apply more layer for deeper color. Seal it using a clear lip balm.


Beet root powder is also an effective lip stain. Mix a little powder with enough olive oil to make a paste. Apply to your lips, and let the paste dry completely. Wipe off the excess paste, then seal the color with clear lip balm.
You can also use canned beets, although the pigment won't be as strong.
 Red popsicles contain just the right amount of food coloring to make your lips look naturally red. Choose a cherry or raspberry popsicle and eat it slowly, making sure the melted popsicle coats your lips. By the time you're finished eating the popsicle, your lips will have a bright red hue.


For a more precise application, you can melt the popsicle into a dish and apply it using a cotton swab. This also prevents your teeth from turning red.
Make a custom color by mixing more than one flavor of popsicle. Try mixing a grape and a cherry to make a rich red plum color, or an orange and a raspberry for a pretty coral hue.
 Red Kool-Aid powder has been used as a lip stain since the 1950s. Who knew this simple drink mix would make the perfect addition to your cosmetic bag? Grab a cherry or strawberry-flavored packet of Kool-Aid powder. Mix it with enough olive oil to make a paste, and rub it on your lips. Let it sit for five minutes, then wipe off the excess paste., If you want to have a stain handy to use whenever your lips need a lift, it's easy to make your own using either beet root powder or Kool-Aid powder. Mixing the powder with coconut oil will make a stain that absorbs into your lips, so you don't have to wipe it off. Here's how to do it:


Melt 1 tablespoon coconut oil.
Mix in 1 tablespoon Kool-Aid powder or beet root powder.
Pour the mixture into a small jar with a tight-fitting lid.
Apply it with your finger or a cotton swab. The stain will melt at warm temperatures.

