 In Arizona, the Department of Transportation oversees driver’s licenses and identification cards. You can find the link to get started at https://www.azdot.gov/mvd/driver-services/driver-license-information/change-your-address-or-name.;
, It is important that you keep your address current in the state records so that you will receive renewal notices or any other correspondence about your car. You could receive a ticket if you do not change your address record within ten days., Basically, you will need your old address and your new address. You may use this service to update not only your residential address but also your email address, if that has changed and you wish to receive notices by email.There is a warning about certain times when the online service is not available due to routine computer maintenance. You may not use this service each day, from 11:50 p.m. until 12:10 a.m., or on Sundays from midnight until 2:00 a.m.
 On the screen titled, “Address/Email Change,” you will need to enter the following personal identification information and then select “Continue”:Full name. Be sure to enter your name completely as it appears on your current driver’s license or identification card.
Date of birth, entered in the MM/DD/YYYY format.
Driver’s license or identification card number. If you do not have your license or identification card, and don’t know the number, leave this section blank and select “I Don’t Know My Driver License Or Identification Card Number” at the bottom of the screen. You will then be prompted to enter some additional information -- your residential address, zip code and eye color.
Last four digits of your social security number. If you do not have a social security number, you should enter 0000.
 On the next screen, you will be prompted to enter your old and new Arizona address information in the form provided. Press "Continue," and then verify your address to be sure you entered it correctly. Make any changes that are necessary at this point., You are not required to get a new driver’s license or identification card when you are making just an address change. If all you wish to do is change the address, then you are done. If you wish, you may request a newly printed driver’s license or identification card. #*Although changing your address is free, if you require a new ID card or license, there is a $12 (8.5 euro, 7.4 pound) fee. Enter your credit card details if you are requesting a new card. Include your name, the card number, the security code, billing address and expiry date.
 After you have verified that the information is correct and have made your selection about a new card, you have the option to provide feedback about your online experience. If you have any comments, you may enter them.
 If you requested a new card, it will be sent to your new address.

