 The bad body art comes from making spontaneous decisions to go and have a tattoo done on a spur of the moment. If you're getting a tattoo because you're drunk or high, rebellious or your friends are goading you, then you're getting a tattoo for all the wrong reasons and the choice you make is likely to reflect this lack of forethought. Things you will regret include:


Any tattoo that looks like genitalia. Think about that, very carefully but not too long because the answer is simple: Just don't do it.
Anything misspelled (mostly because you were too drunk or high to notice till later).
Anything to do with high school or college (you do realize that it's over soon enough, right?)
Anything that mars your wedding dress, upstages your honeymoon, or gives your children an odd impression of you...
Anything written in a language you're not fluent in. Those Chinese characters might look sexy until a native Chinese speaker tells you what it really means is "object for sale", "I like mold for breakfast" or "horny goat"
Anything with the current crush's name on. It might feel like the two of you will last forever but if the tattoo has more chances of success in lasting the distance than the pair of you, this is plain dumb. The number one tattoos that artists are asked to cover up, after homemade tattoos, are names. If the person is not dead, or your child, names are usually not the best idea.
Anything faddish right now. A band, TV show, cartoon or comic book character you love today may not be something you want to carry around forever on your skin. It could date you more than your botoxed skin will ever give away...;
, You have your whole life to look at this tattoo, so some good reflection before getting it makes absolute good sense. Most of all, will you be happy with this design in 5 to 10 years time? Think well forward, too. Is your tattoo going to look good even when you're old and wrinkled? Chances are, a tribal dragon, Disney character or Hello Kitty won't.


Think about how big of an impact the design has on you. If you've fallen in and out of like with other designs like this before, then wait a few years before you decide to get it.
On the other hand, if a design you're thinking about is something that represents or has given you hope in a rough time in your life, perhaps helped you find out who you are, or something along those lines, then it might be the right choice, as that monumental self-change is going to guide much of the who you become for the rest of your life.
 This will have some influence on the design, especially if it's an intimate design. For any parts of your body that you show regularly (and that is a lot of body if you're a bikini or board shorts wearer), then that doesn't leave much space for intimate tattoos that you don't want your grandmother seeing.


Consider how likely it will be that you will need to cover the body area where your tattoo is to go with clothing, or otherwise, at some point. For example, if you're a female, will you feel comfortable wearing evening wear such as backless or strapless dresses if you have a back tattoo?
Think about future career options. Is a tattoo likely to be an issue or even a liability if it's showing with the expected work clothing or uniform? This may well depend on what industry you intend to work in but remember that with increased fluidity, people are changing careers constantly, so you may not ever be able to be sure what you'll do down the track. Keep this in mind when choosing placement of a tattoo.
 Do some research first. Head over to the library or a reputable tattoo parlor and look through tattoo design books. What sorts of designs are current, what seem to be timeless and what ones would you ever get in a million years? Some things to bear in mind include:


Stay away from the art (known as "flash") shown in the studios, except as inspiration. It is better to go with a unique and original design than a mass market design - "flash" is designed by excellent artists then sold to tattoo artists around the country and around the world.
Are there any particular artists whose style really impresses you? What about their work has such resonance for you and is likely to be classic over the years to come?
Writing, in any form or language, should be thought over twice as long. Check and recheck the meanings of any words or ideograms of a language you aren't fluent in. Choose quotes carefully. If using writing, also be sure to search for a font you like, or create your own.
 Even if you cannot draw, a little practice and patience can get you a good outline, at least. Or, you can use drawing tools on your computer and some Photoshop magic to help out. Don't be overly bothered about your lack of drawing skills, as most tattoo artists will help you redraw and redesign a tattoo to a desired standard. This is a prompt and a guidance tool, to get your tattoo artist on the same wavelength as you.
 Many tattoo artists are also conventional artists, or can at least reproduce a traditional drawing, sketch or painting onto your skin.


Most artists will do what you want, but also excel in certain "looks." Check their specific portfolios, and compare the different styles: old school, new school, naturalistic, Asian, black and white, etc. If you don't know what style it is you're looking at, ask. Better to know with a giggle, than to be laughed at later with a design that won't come off.
 Doing this will help you to see how the design will fit against your skin. Look at it against the mirror during daylight and night lights, so that you can get an impression of how it might vary during different times of the day.


Pin the design up on your mirror and look at it daily for a few days. Is it growing on you or do you have a nagging feeling that it's either not the right design or that it's close but not quite there yet? Follow your instincts; there is still plenty of time before it's tattooed into place.
 Use henna to get a temporary version of the design. You won't be able to see different colors, or certain looks, but you will be able to judge the feeling of a tattoo. Henna lasts a week to a month. During this time, use the opportunity to see how it looks with your usual clothing and how you feel about it as you go about your usual, daily activities.


If even a henna tattoo is out of your price range, try the Sharpie option. Crude but still effective for knowing how it makes you feel to have a bold design inked onto a part of your body.
 Think about it a lot. When you are certain, wait some more just to make sure. Ultimately, a well chosen tattoo design can be a thing of beauty and a confidence enhancement. A poorly chosen one done on a whim can leave you unhappy for all time. Which outcome will you choose?

