 This means being independent and not expecting others to do your work for you. Be strong and when something bad happens, keep your chin up and fix the problem. If you can't fix the problem by yourself though or if you didn't create the problem, accept help to put the problem to an end before it escalates. Know when to cross the line on being dependent but also know that once in a while you're going to need to accept help and that is not a sign of weakness––that's what friends and family are for, right?


Encourage yourself. If you are feeling unmotivated, motivate yourself with quotes, mind pictures, or positive words. The power of the word can go a long way.;
, Have knowledge on what's going on around you...watch the news or read the newspaper every once in a while. It's never good to be in the dark about things when everyone else is in the light! On that same note, read and write, and get a good vocabulary. It's always good to be intelligent and knowledgeable about things and you never know when that information will become useful! Reading and writing is also a very fun way to pass the time and makes a great hobby.
 Laugh at yourself once in a while! Take a joke and don't cry over spilled milk. If something bad happens, recognize the problem and try your best to fix it. If it's not going to effect you in two years, don't sweat it. Forget about it and move on.


Smile often. If you don't feel good, then the people around you won't feel good. A way to make yourself feel good is to smile. If you smile regularly, people will smile back. When you smile, you feel warm inside, and that feels good. Smile!

, What's the rush? As long as you're there, you might as well make the most of it especially if you won't ever be there again! Have fun and don't be rushing around all the time. If you see something you like, get it or spend as much time as possible there! Life isn't about running around and being stressed-and if you are you're not being the best person that you can possibly be and no one wants to be around a stressed hurried person. Calm down!

, Don't do anything stupid when you know you will get hurt or in huge trouble, but be willing to try new and fun things. Whether that means trying a food from a different country that you've never even heard of before or going rock climbing, do it and have a blast while you're at it! Whatever you're doing have fun at it...this also goes along with being open minded to new ideas or thoughts.
 Discover what makes you tick personally! That could be art, singing, playing an instrument, writing, learning, exercise, dance, collecting things, making movies, scrap booking, animals, etc. Find what you enjoy and love and rock it! If you love singing, take singing lessons or practice everyday! If you like dance join a dance or gymnastic group. If you like art, learn to draw or paint new things or create your own masterpieces! Get into something and share your creations with the world. If you're having trouble finding what you love, keep trying things until you find it! You're bound to find something. Here are some ideas for a hobby that you can try:


Singing, dance, playing an instrument or making movies
Art. scrap booking
Writing and learning
Collecting things
Exercise, sports, fitness
Animals, caring for them, learning about them
Makeup, clothes, making clothes, doing hairstyles, etc.


Keep searching and you're bound to find something that suits you exactly.
 Don't be afraid to be a little out there; you might set a good example for others who wish to be true to themselves. Don't care what other people think of you, as they'll forget about that girl wearing the crazy unique outfit in less than 5 minutes anyway. Just be yourself and be the best you can be at it!

, This means brushing your hair everyday and night, brushing your teeth twice a day or after every meal, showering daily, washing your face and wearing deodorant. Make sure when you brush your teeth/hair, you get every nook and cranny.


Shower daily but do not wash your hair every day as this strips your hair of its natural oils and helps protect your hair.
Wash your body daily and wash your hair every other day. Wash your face two times a day and avoid touching your face or getting anything greasy on it to reduce or completely avid acne.
Wear deodorant and put it on once or more a day, depending on the heat and your activity level for the day. Put lotion on your dry spots such as your elbows or feet, and wash your hands daily (after you eat and before you eat, after handling something like an animal or bacteria, etc.)

, Wear unique clothes that fit your style. Try to add something to standard clothing and make it your signature look. Some unique accessories and clothes are: feather earrings, beanie hats, long or unique necklaces, friendship or bangle bracelets, arm bracelets, sharp rings, etc. Find outfits that you like that fit your style and that you personally like. Find your style, rather that be indie, goth/emo, jock, popular/average, or hipster clothing. (You can also make your own style!) You can make DIY clothing or buy it, depending on what you prefer. Have fun with it!

, Help others less fortunate than you! Whatever you do will come back to you, so why not make that a positive thing? If you see someone struggling with their groceries, lend a helping hand and help carry them or open the door for them. If your sister is crying in her room because her boyfriend just dumped her, lend your shoulder for crying on, listen to her problem and offer advice if asked. If you see a homeless person playing guitar with a money box begging for money for food that night, pay them some cash if you can or buy them a meal if you don't feel comfortable giving cash. Don't bully or harass people and don't insult others. Good people don't do things to hurt other people or start drama.
 Join charities and clubs, clean up around the town, and donate money for churches, tips, anything that will help the town, etc. Donate clothes and/or canned food for those less fortunate than you.


Help to improve your local environment. Pick up trash along the streets, or encourage recycling.
Try to make your community a real community. Get everybody together and have fun! Hold a potluck. Have a swim party. Congratulate newlyweds, babies, and the birthday girl/boy/man/woman.
 Talk to people! If invited, go to parties or sleepovers. Talk to people, answer questions, communicate. If you're shy now is the time to step out of your comfort zone and get outgoing! If you have a troubling past that affects your ability to do this, seek a therapist or doctor's help and you may be able to get medicine (doctor)or just have someone to listen and offer advice to (therapist.) Don't be ashamed if you do have to do this, everyone needs help sometime and if you have a troublesome past it's crucial that you get help instead of keeping it bottled inside. You also may have social anxiety, in that case you should seek help from either a trusted friend or family member, therapist or doctor and you should *try* to get out of your comfort zone and socialize a little more even if it's hard at first.

