 It's natural to be upset with your siblings sometimes, and a disability doesn't change that. You will get mad at your sibling, and sometimes you will treat them less-than-perfectly. This doesn't make you a terrible person.


If you feel bad about something, apologize to your sibling, and make it up to them. Then let it go. You did your best, and that's what counts.
If you have any longstanding issues between you and your sibling, tell a parent or trusted adult. They can help you work it out.
 You have boundaries too, and you should be able to have alone time when you want it. If you don't want to hang out right now, tell them.


"I'm tired, and I'd like some quiet time right now, okay?"
"I don't feel like playing right now, but I'd be okay with watching cartoons with you if you wanted."
Besides, learning how to set boundaries is an important life skill—when your sibling sees you doing it, they will learn it from you!

, You are not your sibling's caregiver, and you are not responsible for solving their problems. If any of the following happens, ask an adult for help.


A meltdown or outburst
You suspect your sibling is being bullied
Your sibling won't respect your boundaries (e.g. refusing to leave you alone)
Your sibling is afraid of therapy (Some disabled children are hurt by their therapists without the parents knowing.)
Your sibling is upset and you don't know how to handle it

, With all the fuss about therapies, special ed, and other things related to your sibling's disability, you might feel that your parent(s) have forgotten about you. You deserve attention, and they probably didn't realize you felt ignored. Calmly take them aside and explain how you feel.


Avoid laying blame. This is not your sibling's fault, and your parent(s) probably didn't realize you felt this way.
It is not needy or selfish to tell your parents about how you're feeling. Don't keep frustration locked away.
Ask if they could set aside a certain time to be with you. (For example, every Sunday morning, bead bracelets with your mom.) A concrete solution will help fix it.
 Don't let your thoughts about disability, or the bad days, define your relationship with your sibling. Have fun, laugh, and enjoy growing up together.

