 If you are close to the guy, then you’ll already know what sports or hobbies he participates in. Determine what he likes the most, or something that he may not have all the equipment for and then think of gift ideas around it. It’s okay if your gift isn’t overly sentimental or meaningful. Some men prefer practical gifts.If he plays a sport, new equipment, a signed piece of memorabilia, or tickets to a game are perfect gifts. If you're younger, you could give him baseball cards or a new football.
If he’s into art or music, then art supplies or music equipment make for great gifts. You can even buy him a song on iTunes, or make a playlist if you are on a budget.
If he’s more of the gamer type, maybe getting him a new game or a new piece of hardware for his system or computer would be greatly appreciated.
Artists always need art supplies, so if he’s the artistic type, new brushes or paint would be great gifts.
Musicians are always in need of new gear, whether it be an extra strap for a guitar, cords for a DJ, or strings for a violinist.;
, If you regularly talk to the guy that you’re getting a gift for, you can ask him in casual conversation for things that he wants. Some guys are more open and these guys will likely make their opinion known on things that they don’t have. However, in some friendships, candor can be limited, so make sure the conversation is organic so you don’t send mixed signals, or tip him off to your intentions.You can bring up something you plan on getting him and get his opinion on it without giving away the fact you plan on gifting it to him
Make a mental note of anything that he said he wishes he had in other conversations.
 A good place to find good ideas for gifts are blogs, forums, and magazines. On blogs and forums, you’ll find people who are into the same interests as the guy you plan on getting the gift for. This will give you a heads up about the hottest new product or upcoming event.


You don’t need to create an account or post anything on the forums. Concentrate on reading up on what everyone wants or needs.
Bookmark any useful links you find along the way so you can come back to the product pages later.
 If you have too many gift ideas, you should narrow your selection. Think of what he would appreciate the most, what he would use the most, and what fits within your budget. Think of what kind of gifts would be appropriate for the situation, given your relationship to the guy. If he’s a close friend, family member, or significant other, you may want to have a bigger budget than if he was just a casual friend.


The items that are too expensive for your budget should be eliminated.
 If your guy is successful and it seems like he has everything, it may be difficult to think of something that he wants or needs because he can just get it himself. In these cases, you can buy an accessory for him that he thought he never needed but will come to enjoy. If he likes extravagant things like cars or fine wine, you can get him an accessory that doesn’t cost a lot, like a wine stopper or a custom stick shift. This is useful if you’re trying to save money or you’re limited on funds.


The guy who has everything is probably settled in how he operates every day. Don’t try to change his daily routine.
If you're younger, you can get him a new album or comic book. Think of something that just came out and that his parents haven't bought him yet.
 Activity gifts are great because the gift involves spending time with the person too! You can go zip-lining, go rock climbing, go to the beach, take a hike, explore a cave, or do whatever else is close to where you live. Make sure to stay safe, and follow any guidelines that are set at the activity. If you are a younger person and can't afford an activity gift, ask your parents and see if they can help you with it.


If you're younger, then a trip to the arcade or cyber cafe is a great gift to give a friend. Just make sure that you ask your parents.
If you have it in your budget, then surprising him with a trip is an amazing gift.

