 This is the exit code used to leave the United States calling region and signals that you are going to make an international call., Dial 353 if you're calling the Republic of Ireland. Northern Ireland is still part of the UK and has a different country code. To call Northern Ireland, enter their country code, which is 44.
 There are several mobile network providers in Ireland and you will need to know the mobile code of the cell phone you are calling. All mobile codes begin with the number 8, followed by another number. The following is a list of providers and mobile codes for Ireland.Three: 83
Meteor: 85
O2: 86
Vodafone: 87
Tesco, also known as MVNO: 89

, Area codes for cities within the Irish Republic are one to three digits long. If you're calling Northern Ireland, the area code may be two to five digits long. The area code should be provided along with the phone number.Drop any leading zeros from the area code.
 Most Republic of Ireland phone numbers will have seven more digits. A Northern Ireland mobile number will have a total of ten digits, and a landline will have a total of nine or ten digits.The local phone number cannot begin with zero.
 In order to call Ireland, you will likely need to add an international calling plan to your current phone service in order to make calling more affordable. Check with your carrier about your specific options and rates for your cell phone or land line.As an example, Verizon offers 1000 minutes of international calling for $20/month.
With a $5 monthly access fee, they offer reduced rates for international calls at $0.07/minute on land lines and $0.19/minute on cell phones.
If you choose to call Ireland without enrolling in one of these plans, the current standard rate is $1.49/minute on land lines and $1.69/minute for cell phones.
 You can use calling cards on land lines and cell phones. By calling the number provided on the card, you will make the international call through the card service provider rather than you phone provider. Using an international calling card can save you money. There are some things you should be aware of when using an international calling card with your cell phone. These tips will prevent you from accidentally incurring extra charges:Do not dial the number using your contact list. If you select the number from you contact list, you will disconnect from the calling card service and make the call through your cell phone service provider. You must dial out the numbers once you are connected to the calling card service.
Do not press "Send," "OK" or "Dial" after dialing the number you are calling in Ireland. The calling card service will connect you automatically. Pressing any of these buttons will disconnect you from the calling card service and make the call directly from your cell phone using your service provider.

