 If you’ve been planning your wedding for months, chances are all of the attire (bridal gown, tuxes, wedding party attire) was chosen well in advance. A few months ago, those garments may have fit everyone perfectly. However, everyone should try on their wedding attire a couple of weeks before the ceremony takes place to confirm a good fit. This will allow for any last-minute tailoring to take place, if necessary., Bring emergency items like a mini-sewing kit, double-sided tape and safety pins with you to prevent wardrobe mishaps. Some other essential items to consider including in your kit are tweezers, breath mints, aspirin, stain remover, dental floss, hair spray and band-aids., On the day of the ceremony, bouquets and arrangements will be moved around and jostled quite a bit. This could cause flower petals to wilt before the ceremony even begins. To avoid this, select blooms that hold up against heat and touch.

Some sturdy options are garden roses, cymbidium orchids, dahlias, peonies, mini calla lilies, and chocolate sunflowers.Keep the bouquets nestled in vases of water until right before the ceremony to keep the blooms in peak condition.
 Whether you’re writing your own vows or going with something more traditional, practicing ahead of time will help you feel more confident. Write out your vows and practice them out loud many times. If it helps, practice in front of a mirror. You could also use a voice recording app on your phone to record yourself, play it back, and tweak your delivery to perfection.Don’t wait until the last minute to write your own vows! Plan them out well ahead of time so that you have plenty of time to practice them.
Consider providing a copy of your vows to the officiant. If you find yourself too emotional to speak or your mind goes blank, the officiant can quietly prompt you.
 Many couples these days prefer to skip the expense of an elaborate rehearsal the night before the wedding. At the very least, you should have some sort of informal run-through of the ceremony with the entire wedding party present. Ideally you should rehearse most of the ceremony, but if that isn’t possible, even a basic run-through of the most important parts of the ceremony can be invaluable.Make sure no one in the wedding party is allergic to the flowers used for bouquets and boutonnières., Task the maid of honor or best man to carry a master copy of these important elements to the ceremony. If someone needs to reference a document at the last minute, it can be done quickly and easily.

To avoid having extra stuff for them to carry, you could even scan these documents into a cell phone to be digitally referenced.
 Some of the more obvious things, like the marriage certificate and wedding rings, are often forgotten in the flurry of activity leading up to the ceremony. Put someone in charge of these to ensure all goes smoothly., Decide upfront whether you want children in attendance at your wedding. Make sure your guests know your decision by including a line on your save-the-dates and/or your wedding website: "The reception is adults-only." Be very clear about plus-ones on your invitations, but be prepared with extra chairs and extra food just in case.If children do show up, you can discreetly ask the family to move to the back of the venue (especially if the children get fussy).

