 The damage is saved in each encounter even though it will flee.


It usually helps to paralyze first with a fast Pokémon, since you can then use slower Pokémon to deal damage during future encounters. If your lead Pokémon is slower than Entei, it will flee before you can deal any damage.
Your goal is not to catch Entei now; simply to weaken it for a later step. If you try to trap it, it will use Roar and you can never see it again.;
, Teach it TM 12 - Taunt, and if you have it, use your PP Max on Taunt (or at least a few PP Ups). Adding more PP isn't necessary, but it helps a lot. Pokémon with the Pickup ability can pick up PP Ups.
 You can get these by going to the locations where Snorlax was sleeping and using the Itemfinder.
 Then track down Entei one last time with the Golbat leading your party. Be sure to save at this point.


If you don't have any Ethers or Max Ethers, search online for some locations where they are hidden in the game. If you've used all of them up, you can still catch Entei, but you may need to soft reset a few times (especially if you did not PP Up or PP Max the Taunt).
 Entei will try to flee, but fail. Then, use the move Taunt. Taunt prevents Entei from using Roar for two turns, including the turn it was used on, so you must use the move Taunt on every other turn from now on. If you forget and Entei uses Roar, you have to reset the game, since Entei will permanently disappear.
 Since Entei doesn't know any powerful moves and Leftovers can restore most damage Entei deals, you won't need to heal too often. If Ember burns Golbat, use the Full Restore when Golbat's health is low. Otherwise, Hyper Potions are a cheaper alternative that work just as well.


Since Entei has the ability Pressure, even with PP Max, you can only use Taunt 16 times (10 times without any PP Ups). When you run out, use an Ether or Max Ether on the move Taunt, but remember to do so on a turn immediately after Taunt (i.e. a turn you would heal or throw an Ultra Ball).

