 Say you've been with her for a few months now and are ready to move in together. Don't try and beat around the bush, hoping she'll ask to move in or offer you a place -- be upfront and honest about your desires. Even if the first conversation is difficult or awkward, this will save you much harder discussions later on, you have little to gain by hiding your desires and relationship goals: if she agrees, you can figure out how to make it work, if she disagrees, then you saved several months of miscommunication and cross-talk.


If you can't have this or the following intelligent, but difficult, discussions with her at all then you already have your answer-- she's not right for you., If you're going to be moving in together, taking things to the next level, or getting married, then you need to talk about money as soon as possible. Few things get between couples so completely as unresolved money issues, and it has more to do with if she's right for you than many other trivial facts like star signs and siblings. Discuss:


What would she do if she won the lottery? In other words, where does she prioritize spending?
Would she rather, in general, spend money on a slightly better life now or save that money for a better retirement later?
If you were down on your luck financially (fired, sick, lower-paying job, etc.), would she support you? Would you do the same thing for her?, If Ms. Right really wants to live near her family in the Southwest while you can't see yourself ever leaving NYC, you'll need to work out some form of compromise if things are going to work. Unfortunately, the right woman for you is not just a matter of personality but your careers, goals, and circumstances. Don't avoid them, especially if you're worried about these differences causing strife. If she's right for you, you'll find a way to work through these geographic differences in a way that is fair and enjoyable for both of you.


How important is it to life close to her family? To yours?
Are there places she must be for her career? Are there places you must be for yours?

, Sex is important in a long, committed relationship -- not just having it, but having it equitably and happily. Talking about your sex life is difficult, but there are few marriage counselors who don't point towards its importance. Finding compatible sex lives is mostly about how frequently you'd like it, how comfortable you are with kink and adventurous sex (including if it is important to one of both of you), and how to find compromise where you don't match up.


How often would you like to have sex?
Are you willing to try new things, or do you like to keep things romantic and simple?
If your sex drives don't match up, how can you make sure you're both happy?, There are a thousand different choices that face couples, and you'll never be able to discuss all of them before they happen. But there are some major moments to consider before jumping into a committed, long-term relationship with someone, avoiding these major potential conflicts before they can blow up:


Do you both want kids? If so, how many?
Do you see yourself getting married at some point and "settling down," or is that still too far in the future? Does this line up with her?
If a parent gets sick or needs support, are you okay with supporting them or having them move in?

, Marriage counselors are not just for when you are having problems in a relationship. If you are still not sure if you want a long term relationship with your girlfriend, then a marriage counselor can help you and your girlfriend to assess different areas of compatibility. This might be a helpful way to find out if you are both on the same page about major life decisions, such as careers, kids, and other goals.

