 Confidence is an attractive personality trait. Often confident people who believe in themselves and in others are happier. While being arrogant in your confidence can make others uneasy, believing in yourself is key.


Identify the different ways to feel and look confident.
Have good body language that shows you're not fearful of others. Maintain good eye contact. Smile. Look interested in what others say and do.
Gain confidence by focusing on the positive things in your life, and what you do well. Think about any recent events in which you worked hard, did well in something, or overcame a struggle. Remember these times, rather than the times where you messed up.
 While it may feel comfortable to do the same old things you always do, be adventurous and consider trying other things. You may be shy or unsure if it will go well. Oftentimes, things aren't as bad as you imagine them to be. Being open to new things makes you seem more flexible, interesting, and attractive to others.If you not ready to do something new on your own, try things in groups or with a trusted friend or family member.
New experiences don't necessarily have to be risky adventures that put you or others in danger. It's just something that gets you out of your comfort zone.
For example, let's say you like to draw, but have never taken an art class because you're not sure if you're good enough. Well, that's what a class is for--to improve, to explore, to create a new way of thinking.
 While it may be tough to be agreeable all the time, people are more likely to respond positively and help you if you're kind and friendly. Show others that you are interested in getting to know them. Be willing to listen and understand another person's perspective.Show empathy when others need to talk or vent. Imagine what it would be like in their shoes. Listen without interruption. Put away your electronics and devices, and focus on being present with others in need.
Try to remain kind and polite even when others are rude. While it's important to know your limits, avoid trying to pick a fight when someone disagrees with you.
 You don't necessarily have the same things or outlook as everyone else. You may be doing well for yourself. You may see others bragging about how well they're doing. Focus on how to be humble rather than jealous. Respect that each person has their own path.


Show self-control.
Forgive yourself and others. Put the past in the past. Avoid dwelling on past mistakes, and focus on how to find solutions and be future-oriented. Consider saying these self-affirmations: "I release the past so that I can step into the future with pure intentions" or "I forgive myself one day at a time until it's complete."Focus on how you can give rather than take.
 Resilience is the courage to pick yourself up again after bad things happen. It's a belief that you can persevere. This is an important trait, particularly during tough times.Focus on how to be strong in your daily life. Stand up for yourself and others who are being bullied, demeaned, or hated. Have the courage to do selfless acts in which you put others above yourself.
Develop your resilience by not taking things too seriously. Believe in second and third chances to improve and become better. Take care of your body, mind, and spirit by finding ways to stay positive and be healthy.Avoid being disheartened or disillusioned. Believe that you can contribute and make a difference, even in small ways.

