 Many RC (remote control) cars can cost $1000 or more--so knowing how to use it properly and keeping the parts working the way they are supposed to is critical.;
, When selecting a RC car, you have many types to choose from. First you want to choose if you like electric (runs off of a battery) or gas powered (runs off of gas)or Nitro (runs off nitromethane) gas car and nitro cars are most often faster-some reach speeds over 50 mph (80 km/h)! Electric and gas cars each have their strengths and weaknesses.
 A battery that is not fully connected will give you very little power.
 Different types of cars are suitable for different types of terrain. Some of the most popular are carpet cars, buggies, monster trucks, and stadium cars. There are others, these are just the most popular.
 Different types of cars work with different terrain. Carpet cars are very low to the ground and obviously can't handle jumps the way a higher, off road car can.
 Make sure you know the top speed of your car and the highest turning angle it is capable of. This could be the difference between a nasty crash and being able to use it again tomorrow.
 Make sure your motor and slipper gear are properly aligned. A mesh that is too tight will stress out the motor and ESC (electronic speed control). Make sure the mesh is not too loose either. A loose mesh could cause large amounts of power loss and will make your vehicle run less efficiently. It helps to place a piece of paper between the two gears if you are not familiar with how tight it should be. Just make sure to remove the paper before running your car.
 Before every run, make sure all screws are properly tightened and there are none missing.
 Most newer cars have adjustable collars on the shocks. Make sure these correspond with the type of terrain you will be working with. A car with no travel will not handle jumps effectively and will most likely cause damage to your car.
 Approach jumps straight with the tires facing straight ahead. Accelerating in the air is never a good idea unless you are skilled with remote control cars and know what you are doing.
 Tires should always match the type of terrain you will be running in. This will reduce tread wear, save money and increase performance.
 Get into the habit of discharging your batteries, whether they are 1200mah or 4200mah you will need to do this to preserve their lifetime and performance quality. Make sure the battery is fully discharged before charging it again, unless it's a LiPo (Lithium Polymer) battery. These will fail permanently if they drop below 3.3V per cell, so make sure that your vehicle's has a low voltage cutoff (LVC) if you plan to run LiPos.

