 Before you decide to buy a dog from a breeder, you should consider adopting from a local animal shelter. Adoption costs less than purchasing a puppy, and there are lots of dogs in your area that are in need of homes. Visit several shelters in person and online to see if you can find a dog that is easy to train., If you are set on adopting a specific breed of dog, try contacting a breed specific rescue group or network. For example, the American Kennel Club has more than 450 rescue network groups across the United States that assist people in finding the perfect rescue dog., If you have explored local shelters and breed specific rescue groups, but still cannot find the right dog for you, locate a responsible dog breeder. Get referrals from others who bought puppies from the breeder, check the breeder’s credentials, and visit the breeder’s facilities in person before making a commitment to purchase a puppy.
 Talk to the shelter staff or breeder about a specific dog’s trainability. These professionals can be a wealth of information regarding the dog’s history and behavior. Make sure you ask about what commands the dog currently knows and what troubles it might have had thus far with training. If possible, ask the breeder about how easily a puppy’s parents picked up on training.
 Once you’ve located a dog that seems to be a good fit, take a trip to meet the dog. Be sure you involve all members of your family in this process. It is especially important that you also involve canine members of the family to ensure your new addition will get along well with the pack. Spend at least an hour with the new dog, take it on a walk, and engage in play before making a commitment to bring it home.


Try some simple commands during your visit, like sit or stay.
 Once you’ve chosen a dog, introduced it to all members of your family, and finalized paperwork, it will be time to bring home your new dog. Make sure you are prepared with a collar, leash, bed or crate, toys, food, treats, and bowls for food and water. You should also be sure to have established house rules in advance so you can begin your training at once.