 Type in www.LookBook.nu in your browser.;
, This is located at the top right of the screen.


You can also click “Sign Up with E-mail” just in the below the “Sign In with Facebook” button.
 You have to fill out all the required field to create an account.


Type in your first name.
Enter your working e-mail address.
Add a password.
Mark your gender.
 You may read it first; the link is the small text below the button.
You have now successfully created your LookBook account. You will receive a confirmation message in your e-mail.
 Type in Lookbook on Google, and you’ll see the site in the top of the search results.
,


After you agreed to allow access of Lookbook to your Facebook account, the other fields in the form are already filled up. The required fields are needed to finalize your registration.
Usually, the missing info is your e-mail, so have your working e-mail ready!

, After the successful registration, the site will turn you over to the Discover page, and now you are ready to go.
 After your registration, the site will redirect you to the site’s Discover page. Discover individual styles and people like you around the world.


Get the latest looks of others in your feed by hitting “Fan All” to the list of categories.
 To make your account more appealing, add a little information about yourself.


Set a profile picture. Since LookBook is for people with fashion sense, upload a high-quality photo of you posing like a model of apparel.
Add a brief description about yourself in the “About Me” section.
 You can connect your account to Facebook, Twitter, or Tumblr by allowing LookBook to access it. This is located in “Edit Your Profile” section of the site.


Login your other accounts to authorize.
You can allow each account to post your LookBook activities like postings, your Looks, hype to other looks, or looks you’ve commented to. Leave it unmark if you don’t like to share them.
 To complete your profile, you may add your Blog URL or Website URL, just located in the bottom of “Edit Your Profile” form.
 You may also show or hide your activities on LookBook by changing the privacy of each.
 If you are ready to show the world your style, then you may upload your looks. However, there are rules that you need to follow before posting. Not agreeing to the terms may result to deletion of your post.


You can read the rules here to know more.
If you think you have followed the rules provided for the site, then you may now choose a file to upload and submit it!

