 While you do this, you can begin to prepare the peppers. Wash the red peppers under cool running water. Remove any labels or stickers. Alternately, you can turn your oven on to 400º-500ºF (204º-260ºC) if you'd like to cook them that way.;
, Place the red peppers on a cutting board. Cut the top, stem-end off, making the cut straight across. Cut each red pepper in half lengthwise. Eat the stem end of the pepper or put it in the refrigerator to use later. Use a paper towel or spoon to scoop out the seeds from the pepper. Leaving the seeds on won't harm you, but the peppers may not taste as good with the texture of the seeds getting in your way.


Some people just roast 'em whole and then cut them up and remove the seeds. This will work too, but it will make the peppers a bit more difficult to work with. If you do this, you'll also have to manually turn those peppers every few minutes, so you'll be giving yourself a bit more work to do. It will also take more like 40 minutes to cook them whole instead of 20 to cook them when they are cut in half.
 Place the red pepper halves on the aluminum foil with the skin side up. In the end, the skin will be charred, but you can peel it right off when you're done roasting the peppers.
 The peppers will be directly underneath the broiler. Turn on your oven fan, as the peppers may be smoky. Some people like to cook the peppers in the upper third of the oven, so they have room to soften up a bit as they char. You can open a window in the kitchen to keep the air fresh too.
 Keep going until the skin of the peppers gets nice and charred. It doesn't have to be 100% black, but it should be mostly black. Leave your oven door open a crack and check them every few minutes. Turn the pan if some are turning black sooner than others.
 Using tongs, place them in a zip-close bag. Or you can place the red peppers in a bowl, then cover the bowl with plastic wrap. Set the bag or bowl aside and leave the peppers to sit untouched for 20 minutes. Either way, you'll need to steam them a bit before you eat them so you can soften them up enough to remove the skin.
 Take each roasted red pepper from the plastic bag. The roasted peppers should be cool enough to handle, and the blackened skin should slide easily from the peppers.
 Cover with extra virgin olive oil, or use the marinade of your choice, which can include salt, pepper, and balsamic vinegar. The roasted red peppers will keep in the refrigerator for one to two weeks. Use these peppers on sandwiches or in salads, or just enjoy them on their own.

