 At the start of the step, both the man and woman should stand with their feet together.;
, The man should take one step forward with his left foot. This step must be a slow one.


The woman's part follows the lead of the man's part. As such, the woman should step back once with her right foot as her partner steps forward.
 The man must take a step forward with his right foot. This step should also be a slow one.


In response to the man's part, the woman should move by stepping back once with her left foot.
 The man must take one Sidestep with his left foot. Move the left foot to the left and slightly forward. This is the first quick step of the forward basic.


The woman follows the man's lead by side stepping swiftly with her right foot. Move your right foot to the right and slightly backward.
 If taking the leading man's part, you must quickly bring your right foot to the side of your left foot. This is another quick step, and your feet should be back in the closed position when done.


For the woman's part, quickly close your feet together by gliding your left foot over to the side of your right foot.
Note that for the entire step, the rhythmic pattern both parts should follow is "slow, slow, quick, quick." Another way of putting it is that each of the first two steps should take a count of two to complete, while each of the last two steps should take a count of one to complete., You could mix in a few back basics by simply reversing the forward basic. In other words, the man will move backward while the woman moves forward.This move is not often danced in practical application since it requires the man to lead blindly backward, but it can still be worth knowing.
The man must lead by taking a slow step back with the left foot, followed by a slow step back with the right. He then takes a quick step to left and slightly back before closing his right foot quickly to the left foot.
The lady follows by moving her right foot forward slowly, followed by her left foot. She then takes a quick step to the right side and slightly forward before finally closing her left foot to the right.
 From a closed position, the man takes one slow step forward with his left foot.The woman must once more mirror the man's steps in this move. From a closed position, she should walk back once with her right foot. This should be a slow step.
Note that a "closed position" merely means that both dancers stand with their feet together.
 The dancer assuming the man's role must take one quick step with the right foot, moving that foot forward and to the right simultaneously.


For dancers assuming the woman's role, take one quick step with the left foot to the back and diagonally to the left side.
 The man must close the feet again by quickly bringing his left foot to the side of his right.


Conversely, the woman follows by quickly drawing her right foot back, placing it next to her left foot.
For both dancers, the flow of steps should be "slow, quick, quick."

, At this point in the box step, you will essentially reverse your movements until you nearly return to the starting point. The man must take a slow step back with his right foot.


The woman must move forward during this part of the box step. To mirror the man's movement, take a slow step forward once with the left foot.
 The man must now take a quick step with the left foot to the back and diagonally toward the left side.


For the woman's role, take a quick step forward with the right foot, moving it diagonally forward and to the right.
 Finish the box step by bringing your right foot back to the side of the left foot.


The woman must drag her left foot forward and to the right to meet with her right foot in a closed position.
Note that this reversed portion of the move must also follow the "slow, quick, quick" rhythm.
 From a starting position, the man must take one slow step forward with the left foot.


To follow, the woman must take one step back with her right foot.
Note that the default turn is a left turn, also known as a "hesitation left turn" or "ad lib."
Turns are used to change the direction of movement in the middle of the dance.
A "starting position" merely refers to a closed position, or one in which both partners stand with their feet closed together.
 The man must take a slow step back with his right foot.


For the woman's part, step forward instead of stepping back. More specifically, step forward once, slowly, with the left foot.
 This is the moment during which the actual turn will be made. The dancer taking the man's role must Sidestep quickly with his left foot while simultaneously rotating to the left. Usually, the rotation is a quarter turn to the left, but it could also be as little as an eighth turn or as much as a three-eighths turn.


The dancer with the woman's role must follow her partner closely at this point. Sidestep to the right with the right foot. Rotate to the right as lead partner indicates, whether that rotation is a quarter turn, an eighth turn, or a three-eighths turn.
 The man concludes the step by quickly closing his right foot to the left foot.


Similarly, the woman mirrors the man's movements by quickly closing her left foot to the right foot.
Note that this step maintains the basic "slow, slow, quick, quick" rhythm.
 Since dancers usually move counter-clockwise around the room, there is not much need for a right turn. If the need does arise for one, though, you can complete a turn to the right by simply reversing the steps for a standard left turn.For the man's part, move the left foot back slowly. The right foot should brush toward the left foot without any weight on it. Slowly move the right foot forward once, then move the left foot to the left side. While moving the left foot to the side, rotate to the right with an eighth, quarter, or three-eighths turn. Close the right foot to the left to complete the move.
For the woman's part, move the right foot forward slightly, brushing it toward the left foot. Take a slow step back with the left foot, followed by a quick step to the right with the right foot. Turn as directed by leading partner. Finish the move by closing the left foot to the right.
 At the start of this movement, both the man and woman must stand facing each other. Both dancers must also stand with their feet closed together.


A promenade allows the dancers to travel sideways. Unlike other steps, you will need to turn your head away from your partner as you step.
 When taking the lead role or man's role, turn your head and upper body to the left from your starting position. Take one slow step with your left foot in the same direction.


When taking the woman's role, turn your head and upper body to the right. Simultaneously take one slow step with your right foot in the same direction.
 The man must take a second slow step to the left using his right foot. As he steps, his right foot must glide past the front of the left foot, ending up to the left side of the left foot.Similarly, the woman must take a second slow step to the right using her left foot. As she moves her left foot, it must glide in front of the right foot and ultimately end up on the right side of the right foot.
 The man must take a quick Sidestep with his left foot. At this point, he should also turn his head and upper body back toward his partner, and his left foot should be well to the left of his right foot again. His left foot should pass behind his right foot as he moves.


The woman responds by taking a quick Sidestep with her right foot while also turning her head and upper body back to face him. Her right foot should move behind the left foot and end up well to the right of it at the end of the step.
 Finish the step from the man's role by closing the right foot next to the left foot quickly. Continue looking at your partner as you do this.


From the woman's role, quickly close the left foot next to the right foot while continuing to face your partner.
Note that a promenade also follows the basic "slow, slow, quick, quick" rhythm.

