 Some institutions or particular programs limit the number of second bachelor’s degree students they admit, or will not accept them at all.This is more frequently the case for high-demand courses of study or at campuses where student enrollment is at or above capacity.If this is the case for you, either look for a different institution to study the same subject at, or choose a different program of study at the same institution.


You can search for colleges and universities in a particular area using online databases.Then, check the admissions website for an institution you are interested in to see if it admits students seeking a second bachelor's degree.
 Each college or university will consider specific criteria when determining which applicants to admit. Matching these criteria does not guarantee admission, but increases your chances of being accepted. For applicants seeking a second bachelor’s degree, common admissions requirements include:Completion of a four-year college course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree. Most colleges and universities require your first bachelor’s degree to have been awarded by a regionally accredited institution.
Previous good standing at the last college or university you attended.
A good GPA. Many institutions require second bachelor’s degree applicants to have maintained a GPA above a certain threshold, particularly if the intended concentration is in a high-demand field.
If you are an international student, there may be additional admissions requirements for you, such as certifying language competency or showing proof of accreditation for your previous bachelor’s degree., Depending on the college or university you are applying to, there may be a special application for second bachelor’s degree students. Other colleges and universities will have only one application for all students.Check the admissions website for a college or university you are thinking about applying to for details on the application process.


Most institutions have application fees, including for those seeking a second bachelor’s degree.You may have to submit special documents as part of your application, including transcripts and/or proof of your previous degree, a statement of purpose or admissions essay, etc.
If you are seeking a second bachelor’s degree at the same institution which awarded your first one, you may be asked to complete an application for readmission instead.