 As of 2012, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) issued new standards for school lunches, which increased the amount of fruits and vegetables served, emphasized whole grain foods, allowed only low fat and nonfat milk, and reduced saturated fats and sodium. By law, your school should offer a daily serving of fruits and vegetables, fresh or in a fruit or veggie cup without added sugar.If your school offers fruit juices as a beverage, they must be 100% juice, with no added sugar. They may also offer dried fruit options.
There should be vegetables available in the form of dark leafy greens like broccoli, or spinach, red or orange veggies like carrots or sweet potatoes, and beans or peas like kidney beans or lentils.
If starchy foods like corn or white potatoes are served, there should be no added salt. Beans and peas may also be offered as meat alternatives for vegetarian eaters.
 It is possible to find healthy options in schools, but the best option is always packing a balanced lunch. According to a report by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, the five worst meals you can eat at school are:Beef and cheese nachos, which contain 24 grams of fat and almost 1,500 milligrams of sodium
Meatloaf and potatoes, which contain 72 calories and 78 milligrams of cholesterol
Cheeseburgers, which have more saturated fat than a child should consume in an entire meal
Cheese sandwiches such as grilled cheese sandwiches and cheese quesadillas, which contain more than 7 grams of saturated fat and almost 1,000 milligrams of sodium
Pepperoni pizza, which contains more than 6 grams of saturated fat; pepperoni is a processed meat that increases cancer risk

, Schools in the U.S. are required to serve whole grain options for lunch every school day. These include rice, quinoa, and/or couscous. Look for these healthier grain options in place of carb-heavy foods like bread or pasta.Schools are also required to offer meat alternative foods, like tofu or soy yogurt, which can be a good way to get protein without loading up on red meat.
 There should be 100% fruit juice available at your school during lunch time, as well as milk options like fat-free or low-fat, with no added sugars or flavors. Your school should offer at least two types of milk, as well as fruit juices.Try to avoid sugary drinks like soda or fruit juices with added sugar from the vending machines at school.
 Portion control is an important way to maintain a healthy diet at school and to ensure you are getting all the nutrients and energy you need for the day. Divide your plate into four sections, with dairy (in the form of fat-free or low-fat milk) on the side. Your plate should be balanced with four types of food: fruits, vegetables, grains, and protein like meat, beans, or tofu.You should have about one cup of grains like rice or pasta, and one cup of vegetables and fruits. Clench your fist and place it over your plate. These portions should be no bigger than your clenched fist.
The meat or protein portion should be about as big as your palm.
Added fats like butter, mayo, or salad dressing should be the size of the top of your thumb.
None of your food should overlap or be piled high. There should be a small amount of space between each of the four food groups.

