 Since small children are constantly making messes and dirtying their clothes, it's easy to feel like your house is always a wreck. If you want your child to help you keep things tidy, make chores or simple tasks into a game. Avoid just telling your child that he has to clean something up. You may need to help him or get him started. You can also make challenges or chores into races where you compete.For example, get a large bucket and help your child toss toys into it. You might encourage your child to find all of the blocks or balls to throw in. This will help him learn to sort and makes cleaning more interactive.
Make chores a competition between several kids. This will make it seem more like a game.;
, Kids like feeling as though they have some control or power over things. If you give your child an option, he'll feel as though he's in control of the situation and he'll be less likely to disobey or throw a tantrum. For example, you might tell your child he can select his pajamas to get ready for bed or he can pick out what story he'd like to listen to before bedtime.When giving small kids options, keep them simple or your child might become overwhelmed. Also, give your kid a chance to make the decision.
If you're caring for several kids, ask "who wants to help me with this project?"

, Small children don't have a sense of time like adults do. But, they do have a sense of routine. Knowing what comes next and what to expect during the day can be comforting. You don't need to plan out detailed activities for every hour of the day. But, a loose routine will give your kid a sense of security which can improve his behavior and create good habits.For example, a loose bedtime routine might include getting pajamas on, brushing teeth, snuggling while reading stories, and bed.
When handling more than one child, it can help to coordinate their nap schedules so that they both get rest and you get a break.
 Don't wait for your child to do something naughty before talking about appropriate behavior. Instead, catch your child doing something good and praise him for it. Kids respond better to positive reinforcement than punishment. Just be sure to use specific praises or your child might start tuning it out.For example, if your child wipes up a spill, you could say, "Good job cleaning up after your mess!"
Avoid chastising one child by pointing out how good another child is. This will just make one kid resent the other one.

