 This is an easy way to kill adult roaches. Make a light solution of soap (bath soap is fine) and water that is thin enough to spray through a spray bottle.You can splash it, spray it or just throw it on the roach. Just 2 or 3 drops of a soapy water solution can kill a roach. Ensure that it makes contact with the roach's head and lower abdomen. If you can turn the roach over, hitting the belly is best. The roach will run or try to run, but will suddenly stop and die or be almost dead in one minute.


The soapy water kills them by forming a thin film over the roach's breathing pores that stays in place due to surface tension, causing the roach to suffocate.
Throw the roach away as soon as possible, since it could recover if the water dries up or has not touched a large percentage of its body.
 Get some insecticide that is labeled for use against cockroaches and contains Cyfluthrin or another insecticide as the active ingredient.Spray wherever cockroaches may be hiding or entering the house, including along walls, in cracks, and in vents.


Keep pets and children out of the way when you are spraying, and follow all safety instructions on the product's label.
If you're also using roach bait, don't spray near the bait. The spray may contaminate the bait and cause roaches to stay away from it.
Using spray against roaches works to keep them out of sight for the present moment, but it can also serve to drive them further into your walls and make the problem worse. It's important to treat the nest as well as killing roaches on site.
 Liquid concentrates, once the exclusive domain of professional exterminators, are now being made for use by the public.The concentrate is a poison or deterrent chemical that is diluted with water and then sprayed, wiped, or mopped onto just about any surface, crack or crevice to kill roaches that walk there. Concentrates can be particularly effective providing protection against re-infestation, as they usually deter roaches for 1-2 weeks or more.
 For the worst infestations, as a very last resort, you might want to order the strongest pesticides available. Look for a pesticide that contains Cypermethrin.Professional baits, glue traps with pheromones, and professional sprays are far more effective than products bought at a local home store. Cy-Kick CS is a micro-encapsulated product that is very effective against roaches.You'll probably have to buy it online, because this pesticide isn't usually sold in hardware stores. It will kill live bugs, as well as provide a residual effect for three months. Spray it around the perimeter of your home and in places like your basement.


The downside is that this will kill all bugs, even ones that eat roaches, like spiders and millipedes.
Use this only as a last resort, and don't use it at all if you have pets and kids around. It's a very strong poison that will harm anyone who eats it.

