 You can also buy pre-cut chicken, often sold as "Fajita Chicken" or simply "Chicken Tenders," but it is often a bit more expensive than buying a breast and cutting it yourself. Aim for evenly cut pieces, each roughly 1-1/2" thick.


After rinsing, be sure to pat the chicken strips dry with paper towels.;
, Making chicken tenders requires you to dunk the chicken in three separate baths, which together create the rich, delicious, and crispy coating on the outside of the chicken. Set them up now, with a little extra of each nearby if you run out while working.


The eggs should be whipped with a fork, as if you were about to scramble them.
Keep the flour and breadcrumbs nearby in case you need to refill the bowls while coating the chicken.
 You can use whatever spices you want, but generally a teaspoon of salt, some pepper is essential. From there, toss in paprika, cumin, cayenne, thyme, or whatever other spices you desire. There are few wrong answers.


You can season the fingers in a variety of ways, but they will be delicious even if you only use salt and pepper.
 You want a nice, light dusting of flour here, not large chunks or clumps.
 Again, the chicken doesn't want to be sopping wet, just evenly coated. When adding to the egg, a pair of kitchen tongs will go a long way towards keeping your hands and workstation relatively clean.
 This is your crunch, and the egg and flour together should form a sort of glue to hold everything together. When done, set the thrice-coated chicken on a plate and move on to the next strip. When choosing breadcrumbs, you have a lot of options:



Traditional Breadcrumbs are small, and lead to a lightly breaded flavor.

Panko Breadcrumbs are large and crispy, and lead to a very crunchy final finger

Flavored Breadcrumbs are a great way to simple and easily add some spice to your dish., The way you cook the chicken depends on your taste and nutritional needs. Once you have the coating on, it doesn't matter much how you choose to cook the tenders, as they are thin pieces that cook quickly and evenly without much maintenance.

