 The fourth amendment to the Constitution protects you from a police officer or other government agent searching your home, car, or other personal property—or from taking any of your property—without good cause.The police cannot search your home without a search warrant if they do not have your consent.Ask to see the search warrant before opening the door to your home.
If a police officer stops you in the street, you do not have to answer any questions and you can ask if you are free to go. If the police officer has a reason to suspect you of committing a crime, he or she may pat down the outside of your clothing only.Tell the officer that you do not consent to the search if he or she tries to search you any more invasively than a simple pat-down.
If you are stopped in your car, an officer can require you to show your driver's license, registration, and insurance information. They can also request that you step out of the car, but you do not have to answer any questions and they cannot search your car without your consent.Be aware, however, that if a police officer stops you in your car, anything in plain view in your car (i.e., not kept in a closed part of the car like the trunk or glove box) can be used against you as evidence in court.
 To be a valid warrant, the document must contain the following information: the name of the judge who issued it, the name and address of the place being searched, the date of the search, a description of the purpose of the search, and the name of the law-enforcement agency doing the search., The fifth amendment to the Constitution provides you the opportunity to not say anything if you are accused of a crime.You probably have seen police officers on television say this to people they are arresting—this formal warning is known as a Miranda warning—and a police officer must say this to you following an arrest.


You do not have to answer any questions asked to you by a police officer, and you cannot be punished for refusing to answer an officer's question.In some states, however, you do have to provide your name.
Relatedly, you have the right to talk to a lawyer before answering any questions posed by law enforcement. Officers should not ask you any more questions after you tell them you wish to speak to a lawyer but, if they do continue to question you, you can and should remain silent.
Anything you say can be used against you in court.
The fifth amendment also protects you from being forced to testify against yourself in court.
 If you are arrested, do not answer any questions until consulting with a lawyer. (Remember that if you cannot afford one, the government must provide you with one.) Ask to see your lawyer immediately, and you must be given opportunity to make that phone call within a reasonable time of your arrest and processing.You do not have to answer any questions from any officer.
The police are not allowed to listen in on your phone call with your lawyer.
You must be brought before a judge as soon as possible for your arraignment (where you will be told the charge(s) against you and you can enter an initial plea of guilty or not guilty). It is probably best to simply plead "not guilty" at this point and then talk it over with your lawyer. You can always change your plea later.
 If—at any point—an officer or other governmental official abuses you in any way, make sure to collect as much information and document the incident as soon as possible to preserve relevant evidence. Try to do as many of the following as you can:Take down the offending officer's badge number, name, and any other identifying information you can think of (physical description, age, license plate number, location of the incident, etc.). You have the right to request an officer's badge number and name.
Gather and record the contact information of any witnesses to the scene.
If you are injured, take pictures of your injuries, see a doctor as soon as possible, and request copies of the doctor's report.

