 Sometimes emotional and psychological abuse can escalate to physical violence. If you feel that your life is being threatened, then you should immediately seek help. You can call your emergency services or a domestic violence helpline.


In the United States, you can call 911 or call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233.In the U.K., you can call either 999 to report an emergency or contact Women’s Aid at 0808 2000 247 (if you are female).In Australia, you can call 000 or 112 on a cell phone.In Canada, you should call 911.;
, After a domestic violence incident, you should call the police.Once you are safe, call and report what happened. The police will ask you questions to uncover the extent of the violence. Answer the questions as best as you can.


Unfortunately, emotional and psychological violence are generally not crimes, and the police will not prosecute it.However, if the psychological violence was coupled with even minimal physical violence, such as slapping or locking you in a room, then the police might prosecute.
Also, if the family member withholds necessary food or medicine from a child or elder, then the psychological abuse might also be prosecuted.
 The police will probably want you to sign a statement testifying as to what happened. You will write out your statement and then sign it in front of the police. You should have a friend or family member go with you to the police station for support if needed.
 If the state wants to prosecute your family member for domestic violence, then you should help in the investigation. Your testimony will be critical for getting a conviction and forcing the abuser to understand the severity of his or her conduct.
 A restraining order is a judicial command telling the abuser not to come near you. There may be other limitations as well, such as forcing the abuser to move out of your home, to seek counseling or treatment for drugs, and to turn over any firearms they own. If the abuser violates the restraining order, then they can be arrested and put in jail for contempt.


The prosecutor can seek a restraining order for you as part of a criminal case. If your family member is arrested for the violence, then the judge can make a restraining order a condition of releasing the person on bond.You may have to seek a restraining order on your own. For example, the police might not intervene or arrest your family member. In this situation, you need to apply for a civil restraining order.

