 VPNs (virtual private networks) allow you to mask your IP address by routing your internet traffic through a server in another location. Omegle will think you're connecting as the VPN server and not from your home network. VPN services will often result in slower speeds, so you'll want to find one with a fast connection. This is especially important for video chatting. VPNs cost money, but you can usually get a refund if the service won't work with Omegle.Popular VPN services include IPVanish, ExpressVPN, and HideMyAss.
You can try free proxy sites to access Omegle, but most of these will be banned already as well. See Use a Proxy for details if you want to try anyway.
If you get banned often, this is not going to be a very economical approach. You'll be better off trying to change your IP using the method above.
 When you sign up, you'll be given a user name and password. You'll need this to be able to connect to the VPN.
 Your VPN service should have a list of addresses that you can choose to connect to. You can usually find this on their Support page, or in your welcome email message.
 The process for connecting to a VPN varies depending on your operating system:


Windows - Right-click the Network icon in the System Tray and select "Network and Sharing Center." Click "Set up a new connection or network." Select "Connect to a workplace" from the list of options. Choose "Use my Internet Connection (VPN)." Enter the VPN server address, then your user name and password.
Mac - Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences." Click the "Network" option. Click the "+" button at the bottom of the list of networks. Select "VPN" from the "Interface" menu. Click "Create" and then select your new VPN connection in the list of networks. Enter your VPN server address, user name, and password. Click "Connect" to connect to your VPN.
 If you're properly connected to your VPN, you should be unbanned when you visit the Omegle site. If you're still banned, check your network connection to ensure you're actually connected to the VPN and not your regular network.


If you get banned again, you'll need to change your VPN server to another on the list.

