 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the pizza, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Make sure that you know how your oven indicates that it’s reached the proper temperature. It will usually beep and/or flash an indicator light.;
, For one large pizza, you’ll need 16 ounces (453 g) of pizza dough. Place it on a lightly floured surface, and use a rolling pin to roll the dough out into a circle that is approximately 16- to 18-inches (41- to 46-cm) in diameter.You can make your own pizza dough from scratch or buy premade pizza dough from your local grocery store or pizzeria.
It helps to lightly dust the rolling pin with flour before rolling out the dough.
 After you’ve rolled out the pizza dough, place it on a pizza pan or stone to ready it for baking. The easiest way to transfer the dough to your baking surface is with a wooden pizza peel. Slide the peel under the dough and then shift it back and forth on the pan or stone to slide it off.If you don’t have a pizza peel, you may want to lay parchment down on the surface where you’re working before rolling out the dough. Roll the dough out on the floured parchment paper, and then you can just lift it by the edges of the paper and slide it onto your pan or stone.
 Once the dough is on your pan or stone, spread 1 tablespoons (15 ml) of olive oil across it. Next, sprinkle 2 cups (226 g) of shredded pepper jack cheese, 1 roasted poblano pepper that’s been diced, and ⅓ cup (15 g) of chopped cilantro over the dough, leaving a border around the edge to serve as the crust.You can add other toppings to the pizza if you like. Some options that work well with the avocado and other ingredients include cooked, diced chicken, grilled corn kernels, and diced red onion.
 After you’ve added the toppings to the pizza, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the pizza to bake until the cheese melts completely and the crust becomes golden brown, which should take approximately 18 to 20 minutes.http:

Make sure to keep an eye on the pizza toward the end of the baking time to ensure that the edges don’t burn.
 When the pizza is finished cooking, take it out of the oven. Immediately, spread slices from 2 avocadoes and ⅓ cup (35 g) of cotija cheese over the top of the pizza.Cotija is a hard Mexican cheese, which you can find in most grocery stores.
If you can’t find cotija,you can substitute feta cheese.
 After you’ve added the avocadoes and cotija cheese, squeeze a lime wedge over the top of the pizza to add the fresh juice. If you prefer a spicier pizza, drizzle some hot sauce over it as well.Both red pepper hot sauce and jalapeno pepper hot sauce work well on the pizza.
 Add ½ cup (116 g) mayonnaise, ½ cup (115 g) of sour cream, and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of milk to a medium bowl. Whisk the ingredients together so they’re well-blended.For the creamiest sauce, it’s best use whole milk.
 After you’ve combined the mayo, sour cream, and milk, transfer the mixture to the bowl of a food processor. Add 1 green onion that’s been roughly chopped, 2 garlic cloves, ½ cup (23 g) of roughly chopped cilantro, 1 avocado with the pit and skin removed, the juice from half a lime, and salt and pepper to taste. Blend the ingredients until they’re thoroughly mixed.You may need to stop the food processor once or twice to scrape down the sides of the bowl to ensure that the ingredients are fully mixed.
 When the sauce is thoroughly mixed, use a spoon or fork to drizzle it over the pizza. Next, use a knife or pizza cutter to cut the pizza into 8 slices and serve.You may find it easier to drizzle the avocado sauce evenly over the pizza if you put it in a squeeze bottle.

