 The body and mind are not separate entities. What one does directly impacts the other, and this is true for your diet as well. Reduce caffeine. Caffeine is a stimulant. Too much can make you feel jittery and anxious.Eat foods high in protein. Protein can help you feel fuller for longer, and can keep your blood sugar from plummeting or spiking throughout the day. Lean proteins such as poultry and fish are great choices.Complex carbohydrates with a lot of fiber may cause your brain to release serotonin, a relaxing hormone. Good options include whole-grain breads and pastas, brown rice, beans and lentils, and fruits and vegetables.Avoid high-sugar and high-fat foods. These can make you feel more stressed and upset.Limit alcohol intake. Alcohol is a depressant, so it may initially make you feel calmer. However, it can also cause depressive symptoms, and it may make you feel on edge. It can interfere with your healthy sleep patterns, which will make you more irritable., Physical exercise releases endorphins, your body’s natural “feel-good” chemicals.You don’t have to be a bodybuilder to get this effect, either. Research has shown that even moderate exercise, such as walking and gardening, can help you feel calmer, happier, and more relaxed.Exercises that combine meditation with gentle movement, such as Tai Chi and Yoga, have been shown to have positive effects on anxiety and depression. They can reduce pain and increase feelings of well-being., Meditation has a long and respected history in Eastern traditions. Scientific studies have also shown that meditation can promote relaxation and feelings of well-being. It can even rewire how your brain deals with outside stimuli.There are many types of meditation, although "mindfulness" meditation is one of the types with the most research support.You don't even have to leave your house to learn how to meditate. MIT has several downloadable meditation MP3 files.So does the UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center., Stressors can build up so gradually that we are not even aware of them. In many cases, it’s not one big event that makes you lose your cool but a mountain of small annoyances and irritations that have built up over time.Try to distinguish between primary and secondary emotions. For example, if you were supposed to meet a friend at the movies and s/he never showed, you might immediately feel hurt. That would be the primary emotion. You might then feel frustrated, disappointed, or angry. These would be the secondary emotions. Having an idea of the source of your feelings can help you figure out why you’re experiencing these feelings.More often than not, you’ll feel more than one thing at once. Try to sort through what you are feeling and give each experience a name. Once you have named your emotion, you will have a better sense of how to handle it.One common reason people feel upset is that they believe things ought to go a certain way (usually, their way). Remind yourself that you will never be able to control everything in life -- nor should you want to.Don’t judge these emotional responses. Acknowledge and try to understand them.
 Obviously, it’s impossible to never become upset. Experiencing unpleasant or troubling events and experiences is part of being human. However, if you are able to remove stressors from your life, you will be able to better handle the ones that you simply can’t avoid.You can try to “outsmart” upsetting situations. For example, if you find getting stuck in rush hour traffic upsetting -- and who doesn’t? -- you could consider leaving earlier or later from work, or find an alternate route.
Look for the bright side. Reframing upsetting situations as learning experiences can help you stay calm because you're giving yourself some power. Rather than just being something that happens to you, the situation becomes something you can use to learn for the future.If people are upsetting you, consider why. What exactly about their behavior is bothering you? Are you doing the same things as they are? Trying to understand a person’s motivation may help keep you from being as upset. Remember, we’re all human, and we all have bad days.
 There is nothing inherently unhealthy with any emotion, including anger.What can be unhealthy is ignoring or repressing your feelings instead of acknowledging them.Acknowledging your feelings doesn’t mean you mope or feel sorry for yourself, or that you blow your lid and rage at others. Instead, you acknowledge that you are human, and that experiencing a range of emotions is natural for humans. Your feelings occur, and they should not be judged. Your responses to your emotions are what you’re in charge of.Once you have acknowledged your feelings, think about how you can respond to them. For example, it may be perfectly natural to feel angry if your contribution to a big project has been overlooked, or if a romantic partner has been unfaithful to you. However, you have a choice whether you let your anger explode, or whether you use techniques such as those in this article to calm yourself down and handle your feelings with care.
 Research has shown that humans tend to let others’ emotions “rub off” on us. The anxiety levels of those we spend time with can affect our own. Spend time with people whom you find relaxing and calming, and you’ll feel more calm yourself.Try to spend time with people whom you feel support you. Feeling isolated or judged can increase feelings of stress.
 A common myth is that you have to have huge “issues” to see a therapist, but this isn’t true. A therapist can help you process your feelings and learn to cope with even everyday anxiety and stress in more healthy, helpful ways.Many organizations provide therapy and counseling services. Contact a community clinic or health center, hospital, or even a private provider for services.

