 You can buy the chicken pre-quartered, or you can do it yourself easily with a sharp knife and some kitchen shears. You'll end up with four pieces -- two thighs and two breasts.To do so:


Pull the thighs away from the breast and cut them away at the joint.
Use the scissors to cut the breastbone off the chicken.
Flip the chicken back over, breast up.
Cut lengthwise through the chicken, splitting the breast in two.Squeeze fresh lime juice on the chicken quarters.;
, These vegetables will go into a food processor later, so don't worry about getting them too fine right now. You just want them to fit and chop easily in the processor.


If you're a fan of garlic, chop up 2-3 cloves as well and throw them in.
Habaneros and Jalapenos will both do as substitutes in a pinch.
 The wet ingredients are easiest to measure out first, stirred together, and then tossed in with food processor with the peppers and onions.


1/3 cup olive oil
1/3 cup distilled white vinegar
1/2 cup orange juice
1/2 cup lime juice
1/2 cup molasses
1/4 cup soy sauce, There should still be some chunks here and there, but you want this marinade to be more or less liquid. This is your jerk sauce!


1 tablespoon ground thyme (or 2-3 springs fresh thyme)
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg + 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 tablespoon allspice (or 7-8 whole allspice)
1-2 Bay leaves
1/4 cup cilantro (optional), Yo should marinate the bird for at least 4 hours, though most chefs swear that it needs to be overnight. The acids and salt in the marinade liquids will tenderize the meat and lend more flavor to the meat., If this is a charcoal grill, it will take about 30-40 minutes to heat up, though a propane grill will be at heat within 10 minutes. If you don't have thermometer on your grill, the right heat is roughly when you can't hold your hand over the grill (6" away) for more than 3-4 seconds., The chicken should be cooked to 160F degrees all the way through, with a crispy skin crossed with grill marks. Every 2-3 times you flip the bird, baste it with a little bit more jerk marinade., As meat cooks, the juices that keep it tender are released into the meat. If you cut the meat while it is still piping hot, these juices leak out and lead to dry, rough meat. But if you simply wait 5 minutes or so, the juices will reabsorb into the chicken, leading to a much more delicious bird.