 If you let your dog near outdoor plants that you don't want him to eat, use remote punishment to condition him to avoid them as you can for indoor plants as well. This punishment could be administered by the dog's owner or caretaker standing at a distance so the dog does not know the punishment is coming from them or via the use of remote punishment products, such as motion-sensitive alarms, water sprayers or other deterrents. An electric fence or dog run can keep your dog in a specific space while outside.
Do not use any technique that will cause your dog pain or injury. Shock collars are not recommended by veterinary experts, especially not as training devices., Use a clicker (available at pet stores) to let your dog know when he does what you want him to do. Make noise with the clicker at the instant your dog does the behavior you want him to do and immediately reward him with a high-value treat, such as a piece of cheese or meat or his favorite cookie. Give him lots of praise.To keep the dog from eating your plants outside using the clicker, bring him outside and if he approaches the plants, signal him to come to you and give a click and a treat the moment that he does so. This way, you are rewarding the recall and not the plant-eating., Bitter Apple and Bitter Yuck are commercially available sprays meant to be sprayed on anything you want to discouraging your dog from chewing on. These sprays are available at pet stores and online. Other sprayable pet deterrents may be available from veterinarians or pet stores as well. You can also use chili pepper sauce diluted with water in a spray bottle to mist on plants you want to discourage dogs from eating. Vinegar and ammonia will also work to keep dogs away from areas where they are not welcome, but these substances cannot be sprayed directly on plants or they will die. Instead, spray the ground near the off-limits area to create a barrier.Always be sure to use non-toxic substances to keep dogs away id it is used in a manner where dogs may ingest them.
Be sure to follow all safety information in using deterrents.
 Use aluminum foil, pine cones, chicken wire, or any other items to create a barrier in front of plants the dog is eating. The dog will not like the feeling of these items underfoot, so he will be less likely to cross the barrier and eat the plants.Chicken wire also discourages digging.
Be sure that any items you spread that the dog may tread upon will not hurt him.
 Using something like bird netting, cover the plants that the dog tries to eat to keep him from being able to do so. This netting is easily found at home stores and farm supply stores. You can also use chicken wire or other fencing material to block access to the plants the dog tries to eat.Chicken wire or fencing may also help keep other unwanted animals out of your garden.
 If you cannot keep your dog from eating your plants, you might wish to consider getting rid of some plants that can be especially harmful to dogs. Common ornamental plants that are poisonous to dogs include:Azaleas
Daphne
Golden Chain
Jasmine
Red Sage
Laurels
Rhododendrons
Wisteria
Yew

