 It's important that the paper is thick enough that it will hold its shape and will not bend if you fill it with an object. You also don't want it to be too thick, which will prevent you from being able to make crisp folds. Generally, 110 pound cardstock will work as long as you are not filling it with anything heavy.









Depending on your project, you might want ornamental paper or plain white. You can also decorate the paper or decorate the finished box.
 The cross should be composed of a square in the center with four squares adjacent on all sides.









These squares will fold up to form the sides of the box.
 Make sure you have enough space on the paper to put it there.









This will be the top of the box.
 These should be on the sides of the top, left and right of the cross, leaving the joint two squares at the bottom as they are.









These flaps will be used as joints to secure each side of the cube, and you can choose if you want to glue them inside or outside of the box to determine whether you will see them on the final product. If you can make them neat and even, the final product will look better.
 Be sure to cut outside the lines of the flaps and do not cut any of the lines connecting the squares.









Once the whole thing is cut out, you will be able to fold and then secure the right places to form a cube.
 This should make a right angle.









Be sure to make nice, crisp folds. You can use your fingernail to ensure that the folds are crisp.
 This should also form a right angle.









Again, crisp folds look best on the finished product.
 This forms the top of the cube.









Hold these in place while you fold the other sides to meet it.
 If you use clear tape or glue on the inside of the box it will look more seamless, but you can also quickly tape the outside with clear tape or even washi tape.









Be sure that you secure the seams from one end to the other with glue or tape, and not just a small dab of tape in the center, especially if you plan to fill the box with candy or other small objects.
Save the seam on the top of the box for last and only seal it up if you are not planning to place anything inside the box. Otherwise be sure you fill it before you seal it!

, In the end you should have a six-sided cube.

Now that you have the hang of it, make one for all of your friends!

