 It is the tuck jump. You need to be able to tuck up fast enough to get the rotation needed for other jump styles. To do it, bring your knees to your chest and grab your knees with your hands.;
, These are important for getting balance and pre-determining later moves. When you straddle jump, keep your legs in a position similar to the splits except in a shape like a mountain or a triangle without a bottom. You go right in between your straddle in fists, with your arms and hands stretched as far as you can go.


The pike is similar to a straddle, except that your body forming an 'L' with your legs up horizontally. This trick also consists of placing your arms out in front of you, in fists.
 These may sound boring, but you need to know how to do them as "late twists" and not using your arms and twisting from the bed.


A full turn is as easy as it sounds, you spin in the air. You can also try doing double turns.
 This drop doesn't need much "air" or balance, it consists of about one to three bounces, then you simply drop into a sitting position with your toes pointed in front of you and your back straight. Half twist to seat drop; seat drop half twist out; and swivel hips. This helps with learning to get your hips up and how to twist in and out of moves.
 The knee drop is just what it sounds like, jumping and dropping on your knees. This drop consists of about one to three drops. This drop is easy and is a good drop to do for going into back drops (below) and front flips. A doggy drop is the same as a front drop but involves putting your hands in front of your knees., Then learn how to twist into them and how to twist out of them. These fundamental moves will teach you about 'forward' movement and 'backward' moves. Believe it or not... the front drop is "Backward movement and the backdrop is a forward movement. Understanding this is important if your want to do forward or backward flips.


The backdrop has a scary feeling to it and needs some courage. When you're doing a backdrop, tuck your chin into your neck tightly and land in the middle of your back (this prevents whiplash). You, also, should point your arms and legs up to sky to help you bounce back up.
Front drops (or stomach drops) are super fun once you get the hang of it. When you're starting this trick, it's easier to do it from a knee drop. This trick is simply dropping to your stomach, and when you are doing this, try to prevent dropping with your hands out to the side. Also try keeping your hands in a broken in half triangle form right beside your chin to protect your face and neck.
 This is a backdrop half twist to backdrop, the seat roll seat (roller), the airplane (full twist to front drop) and the full twist to backdrop.
 This is a back flip in to a front drop and lift straight into a back somersault.
 This is a front somersault with a half twist - with the key twisting late - just like the roller!

, It's a front flip only you put your hands down and you arch you back on the way to you feet. Remember to arch your back. If you don't, you'll end up doing a somersault.
 By way of a hint, it's late twisting and twist from the hips and pull your arms the direction you want to twist). Of course, once you have learned all the fundamentals, you can start learning clever trampoline tricks including the Front flip which is a combination of the tuck jump and backward motion of a front drop. Or the Back flip which is a combination of the Seat drop (hips forward) - in to a backdrop (hips up), utilizing the tuck jump!

