 People sometimes spend hours browsing through their phones. Send your friends a few text messages asking how they're doing. Change the settings or ringtone on your phone. Browse your social media accounts and read the latest news. Dive into your phone and see what you can dig up.


Call someone up if you feel like talking! Spending time on the phone isn't a fun activity in of itself, but it's a useful way of staying connected to other people, and you'll usually find enough interesting things to do to keep you occupied indefinitely.;
, The internet is notorious to eating up people's time. If you have a few hours you want to see disappear quickly, going on the internet and browsing can be incredibly rewarding if done correctly. Depending on your personality and the mood you're in, there are many different activities that can be recommended to pass the time online:


Wikipedia is very easy to lose countless hours in. Try finding an article you're interested in, then give it a read. Once you're done with that, click one of the related articles that looks appealing and give that a read too. Before long you'll be too invested in learning about a variety of different things that you won't even be looking at the time. If you're the studious sort, taking active notes can help the knowledge sink in more permanently.
Social media like Facebook and Twitter is seen as the number one potential timewaster of the 21st century. It's easy to get obsessed with getting 'likes' and 'retweets' that some people give up a large proportion of their time interacting online. Although it's usually something you should keep in moderation, you may find browsing Facebook is a great way to pass time if you don't have anything pressing to do.Streaming media sites like YouTube and Bandcamp are available if you're wanting to check out new videos or music. YouTube in particular comes with a vibrant community and content for virtually any topic you can think of. Try searching up something you're interested in, or explore something fresh altogether.
 Watching a movie allows you to get lost in another world, if only for a little while. For the sake of making time go by faster however, television shows should be a go-to pastime. Look out for a show that people like to 'binge watch'. The best TV shows to pass time with tend to be serialized programs that tell a single story. This way, you don't use the episodic format as a way of remembering the time as much.


Long-form dramas like Game of Thrones or Breaking Bad tend to reward those who watch multiple episodes in a row.Making sure you have somewhere quiet and comfy to watch your show is important as well. If everything around you is loud and hectic, you'll have a harder time really losing yourself in the show.
Streaming video services like Hulu and Netflix are great for this, as they have many films and shows already available for you to check out., Video games are potentially an even better way to make the time pass by than films or shows, due to the fact that you are taking an active role in the experience of the media. Whether you need to kill a little or a lot of time, sitting down and engaging yourself with a video game can be a remarkably enjoyable and rewarding experience.


For the sake of passing time, high-intensity games like racing games and first-person shooters are recommended, although people tend to report the most time spent on role-playing and open-world games., The truth is that you can find a ton of engaging stuff to do outside as well. Going outside doesn't necessarily mean you need to be doing athletic activities either, unless that's your thing. There are a number of great places you might start your outdoor adventure:


Explore your home city. Go outside, take a bus somewhere and explore part of town you've never been. You never know what kind of stuff you may come across.
Go for a walk. There are few things so simple and rewarding as going for a walk. Regardless of the weather, taking a stroll and listening to some of your favourite music can feel great. The vitamin D you'll be getting from the sunlight will also brighten your mood automatically, in case you're feeling blue.
Pick up a sport. Sports like soccer, hockey or tennis make for a great workout, and can be great fun if you've got people to play with. Call up a friend and ask if they'd like to play a game with you. For future reference, you may want to join a local team. It's a good way to make new friends, and the exercise will leave you with better health and a brighter mood.

