 Use folders to help you stay organized. The more sleeves or pockets the better. Ideally, use a binder or accordion folder to help you organize materials for multiple classes in one place. Keep everything together to help you keep track of the materials you need to complete your homework, and to help ensure you bring your completed homework to class.


There are the classic two pocket, side-folding folder in any color you can imagine, or adorned by the comic book hero, cartoon character, or sports team of your choice. One option is to get a few of these and use one for each of your classes.
If you have separate folders for each class, keep all of them with you throughout the school day, perhaps in a three-ring binder.
Alternatively, get yourself an accordion folder. These multi-pocketed wonders, usually equipped with a flap or other mechanism to ensure your materials stay where you put them, can immediately improve your organization.;
, Whether in a binder with multiple folders or in an accordion folder, make sure each of your classes has a spot designated to hold assignments. You may even want to assign two slots to each class, one for the actual assignment you’re working on and another for supporting materials.


Put any notes, handouts, worksheets, or assignment materials into the proper folder location as soon as you receive them, and keep them there whenever you’re not using them.
Keep your organizing materials with you. Bring your binder or accordion with you to every single class. This ensures you always have all of your assignments with you for every class.
For some extra tips, check out How to Be Organized in School.
 Make sure you have the materials you will need to work on any homework that you need to work on. Don’t forget the textbooks that you don’t always bring to class, as they are more likely to have found their way to the bottom of your locker.


Before school every morning, triple check your bag! There’s nothing worse than simply forgetting completed homework at home. Make sure you have your organizing materials with you, and that you placed you completed assignments in them.

