 Find a cleanser that fits your skin type. Do you have oily, dry or combination skin? Oily skin does not work well with cream cleansers, as it causes acne. Dry skin does work well with cream cleansers, but not with oil-based cleansers. You should wash your face for 45 seconds to a minute. Use gentle, slow circles, using only the tips of your fingers as the pads tend to carry acne-causing oil.;
, Toners are used for remove any excess oils, bacteria and makeup from the skin. Some toners come already infused in pads. The pads are simply wiped over your face. Others come in bottles, where you drop a little toner on a cotton ball or pad and wipe over your face. Dry skin may not tolerate toner as well as combination or oily skin, so those with dry skin should use it sparingly.
 Moisturizing is essential in maintaining healthy skin! It maintains the natural balance of good-for-you oils and not-so-good-for-you oils. Like cleansers, moisturizers need to be selected with your skin type in mind. Always select moisturizers that are OIL-FREE and NON-COMEDOGENIC. Non-comedogenic means that it was lab-tested by a dermatologist to not cause acne. Squeeze a dime-sized amount of moisturizer onto your palm and rub between your hands. Spread over your entire face, spreading it very thin over very oily areas such as the sides of your nose and below your lips.
 Exfoliating sloughs away dead skin cells, which can cause acne. This also refines the skin, giving it a youthful glow. Various scrubs and exfoliators can be purchased, or you can make one at home. After cleansing, squeeze some exfoliator onto your hand and GENTLY AND SLOWLY massage your skin with the TIPS OF YOUR FINGERS. Be careful to massage gently and for only up to a minute or risk rubbing your skin raw. This should be followed by a healthy dose of moisturizer. Exfoliating should be done twice a week.
 De-toxifying is the process of cleaning the skin out of impurities such as oils or makeup residue. This is often in the form of a mud mask. Mud masks clean the skin out VERY well. To use, simply squeeze the mask onto your palm then with your fingers, spread over the skin evenly. After at least half an hour, remove the mask by spreading a warm, wet cloth over your face for a few minutes to soften the mask. Then simply wipe off. After removing the mask, spread a generous amount of moisturizer onto your face. Masks should only be done twice a week.

