 There are several reasons why you might clip your cockatiel’s wings.Maybe you think it a matter of course to clip your pet cockatiel’s wings. You might want to prevent the bird from escaping or limit its ability to fly about the house. However, you can use caution to keep your bird inside by, for instance, investing in a spacious cage and closing the door when you let your cockatiel explore the room or house it lives in.


You can also engage in training to ensure the bird flies in only certain areas or certain ways.
While clipping the wings is not hard, it can limit a bird’s ability to stay healthy and fit. Feathers which have been clipped might not re-grow properly and the bird could develop behavioral problems. Furthermore, it may leave them in danger if they are ever in a situation where escape is necessary, such as an encounter with another pet. Therefore, carefully consider if clipping the wings is a good choice for your bird.
 The best option when getting your cockatiel’s wings clipped is to have someone do it who know what they’re doing. It is a delicate procedure and can end badly if the wings are clipped too close, or the wrong feather is cut.


If you do not feel like dropping the money on it, at least watch your vet or a trained professional clip your bird’s wings before attempting to do so yourself. Carefully observe their behavior and make a video recording of the clipping for later reference., Blood feathers, also called pin feathers, are feathers just starting to grow. They carry a large blood supply since they are still growing. If cut, they will bleed profusely. To avoid cutting a blood feather, check the shaft. The shaft of a blood feather will be dark due to the blood within; the shaft of a mature feather will be white.


Identify the shaft of each feather you intend to cut. If you have trouble identifying the shaft, soak the wings in a mix of water and alcohol.Move other feathers out of the way while examining a particular feather.
 Use cat claw clipper, dog nail clippers, and bird claw clipper to clip your cockatiel’s feathers. Clipping six to eight primary feathers from each of your cockatiel’s wings is usually sufficient.The primary feathers are those closest to the wing tips, and can be distinguished from secondary feathers by observing a fully outstretched wing. Look closely at the wing and you’ll notice a slight inward dip in the bottom of the feather line. This line serves as the natural dividing point between primary and secondary feathers.


Have a friend hold the cockatiel. It helps to wrap it gently in a towel. Slowly extend the wing whose feathers you want to cut.
Begin cutting at the tip of the wing. Cut all the feathers which you want trimmed on one wing before moving to the next. Cut the same feathers in equal amounts on each wing.
Do not clip more than ten primary feather’s from a cockatiel’s wings.Do not clip your bird’s wings with scissors.
Do not clip any secondary feathers.Your clipping should allow the bird to fly down from a perch or cage but should be unable to fly up. If your bird can do neither -- or both -- successfully, you may need to revise your clipping technique with the help of a qualified professional.
 The one-wing clip is, as its name suggests, a clip performed on only one wing, with the aim of unbalancing the bird’s path of flight.It has been described as crude and cruel, and is not advised since it can threaten the safety and life of the cockatiel. When birds realize that their plumage is unbalanced, it might inspire them to start plucking their own feathers, a behavior which can be difficult to correct.To execute a one-wing clip, simply follow the same directions as you would would to clip both your bird’s wings, but apply the clipping pattern to only one wing.

