 Creating movies in MovieStarPlanet is one of the best ways to earn StarCoins, especially if you make a popular movie. Movies with just a couple hundred views can earn thousands of StarCoins., This will display the list of top movies created by other players.
 This can be found next to the "Friends" tab at the top of the Movies window. Clicking the button will open the movie maker.
 The options can be a little overwhelming at first, but with a little practice you'll be making new frames in no time.


The scene will load with the default school background and your star on the left side.
The menu that appears when you click your star allows you to create dialog, perform an animation, and select an expression.
The filmstrip at the bottom allows you to select your current frame. Each scene in your movie is composed of multiple frames. The Play button allows you to preview your movie.
The buttons next to the filmstrip allow you to add actors from your friends list, add props, add more scenes, change the scene's background, and select music.
 Set up the scene how you'd like and give your star an animation or some dialog with the speech bubble. Each frame is a couple seconds long.


You can add props that you have earned as rewards in the game by clicking the "Add or remove items from the scene" button.
When you select an animation, you'll have a a few basic options to choose from. You can purchase more by clicking the "+" and buying them with StarCoins.
 All of your actors and props will stay in the same place.
 Dragging and dropping your star will cause him or her to move to the new location between frames.


If you want your star to "walk" instead of just slide to the new location, select a walking animation. You can find a running and a walking animation on the second page of the "Basic" tab when selecting an animation.
 Click the "Add or remove actors to the scene" button to add other actors. You can choose from people on your friends list, or from premade extras. It's recommended that you include as many friends as possible when trying tot earn StarCoins, as they're more likely to watch it if they're in it.
 Keep adding frames until you are satisfied with your scene. You can combine multiple scenes, which allows for background changes.
 You'll be prompted to give the movie a name and select the privacy options. Make sure to give the movie a catchy name so that other people will want to watch it. Also make sure that it is set to "Public" so that other players can find and view it.
 Click the "Email" button in your movie's Details page to email a link to the movie to anyone. The recipient will need an MSP account in order to view the movie. Use the email function to get as many people viewing the movie as possible.
 As you get more views for your movie, you'll earn more StarCoins. You'll only get a few at first, but if your movie gets popular you'll soon have quite a few.

