 Launch Google Chrome, Google’s web browser, on your computer or mobile device. If you are not logged into your Google account, do so now.If you don’t have Google Chrome, download it for your computer, Android device, or Apple device

If you don’t have a Google account, create one here.;
, Cloud-ready printers automatically connect and register to Google Cloud Print through your wireless network.To determine if your printer is cloud-ready, search for your printer brand and model on this list. To set up your cloud-ready Printer, follow the manufacturer's instructions for your specific model. Once you have completed this task, open a new tab in Google Chrome and search for: . You will see that printer listed under “My devices.” To register additional printers, click “Add Printer(s).”


You can print to a Google Print connected-printer from anywhere in the world. You do not have to be connected to the same network as the cloud-connected printer you are using.If you are using an Android device, click Settings > System > Printing > Cloud Print > Options > Add Printer., Unlike cloud-ready printers, classic printers do not automatically connect to and register with Google Cloud Print. You must manually connect your classic printer to this app. In order to connect a classic printer to Google Cloud Print, you must have Google Chrome and a Google account, as well as a Mac, Windows, or Windows computer.


Connect the classic printer to your computer.
Launch Google Chrome and log into your account.
Open a new tab and search for: .
Locate and click on “Add Printers” under the “Classic printers” section.
Check the box next to the connected Classic Printer and click “Add printer(s).”
You will receive a confirmation message that your classic printer successfully connected to Google Cloud Print.If you are using Windows XP, it must be equipped with the XP or XPS Essentials Pack., If you intend to share your printers with others, it may be helpful to assign your cloud-ready printer a new, easily recognizable name. Access the Google Cloud Print Management page. From the column on the left of the page, select “Printers.” Click on the printer you wish to rename and select “Rename.” Change the name and click “Rename.”, If your printer is located in a public establishment, like a school, office, library, or coffee shop, you can allow everyone to access your printer. Launch the Google Cloud Print Management page and click “Printers” in the column on the left. Select the printer you wish to share and select “Share.” In the dialog box, click Change > Anyone with the link has access to the printer > Save. Copy and paste the link in the “Link to share” textbox.


Limit the number of pages a user may print by clicking “Share” and changing the page limit quota., If you are not interested in allowing the public to access your printer, you may choose to share your cloud-ready printer with a select group of people. Launch the Google Cloud Print Management page and select “Printers” from the column on the left. Click on the printer you wish to share and select “Share.” Enter in an email address for each individual and select “Share.”


You can create a Google Group and share the printer with all of the members.
Alter the default settings from “Can print” to “Can manage” to give members permission to rename and share your printer., The number of applications that are Google Cloud Print compatible continues to grow. You may always print pages and files through the Chrome Browser regardless of your device. If you are searching for alternative printing methods, consult the detailed list of compatible apps or scan the abbreviated list below:


Mac Computer: Cloud Printer, The Web (Chrome Browser).
Windows Computer: The Web (Chrome Browser), Paperless Printer, Cloud Print for Windows, Wappwolf, Google Cloud Printer for Windows.
All Mobile Devices: Mobile Google Apps, The Web (Chrome Browser), KODAK Email Print.
Android Devices: Cloud Print Beta, PrinterShare™ Mobile Print, Cloud Printer, Easy Print, Fiabee, PrintJinni™, Google Cloud Print.
iOS Devices: PrintCentral Pro., Open the Google Cloud Print Management page and click on the orange “Printer” button. Select Upload file to print > Select a file from the computer. Once you have chosen the file, click “Open. Pick your cloud-ready printer and hit “Print.”, With Google Cloud Print, you may print pages and files that appear in your Chrome Browser. Click on the menu button in the top right corner of your Chrome web browser—this is the icon with three vertical lines. Click “Print.” Locate the “Destination section and select “Change.” Click on the desired cloud-ready printer and hit “Print.”, Instead of printing out a document, you may wish to save a PDF version of the file to your Cloud Drive. Click on the menu button in the top right corner of your Chrome web browser—this is marked by the icon with three vertical lines—and select “Print” from the dropdown menu. Find the section labeled “Destination” and select Change > Save to Google Drive > Save.