 When there is nothing to talk about and you feel lost, the best thing to do is just get a question out there. Let her do the talking, as she'll naturally gravitate towards things and topics she is comfortable with, giving you a chance to see what she is about. Some good entry topics include:


"What do you do for a living?"
"Are you from around here?"
"What do you like to talk about that isn't work?"
"What's your major/what do you want to study?", There is no reason to be sneaky, trying to figure out her interests on the sly. Just come right out and ask her -- "what are you interested in?" You'll open up an entire catalog of possible conversation topics. All girls are different and trying to memorize scripts or perfect lines won't work. Just let things develop organically depending on her, and your, interests.


"What do you enjoy doing?"
"If you could be doing anything with your life, what would it be?"
"What would make you super happy right now?", Dating is a two-way street. While you want to be a gentleman, you don't need to pander to her and play the "perfect boy" role. Be yourself, even if (especially if) you disagree with her. Good conversation requires two unique people, not a girl and a spineless mirror agreeing with her every word. Don't ever feel like you need to lie or temper your own opinion to avoid freaking her out., Compliments will get you far, but only if you really mean them. People can smell you out a mile away if you're just trying to score brownie points, so don't. If you see or hear something that you admire, let her know. True, unique compliments make everyone feel good, opening them up to further conversation. Don't be a pick-up artist, just be a nice person.


"I have never seen eyes like yours. Those are beautiful."
"That's a great point -- I had never thought about that like that."
"You actually did that? No way -- that took some serious courage/brains/strength.", Don't pretend to like a subject or be an expert if you're not into something. Talk about the things you love. If you're having fun in the conversation she will have some fun too. If you realize you don't have much to add to her favorite topics, then don't lie or worry that you have nothing in common -- just show some genuine curiosity.


"I've never talked to a physicist before -- what drew you to the subject?"
"I don't actually know much about hiking. Quickly: where are the top three places you've hiked?
"I can't profess to be an expert in opera. Where should I start listening?"

, Honestly, having a random guy approach you and start a conversation isn't easy either. She does not have all the answers, and she is not judging you for your every word. Having a conversation with a stranger is not like in the movies. It may be awkward or stilted at first. But that doesn't mean it is not going well! Keep asking questions, smiling, and chatting -- things will warm up.


You always run out of things to say when you get nervous and self-conscience. Just keep the ball rolling instead of worrying about the perfect words -- anything is better than nothing.