;
, Click on File; New; Playlist, to begin a new playlist. Your playlist should appear on the left hand side menu. Rename this playlist whatever you want by clicking on the highlighted text and inputting the name of your mix.


You may have previously closed the menu bar and so you cannot see the file icon. If so, click on the symbol in the top left hand corner, then on Show Menu Bar.
 Simply drag and drop the songs you want in your burned CD over to the playlist you just created. When doing this, you'll see a small green circle with a white plus sign on it.


You can add songs individually by dragging and dropping them into the new playlist, or you can highlight several songs at once and drop them into the new playlist.
To drag several songs at once into your playlist, click on the first song, hold down the Shift button, and click on the last song in the series that you want highlighted. The first song, the last song, and all songs in between will be highlighted. Now, simply drag and drop as instructed.
 The disk should be visible on your desktop. This whole process shouldn't take more than 30 seconds.


Standard burnable CD-R/CD-RW discs hold 74 minutes/650 MB or 80 minutes/700 MB of data. If your playlist exceeds 80 minutes, you may need to divide the playlist onto two discs.
 Or if its the new version of iTunes, click on the playlist's name on the side bar and click on "Burn to CD."

, Adjust it so that the playlist is burned as you desire. Select "Burn" when you are ready to make the CD. In the settings, you can control:


The speed with which your computer burns the data onto the disk. Generally, the faster the burn speed, the lower the sound integrity.
The gap, in seconds, between songs.
The disc format: Audio, Mp3, or DVD. Most burned CDs will want to select "Audio CD" as their format.
 Depending on your settings and your computer, this could take anywhere from one minute to a dozen.
 You will be notified when the disc is done burning. Eject the CD and you are done.

