 Although blackheads are not actually caused by dirt, gently wash your skin regularly to remove excess dirt and oil. This can help prevent blackheads from forming or clogging pores.Use a gentle cleanser with a neutral pH.You may also look for cleansers with salicylic acid, which can be very helpful in keeping pores clean and preventing breakouts.Most grocery stores and pharmacies carry skin cleansing products that avoid irritating skin. Look for products labelled "gentle on skin", "for sensitive skin" and such.
If your skin is very oily, consider using an oil-free cleanser. Likewise, if your skin is dry, try using a glycerine or cream-based cleanser.Don’t use bar soaps as their ingredients may clog pores.Use lukewarm water to wash your skin. Water that is too hot can strip your skin of oils and irritate it.;
, Just as it’s important to wash your skin, it’s also important to not overwash it. Cleansing too often or too vigorously can irritate your skin, strip its oil, and actually lead to further breakouts.Washing acne-prone areas twice a day is sufficient to help keep it clean and prevent blackheads., Going to bed with makeup or cosmetic products on your skin can clog your pores. Remove all makeup or cosmetics with a gentle cleanser or makeup remover before you hit the pillow.You can use a specific makeup remover, especially if you use waterproof products, or your gentle cleanser before bed. Most cleansers are effective at removing makeup.Every month, you may want to consider cleaning your makeup applicators or cosmetic sponges with some soapy water to remove bacteria that can clog pores., If you are a very active person, shower after strenuous activities. Sweating can lead to excess bacteria and oil on your skin that could cause blackheads.Avoid washing your blackhead prone areas with harsh soaps. A gentle, pH balanced skin wash will suffice., Use a skin-type specific moisturizer after you've washed your face. Having properly hydrated skin can help prevent blackheads.Even if your skin is oily, it may need a moisturizer, choose an oil-free and non-comedogenic product.Seek the advice of a dermatologist or skincare professional to help assess what type of skin you have. You can buy products specifically formulated for your skin type and needs at most pharmacies and at many retailers, including department stores., Dead skin can clog pore and cause blackheads. Gently exfoliating your skin on a regular basis may help clear dead skin and bacteria and could help prevent blackheads. Do not try to exfoliate active acne or blackhead sites as this will irritate already irritated skin.


Be aware that an exfoliator will only remove surface skin and not penetrate deeply enough to scrub away a blackhead.Choose a gentle exfoliator with either synthetic or natural beads that are a uniform shape. Harsh scrubs can cause irritation and lead to further blackheads.A soft washcloth can also gently exfoliate your skin.
Try adapalene gel (Differin gel), which is a retinoid gel that is available over-the-counter. It can help reduce inflammation and exfoliate the skin.
 If you have oily skin, use topical product to absorb excess oil. These preparations can not only help remove oil, but also keep bacteria and dead skin that cause blackheads at bay.You can use an over-the-counter salicylic acid or benzoyl peroxide treatment or have your doctor prescribe one for more severe cases.A weekly clay mask may help absorb excess oil and purify your skin.You can use oil blotting papers to soak up excess oil on your face.Be sure to follow your doctor’s or package directions to help ensure that you don’t overuse the product and further irritate your skin.
You can purchase most oil absorbing products at pharmacies and some grocery stores. Online cosmetics retailers also offer these products.
 If you use cosmetics or other types of skincare products such as moisturizer or sunscreen, choose non-comedogenic options. These won’t clog your pores and may help prevent further irritation.Products marked “non-comedogenic” has been tested for acne-prone skin and won’t likely exacerbate existing acne or cause new blackheads.Any product marked “hypoallergenic” has been tested for sensitive skin.
There is a wide range of non-comedogenic and hypoallergenic products available including makeup, sunscreens, moisturizers, and toners. You can purchase them at most pharmacies, large department stores, online retailers, and even some grocery stores.
 You may be tempted to touch or pick at blackheads, but avoid the temptation to remove them this way. Picking at and touching your skin can spread oil and bacteria and may cause you to break out in more blackheads.Picking or touching your skin may also cause further irritation., In some cases, you may have a large or stubborn blackhead that won’t disappear. You can safely remove these kinds of blackheads with a comedone extractor, but only use this tool in acute circumstances.


You can purchase a comedone extractor at most pharmacies and other retailers that sell skincare products.
Make sure to cleanse your skin before you use the tool so that you minimize the risk of spreading bacteria.Warm your skin with a warm compress for a minute or two before you use the extractor.Don’t force the blackout out of your skin. If it doesn’t come out after the first try, leave it for a few days to help minimize irritation and encourage healing.Follow the instructions on how to use the extractor most effectively.
If you are unsure of how to do use an extractor or have a lot of blackheads, talk to your dermatologist. She can use an extractor to remove your blackheads much more effectively in her office.
 Tight clothing can hold in heat and moisture, which can irritate your skin and cause blackheads. Wearing loose-fitting garments can help keep your skin dry and comfortable and prevent blemishes from forming.Sweat or moisture wicking garments may help keep your skin dry and blemishes at bay.
Natural fabrics such as cotton may be a good option if you have sensitive skin. Avoid scratchy fabrics such as wool to help avoid irritation.
Regularly clean garments, and fabrics such as pillowcases, that come in contact with your skin. Use a mild detergent that won’t clog pores or irritate skin., There is some evidence that a nutritionally well-balanced diet may affect your skin.Avoiding unhealthy and junk foods may help prevent blackheads and other kinds of acne.Diets high in fat and sugar may slow cell turnover, resulting in more pore clogs that cause blackheads.Try and not eat too many fried foods or sweets.
Foods high in vitamin A and beta-carotene, including fruits and vegetables such as raspberries and carrots, may increase cell turnover for healthier skin.Food high in essential fatty acids, such as walnuts or olive oil, may help skin cells stay hydrated.Unhealthy foods also take the place of foods you could be eating that provide the necessary vitamins and antioxidants to promote healthy skin.
Part of any well-balanced diet is proper hydration. Aim to drink 8 cups of water every day to keep your body healthy, which may help your skin stay healthy., She can advise you on the best products for your skin as well as prescribe special creams if needed such as retinoids, which are excellent for keeping pores clean and acne at bay.


In addition, she may talk to you about treatments such as microdermabrasion or chemical peels to unclog pores and keep them clean.

