 Loosely curl your hair with a curling iron, then spray it with some volumizing spray.If you prefer to keep your hair straight, you can simply spray it with texturizing spray to help hold the braid. If you have naturally curly or wavy hair, you are good to go.;
, Start gathering your hair from about eyebrow level. Gathering it into a half up ponytail at the back of your head and secure it with a hair tie that matches your hair color.If you can't find such a hair tie, you can use a clear one instead.


For a more interesting look, do a reserve topsy-turvy ponytail. Make a hole in your hair, just above the band, then pull the ponytail up through the hole.Instead of doing a half up ponytail, take a section of hair from your temples. Twist each section into a rope, then pull them back and tie them behind your head with an elastic.Consider wrapping a thin section of hair around the elastic to hide it. Secure it with a bobby pin that matches your hair color., You want to have a left section and a right section. Make sure that both are the same thickness and have the same amount of hair., Take a thin strand of hair from the outer edge of the left section. Cross it over the left section.Try to grab the thin strand from just under the left section.
 The right section will now be a little thicker than before. Do not drop it between the two sections like regular braiding., Take a thin strand of hair from the outer edge of the right section. Cross it over the right section, then add it to the left section., Alternate between the left and right sides. Make sure that you are only grabbing hair from the left and right sections of your ponytail and not the right of your hair.
 You can braid as far down the ponytail as you want. Stopping 2 to 3 inches (5.08 to 7.63 centimeters) away from the ends would be ideal.Once again, use a hair tie that matches your hair color or a clear elastic.
 Starting from the bottom of your braid, gently tug on the outer loops. Tug just enough to loosen them, but not so much to undo the braid.You don't have to do this, especially if you left your hair straight. It will help give your braid a nice, boho touch, however.
 Give your hair a light misting of hairspray to help the style last longer. At this point, you are good to go, but there are some things you could do to take your style to the next level. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If you did a topsy-turvy ponytail at the start, you could add a pretty hair clip to the it to hide the elastic.
If you did a regular ponytail at the start, you could snip off the elastic holding it together. Don't snip off the one at the bottom securing the braid, however!If your hair is curly or wavy, braid a few strands to the left and right of your fishtail ponytail braid. This will help give it some texture.If you have enough hair leftover at the end of your braid, wrap a thin section of it around the bottom elastic to hide it. Keep it in place with a bobby pin that matches your hair.

