 The employment practices and environmental safeguards of global corporations can impact governments and other companies in developing countries to insist on higher standards that protect the human rights of their people.Global corporations can use the U.N.'s guiding principles on human rights to focus their strategies and develop polices for operating and investing in countries with histories of human rights abuses.
Many global corporations have included policies stressing adherence to basic human rights in their company codes of conduct, although the full implementation and enforcement of these standards is erratic.
However, opponents argue allowing corporations to have a role in setting national economic and social policies may undermine democratic participation and the voice of the people in their governments.
 Nonprofit organizations dedicated to protecting human rights often use the power of the consumer to pressure global corporations to implement human rights standards.For example, consumer boycotts can exert economic pressure on a company, and if successful cause the company either to change and enforce more stringent human rights policies in its operations, or to abandon projects in developing countries with poor human rights records.
Labeling regimes inspect and certify items produced by people whose human rights have been protected. To earn certification, companies must implement strict policies that provide fair wages and employment standards for all workers.
Global corporations that see value in being known as good global citizens may be pressured by consumer behavior into ceasing operations in countries with widespread and systemic abuses of human rights.
 Trade councils in specific industries can weave recognition of human rights into their rules, refusing to grant membership to companies that ignore human rights in pursuit of profit.For example, the international diamond industry worked with the U.N. to implement a ban on trade in rough diamonds from Sierra Leone following reports that these diamonds were being used to support bloody conflict in the country.
Industry organizations also have entered into human rights agreements with international labor organizations. These agreements typically cover issues such as minimum wages, working conditions, hours and overtime, and maternity leave.

