 One of the easiest facets of your character’s appearance that you can change is his or her clothing. There are different clothing types and parts: dress, shirt, pants, skirt, shoes, and socks.


Wearing a dress disables you from wearing pants or a skirt. You can wear socks no matter what (even if they’re not visible).;
, It’s the easiest way to get new clothes. Their shop is on Main Street, which can be found by running north across the train tracks at the edge of your village.


You will see a variety of clothing on display at the Able Sisters’ shop. Any item on display can be purchased. To find out the price, simply face the piece of clothing you’re interested in and press “A.” This will start a dialogue with Sabel, who will then ask if you want to buy the item.
The shop is open from 10am to 9pm by default, and will be that way for you unless you have the Early Bird or Night Owl Town ordinances active.
 The store’s stock changes every day, so it’s a good idea to check back often especially if you have a particular look in mind.
 Walking next door will take you into the accessories section of the Able Sisters’ shop. Here, the final Able sister sells things like wigs, glasses, umbrellas, and other face accessories.


The same mechanics apply here. When you want to know the price on something, simply face that item and press “A.”
In the dialogue options with the Able sisters, you can always request to try an item on so that you can see just how it would look on you before you splurge and decide to buy.
 You can get them as rewards for completing tasks, but that’s completely random.
 Kicks isn’t present at the beginning of the game, and you will have to unlock it. In order to have Kicks built, you must have spent 8,000 bells at the Able Sisters shop.
 In the same way that there are many, many shirts to choose from in the Animal Crossing: A New Leaf game, there are also lots of socks and shoes available for sale from the Kicks shop on Main Street.
 The mechanics work the same way in this store as they do at the Able Sisters shop. There will be a number of shoes and socks on display that change daily. To inquire about an item, face it and press “A.”

, You can try socks and shoes on, but depending on what else your character is wearing, it might be difficult to see. So if you want to really get a look at some long socks, make sure you aren’t wearing pants that will just hide them.
 Another way to change your character’s appearance is by taking advantage of the services over at Shampoodle. However, just like Kicks, Shampoodle isn’t built at the start of your game, and you will need to unlock it.


To unlock Shampoodle, you must have spent 10,000 bells between the Able Sisters and Kicks. In addition, Kicks must have been open for at least 7 days before Shampoodle can begin construction.
 Once Shampoodle is open, have a chat with Harriet by facing her and pressing “A.” She will let you know that there are two different options (at first): hairstyle or makeup. Both options will end up costing you 3,000 bells, and you can only choose one a day.
 Choosing hairstyle means you have to change both your hairstyle and color. Choosing makeup will create a mask for your character to wear based on any Mii’s you have on your DS.


Having a different hairstyle and color makes a big difference to your character’s appearance, and having him or her wear a Mii mask will make him or her look very different as well. It is worth noting, however, that if you wear a Mii mask, you cannot wear any accessories (such as those purchased at the Able Sisters) over it.

