 Patent searches can be incredibly complex and difficult to perform. If you do not feel comfortable taking on the task alone, or if you do not have the time or resources to do so, you can hire professionals to help you. The PTO recommends that you use only reputable agents and attorneys. The PTO offers a free search function where you can find qualified help. Use that resource to find professionals in your area.If you are looking to hire an attorney, make sure he or she is in good standing with your state bar by checking the state bar's website.


If you do not want to hire an attorney, you can look online for research companies. These companies make a living off of conducting patent searches for people. When you look for these companies, make sure you only contact the most reputable ones. To find these companies, do an internet search for "reputable patent search companies". There are a lot of scams in this area of business and you should be particularly wary of companies that guarantee results.
Before you hire a search company or attorney, make sure you ask about fees. The fees these professionals charge will relate to the complexity of your search. In general, fees range from about $500 to $1,500.Another sign of a scam is companies that offer services for a small fee (e.g., $50). Avoid these companies whenever possible.;
, PTRCs are PTO designated libraries with the resources necessary to help you conduct patent research. To find your local PTRC, visit the PTO website and search for PTRCs by state. While most states will have at least one PTRC, the physical library may be a ways away from where you live. If this is the case, you may have to hire help or conduct the search on your own.


If you have a PTRC close by, call the location and set up an appointment. When you call, ask about fees and whether the location is capable of helping you with what you need. Some locations will charge for their services and not every location can handle every patent question.
Once you have an appointment, make sure you prepare by conducting any preliminary research you think is necessary. The PTRC will only be able to help you if you know what types of questions to ask.
When you go to your appointment, a professional will help you conduct your search., Whether you are conducting your own patent search, hiring a professional, or using the PTRC, you should understand the process you are going to go through to find the information you need. While conducting your own research is difficult, it is not impossible. To help familiarize yourself with the PTO website, navigate through different parts of the website for a few hours on your own. Click through things, read articles, and review procedures. Keep detailed notes of what you did so you know how to recreate the results.


If you are going to get help with your patent search, you still need to be able to discuss your concerns intelligently. Therefore, it is important to know how to use the search system so you can help the people you hire.
Understand that patent searches will take weeks, if not months, if you are new to the process. Do not get discouraged and be sure to set aside enough time to complete the task., If you live in the United States, your first step will be to determine if someone has already filed a patent with the US Patent and Trademark Office (PTO). The PTO provides training in patent searches for people who haven't done it before.


There is a free video tutorial you can watch on the PTO website., Start the process by writing down a brief but specific description of your invention. In doing so, come up with a list of keywords and technical terms that might be used to describe it. Think about the following:The purpose of the invention, and whether it is a utilitarian device or an ornamental design
Whether the invention is a process (e.g. a way of making something or performing a function) or a product (i.e. a thing to be sold)
What the invention is made of
How the invention is used
Keywords and technical terms describe the nature of the invention. Consult a technical dictionary or thesaurus to help find the appropriate terms.
For example, if you've invented a silent drape-runner that will allow you to open and close drapes noiselessly, search terms might include "drapes," "drape runner," "curtains," "curtain rod," an so forth.
 Next, you'll visit www.uspto.gov to access patents that fall in the same classification schema (i.e. category of classes) as your invention. Use the search box in the upper right-hand corner and enter "CPC scheme" and a keyword for your invention.CPC scheme stands for "cooperative patent classification scheme."This search term basically tells the website that you are looking for a classification scheme that your invention might fall under.
For example, you might enter "CPC scheme drape runner." You might then scroll down the list and find "furnishings for windows or doors." This would be the classification schema for your invention.
If your results don't reflect the general type of product you have invented, try using one of the synonyms you came up with in the previous step.
 Clicking on a classification schema in your search results will take you to a list of classes of inventions, describing in general terms the features that distinguish these inventions from others in the general class. Pick the one that best describes your contribution.Make a note of the code number for your class. You'll use this for gathering patents of similar products.
For example, under "furnishings for windows or doors," you find a variety of curtain suspension devices, and would look for the category that best described your new drape runners.
 If the class you think your invention might fit into is underlined, that means the PTO provides a class definition for this type of invention. Click on it and review.If the class definition doesn't match what you've created, go back and review other classes. That failing, refine your search terms and try again.
If there is no definition provided, continue with your search. If you're in the wrong class, you should be able to figure that out pretty quickly once you start looking at some of the patents.
 Now, use the dropdown menu under "Quick Links" on the PTO homepage and select "PatFT" (patent full text and image). You'll use this to gather all the patents in your invention's CPC class.In the "term 1" box, enter the CPC class code that corresponds to your invention.
In the "field 1" box, select "Current CPC Classification."
In the "select years" box, select "1790 to present ." Then, hit "search."

, You will now be looking at a results page that lists all patents in your class. These links will take you to the front pages of each patent, which briefly describe a patented invention. Review each one by clicking on the patent number.Within many results, you will see a red "images" button. This will allow you to a view PDF of the front page, which can be valuable since many will contain diagrams or images of the invention.
For any that look similar to your invention, note the number for closer evaluation.
 For those inventions you noted as being similar enough to yours to merit further examination, view the full patent, paying close attention to all diagrams and descriptions. Pay especially close attention to all legal claims made in these documents.You can view the full patents by clicking the "full pages" button, visible to the left of the front page.
 If you determine there are no patented inventions that match yours, your final step is to ensure that there are no applications that the PTO is currently reviewing that might. You'll do this in the same way you searched for existing patents in your class.


Use the same dropdown menu, but this time select AppFT (applications, full text). Enter your classification code, pick "current CPC classification" and search as far back as you can (which should be the year 2001).
Search these results in the same way you searched the approved patents. If you don't find anything that matches your invention, congratulations! You can apply for a US patent.
 If your PTO searches do not give you valuable results, try broadening your search. You will know if your searches are too narrow when you do not get any results. If this is the case, broaden your terms until you get results you can work with.This process will take time. Do not get frustrated and keep working.
 If there is any possibility you will want to patent or sell your invention overseas, you should also check to see if there are patents for an invention very similar to yours anywhere else in the world. The US PTO recommends starting with the European Patent Office.


Espacenet lets you search all of Europe for patents. On the left side of their website, you'll see a classification search option.Use this in conjunction with the key words you developed in Part 1 and begin your search again.
The classification search allows you to select a broad category of patents before beginning your search, such as "textiles and paper." This is optional but will help you narrow things down in advance and reduce irrelevant search results., If there are other nations that you consider it particularly likely you will wish to market your invention in, you may wish to consult the national patent offices of each. The US PTO provides links to several of these.For example, the PTO recommend the Global Patent Search Network (GPSN), which provides access to all Chinese language patents, translated into English.Generally speaking, you'll use the same search terms you did in searching for a US patent. Be aware, however, that not all nations provide patent documents in English, and the literal translation of your search terms may not apply in every culture. If you are seriously considering marketing your invention in a non-English speaking country, you may want to ask for help from a patent attorney, or at least consult with someone well versed in the language before conducting your search.
 There are other online tools that can be used to search for international patents. They can be used to identify potential patent conflicts you might find in other countries.


These services are not necessarily endorsed by the government of any nation, and thus may not yield perfect results.
Google Patents is a free service provided by Google that allows you to search full-text patent documents from around the world at no charge.The World Intellectual Property Organization also has a search tool called Patentscope that allows you to search patent documents from approximately 40 countries, though many of these are not available in English., To be certain that there are no patents that conflict with yours, you may wish to hire a professional to do an even more in-depth search. Many patent attorneys will take care of this for a fee as part of filing your patent application.


Provide your patent researcher with full details of your invention, and the description you created at the beginning of this process.
If you identified patents or applications that seemed similar enough to yours to merit concern, make sure to provide these patent numbers to your researcher so she or he can take a close look at these documents.
The PTO provides a list of certified patent attorneys and agents on their website.There are also other online services that you can pay to do a patent search on your behalf.

