 Before placing a Dr. Brown’s bottle in the dishwasher, you must disassemble it so all of the parts are cleaned. Separate the bottle, cap, nipple collar, nipple, vent insert, vent reservoir, travel disc, and any other insert components., When you’re washing the bottle in a dishwasher, you don’t want any of the parts to fall to the bottom of the machine where the heat may damage them. Set the small parts, such as the cap, nipple collar, nipple, vent insert, vent reservoir, travel disc, and any other insert components into the dishwasher’s basket so they’ll stay put when you run the cycle.Dr. Brown’s sells a dishwashing basket if your dishwasher doesn’t have one. It has space to arrange the cap, nipple collar, nipple, vent insert, vent reservoir, travel disc, and any other insert components for washing in the dishwasher.
Whatever basket you use for the smaller components, make sure that you place it in the top shelf of the dishwasher.
 After you’ve added the smaller pieces to the basket, place the bottle itself on the top shelf of the dishwasher. You don’t want to put in the bottom shelf because it may fall out during the cycle and become damaged., Once the bottle and all of the pieces are secure in the dishwasher, add your usual detergent and turn it on. You can use whatever cycle that you usually use, but the sanitizer cycle can be helpful when washing bottles.It’s a good idea to set your dishwasher to run a dry cycle after the washing cycle is complete. That will allow the bottle and its components to be steam cleaned as well.
 The bottle and its parts will be mostly dry when the dishwasher cycle is finished. However, there may be some condensation and residual moisture on the components. Wipe the bottle and other pieces with a clean towel to ensure that they’re thoroughly dry before reassembling it.To be sure that the bottle is completely dry before putting it back together, you may want to leave the pieces out to air dry for several hours before reassembling it.

