 If you have an accident at work, you probably have an internal policy for dealing with accidents. The first step should be to take care of yourself medically. If you have a nurse or clinic on site, you should go get checked out. If the injury is serious, you may need to go to a hospital. If it is minor, get whatever first aid you need.An accident report form should be submitted as soon as possible. You can tend to an accident report as soon as your condition is stable, but do not let it wait. In most cases, you should file it within two to three days.
 Most work places will have a specific form that you should use for reporting any accident, with or without a personal injury. If you are injured, your employer will need to know, in order to submit papers for workers compensation., Your employer should have an official form for you to submit, which will help to report the accident for workers’ compensation. Be sure to fill in the form completely. Usually, such a form will include sections for the following information:Your identification
Your job status
Any pre-existing medical conditions
Time and location of the incident
Description of what happened
Description of any injury you sustained
Identification of any witnesses.
 If anyone was present when the accident happened, ask them if they saw it, and ask if they can describe what they saw. Some people may be present but not actually observe what happened. In either case, you should include their names and contact information in the “Witness” section of the accident report. Even if the witness is also an employee of the company, you should provide contact information, because people outside the company may be working with the report form., If the weather or other environmental conditions were relevant to the accident, be sure to include those details in your report. Provide information about snow, ice, floor conditions, or anything else that may have been a factor., Even if you feel that you may have been careless or played a role in the accident, do not include statements to that effect in the incident report. Be factual and stick to details about what happened. Any investigation into fault or responsibility can happen later.