 An easy way to decide if you should eat a gluten-free diet is to try it out at home and record the results. Start by recording your symptoms – what they are, when they occur, how long they last, and what you ate that day. Then start to eliminate gluten from your diet and continue to record information about your digestion. If you find that you feel better once you eat gluten-free, stick with it!

Don’t make any other changes to your diet at the same time; for instance, don’t eliminate gluten and dairy simultaneously. You need to do one product at a time to see what causes changes.
 A gluten-free diet can be pretty limiting, so consider where you live and what products are available to you. To stick to a gluten-free diet, you HAVE to avoid eating barley, malt, rye, wheat, triticale (a cross between rye and wheat), durum flour, farina, graham flour, kamut, semolina, and spelt. You should also avoid oats, because oats are often contaminated with gluten products., Gluten appears in many different types of food. If you go on a gluten-free diet, you will have to avoid these foods, unless you can find gluten-free versions. These foods include:Beer
Bread, cakes, pies, cookies, and crackers (including Communion wafers!)
Cereals
Candy
Croutons
French fries
Gravy, salad dressing, soy sauce (and sauces in general), and foods in sauces
Imitation meat and seafood
Pasta
Matzo
Processed lunch meat
Seasoned rice mixes
Seasoned snack food like potato chips
Soup, soup base, and self-basting poultry

, Don’t replace gluten in your diet with more fats or sugars – it’s important to continue eating a balanced diet. Choose gluten-free alternatives like corn, rice, buckwheat, and quinoa.Again consider where you live and what food products are available to you, and whether you’ll be able to replace gluten with healthy alternatives.

Gluten-free alternatives are often more expensive than their counterparts.
 Going gluten-free won’t necessarily help you lose weight. Some of the gluten alternatives contain even more sugar than their gluten-containing counterparts. Eliminating carbohydrates from your diet isn’t the best way to drop weight – aim to avoid bad fats, eat lots of fruits and vegetables, opt for whole grains, and decrease your portion size instead., You may be at risk for nutritional deficiencies if you eat a gluten-free diet. Many gluten-free products are stripped of important nutrients like iron, fiber, folate, calcium, and more.Some medical conditions can also contribute to vitamin deficiencies, so avoid going gluten-free or work closely with a dietitian if:You’re anemic
You’ve ever had weight-loss surgery
You have problems absorbing or digesting food
You’re pregnant or want to get pregnant

