 You can locate local insurance companies by:


Looking in the local phone book under “insurance”.
Running a local search. Local companies may be located by searching online local directories such as Yellow Book, Yahoo Local, and Yelp.;
, You can find national insurance companies online using your favorite search engine. Just search for the specific type of insurance you are needing, “car insurance” or “homeowners insurance” for example.
 Most insurance companies have a quote request form on their website, but you may always call to request a quote if you prefer. You can find insurance companies phone number and/or online quote request form by searching for the company name at your favorite search engine to locate a website or directory listing.
 Cross off any whose rates are not competitive or within your budget. When comparing insurance rates, you want to pay careful attention to:


Coverage limits. Lower coverage means lower premiums, but you may not want to go too low. State minimums for car insurance may not be recommended, as it may not afford you enough coverage in certain situations.
Additional services included. Many insurance companies include additional services as a part of the insurance package. Car insurance, for example, may come with roadside service or pet coverage (in case your pet is injured while riding in your vehicle). Look at the additional services included, and check to see if you can exclude any that you do not need, in exchange for a lower rate.
Differences in what is covered. Possibly the most important thing to look at is what exactly is covered by the policy. Some car insurance, for example, does not include coverage in case you loan your vehicle to someone who is involved in an accident.
 Review any complaints that you find and consider eliminating companies from your list, based on the number of complaints and content of each. Some places to check for complaints include:



The Better Business Bureau (“BBB”). The BBB provides a searchable database of complaints consumers have filed against public and private companies.
Your state’s Division or Department of Insurance. Your state’s Division or Department of insurance can tell you whether an insurance company is licensed to do business in the date, and may maintain a searchable database of consumer complaints. You can find your state’s Division of Insurance website by selecting it from the interactive map provided by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.

InsuranceComplaint.com. InsuranceComplaint.com provides a searchable database of consumer complaints against all types of insurance companies.
 Talk to friends, family, and co-workers about their insurance companies and what they like or dislike about them.
, Speak with an agent to determine if you feel comfortable with him or her as well as with the company. Ask any questions that you may have and make sure that you understand the coverage and the policy provisions.
 Consider rates, references, complaints, and your personal experience with each agent and select the company you prefer.

