 First, fill the sink (or a container large enough to fit the washer’s filter) with warm water and a dab of dish soap. Take the filter out of the washer and give it a 10-minute soak before putting it back into place. Pour a cup of white vinegar into the bottom of the dishwasher and then run the machine on a heavy cycle. Once the cycle ends, shake a cup of baking soda over the bottom. Let it sit overnight before running a second empty cycle. Use a toothbrush to rub away any dirt or stains that survived both cycles.
 Fill a spray bottle with white vinegar. Spray the inside of your oven evenly. Sprinkle baking soda over the bottom. Pour some into your palm, hold your hand up to your lips, and blow to coat the walls. Pour some more into your palm and toss it upward to coat the ceiling. Allow the baking soda to mix with the vinegar for half an hour. Then use a heavy-duty sponge to scrub the insides. Wipe up the remainder with a clean cloth or paper towels., Pour some baking soda into them, add a couple drops of dish soap to each one, and fill with warm water. The amount of baking soda needed will vary depending on how much residue has crusted over, but when in doubt, use a lot for extra abrasive power. Let the cookware soak for a quarter of an hour before scrubbing and rinsing them out.Soak cookware overnight if burnt food has scorched to it., First, make a paste. Stir up a 3-to-1 ratio of baking soda and water. Apply the paste to the silver. Massage the silver all over with a clean towel. Rinse off the paste with clean water and then dry immediately with a clean cloth.Avoid scratching your silver. Always use cloth towels, never paper., Soak your grill brush in water so that the baking soda will stick. Pour some baking soda over it to coat the bristles. Then scrub away at the grate. Soak the brush in clean water to apply more baking soda as needed. Once you are satisfied, give the grate a rinse with clean water and then wipe it down with a clean cloth to remove residue before using the grill again.For very dirty grills, pour the baking soda directly onto the grate. Fill a spray bottle with clean water and then spray the baking soda. Allow the mixture to sink into the char for a few hours. Once the char has loosened, use your grill brush to break it up.