 Do they maybe have a crush on you, and vice versa? Depending on the romantic intentions either of you has, they may hesitate to text back immediately. This way they avoid seeming over eager.
 They may be working, in the middle of a conversation, still sleeping, or even at a movie. Many people choose to leave their phones at home or keep them out of sight as a way to disconnect from electronics. When you start to use your imagination, many reasons appear for why people don't text back. Oftentimes we take it personally that other people don't respond to us when it's just a matter of circumstance.
 Texting someone in the middle of the night, or while they are on vacation will likely not get a response. It's important that people have the right to choose how accessible they are. Although it can be frustrating and often we can be impatient with text messaging specifically, it's important to simply acknowledge that people do not owe us an immediate response.
 Since most of us are using phones and laptops with rechargeable batteries, it's always possible that the battery is just dead. Or that someone dropped their phone in a liquid or cracked the screen beyond use. Or, if you're asking someone you don't know well to text you, like someone who has something for sale, remember not everyone has a cell phone and that some people only keep one for emergencies.
 Depending on the nature of your relationship to this person, their could be any number of social reasons you haven't gotten a response. If it's a potential lover, maybe they're nervous, or maybe they're not interested. If it's your friend, maybe they are focused on their creative endeavors and figure you'll understand. If it's family, maybe they're angry at you for something undiscussed and just don't want to talk to you.
 If you're texting an older person, it's common they are unschooled in the ways of smart phones and texting. Maybe they need help getting comfortable with the medium before they can meet your response expectations.


One way to get people texting that are unfamiliar, is to include them in group texts with other people who are more comfortable and respond regularly. For example you could have a group chat with your parents and siblings, so they can learn by example how most people text.
 Oftentimes if we let go of focusing on whether someone is responding to us or not, we end up doing something more purposeful. And then sooner or later you get the text back you were waiting on.

