 For the most part, people use enemas in order to treat constipation. When unable to fully evacuate the bowels, an enema can stimulate the colon to contract and force stool out of the body. The enema can also soften the stool that is there, making it easier to expel. But constipation is only one reason why an enema might be administered nor should it be considered a consistent form of relief from constipation. Long-term usage of enemas to relieve constipation can cause serious damage to your bowels and your ability to have a natural bowel movement.Gerson therapy also makes use of enemas. Gerson therapy is a therapeutic approach to cleansing the body of toxins which does not rest on solid scientific research. The basis of the approach involves treating cancer based on diet and nutritional intake, including the use of coffee enemas, which are an essential part of the regimen.Retention enemas are another form of enemas that have long been used to administer medications (including antibiotics and anti-seizure medications) and fluids to the body when oral administration was not possible. The rectum is a cavity in the body which is fully able to absorb nutrients and fluids.Medications have been given through suppositories but fluids are more readily absorbed into the body than medications via oil-based suppositories. In cases where IV administration is not possible, retention enemas can be helpful in the treatment of dehydration triggered by vomiting.Cleansing enemas are used to help the body rid the lower intestines of waste or to administer specific herbs which are expected to be absorbed into the body. Cleansing enemas can be either large- or small-volume enemas which are designed to irritate the colon to produce peristalsis and encourage evacuation of the rectum and large intestines.
 Enemas can be made at home or purchased in the store. The fluid used can be medicated or just water. What is used will depend upon the goal of treatment. Consult with your doctor as to what is the best option for you. Here are some different types of enema solutions:


Tap water enemas should always use small volumes because the fluid is hypotonic, meaning it will pull electrolytes out of your blood and into the enema, which you then expel. This increases the risk of an electrolyte imbalance.A soap-suds enema can be used but only when pure castile soap is used. Other, harsher soaps can be dangerous to instill in an enema.Oil retention enemas are given to help soften the stool in the rectum, making it easier to pass. Adults may use an enema up to 150 ml and children up to 75 ml. The enema should be retained for 30 to 60 minutes, giving the oil time to penetrate and coat the stool.Powdered milk and molasses is a comfortable enema to use and one of the best treatments for severe constipation. This can be repeated up to four times in one day. Add three ounces of powdered milk to six ounces of hot water and shake until thoroughly mixed. Then add 4.5 ounces of molasses and shake until the color is even throughout.Coffee enemas are used to detoxify and cleanse the bowel. Coffee, when administered rectally, stimulates bile production to help eliminate toxins and improve liver activity. Use coffee that has been boiled for 10 minutes and then cooled to room temperature or grounds that have been soaked overnight. In both cases the water should be strained before the fluid is used. Try to use organically grown coffee to reduce your exposure to pesticides. Note that coffee enemas do not deliver the caffeine you receive when drinking the beverage orally., It's important that you be aware of the contraindications of using an enema, which are conditions or factors that would make the treatment unsuitable for or harmful to you. In general, enemas are not harmful. However, there are some individuals who should not use enemas, particularly medicated enemas.Do not use medicated enemas if you have severe kidney disease, congestive heart failure, obstruction in your stomach or intestines, paralytic ileus, megacolon or active inflammatory bowel disease. If you are dehydrated, you should also not use an enema.
Women who are pregnant or nursing must talk with their doctor before taking any medication to determine if the medicine is safe for the baby.

