 You only need a government press pass if you are covering stories dealing with crime scenes, exclusive press conferences, or another type of non emergency event with police barriers. Government issued press passes are typically reserved for officials in the media. These types of press passes vary in access and eligibility from state to state.If you’re eligible for a press pass working for your blog in Kansas, things might be different in Chicago.
Government press passes expire after an allotted amount of time. Check with your local agency once obtaining one.
You can interview members of the government or police without a press pass.
 Do a quick search online to find out if your local city or town issues press passes. Some smaller towns don’t have an office responsible for issuing out press passes. The passes are typically associated with your local police department. Only new agencies covering crime investigation or government press conferences need to do this.


New York, for example, requires you to submit one or more articles or commentaries that’s been published in a 24 month time period. You also need to prove that you’ve covered six or more in person stories.Most applications can be completed through the police’s website.
 If you are a freelance news correspondent working for multiple agencies, you can still get a government pass. Write to your contacts at the separate news sources asking for proof of your employment. Some cities require three separate letters of identification.Other city agencies will only hand out government passes to reporters employed by an official news source.


Your reference letters should include verification of completed assignments from a media outlet.
Every city’s police department has different rules for freelance reporters.
 Many cities won’t accept applications and will only issue press passes through official news agencies. If you begin working for a news outlet, you should discuss government press passes to your superiors. You might learn that you’ll receive one if you are assigned a story requiring one.


Your agency will only give these out if they pursue events that require government passes.

