 There are five types of levels scattered throughout the Candy Crush level map.



Target score - Target score levels require you to reach a minimum score to clear the level.

Jelly - The goal in Jelly levels is to clear all the jelly. Sometimes jelly is hidden under, or between, other obstructions like stones.

Ingredient Drop - In Ingredient Drop levels, you will be required to bring special ingredients from the top of the board to the bottom. As you set off combinations on the game board, the ingredients will start dropping from the top. Sometimes ingredients are trapped behind stones that you first need to clear.

Timed - Timed levels provide you with a set amount of time in which to reach a minimum score. Often, jelly with +5 written on them will drop down. When you set these off, you add 5 seconds to your remaining time.

Candy Order - In Candy Order levels you need to meet the required candy order by clearing the candy colors (or special candy combinations) mentioned at the top of the board. The simplest of these levels will ask you to clear X number of a certain coloured candy, whereas the harder ones require you to clear special candy combinations (like wrapped candy with striped candy).;
, You can create different kinds of special candy, as well as special candy combinations. As you get better at the game you will learn to recognize patterns that will help make special candy. Here are the different kinds of special candy and combinations you can make.



Striped Candy - This special candy has horizontal or vertical stripes on it. The stripes are the same color as the candy it was used to make (4 red candy in a row will make 1 red striped candy). This will clear an entire row or column when set off, depending on the direction of the stripes. The direction of the stripes is determined by the way the candy was created (in the screenshot below, the red striped special candy will have vertical stripes and clear all the candy above and below it when set off). These are very commonly made during chain reactions, and can be extremely useful in clearing ingredient levels since these can remove the entire column the ingredient is in.

Wrapped Candy - Wrapped candy looks like a normal candy with a square wrapper on it. When set off, it will clear the surrounding 8 candies, in a 3x3 formation, twice. It is created when 5 candies come together in a T, L or + shape. One example of its formation is below.

Color Bomb - The color bomb is a chocolate ball with sprinkles on it. Color bombs are very easy to set off, as you can switch them with any candy to do so. When switched with regular candy, it will remove all candies of that color from the board. When switched with wrapped candy, it will first remove all the candies the same color as the wrapped candy, and then set off all the candies in the most common color on the board. When switched with a striped candy it will turn all candies the same color into striped candy as well. Finally, when switched with another color bomb is will zap away all the candies on the entire board, removing any jelly under them once. It is created by moving 5 candies into one row (see screenshot below).



Create a gameplan as soon as you see the game board. Remove chocolate first as it takes over the game board unless you are constantly attacking it. Remove stones and other obstacles next, as these reduce gameplay area, and cover jelly.
Remove jelly that is in the corner, or along the sides any chance you get. These areas have the fewest possible combinations available and can be the hardest to get rid of.
Keep ingredients towards the center of the game board. This is the area where the most combinations are possible, and therefore this strategy makes it easier to remove the ingredients from the board.
The easiest way to remove an ingredient is through a vertically striped candy in the same column.
Avoid using the fish till the end. Fish will eat some of the remaining jellies. If you use them in the middle of the level they might randomly eat jelly you could have easily removed.

