 If their eyes are wandering all over the room, seeing what else is going on, they aren’t listening to you. It’s an uphill battle trying to talk to someone who is checking their phone, staring at their computer, looking out a window, or seeing what everyone else is up to. Someone who is actively listening will make eye contact with you to show that they hear what you’re saying.On the other hand, eye contact that is unwavering can be a sign that they want to look like they’re listening when they aren’t. The key is that eye contact is natural and relaxed, rather than forced and tense.Some people are shy and uncomfortable with making steady eye contact. If they're looking away from you but otherwise seem attentive and in-tuned, they are still probably listening.;
, If someone wants to appear to be listening, they’ll smack on a smile and call it a day. Look for the unnatural smile that looks like it’s permanently just glued on to their face. That’s probably not genuine, and that means their interest probably isn’t genuine either!Just like with eye contact, they important thing to notice is that the listener seems tuned-in but still relaxed.
Many people know how to look like they’re listening when they’re not, so any actions that seem robotic and insincere probably are.
 If it’s extremely still, they might be zoned out. If they’re staring at you with glazed-over eyes but not moving their head at all, their mind might be on a different planet. However, if they’re nodding aggressively to everything you are saying, they might be simply overcompensating physically in order to appear attentive. Instead, look for relaxed heads that nod at the correct moments.Everything should feel and look natural.
 This is key. When someone becomes fully engaged in what someone is saying, they tend to shift their body to point towards the speaker. When you’re speaking to someone, observe how they position their body and the space they put between you. If they face you and lean closer, you most likely have their genuine attention. If their body is angled away and they lean back, they aren’t fully in the conversation, or they want the conversation to end.
 If someone is bored with the conversation, antsy to finish it, or just thinking about something else altogether, they tend to fidget. They might play with their watch or necklace, tap their fingers, or adjust their clothing. Maybe they fix their hair or move around in their seat. When someone is listening well, they won’t be worried about these little distractions, and their body will be still.

People often don’t even notice when they’re listening. They’re probably not trying to insult you or give you a hint that they’re bored, simply unaware that they’re doing it.
 When someone is enthralled in a conversation and really connecting with what you’re saying, their body language will mimic yours. Perhaps they’ll lean to one side when you do, or cross their legs after you do. Even if you’re standing and they’re sitting, people who are totally absorbed will tend to subtly mirror your movements. This is a major indication that they are totally focused on what you have to say. If they aren’t mirroring your gestures, their mind might not be in the conversation fully.If the conversation is tense or emotional, they may not mirror you. It doesn’t always mean they aren’t listening, it’s simply one clue.
 This is easy. If you think they aren’t listening, simply ask something like, “So, what do you think?” If they respond with, “Wait, about what?” then they probably weren’t in the conversation to begin with. Ask for opinions and feedback to ensure that they’re engaged in the conversation. You can even simply say things like, “We went to this restaurant– have you ever been there?” Their responses are the easiest ways to know if they’re listening or not.
 If their eyes are wandering, their body is turned away, their foot is tapping, and they just seem totally oblivious to what you’re saying, test them. If you’re telling them a straightforward story about something that happened to you, say something like, “So after that, both of my parents were killed in a vicious unicorn attack.” If they nodded and said, “Uh huh,” then walk away. They aren’t listening to a word you’re saying.


Not only is this a way to see if they’re listening, but it can also be a bit of fun for you. Get creative with your interjections.
 If you have reasons to believe that someone isn’t focused on your words, ask them. Many people will be caught off-guard by the question, and this can help them re-focus. They’ll realize that you’re noticing their mind wandering.


This can also be a helpful way to figure out why they aren’t listening. They might respond with something like, “I’m sorry, I’m trying to, but I really need to get to class,” or perhaps, “I was, but an ice cream truck just drove right behind you and I got distracted.” This might clear the air.

