 Becoming a CNA requires a high school diploma plus some additional college-level courses, in almost all cases. You can typically sign up for a CNA program through your local community college.


Prepare for a time commitment. CNA programs vary in length, but average between six weeks and five months of extra school. The special CNA classes you have to take are set up so that you can take them in a specific order.

CNA classes are divided between study sessions and hands-on practice sessions.
Because CNA programs usually end with a special certificate rather than a degree, electives are not required.


CNA programs can be competitive. Consider volunteering at a hospital or nursing home to boost your chances of acceptance.

Volunteering is also a good way to gauge whether or not you will enjoy being a CNA, as some of the duties you're likely to perform are similar to those a CNA performs.

;
, Usually, an accredited training program will take care of some of the legal details for you, but because CNAs are health professionals, additional certification and verification is required before you'll be able to work as a CNA.


File your fingerprints. Most states require health care and education system employees to submit fingerprints to be kept on file in case of criminal investigations. Chances are your CNA program helped you to do this already, but check to make sure.
Take the certification exam. Again, this may have been integrated into your training program, but if it isn't, you will need to find out when tests are and sign up for one. The knowledge you gained in your classes will help you pass the exam and earn your certificate.
 Now that you're a fully-certified nursing assistant, it's time to get a job in the field. Prepare a resume and a cover letter, and begin looking for work.


Organize your resume. Write it so that your most impressive qualifications (such as your certification and related volunteer work) are near the top, and items that have less to do with being a CNA (such as unrelated jobs) are at the bottom.
Prepare a cover letter. Use your cover letter to put the information on your resume in context for potential employers. Always have a cover letter on hand in case you need one.
Look everywhere. Look for jobs in newspapers, online, and through word of mouth. Apply in person whenever you can; there is no substitute for a personal appearance.
Make a good impression. If you get an interview, show up well dressed and on time, speak clearly, make plenty of eye contact, and smile.

