 Start by preheating your skillet or griddle for 5-10 minutes. The skillet should be about 12" across, and it should be center with the stove's burner for even cooking.;
, While your skillet heats, start making some batter. The back or side panel of a boxed mix will have specific quantities for mixing, though usually it's 3 parts water to 4 parts powder. Milk can also be substituted for water in certain mixes. Make sure you don't over mix your batter and it doesn't sit too long before it's poured onto the pan, or your pancakes won't be fluffy.
 If desired, this is the time to add chocolate chips or any other bonus toppings to your pancakes, but do not add fruit during this step. If you add fruit now it may burn and melt on the pan, making a huge mess and stink. Try brown sugar and a teaspoon of vanilla extract.
 By now your pan should be hot enough. Take some water on your fingers and flick it onto the middle of the pan. If it sizzles away quickly, it's hot enough to cook on. If it doesn't sizzle away, it's not ready and you should crank up the heat a bit.
 Add butter or margarine to grease the pan for easy flipping.
 Now it's time to pour. Use a small ladle and pour directly into the center of the pan. Once it's poured, this is the time to sprinkle any blueberries or fruit on top.
 Wait until the pancake's whole first side is cooked. You'll see bubbles start to rise and the edges will dry out on the pancakes. That's how you know it's time to flip. Be sure, use a fork or spatula to check that it's golden brown underneath.
 Now it's time to flip. If you've added enough butter, this should be easy. In one quick motion, push your spatula underneath the pancake and lift it up, quickly splatting it back down in the same spot it was. This takes some practice. Do not press down on the pancake after flipping it. It will deflate it and make it not fluffy.
 Once the last side is cooked, serve directly off the pan. If your making a large batch, keep the pancakes warm in a slightly heated oven. Dress with syrup, butter or whatever else you'd like. It's up to you!

