 With iTunes version 10.5 and higher, it's possible to sync your device remotely with a Wi-Fi connection.However, to be able to do this, you'll need to connect normally with a USB cable first. Do this as you normally would, then open iTunes to get started.
 Open your iPod in iTunes, then, on the "Summary" page, scroll to the bottom and look for the option "Sync this iPod over Wi-Fi." Check the box next to this option. After you do this, click the "Apply" button at the bottom of the screen (next to the bar showing how much of your iPod's storage you're using) to make your change.
 Next, exit iTunes and reopen it. Then, turn off your iPod and turn it back on. Finally, power your wireless router (or your other Wi-Fi source) off for about 30 seconds and turn it back on. Changes to a device's Wi-Fi settings (including an iPod's) are notoriously tricky to get to take effect, especially while the devices remain on. In practical terms, resetting your devices gives them a chance to "react" to your new settings.


The actual explanation for resetting your router and iPod is a little more complicated, mainly because there are multiple reasons why Wi-Fi devices have a hard time registering new connections without resetting., To connect your iPod to your Wi-Fi, open its "Settings" menu, then click the "Wi-Fi" option. Make sure your iPod's Wi-Fi is set to "On" at the top of the menu, then pick your network from the list of options. If necessary, enter your network's security key to gain wireless access. After you connect, test out your connection by trying to open Safari on your iPod and browse the internet.


If you're having problems connecting to your Wi-Fi, there can be a variety of reasons. For instance, devices like microwave ovens, cell phones, and satellite dishes for TV sets can interfere with the Wi-Fi ability of an iPod.In this case, try turning off or removing any sources of interference, then moving your iPod very near to the router and trying again.
Connection problems can also be caused by your router's firewall. In this case, you may need to adjust your firewall settings to allow your iPod to connect. If you're using a Mac, you may want to consult Apple's official support resources for system-specific instructions for connecting your iPod to Wi-Fi., If you've enabled Wi-Fi syncing and your iPod is able to connect to your Wi-Fi network, your computer and iPod should soon recognize each other. Your iPod should begin syncing automatically, displaying its typical "Sync in progress" message as it does so. When it's done, your iPod should be updated with the files from your iTunes library that you've designated for syncing (see the sections above for information on choosing which items from your library you want to sync).


Note that if you move away from your Wi-Fi source while syncing is occurring, the process may not complete, potentially leaving you with a partly-synced iPod.

