 If you have a pulse, most likely you have a loaf of sliced white bread in the house. Ditto for a toaster. If not, these are absolute necessities for any culinary-inclined lazy person, as toast takes almost no time or effort to make and can be the base of a wide variety of meals.;
, Spice up your toast with a slice of cheese, as this adds protein and, more importantly, flavor to your budding meal. Toast bread with cheese on top in a toaster oven, or add cheese to bread once you've toasted it. Then top your cheese toast with a little salsa and sliced avocado, and put it all together for a delicious and well-rounded sandwich.
 Cut up lettuce and tomatoes and top with any salad dressing for a side salad.  If you have cornflakes lying around, crush some up in your hands and throw them on top of the salad for a little crunch. In almost no more time than it took to make yourself a simple sandwich, you've created a much more elaborate two-dish meal, making a better lunch for the lazy but hungry.
 Have you been cooking frozen hamburger patties for dinner every night? With just a little more effort, you can come up with a much better meal. Slice up an onion and throw it in a frying pan with a couple tablespoons of water and cooking oil. Cook uncovered on medium for about 15 minutes until they start to get a little caramelized.  Add your hamburger patties (pre-thawed in the microwave) and cover the pan.  Let the whole thing cook like that for another 15 minutes or so. Throw a handful of shredded cheese on them and allow it to melt before turning off the heat. Tear up some french bread to eat with it on the side. This makes for a much nicer meal than your average hamburger, but takes only a little more time and effort to prepare.


If you've been eating tacos, throw some fresh vegetables in with the meat while cooking, and top with avocados and tomatoes. If you eat a lot of instant macaroni and cheese, embellish with tomatoes, bell peppers, and canned tuna for a much more well-rounded meal. Get creative - you can enhance almost any quick and easy meal to make it a little tastier.
 If you eat a hamburger every day, no need to stop now - but dress it a little differently every time to add more spice and variety into your culinary lifestyle. You can top your burgers with mozzarella and tomato sauce and sprinkle them with oregano or basil for a pizza burger. You can top them with ranch dressing and crush tortilla chips on top for a tex-mex burger. You can skip the cheese and sprinkle soy sauce on top, add a smidge of ginger, and cook up some rice noodles to eat on the side for an Asian version. Be creative and try out as many styles as you can think of.
  If you have sour cream in the house, put some in a bowl, drain the peaches, and add to the cream.  Mix together and if you want to sprinkle with shredded coconut flakes (they're very cheap). Canned fruit is one of the easiest things to prepare but can make for a delicious dish.

