 Your hairstylist can be an excellent ally. Ask your stylist for guidance on finding a fuller-looking hair style.


Let the stylist know the specifics of your concerns--where you feel your hair looks thin, how you would like it to look, and what, if any, are you style limits.
It sounds obvious, but ask your stylist not to thin out your hair, as it will only make hair look thinner and flatter.;
, A hair cut designed to make your hair look fuller can go a long way towards helping you create the illusion of full-bodied hair.


Shorter hair styles lend themselves more to fuller hair. The longer hair gets, the heavier and flatter it becomes.
Cutting layers into your hair is a great strategy to make it appear thicker.
Don’t fall into the mullet trap. Mullets are friends to no one.
Ditch the part. Look for styles that allow you to comb hair back rather than parting it to one side--it will help hide thinness.
 Monotone hair color contributes to a flatter, thinner appearance, so to add thickness, choose a hair color that includes varying shades and dimension.


Choose a shade of hair color that will flatter your natural skin tone; otherwise, a harsh color may emphasize rather than minimize thin hair.Highlights and lowlights can also add dimension, and thus a fuller look, to your hair.Bleaching hair will also cause the strands to expand, making your hair appear thicker., If you have extra scratch to spend, you can invest in professional hair extensions. It seems to work for celebrities.


Remember, though, that you want volume, not length. If the extensions will only give you additional length, they won’t help disguise thinning hair., This is perhaps the most drastic option, but if you’re facing serious and progressive hair thinning, it may also be the best option.


Be sure to do your research before committing to either at-home or professional hair enhancement. For more information on surgical procedures, see the American Hair Loss Association’s website; for more on at-home medical interventions like Rogaine, go to The International Society of Hair Restoration Society’s site.
 Shampoos designed to thicken your hair’s appearance typically do so with ingredients that plump up your hair’s roots. Good Housekeeping has this ranked listing of available thickening shampoos.


Two-in-one shampoos tend to be ideal because they tend not to weigh hair down.Don’t wash your hair everyday. Washing everyday will strip your hair of natural oils that help it stay healthy and full., Conditioners that are “hydrating” or “smoothing” or otherwise intensive will weigh hair down.


Be sure to rinse all of the conditioner out of your hair after applying so that the residue won’t weigh hair down.
 A good blowdrying strategy can go a long way in enhancing your hair's fullness; the wrong technique, on the other hand, can exacerbate your problem.


If you blow dry your hair, begin by flipping your hair over and dry until most of the dampness is gone. Then flip your hair back over and blow dry the rest of your hair in sections using a round brush.
Using a diffuser can also help boost your hair’s volume., The aim of flat irons is to straighten and flatten hair strands, the opposite of the look you're trying to achieve. And because they use extreme heat applied directly to hair, they can damage hair, leaving it drier and brittle--again, the opposite of what you want if you have thin hair.If you absolutely must flat-iron, don’t iron ends straight down. Instead, turn them in ever so slightly for fuller hair., Look for volumizing or thickening hair products. Volumizing mousse, hairspray, and texturizers can help your hair look thicker and fuller.


Volumizing powder is relatively new to the scene and can help hair look fuller by fluffing it up at the roots.You can also find hair-loss concealers in many beauty supply stores.
 Before going to bed, apply volumizing mousse to your wet hair. By the morning you’ll have texturized hair that may appear fuller.If you have long hair, braid the damp, moussed hair before going to bed for textured waves in the morning.
 There are a number of rumored natural products that can help thicken hair, but the most consistently cited is aloe vera, which is believed to help seal in natural moisture and promote hair growth.To use aloe vera, apply an aloe vera gel (available at most drug stores) to your scalp, let it sit for 30 to 60 minutes, then shampoo as usual.
 Another of the most frequently recommended options, castor oil contains fatty acids, vitamin E, and ricinoleic acid, which are believed to nurture your hair and scalp.To use, apply several tablespoons of castor oil to your scalp and massage in. Be sure to choose an oil that is hexane-free.
 Apple cider vinegar is believed to both balance your scalp’s pH and provide it with beneficial nutrients.


As a bonus, because the vinegar will remove residue from your hair, it can also boost volume and soften hair.After washing your hair, pour about 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar over your hair and then rinse.
 There are several vitamin supplements believed to help enhance hair growth. For more information, start with this list from WebMD.


Unfortunately, there isn’t yet a strong body of scientific evidence to support the effectiveness of vitamins for hair loss, so remember that it may not be realistic to expect a miracle solution.

