 Poison ivy always has clusters of three leaves. Use this as the defining characteristic, as this plant is not so obvious in most other ways. Poison ivy is remarkable with its ability to grow in a variety of ways. Although it is called "poison ivy" it can not only grow upwards clinging to surfaces like an ivy, but can also, grow as a bush or single plants.


If growing in rocky places, it tends to take over from all other vegetation. If growing near something like a tree or a fence, it will twine itself around the object as it grows, creating a dense mass of vegetation which cannot be crossed.;
, Let them be!" or "One, two, three? Don't touch me.", as these plants have a cluster of three leaves at the end of a long stem. More identifying indicators of leaves include:


Look for three leaflets connected closely together on each stem. The tip of each leaf should be pointy.
The leaflets are broad, and the two lateral (side) leaflets are smaller than the terminal (end or middle) leaf.
The center leaf usually (almost always) has a small stem, wheres the two side leaves grow directly from the vine and do not have small stems.

The leaves tend to be a bright to dark, waxy green when viewed from above. When viewed from underneath, they appear lighter and fuzzier. In spring, the leaves are usually a bright green, while in fall, they turn red (poison ivy) or bright red or orange (poison oak).
However, while these leaves usually appear shiny, they won't always. In particular, do not rely on shininess as an indicator after it has rained recently.
"Hairy vine, no friend of mine.", and also:"Longer middle stem; stay away from them." -- the middle leaflet has a long stem while the two side leaflets attach almost directly.
"Ragged rope, don't be a dope!" Poison ivy vines on trees have a furry, "raggy" or ragged appearance.
"Berries white, run in fright" and "Berries white, danger in sight."
"Red leaflets in the spring, it's a dangerous thing." -- new leaflets sometimes are red in the spring. Later, in the summer, the leaflets are green -- while in autumn they can be reddish-orange.
"Side leaflets like mittens, will itch like the dickens." This refers to the shape of some poison ivy leaves, where each of the two side leaflets has a notch that makes the leaflet look like a mitten with a "thumb." (Caution: all parts of the plant can cause itching, not just these leaves.)




, If either plant has berries, these will appear as follows:


Translucent for both plants
Poison oak fruit tends to be hairy
Poison ivy berries are white or cream-colored
The fruit tends to stay on the plants all through winter and spring.
 Despite the color change, the urushiol oil still stays on the leaves.
 When growing as a vine, poison ivy can snake its way along trees. When it grows like this, it is tons of little poison ivy plants growing out of a vine. Always inspect a vine if you need to go near it, and see if it has plants growing out of it.
 Poison oak drops its leaves in winter, leaving a bare stem of a vine hanging down. But for sensitive individuals, this can still cause a rash.
 Some other plants have two or three similar-looking leaves. Such other plants may have spines on the leaf tips (holly or Mahonia) or thorns on the stems (blackberry). However, it is better to avoid plants that resemble poison ivy.


If you see a plant that has all the characteristics, but have regular, uniformly shaped leaves, or sharp tips on the edges, it's not likely to be poison ivy. Poison ivy has tips that are more randomly spaced and somewhat curved between the tips along the edges.
 Toxic plants are not poisonous to all creatures. Deer and other grazing animals may happily eat poison ivy.

