 Colorful with extensions is good and looks scene. If you type in scene kids on Photobucket the majority of them are colorful with a good hair style.;
, Do whatever you want with it, but do keep in mind that in order to look "scene" it is best to get razored, choppy, short layers on the top of your hair so you can tease it, or spike it, or gel it anyway you want. The typical puffy-top hair is what many scene girls aspire to have. So keep a fairly good length but add plenty of layers, regardless of what every single scene person out there has.
 Wear skinny jeans. Keep them fairly long, but make sure they are not TOO tight. Don't be afraid to wear crazy, random, bright jeans! Get some with prints on them! Be bold! The same goes for T-Shirts. Scene kids are known for being random and loud and for having a don't-give-a-crap attitude. Cartoons and characters like Hello Kitty are really big in the scene world, but don't limit yourself.
 Keep them simple up top though. Its acceptable to wear short shorts! Just make sure you feel comfortable wearing them.Be crazy and unexpected

, Keep it simple but if your going to accessorize let it be belts, belly button rings, bracelets and cute necklaces!!

, Take good care of your hair and skin and nails. Paint your nails different colors, sometimes multicolored. Again, bright and bold are good colors to try. Neon colors may also work.
 Start off with a good, clean foundation, that matches your skin tone.The more the merrier. Some scene kids like the pale look, but don't go so far you look like a clown! Wear black eyeliner, or other odd colors, on the top AND bottom eyelids, but only make the line about 3 mm thick on the top, and about 2 mm thick on the bottom. Cover the corners of your eyes, front and back and end with a little cat-eye. Eye-shadow is fine. Its also fine to wear two or more colors at once and its cool to add little patterns are the edge of you eyes like a little star or three dots or something like that.
, If you do, don't drab it with stupidity. Keep it simple and personal. Also, don't try to hard, as this will make you seem like a poser. If you decide to use some specifically scene words (such as uber, stellar, legend, wild, roar, or kid, or adding extra letters to the ends of words ex: kid with two d's) don't overdo it and don't start using scene lingo just out of the blue.
 The best thing to do is never ever ever say out loud you are a scene kid that just annoys people.
 You are the only you out there. Unique people are just people who know who they really are. The vast majority of people are trying to hard to be unique so the vast majority becomes the vast majority. Never forget you can be amazing if aren't already.

