 Your baby is due for their very first immunization the day they are born. Get your baby their first dose of Hepatitis B vaccine within 12 hours of their birth., Also called a vaccine schedule, this is a guideline created by your government agency that shows what vaccine or vaccines your baby receives at what age. Immunization schedules may vary a little depending on factors like your child's health and where you live. Generally, after your baby’s first shot at birth they get their vaccines at ages 2 months, 4 months, 6 months and 12 months.


You can ask your pediatrician for an immunization schedule.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the government body that regulates the vaccination schedule in the United States. They have a downloadable schedule available on their website.
The CDC offers a useful interactive tool to help parents stay on schedule. Simply enter your baby’s birthday and the tool will create a personalized schedule for you!

, Every time your baby receives a vaccination, schedule your appointment for the next one.Even if it’s not due for several months, this will ensure you don’t accidentally forget to schedule any vaccination.

Write the date of your next appointment on your calendar right away.
 You can ask your pediatrician for a vaccination record card, or you can create your own. Your baby's pediatrician enters each vaccination into an electronic registry called an immunization information system, but you should also keep a copy of your own records in a safe place.If you move or change doctors you should be able to provide an up-to-date record so you and your new provider can stay on schedule. You will likely need to show a record of immunization if you enroll your child in daycare, so have one on hand for easy access.
 Make sure that the pediatrician marks off each shot given to your baby during the office visit., If you get more than one month behind in your child’s vaccinations, or if your child has received no vaccinations before they are 4 months old, use the CDC’s catch-up immunization schedule. It’s not too late to get your baby the vaccinations they need.