 There could be many typical ( or random ) reasons why you may feel this way. Did someone bully you? It may be the whole new workload that high school is giving you, or the fact that you are you missing your old friends who have abandoned you because your aren't twelve or younger any more. Or it may simply be the major change you're experiencing as a teenager, such as the quandary of whether your should start having sex ar 16 just because you are old enough, should you start drinking alcohol, if you can at 18 or, consider leaving school. You must discover the reasons for your depression and nostalgic longing for your pre teen years. Write the reason(s) down on a list.;
, Remember, it's ok to cry, or let out your feelings. When looking back upon diary entries, people are usually surprised by what they thought during the time! But having an outlet for your sadness may help cope with it.
 There's no point wishing that you could be in playgroup, kindergarten, primary school or any other educational establishment for the under 13s again, when you know it's impossible. Depending on where you are in your teenage years, you are legally old enough to do some responsible things, like driving, having sex, drinking alcohol, getting a job, buying a home etc. Life will always involve some work from now on, because you are on your way to being an adult, especially at 17-19.
 Decide upon which complaints are realistic, and which ones are unachievable. For example, if you wrote "I'm sad because I want to be 3 again so I don't have school and can watch 'The Wiggles' all day," -get over it! A whim like that is totally unachievable and will never happen again. However if you wrote "I'm sad because I wish to be 7 again, because then I had friends but now I don't.", that's actually reasonable, because something can be done about it.
 Attempt to make the possible ones real. So try to make more friends, try to have more fun, play chase once in while, laugh a lot, watch funny movies, etc.
 Try to make your teen years the happiest, they can be, because you only get 7 years. Have fun!

, But read, or study, or socialize, and somehow try to make yourself forget about the situation.
 Why are you feeling nostalgic? If you are missing old friends, then contact them by telephone or e-mail and arrange to meet up. If you miss an old school/childhood, it may help to wander around the school once more and maybe say hello to familiar faces if it helps.
 If you are still with some people who were with you during the times you now long for, talk it over with them. They might be feeling the same way. Talking it over certainly helps.
 Nostalgia is not a bad thing: it's just your mind suddenly remembering a certain period in time. When you have the time, listen to a song which makes you nostalgic to relieve yourself and to remove the pressure.

