 If you're having trouble deciding, you might want to pick a race with abilities that remain powerful throughout the game. Here are the few abilities that will still feel useful even when you're a high-level adventurer:


The Orc's berserk ability and the Breton's magic resistance are probably the most powerful and versatile options.The Imperial and Nord active abilities remain unique and effective, though somewhat narrow.
 Some abilities aren't that powerful, but occur often enough to save you significant preparation or healing time. The Dark Elf's fire resistance ends up being relevant more often than most other racial resistances, for instance.The Wood Elf's resistance to poison and disease is not at all necessary, but it does save you time micromanaging potions and temple visits. (Redguards and Argonians receive 1/2 of this ability each.)


While the Argonians' water breathing and the Khajiit's night vision sound like they would open up unique exploration options, it turns out these are rarely useful.
 Your racial skill bonuses and abilities will be useful as a low-level character, making some play styles much easier than others. However, as you train skills and gain perks, your race will matter less and less. In general, once you've narrowed your choice down to a few options, there's little harm in picking the race that appeals to you on a visual or story basis.
 Your character's sex has only minor effects on gameplay. Some quests and perks give bonuses to interactions with the opposite sex, such as cheaper store prices or higher damage.Female characters are rumored to move at a slightly slower pace, but this is difficult to notice. Romance and marriage options are not affected by sex., Your character's race and sex will change NPC dialogue, but this rarely changes the fundamentals of a quest or conversation. Unless you have played other Elder Scrolls games and have an idea of which race you'd like to identify as, there's no real reason to pick one race over another for your first character. Of course, even new players often have a preferred race based on first impressions, and choosing a race you like may make the game more enjoyable.


If you make additional characters, consider choosing a variety of races, and both sexes, so you have a chance to explore alternate dialogue.
 If you've played earlier Elder Scrolls games, or almost any other roleplaying game, you might be wondering why there's no class option. In Skyrim, all your actions improve as you perform them. For instance, when you successfully pickpocket someone, your Pickpocket skill improves. Other customization comes through the "perks" system, but neither of these methods of advancement are restricted by decisions made at character creation.


Early on in the game, you'll be introduced to Standing Stones. While the first ones you see sound similar to classes (Thief, Mage, or Warrior), you will be able to switch between them as many times as you like., If you'd like to delve into the mechanics of Skyrim characters, you can plan out your entire character before you create him or her. This is only recommended for people who get most of their gameplay enjoyment from optimization, or for experienced Skyrim players. Try searching for character builds online, or plan out your own using SkyrimCalculator or the IGN Skill sBuilder.

