 Before you start your training, begin with basic warm up exercises. You need to get blood flowing to your limbs and muscles so they can be in tip top shape. Jump-roping is one of the best ways to warm up because it increases your stamina as well. Other exercises include mountain climbers, squat thrusts, and running in place., Taekwondo is about taking your body to the next level. In order to be able to perform many martial arts moves properly, you need to be very flexible and limber. Trying to perform a high kick without stretching will most likely result in pulled muscles, which will hinder your ability to improve.


The main part of your body to stretch are your ham strings. Since Taekwondo focuses primarily on the legs, you’ll want to be the most flexible there. Touch your toes and hold it for at least 1 minute. Then move on to your other lower body stretches like groin stretches, standing calf stretches, angle rotations, and crossed leg stretches. Conclude with core and upper body stretches like forearm rolls, triceps stretches, posterior shoulder stretches, and side stretches.Stretch on a daily basis. If you skip days often, your muscles will contract and lose their elasticity. Even if you aren’t going to the gym or dojang (the Korean name for a Tae kwan do school) everyday, be sure to take 15 minutes at home and stretch your arms, legs, and core.
 Martial arts require the same level of fitness as any other sport. In order to get fit, you need to focus on your lower body, core, and upper body muscles. There are a lot of different exercises you can do, but you want to choose those exercises that replicate movements done in Taekwondo.


For leg exercise, do calf raises, hamstring exercises, lateral jumps, leg extension exercises, leg presses, and squat thrusts.To exercise your core, do bicycle crunches, reverse crunches, leg raises, planking exercises, Russian twists, and normal sit-ups.To strengthen your upper body, do pull-ups, push-ups, bench presses, bicep curls, dumbbell flys, and chest dips., Taekwondo is a contact sport and injuries happen. At the first sign of discomfort, stop and tend to your muscles. Do not practice while injured. Do not compete while injured. Taekwondo can wreak havoc on your muscle joints. After so many jumps, kicks, and punches, your knees, hips, elbows, and shoulders can become increasingly susceptible to wear and tear. The best way to take care of any muscle strain is to observe RICE: rest, ice, compression, and elevation.