 There are certain times in life when change is more likely. When other major shifts are occurring, people tend to be more emotionally available and they may be more receptive to mending a relationship with you. The dynamics of your relationship are more fluid at these times, so it may be easier to redefine them. If possible try to time your approach to coincide with a major life event.The death of a parent, a divorce, or the birth of a child or grandchild often makes people reconsider other relationships in their life.
People are also more open to change when their children leave home for the first time, or right after they retire.
 If you have the feeling that your sibling wants to repair the relationship as well, call a ceasefire. Acknowledge that you are both contributing to the animosity, and agree to stop attacking each other. However, both parties have to want to make peace, and they also have to want it at the same time. If you try to push the other person when they aren't ready, they will resist, or they may even pretend to agree while secretly resenting it., When you are ready to ask for a reconciliation, you can contact them initially via text or email if that is the usual way you communicate, or if that's the only means of contact that you have. But never try to have the actual conversation via email – this will almost always lead to miscommunication and to more hurt feelings, which will only make things worse. Always have the main conversation in person, or on the phone, where you can talk in real time and hear the tone of each other's voice., Reach out, but then give them time to respond so they can adjust to the information and prepare for the conversation. Depending on how serious the rift is between you two, it might take awhile for them to decide if they want to speak to you at all. The worst thing you can do is try to push them into a dialogue before they are ready., Parents, spouses, and other siblings will only complicate the situation members complicate the situation at this point. It is best to speak for yourself, rather than having other people try to put their spin on the situation. Your brother or sister may also resent the interference and become defensive, if they feel that another family member has taken sides against them. This will make it nearly impossible to work through the hurt feelings on both sides.