 Thoroughly clean your genital area before applying any kind of lice lotion or cream. Your skin will absorb the lotion better if dirt and dust are removed from the skin and pubic hair.


Right after washing and cleaning the genital area, be sure to dry it thoroughly as most of the creams and lotions need to be applied on dry and clean hair., Read and follow the package instructions carefully to get the most benefit from the product that you have chosen. Remember to ask your doctor if you have any questions about how to use the product.Thoroughly saturate the infested area with the product, according to the directions on the package.
 Shampoos may only need to be left on for about 10 minutes, but lotions and creams may need to be left on for 8-14 hours. Note the time when you apply the product and set a timer or watch the time., After you have left the product on for the indicated amount of time, rinse it off with warm water. Rinsing away the product will help to remove dead nits and lice from your skin. It is important to rinse the dead parasites away because they may lead to hygiene problems if left on your skin.Be sure to separate the towels you used from your other clothes and linens. Wash the towels separately to avoid cross-contamination to other clothing and linens.
In some cases where nits stay in the base of the hair, you can just remove them using your fingernails or a fine toothed comb.
 Make sure that you put on clean, fresh undergarments and clothing to prevent a recurrence of the infestation. Any clothes that you wore when you had crabs should be immediately laundered., Infested clothes, bed linens, and towels should be washed in hot water. The hotter your washing machine goes, the better. Use at least 130F water. All clothes and linens should also be dried in a hot dryer until they are completely dry.You should wash any soft materials that you used 2-3 days before your treatment.Infested blankets, quilts, and carpets can be stored in a sealed plastic bag for 1 to 2 weeks to eventually kill the lice. This way, they are not able to feed on any blood and subsequently die.
 You can repeat the procedure in about a week. Follow the directions on the box or from your doctor. Even if you think the crabs are gone, it's best to repeat treatment just to be sure.There are some cases where lice relocate to other areas and will come back right after treating your genital area; however, this doesn't happen often.

