 You can prepare rice water with any type of rice, though white, brown, and jasmine rice are common options. If you already own rice, whatever kind of rice you have on hand will work., Put 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of rice into a bowl. If you want to make large quantities of rice water, you can increase the amount of rice that you use, as long as you remember to also increase the water. Keep in mind that rice water has a shelf-life of one week., Strain out the rice and return it to the empty bowl. Repeat the steps to wash your rice a second time.
 You can make rice water by boiling rice, soaking rice, or fermenting soaked rice water. Which type you pick will depend on how much time you have and how you want to use the rice water.


Boiling your rice will create a concentrated batch of rice water, so it’s stronger. You will need to mix it with clean water when you use it.Soaking your rice is the simplest method because you have fewer steps and don’t need to attend your rice water while it’s soaking. Because it’s not concentrated, you may run out faster.
Fermenting your rice water takes the most time, but the fermentation process brings out more vitamins and nutrients., If you are boiling your rice, place it in a lidded pot. Otherwise, place your rice in a clean bowl.
 Measure out 3 cups (705 milliliters) of water. You will use more water than you would normally use to make rice so that you will have leftover water once you’re finished cooking the rice.Ignore the directions on your rice packaging. Using those directions, you will not have leftover rice water.
 Boiling is one of two methods of making rice water. While it takes more effort, the results are more potent, so you can use less of it.Bring the water to a boil.
Pour in your rice, cover, and then cook on medium-low heat for 15-20 minutes.
Allow your boiled rice to cool before handling it.
 Soaking requires less work but the results will be less potent. You will also not need to dilute your rice water if you soak your rice.Put the rice in the water, cover, and then soak for 15-30 minutes.If you plan to ferment your rice water, soaking the rice is the best way to prepare the rice water before fermentation., Drain the rice water into a separate container. Drain it more than once so that you won't find any rice grains in the water.Your rice water will have a milky-white color., To ferment your rice water, place rice water that you prepared by soaking into a container. Allow your rice water to sit for 1-2 days uncovered. When it begins to smell sour, place it into the refrigerator to stop the fermentation process.Dilute fermented rice water with 1-2 cups (235-470 milliliters) of clean water because it is very potent., You will need to store your rice water in a sealed container, so choose something like a jar, a food storage container, or a lidded carafe.
 When you are not using it, your rice water should stay in the refrigerator. It will last for up to a week if properly stored., If you are using boiled or fermented rice water, measure out two-three tablespoons (30-45 milliliters) and add it to 1-2 cups (235-470 milliliters) of water. If you are using soaked rice water, skip this step., Over the sink or in a shower, use your hands to wash your face with the rice water. Repeat this action 4-6 times.
 Cleanse away the rice water using clean water. The nutrients in the rice water will remain in your skin.
 Make sure your towel is clean to avoid transferring bacteria back onto your skin.

