 If you exercise outside, you need to protect your skin from the damaging effects of the skin's rays. Wear sunscreen every time you're going outside, even on days when it's cold or overcast.Choose a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher. You may want to go higher if you have extremely pale skin, if you're prone to getting burned, or if you have a history or genetic predisposition to skin cancer.
To avoid acne as a result of your sunscreen, make sure the brand you choose is oil-free, non-acnegenic, and non-comedogenic.;
, If you wear makeup during the day, make sure you take all of it off before you work out. Makeup can clog your pores while you're exercising, and your skin won't be able to sweat properly.If you have time limitations and don't have time to fully wash your face, pack makeup-removal wipes in your gym bag so you'll always have them with you.
 To keep your skin clean and fresh, take a shower as soon as possible after exercising. While sweat doesn't cause acne in and of itself, it can irritate your skin. The friction of clothing against moist skin can lead to breakouts.After your shower, dry your skin thoroughly before putting on clean, dry clothes. Remember that you're trying to eliminate the friction of clothing against moist skin – it doesn't matter if that moisture comes from sweat or from the shower.
If your schedule simply doesn't allow even a quick shower after exercising, pack along some cleansing wipes so you can blot off your skin after exercise. Make sure your skin is completely dry before you put on clean clothes.
 Especially during high-intensity exercise, you may need to keep sweat from running into your eyes, or dripping down your arms or legs and making body positioning difficult.To avoid exercise-related acne, don't wipe yourself down with a towel. Rather, you should blot or dab the sweat away.
Use a different towel for your face than you use for other parts of your body, which may be dirty.
 If you are prone to face breakouts, you've probably been told before to stop touching your face. This is no less true while exercising, when your hands come into contact with more unsanitary surfaces.For example, if you're doing bodyweight exercises on the floor and then swipe or scratch your face with your hand, you're essentially wiping your face with the floor.
Keep a facial towel on hand, and use it when you need to blot sweat, or if you have an itch.

