 Within the system, there are red, green, orange, blue, and silver lines. The silver line is more of an articulated bus rather than an underground subway.


Some lines intersect with each other in the Boston metropolis or major station depots (such as the North and South Stations) and then weave out to different parts of the city.
In addition, there are commuter rails that run in & out of Boston, as well as many bus lines run around other cities that connect with subway lines.
The green line separates into four different directions outside of metro Boston towards the west (B, C, D, and E). The B line goes to Boston College in Brighton, the C line goes to Cleveland Circle in Brighton, the D line goes to Riverside in Newton, and the E goes to Heath Street in Boston.;
, It may be easy to tell at some stations and difficult at others. Inbound usually means "towards Boston" or when you're heading into metro Boston, while outbound means "getting out of metro Boston". Inbound and outbound station street level accesses are normally found either across the street or around the corner from each other.

An easy example would be if you were coming from Fenway to North Station. You would simply take the Green Line Inbound because you're going into the city.
A difficult example would be if you were coming from Harvard to the Airport Station. You'll need to take the Red Line Inbound from Harvard Station to Park Station, Green Line Inbound to Government Center Station, and Blue Line Outbound to Airport Station. There is also taking the Red Line Inbound to Downtown Crossing Station, connect to the Orange Line Inbound to State Station, and Blue Line Outbound to Airport Station.
It is also possible for the two to switch while still travelling in the same direction. For example, you can be going inbound on the Red Line towards Park Street and Downtown Crossing. But once you pass the downtown stations, you are now going outbound.
 Some ticket machines only accept debit and credit cards instead of cash. When you get to a machine, press the "Bus/Subway" option. You will then be asked a few questions, such as how many tickets you wish to purchase. Use the correct method of payment and wait for your ticket to be printed. You also have an option of getting a receipt., If you have a pre-paid Charlie Card, place it on the front of card reader machine & wait for the light to change. Wait for the doors to open and walk to the appropriate subway line. Be cautious for "piggy-backers", whom are people that attempt to go through the doors literally right behind you before they close again without paying.
 Wait for the subway to come to a complete stop. Allow people to exit the train before entering., Do not just stand in the doorway when you enter, as there may be others behind you.
 Trains will notify passengers on the upcoming stops, whether it's by automated machine or the conductor over the intercom., Some street level exits are only stairs, escalators, or elevators, while others are a combination of any three.

If you're confused on where the street level exit is, just follow the roof signs concerning the street level or basically just follow the majority of the crowd.

