 Mojo allows you to install apps that aren’t on the App Store, such as unauthorized video game emulators and system configuration apps.

Mojo is known to be buggy, but it’s presently the only solution that works on current versions of iOS other than jailbreaking the phone.
This method should only be attempted by advanced users.
 It's a blue button near the bottom of the screen.,, It's in the top right corner of the “Install Profile” screen. If your phone is locked by a passcode, you’ll be asked to enter it now. Once you’ve tapped “Install,” the screen will switch back to the web browser.
 This will launch yet another instance of the Settings app, with another “Install Profile” screen. While it all may seem redundant, it’s necessary for installation.
 If you’re prompted to enter a passcode, type it into the provided field. If you see a “Warning” screen that says “The profile is not signed,” tap “Install” once more.
 The installation is now complete, and there’s now a Mojo icon on the desktop.
 Return to your home screen and tap the Mojo icon to launch the program.
 It's in the menu at the bottom of the screen. Mojo has their own version of an app store, which you can browse similarly to the official App Store.
 You can scroll through the list of apps available for download, or perform a search by typing an app name in the search box at the top of the screen.
 Much like the App Store, you can view additional details about the app by tapping it on the screen.
 This will launch a confirmation dialog, asking you if you want to install the app.
 This time, the app will begin to download and install to your iPhone. Note that this first attempt at installation typically fails. Click “Retry” if/when you see the error message. You may be pressing this button several times before the app installs.
 It's the round button on the face of your iPhone below the screen., It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.,, It's near the bottom of the menu., It will turn white., It is below the time zone., Do so until you reach a date in 2012.