 Writing instruments, like pencils and pens are basic necessities in the classroom—you will need to use a pen or pencil at some point throughout the school day. When you forget to bring a pen or pencil to class, you can’t participate in the activities your teacher assigns. Every time you forget a pen or pencil, your teacher will have to lend you a pencil or reluctantly be okay with the fact that you’re not doing your work—both options are highly annoying!


To avoid consequences, bring your own pencil to class a few days out of the week.
Five to ten minutes after everyone else has started working, let your teacher discover that you don’t have a pencil. Your teacher will be frustrated that you didn’t think to ask for a pencil sooner.
Ask your teacher for multiple pencils in one day.;
, Some teachers require students to bring a specific folder, notebook, or book to class every day. Instead of bringing these items to class, intentionally leave them at home or in your locker. When you repeatedly show up to class without the required reading or the course packet, your teacher will become irritated by your frequent forgetfulness.


To avoid punishment, only do this one or two times a week.
If you leave these items in your locker, your teacher may reluctantly allow you to go and get them.
Before you try this, read through your classroom and/or school policy. Forgetting to bring your materials to class may result in consequences.
 Teachers set deadlines for your benefit and theirs. Due dates teach students to plan ahead and manage their time; teachers often set deadlines to correspond with the days they have time to grade papers, tests, and assignments. When you turn in your work late, you disrupt your teacher’s grading schedule.


Be selective about the assignments you turn in late—you still need to maintain a passing grade. Tests, exams, and final projects are usually worth the most points and should not be skipped. Choose to skip a few assignments that are worth very few points.
Turn in your assignments one to two days after the due date.
If you hand the assignment to your teacher, ask them when they will have it graded and in the books. Continue to ask them until they have graded it.