 Before you announce your resignation to anyone you must have your plans in order. The last thing you want to do is give false or changing information throughout the process of leaving.


If you don’t have all your details in order, you can make it harder for your employer to hire a replacement and plan for your departure.
A situation such as this may lead to ending your employment on bad terms with a bad reference and/or a disbelief that you are actually leaving with a chance of being asked to leave.
Be absolutely sure you are resigning. Whether you have another job or are leaving for other reasons, it is important to stick to the plan once you have made an announcement.;
, Know your exact last day and follow the two weeks or more notice rule. It is most important for your current and future employer (if there is one) to have a solid date of when you are leaving your current job.


For most companies and positions, a 2 week notice is standard and acceptable.
However, your company may require more time due to job specific circumstances.
For example, if you are the only one in the IT department, you most likely will be asked to stay longer than 2 weeks to allow the employer to find a replacement.
 If you need to attend to personal matters, make sure you give your employer dates or times you may need to take care of personal matters prior to your resignation.


For example, if you are moving out of state or resigning due to an illness, your employer may be flexible in giving you some time off to take care of personal matters.
 Once you have announced your resignation, it may be hard to stay as long as you have agreed to. This can be for many reasons, including being over your current job or being anxious to start a new one.


If you leave your current job prior to the time you agreed to stay, it will most likely be considered insubordination.
This will render you ineligible for rehire and can present a bad reference issue in the future.
 A letter of resignation is generally very brief and to the point. In your letter of resignation, include the following:


A formal salutation to your supervisor and/or others notified. For example, “Dear Ms. Smith”.
A statement that expresses you are leaving the company. For example, “This letter is to inform you that I am leaving my position as Project Manager”.
Your last date of employment. For example, “…as of September 5, 2014”.
A thank you to the employer for the opportunity to work for/with them. For example, “Thank you for providing me with the opportunity to develop my knowledge, skills and abilities within the industry.”
A sincere closing such as “Many Thanks” or “Sincerely”.
Your signature and printed name.
 First, know who you must notify. Most likely, it will just be your direct supervisor.


However, some circumstances may require a member of HR to be present as well.
For example, if you are leaving due to a conflict with your supervisor or an issue known by HR. Once you know who must be in that meeting, request their time.
It is best to hold this meeting face to face if you are in the same office or your location is close.
A phone call will do if you are not in close proximity.
For example, if you would have to drive over 4 hours or fly to speak to your supervisor.
When requesting a meeting, you do not need to say why. All you have to say is, “Can I have a little of your time today to discuss something?”

