 Preparing for a game starts the night before.;
, Envision yourself doing well in your game; swishing all your shots, hitting a home run, scoring a goal, running in a touchdown, etc. Play it over in your mind as you prepare for your game. The more you think about it before the event, the less you need to think about it during the heat of the moment.
 Try meditating, or just doing deep breathing exercises . Close your eyes and try to clear your mind. Go for a walk outside, take a nap, read a book, or do some quiet activity to get your mind on the right track. Keep your mind at ease, and try not to let anyone upset you.
 You can do this by actively recognising what your own part in the game is, and then trying to do your best at your own part. The result would come accordingly.
, Time to get hype! If you play sports for enjoyment, you will definitely want to be excited for your game! That will make the whole thing more enjoyable. Listening to music, having a spontaneous dance party, or just hanging out with friends can help to improve your mood. Make sure that the music you play to get stoked not only has a danceable beat, but inspirational lyrics, too. Music can be very powerful! My favorite pre-game pump up tunes are in the tips below., You will need to stretch and get prepared for your activity, especially if it's a physical sport. A good way to stretch is to jog around the court, field, or wherever you're playing. Then stretch your legs, back, arms, neck, and anything else you need to., On your own level, you need to keep your calm and help your team recognize their strengths.


When you think about failure, affirm to yourselves that bad things may happen. Do not resist the fear of failure by thinking about success, instead, tell yourselves that failure exists and surpass it, don't resist it.
 It's almost impossible to do your best if you're extremely stressed about doing perfect. And it's no fun if you have the, "destroy the other team at all costs" attitude either. Remember how much you've practiced, and picture all that amounting to you doing great. However, don't get so relaxed and confident that you forget to try hard.

