 Not everything that at first sight looks like a seizure, is a seizure. Some things that are commonly mistaken for a fit are:


A faint of cardio-vascular origin: This is when the heart cannot maintain circulation to the brain and is starved of oxygen, resulting in your pet losing consciousness.
A faint of neurological origin: This is when the vagus nerve is overstimulated, telling the heart rate to slow, and resulting in a blood pressure drop that causes your pet to faint.
Pain reaction: An exaggerated behavioral response that can mimic a seizure.
 A faint can be confused with a seizure, because it looks similar when your dog drops to the ground and loses consciousness. However, a faint is caused by inadequate oxygen supply to the brain, which results in your dog briefly losing consciousness. The most common cause of faint is an irregular heartbeat.


Some dogs appear perfectly well and have no other symptoms, whilst others have a history of coughing, heavy breathing, or reluctance to exercise.
The key differences between a faint and a fit are:

Before a faint the animal shows no aura signs: the loss of oxygen to the brain and drop in blood pressure happen almost instantaneously.
During a faint the animal's muscles are relaxed (in a fit, the muscles are rigid, and legs extended): The muscles are not being given any messages at all.
No loss of bladder or bowel control during a faint: The dog is in a state of relaxation, rather than heightened muscular activity.
No champing the mouth, or excessive salivation: A faint does not last long enough for enough saliva to be produced for your dog to drool.
On average, a faint lasts no longer than 30 seconds: An average seizure lasts 2 to 3 minutes.
After a faint the animal acts as if nothing has happened (no post-seizure signs): Once circulation is restored, the dog acts normal again.
 The longest nerve in the body, the vagus nerve, passes along the neck. When pressure is applied to this nerve, such as when a dog pulls on his collar, it can cause a dramatic slowing of the heart rate. If the heart slows too much, the blood supply to the brain is reduced and the dog may faint.


This same thing can happen if the dog coughs excessively, or strains abnormally hard to pass feces. The differences between this faint and a fit are the same as listed above.
 Some sensitive dogs can overreact when stung by an insect. They cry and whine, and then may throw themselves to the ground to gnaw at the spot that has been stung. This erratic behavior can sometimes be mistaken for a fit. The difference is that the dog remains conscious, and if you distract him, he knows what's happening around him and can respond to his name (although whether he chooses to do so or not is a different matter!)

, Rather than feel helpless when your dog has a fit, remember to time when it starts and stops. This is useful information for your veterinarian. Also, if you have a phone on hand, record video of the episode – again, it can prove invaluable for a clinician to witness the episode first hand.

