 You should melt the butter and chocolate in a pot over the stove. Use a heavy sauce pan and melt the butter and chocolate over medium-high heat. Watch the pot closely to make sure nothing burns.It's a good idea to remove the butter while it's still somewhat solid. Butter can burn easily. If the chocolate is melted and there is still a small chunk of butter that is solid, remove the pan from the heat. Mix everything together until the butter melts as well.
After melting, allow your butter and chocolate mixture to cool off until it reaches room temperature. This should take about 15 minutes.;
, Once the butter and chocolate mixture is cool, add your sugar. Use a mixing spoon to stir in the sugar. Keep stirring until you have an even mixture., Start with the eggs, adding them one at a time. Use a wire whisk to gently whisk each egg into the batter until the mixture is smooth and even. Once the eggs are added, whisk in the vanilla., To fold in the ingredients, add the flour and salt to the top of the butter mixture. From there, use a rubber spatula. Starting at the back of the bowl, cut a vertical line through the ingredients across the bottom of the bowl.Rotate the bowl a quarter of a circle and cut another vertical line using your spatula. Continue this pattern. Eventually, the ingredients should all mix together evenly.
 Take an 11 by 7 inch baking pan (approximately 28 by 18 centimeters). Spray with a non-stick baking spray. Then, pour your brownie batter into the pan using a spatula or spoon., Brownies should be baked at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (about 178 degrees Celsius). The brownies should bake for about 35 minutes.Check to make sure your brownies are done before removing them from the oven. To do this, stick a toothpick in the center of the brownies. It should come out clean. If there is batter on it, bake the brownies for a few more minutes.
 After removing them from the oven, set the brownies aside for an hour or so. You want them to cool completely before proceeding.
 There is no precise size to cut your brownie bites. It depends on personal preference. Use a knife to cut the brownies into bite-sized portions. You can do this by cutting vertical lines through the brownies, followed by horizontal lines.For the cleanest cuts, use a cold knife. You can put a butter knife in the refrigerator for an hour, for example, and then use it to cut the brownies.
 Set your brownie bits in a refrigerator. You should let them chill for at least an hour. This way, they will be solid enough to dip in your chocolate mixture.As the brownie bits will not be in the fridge for long, it's okay to put them in uncovered. However, you can put aluminum or plastic covering over the brownie bits if you want.
 Place your chocolate squares in a microwave safe bowl. Place them in a microwave for 30 seconds. Then remove them and stir. Keep microwaving the chocolate in 30 second intervals until it's completely melted., Remove the brownie bites from the refrigerator. Dip them into your chocolate mixture one at a time., You can decorate the brownies as desired after dipping them in the chocolate. You can add decorative sprinkles or sparkling sugar, for example.If there is a special occasion, decorate the brownie bites to reflect this. For example, you can use red and green sprinkles for Christmas or pink sprinkles for Valentine's Day.
If you're making the brownie bites for a friend, use decorations they would like. If you're making them for a child's birthday party, for example, glittery sugar may be appropriate.
 After the brownie bites have been dipped in chocolate and decorated, place them in refrigerator again. Chill them until the chocolate hardens. How long this will take depends on the precise coolness of your refrigerator, but it generally takes around 20 minutes., You should store your brownie bites at room temperature in an airtight container. They should keep for about 3 to 4 days. After this point, you should discard your brownie bites.