 Separate just the top section of your hair and pull it back to secure it at the back of your head, leaving the rest of your voluminous locks to lay loose.Pull back the top of your hair, or small sections from each side, starting at about the level of the tops of your ears. You can use just your fingers, or a comb or pick for straighter sectioning.
Secure the top section of your hair into a small ponytail with a hairband, use a clip, or twist it into a small bun at the back of your head.;
, Use your length and thickness to your advantage to create a loose braid that falls over one shoulder.


Create a typical three-strand braid by sectioning the hair into three pieces. Cross the piece on the right over to the middle so that the middle piece becomes the new right-side piece. Then cross the left piece over to the middle in the same way. Continue in this way, alternating left and right, to the ends of the hair.
Smaller braids can also be done throughout the hair, or go for a full head of braids that will still remain full-looking because of your thick texture.
Experiment with other types of braids in your hair, like French braiding, fishtail, or cornrows., Blow dry and tease hair to create volume at the top of the head for a cute retro look that will also keep hair from looking too weighted down.


Start by blow drying or just brushing back a section of your hair from the very top of your head. Then use a fine rattail comb to tease the section by combing in the opposite direction, toward the roots.
Those with kinky or very curly hair can skip straight to teasing, or simply brush or comb out sections normally to create volume.
Those with straighter thick hair can keep a section toward the front of the crown unteased, then lay that section back over the teased area to create a sleeker look., Pull hair up into a dramatic bun, chignon, or ponytail to create a look that can be both casual and formal.


Create a bun by securing your hair into a ponytail with an elastic, then twist and wrap the length of the hair around the elastic to create a spiral shape and secure with pins. You can also use accessories like a hair donut or even a sock to make sleek rolled buns, or leave it intentionally messy for a casual look.Gently roll your hair as you would with a bun and pin it low on your head for a classic chignon. Tease a section at the crown of the head to show off some more of your impressive volume.Try a sleek ponytail by securing your hair with an elastic high at the crown of your head. Wrap a piece of hair around the elastic and place pins underneath the ponytail to create extra polish and volume., Break up your thick hair beautifully with a colorful or patterned head scarf, a bandana, or fun bow or flower clip.


Try items like hair sticks and bun pins to easily add some interest to thick hair with accessories that can handle even the thickest mane.Wrap a scarf, headband, or folded bandana around your head and knot it at the top for a classic look that also keeps your hair in check when it’s up or down. You can also try using a wrap around a bun if it won’t span the circumference of your entire head.

