 Being assertive is about being open, honest, and polite. It shows that you are in control of your emotions, whether positive or negative. Be clear, concise, and direct in what you wish to say, without attacking or offending others.Consider using "I" statements in which you address your emotions first. "I" statements can help to lay less of the blame or focus on someone else, and more on how what they say or do is affecting you.
For example, consider saying, "I feel anxious when I don't hear from you after a few days. I feel worried about whether you're okay."
Be simple and direct rather than long-winded or rambling. Consider practicing what you want to say and how you feel about a situation before you say it directly to a person.
If you tend to be overwhelmed by your emotions, wait until you have reached a calm state to assert yourself.
 While being emotionally vulnerable may not be seen as socially appropriate, it is important to be honest about your feelings with those you trust the most. While you may not want to vulnerable with strangers, co-workers, or acquaintances, it is important to open yourself up to at least a few trusted people.Identify friends or family who make you feel safe. Be open with them about what you're feeling emotionally, and if you're having difficulty with your emotions.
Confiding in one or two close friends or family can help you feel healthier and happier in the long run. Avoid bottling up your emotions.
Remember that your confidants may change over time. As relationships evolve, you may change who wish to be vulnerable with. That is natural and okay, just make sure you are always choosing people you can trust

, Pay attention to how others are responding to what you say and do. Try to imagine yourself in their shoes. While you may want to immediately defend yourself and your actions, focus instead on listening to what they have to say, their tone of voice, and their own emotions. Being more aware of others can help you gain insight in your own emotions.


Ask others what they are thinking or feeling when you feel you're experiencing negative emotions or feelings. Listen to them. They may have advice. For example, consider saying, "I know I've been a bit out of it lately and acting different. I hope that we can get through this."
Consider asking what they think could help in this situation. They may be able to provide guidance about healthier ways to handle your emotions in a tough situation.

