 Once you have finished your angst poem, you should read it out loud to yourself. Notice any awkward phrases or words and underline them. Pay attention to any lines that seem too long or confusing. You should then go in and revise these lines so they are clear and easier to understand.You should also make sure you are using literary devices in your poem and sensory detail. You may want to check that you are being honest and sincere in your poem, even if you feel vulnerable when you read it out loud. Being honest and sincere will make your poem stronger.
If you feel you need more feedback on the poem, you may read it to a sympathetic audience, such as a close friend or family member. You may want to warn the person that the poem will be full of angst and strong emotion so they do not get too freaked out as they listen to it.
 If you feel the poem is polished and at it’s best, you may decide to submit the poem to publications that accept teen poetry or poetry for teens. There are online magazines dedicated to publishing teen poetry as well as print publications that you can submit to.Check to see if there is a theme for an upcoming issue that may a good fit for your poem or any contests asking for poems that focus on angst, anger, and strong emotion.
 If you feel comfortable sharing your poetry with others, you may sign up for an open mic in your area or at your school where you can read your work out loud to an audience. You should practice reading the poem beforehand so you are confident when you get on stage to read.When you read your poem, you should speak slowly and clearly, noting where you will pause or take a breath. You should also speak loudly so the audience can hear you and project your voice so your words are heard.
 You may decide to that your written poem has what it takes to win a slam poetry contest, where you perform your poem for an audience. You may feel your poem translates well into spoken word poetry and recite it out loud from memory using your body and your facial expressions to make the poem come alive on stage.


Slam poetry is great for teens who want to explore poetry and performance. Many teens take up slam poetry as a way to express their feelings and thoughts to others in public.

