 If you crack open the books while in a bad mood about having to study, you won’t have an effective study session. However, if you are excited about what you are about to learn, you will have an easier time learning it and remembering it come test time.Don’t tell yourself, “I’m never going to learn this.”
Be patient with yourself as you try to master new material.;
, Take the time to think about when you are most alert and able to concentrate. For some, this may be immediately after school. Others may be more productive if they take a break after school and relax a bit before opening the books. Regardless of when you choose to study, you will retain more information if you study a bit each day (for 30 to 60 minutes at a time) rather than cramming at the last minute.Remember to incorporate breaks into your study schedule. Breaks give your brain a chance to absorb what you just studied.
During your break, it is helpful to take a short walk or get some fresh air to help clear your mind., You need to find a quiet space free of distractions, such as a library or an isolated area of your house. By having an area devoted to studying, your brain will become used to calming down and absorbing material once you get there.


Once you pick a spot to study, bring everything you may need there. You don’t want to get distracted searching for a missing book or paper once you’ve settled in to study.
If you need a computer for your research or studies, you can utilize an app to block specific websites for a certain period of time. That way, you won’t be tempted to check social media accounts or newsfeeds when you should be studying instead.
 Disorganized notes or a messy study room can be enemies to your memory. By creating order in your environment, you foster order in your mind, so you can better memorize facts and recall them later., When you sleep, your brain converts facts from short-term memory to long-term memory. Even a short nap can help with this process.If you study in the afternoon and don’t have time for a nap then, review your notes or flashcards at night before going to bed.
Aim to get 9 hours of sleep each night, the optimal level for adolescents. The recommended sleep range for adults is between 7 and 9 hours.