 One of the first things you should do after a diabetes diagnosis is talk about the diagnosis with your partner. Ask them how they feel about the diagnosis. You should also discuss the health of the person with diabetes. Discuss how they feel about dietary and daily routine changes that will occur because of the diabetes. You should also share your feelings with your partner.For example, your partner may feel anxious or scared. You may want to say, “I understand you may have a lot of feelings about my diagnosis. I feel scared and overwhelmed. I want us to discuss your feelings and concerns because this affects you, too.”

, After you or your partner receive a diabetes diagnosis, you may want to tell your partner what you need from them. Every person with diabetes may need different things, so you should let your partner know what they can do for you. This can help the two of you avoid problems or frustrations. If your partner has diabetes, you should discuss your needs from them.For example, if you have diabetes, you may need help counting carbs or reminders to take medication, but you may not need help checking your blood sugar.
 If you have diabetes, your partner may be concerned if they are away and you don’t answer your phone or contact them. Together, develop a system of checking in and letting each other know you are fine. This may be periodic texts or a phone call at a certain time each night.Make sure to come up with a system that you feel comfortable with and doesn’t invade your privacy or makes you feel smothered.
If your partner worries too much, talk to them about it. Let them know that managing your diabetes means you can live a normal life, so their increased concern is not necessary.
 No matter if you or your partner has diabetes, you may have questions and concerns after the diabetes diagnosis. Additionally, you or your partner may have concerns as you learn to manage the diabetes. Listen to your partner when they come to you with concerns. You may not agree with everything they say, but you should listen to them when they express their views.For example, your partner may come to you with concerns about your health. Perhaps you have been going off of doctor’s orders or eating foods you shouldn’t, which is affecting your health. Listen to your partner when they have these concerns for you. If your partner is right, try brainstorming together for solutions.
 Diabetes management is not always easy. Sometimes, you may not know the best way to manage something, or perhaps you don’t know how to do it. If your partner has diabetes, you may have questions about their management and how you can help. Ask your partner for ideas and suggestions. They can offer different ways of approaching problems, thinking about things, or suggest ideas.If your partner doesn’t know how to help, you both could brainstorm or search online for ideas.

