 Physical affection can help build empathy in your relationship. Give your partner a hug, a kiss, hold their hand, or put an arm around them. These simple gestures are good ways to focus your attention on your partner and form a physical connection between the two of you.Touching releases oxytocin, a chemical which helps increase feelings of happiness.
 To help gain empathy for the other person in the relationship, watch them. When you have down time while you are spending time together, look at the other person. Think about what is going on inside their head and what they are thinking about. Look at their body language and pay attention to it.Try to figure out how they are feeling. Are they upset? Are they content?
As you watch your partner, really absorb what you are learning and then care that they are feeling this way or doing this activity.
 One way empathy can help with conflict resolution is to help you gain insight into what the other person is thinking. Instead of reacting emotionally, take a moment. Close your eyes and put yourself in your partner’s place. Think about how the situation looks for them, or how your actions may have been construed.Consider what you know about your partner's history, such as interactions with parents, other family members, their worldview, etc. This information should be available to you through the relationship, and it can add another layer of understanding of your partner's decisions, actions and how things may have affected them.
Refrain from thinking about what you would have done in your partner's position when being empathetic — that is not the point of empathy. Instead, take all that you know about your partner and their background, and try to see how that might make them react how they did.
For instance, you may not have yelled at someone whistling at you on the street, but you may know that your partner deals with catcalling and street harassment on a daily basis, and so they may be more likely to react. It may seem like an overreaction from your perspective, but from your partner's perspective and experience, it might seem like a pretty mild reaction.
Looking at the situation this way can give you empathy for the other person. If both of you do this, instead of fighting, you will be able to talk about the problem and see the issue from the other point of view.
 If you are trying to build empathy in your relationship, you may consider using activities to build more empathy between the two of you. These exercises aim at putting yourself in someone else’s shoes so you can learn empathy. You will try to connect to your partner by looking at things from their point of view.Good exercises to foster empathy include dramatization, role-playing, and imitating.
You may also want to try dance therapy where you try to mirror your partner’s actions to increase awareness of the other person.

