 Scuppernongs thrive in areas with plenty of light. The yield will decrease dramatically if the vines sit in shade for more than a few hours each day of the growing season.;
, These grapes need to be planted in soil with good internal drainage. Watch the area after a rainstorm. If water stands for more than an hour, you may need to amend the soil to improve the drainage.


Completely avoid soils with hardpan or clay.
If you need to amend the soil for drainage, consider mixing wood chips, sand, or perlite into the soil several weeks before planting.
Check the soil pH. The pH should be between 6.0 and 6.5. If you need to raise the pH and lower the acidity of the soil, add dolomitic lime. Doing so will also improve the drainage of the soil.
 You should install a trellis system before planting the vines. One-wire and two-wire systems are better than fences, posts, garden arches, or similar systems.


For a one-wire system:Space two 5-inch (12.7-cm) wide, 5-foot (1.5-m) long end posts 20 feet (6.1 m) apart, centering one grapevine in between them.
String number nine wire between the tops of both posts. The vines will be trained and supported along this wire.


For a two-wire system:

Space two 6-inch (15.24-cm) wide, 5-foot (1.5-m) tall end posts 20 feet (6.1 m) apart.
Place one 4-inch by 4-inch (10-cm by 10-cm) cross arm at the time of each post.
String number nine wire between the two cross arms at both ends.
 Varieties with dark purple skins are less prone to fruit rot and other diseases, so in some ways, they are easier to maintain.Consider choosing "perfect flowered" cultivars, which contain both male and female flower parts on a single vine. Some options include:

Nesbitt, Noble, and Regale (black/purple varieties)
Carlos, Doreen, Magnolia, and Triumph (bronze varieties)



, Potted plants are easier to maintain until planting. Scuppernong vines that are already one year in age are ideal.


If you choose bare-root plants, keep the roots moist by misting them with a spray bottle every few days. You should also keep bare-root plants refrigerated until you are ready to transplant them into your garden.
 Plan on transplanting scuppernongs when you no longer have to worry about sub-freezing temperatures. Frost can hinder the development of young vines.


In the southern United States, you can usually plant scuppernongs in late February through March. Plants kept in containers can technically be planted at any point during the year, but if you opt for bare-root plants, you must adhere to this schedule more strictly.
 The hole should be at least as deep as the container currently holding the scuppernong vine, if not a little deeper.


Each planting hole should also be about twice as wide as the diameter of the current container. You need to provide plenty of space for the roots to spread without any risk of crowding.
 Gently remove the plant from its current container and center the roots in the planting hole. Partially cover the roots with topsoil, then fill the rest of the hole with loose soil.


Scatter the soil around the roots and use your hands to firmly pack it in as you work.
Water the soil after transplanting the vine and filling in the hole. The water should help settle the soil and will also give the roots a boost of nourishment.
Spread 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of compost or shredded leaves over the soil to help retain moisture around each newly planted vine.
 Separate vines should be 10 to 20 feet (3 to 6.1 meters) apart within a single row.If you plant multiple rows of scuppernongs, the rows should be spaced 8 to 12 feet (2.4 to 3.7 meters) apart.
 Within a week or so after planting, use clean shears to prune the vine back to one stem. Choose the healthiest, strongest stem for best results.


You must also cut this stem back to two or three buds.
 As new growth begins to develop, determine which shoot is the most vigorous and remove the others.
 Use paper-covered wire ties or twine to loosely attach the growing vine to your training system.


Since the vine is still small, it may not be tall enough to reach the wire of your trellis system. For this reason, consider installing a bamboo training stake directly beside the plant. Tie the fresh vine onto this stake, then remove the stake once the vine is tall enough to reach the trellis wires.
You may need to tie the vine on a weekly basis.
Continue to remove any side shoots that develop during this time.
 Once the vine is tall enough to reach the wire of your trellis system, cut the growing tip back to the top bud.


Doing this forces lateral buds to form.
Lateral buds will form cordons that need to be trained down along the wires of your trellis system. Tie them onto the wire loosely.
 After the cordons reach their full length, you can let side shoots develop. These side shoots will need to be cut back to two or three buds each dormant season, though.


These buds will develop into shoots that produce both flowers and fruit.
 You'll need to apply a balanced 10-10-10 (10% nitrogen, 10% phosphorus, 10% potassium) fertilizer between March and early April each year, but the exact amount can vary depending on the maturity of the vine.During the first and second years, apply 1/4 lb (115 g) of 10-10-10 fertilizer after planting, 2 oz (60 g) 34-0-0 fertilizer in late May, and 2 oz (60 g) 34-0-0 fertilizer in early July.
During the third year, apply 2 lbs (900 g) 10-10-10 fertilizer per vine in March and 1 lb (450 g) of 10-10-10 fertilizer in May.
Beyond the third year, apply 3 to 5 lb (1350 to 2250 g) of 10-10-10 fertilizer in March. You may also need to apply 1/2 lb (225 g) ammonium nitrate at the beginning of June.
Scuppernongs also need considerably large amounts of magnesium. If older leaves begin yellowing between their veins, apply 2 to 4 oz (30 to 60 g) of Epsom salts to the soil of one or two year old vines, or 4 to 6 oz (60 to 80 g) Epsom salts for older vines.
Mature vines planted in sandy soils with naturally high pH levels may need a dose of boron every two to three years. For every 20-by-20 foot (6.1-by-6.1-meter) area, apply 2 Tbsp (30 ml) of Borax by mixing it into your usual fertilizer.
 During the first two years of growth, remove any weeks that develop within 1 to 2 feet (30.5 to 61 cm) of the base of each vine.


If left alone, weeds could deprive the young plants of much needed nutrients they would otherwise use to establish themselves.
 Scatter 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of coarse, non-nitrogen-releasing bark mulch around the base of each vine in the early spring.


This mulch should help reduce weed problems while retaining an appropriate amount of moisture within the soil.
 Even though scuppernongs are fairly drought-resistant, you should water the vines during dry periods during the first two years of growth.


Mature vines are typically able to get the water they need from the soil even during dry spells. The only time you may need to water established vines would be between the bud-break and flowering periods. Only water sparingly and during dry spells, though.
 These grapes can usually be grown without pesticides or fungicides, but when problems arise, you will have to treat the plants with an appropriate product.


The most common insect problems are Japanese beetles, grape berry moths, and grape root borers.
The most common disease problems are bitter rot, Macrophoma rot, angular leaf spot, ripe rot, and black rot.
Make sure that any pesticides or fungicides you use are safe to use with edible plants. Many chemicals can be toxic when ingested.
 Ripe scuppernongs should be uniform in both shape and color, regardless of what color they reach.When ripe, these grapes should also have a sweet scent.
 Instead of clipping whole bunches from the vine, you should pluck individual grapes from the vine as they ripen.


Harvest individual grapes by simply picking them off their stems. Ripe grapes should fall away from the stem without much resistance. No cutting tools should be needed.
 Keep the harvested grapes in a shallow container and place them in your refrigerator.


For optimum nutrition and flavor, enjoy the grapes within a few days. Most scuppernongs can be kept up to a week without a problem.
Inspect the grapes regularly while storing them. Remove any that seem notably soft or otherwise decayed.
 Scuppernongs are usually consumed without their skins, but the skins can be eaten.


To eat a scuppernong, hold the stem side of the grape in your mouth and bite or squeeze the opposite end. The pulp and juice should break free from the skin and pop into your mouth.
The skin and seeds are usually discarded, but they contain antioxidants and other nutrients, so you might want to consume them, as well.

