 These are nearly all scams or vehicles for adware. You can boost your computer's speed on your own without the help of these programs.
 The more programs you have running on your computer at once, the slower it will run. Your operating system will often load several programs in the background when it starts as well.


In Windows, a lot of the programs running in the background will have icons in your System Tray. Right-click on these icons to close the programs.
Make sure you save any work before closing a program.
 The only way to close these programs may be by forcing them to close. There are several ways that you can do this:


Windows - Press Alt+F4 to force the active program to close. If Alt+F4 isn't working, press Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Esc to open a list of all the running programs. Select the program you want to force to close and click End task.
Mac - Press ⌘ Cmd+⌥ Opt+Esc to open a list of your open programs. Select the program you want to force-close and click Force Quit. You can also hold ⌘ Cmd+⌥ Opt+⇧ Shift+Esc for three seconds to force-close the active program.
 Many programs will set themselves to start immediately when your operating system boots. When you try to launch too many programs, the startup process can take a long time. Removing programs that you don't use from your startup list will help speed up the time it takes your computer to boot. It will also reduce the general load as you use the computer.



Click here for tips on disabling startup programs.
 In order for your operating system to run efficiently, you'll want at least 15-20% of your total storage space free. This allows the operating system to write temporary files that will allow it to run more smoothly.


One of the quickest ways to free up space is to sort through your Downloads folder and delete anything that you don't need anymore. This could include old installers for programs, downloaded music and videos, and large documents.
Deleting programs you don't use anymore can also free up a lot of space. This is especially true with some video games, which can take 30 GB or more of your hard disk space. For information on deleting programs in Windows, click here. For Mac, click here.
The Disk Cleanup tool in Windows will scan for files that you no longer use. It can free up a large amount of space. Click here for details on running it.
 If the components in your computer are getting too hot, they may be slowing down to prevent damage. This can slow you computer down. Use a free tool like SpeedFan to ensure that your computer hardware temperatures are within an acceptable range.



Click here for tips on monitoring your computer's temperature and lowering it if it is too high.
 A computer that was running fine and then suddenly becomes slow may be infected with a virus. This is a common symptom of a virus infection, but is not always the cause. Regular antivirus scans will help protect your system from viruses. Viruses not only affect your computer's performance, but also but your personal data at risk.



Click here for tips on checking for and getting rid of a virus infection.
 If you are using Windows Vista or Windows 7, the Aero desktop effects may be slowing your computer down. Disabling these effects is highly recommended for older computers, and can result in a big performance boost.



Click here for tips on disabling Aero in Windows Vista and Windows 7.
 Oftentimes the easiest way to speed up your computer is to wipe it clean and start from scratch. Reinstalling your OS usually won't take more than an hour or so. This will erase your entire hard drive, and will often make your computer operate as if it was brand new. See the following articles for details on reinstalling specific OSs:


Windows 7
Windows 8
Windows Vista
OS X
Windows XP
Ubuntu Linux

