 One of the most effective and rewarding ways to learn is actually to teach other people. In a study group, you can use this to benefit everyone! Try assigning chapters to each members and take turns teaching each other. This greatly benefits both the individual “teacher” as well as the whole group., Another great aspect of working with a group is the ability to quiz one another. This can be done a couple of ways. First, you can simply ask each other questions out loud, orally quizzing one another. Or, different members can create quizzes for different sections and give them to the other members to take (once again, involving “teaching” as a part of learning.), Three or four heads are better than one! Try rotating the notes that you each took in class. Each person likely emphasized a different concept, grasped an element of the lesson a little better, or gained a little insight that the other members of the group did not. When you put all of that together, you’ll walk away with a much stronger understanding of the material., There will always be elements of course that you don’t quite understand. Try answering each other’s questions. First, identifying what you don’t understand and putting that into a question for your group is an excellent exercise. But further, attempting to answer each other’s questions as a group is great for the individual as well as the collective., Humans are creatures of habit. If you can establish some kind of routine within your study session you are likely to be more productive. It may take a little time, as you may have to try out different methods with your group to see what works for you. Here is one example: Try starting off with a review of what you learned that week, and what you’d like to accomplish during this session.
Then, one group member should present a chapter (or lesson) they prepared.
After this, take a break. You could all bring a snack to share.
Then, shift into “question and answer,” where you each present your questions to the group.
Finally, wrap up by summarizing what you’ve covered that day. (If you will be meeting again, you can use this time to assign duties and assignments for next time.)

