 Stress and inflammation are linked, so avoiding stress can help you prevent psoriatic arthritis flares. Learn to identify signs that you are stressed — look for changes in breathing, tight muscles, sweaty hands and fatigue. When you notice that you are stressed, practice positive coping techniques, such as deep breathing, which is one of the most effective ways to relieve stress in the moment and allows you to turn on your body's natural stress-response.Start practicing the 4-7-8 method of deep breathing. Sit somewhere comfortably where you won't be distracted. Focus on your breath. Inhale deeply through your nose while mentally counting to 4. Then, hold the breath while counting to 7. Finally, slowly release the breath through your mouth for a count of 8. Repeat until you feel more relaxed.Other methods of reducing stress include yoga, exercise, journaling, getting a massage, and progressive muscle relaxation.
It can also be helpful to learn to differentiate between symptoms of stress and symptoms of your arthritis, such as fatigue. Journaling about your symptoms may help you make this distinction.
 Social support is one of the most important keys to maintaining good mental health. A strong support network of loved ones can help you weather health crises and maintain a positive outlook, while isolation increases anxiety and depression. Reach out to your friends and family and make plans to get coffee or see a movie together.Attending support groups is another good way to meet people and stay connected. The National Psoriasis Foundation (https://www.psoriasis.org/) is a great resource for finding support groups online or locally.
 Creative expression is good for your body and your mind. It boosts your happiness, eases stress, and relieves depression, which in turn leads to better sleep and less inflammation. You don’t have to be a skilled artist to get in touch with your creative side. Try writing or drawing in a journal, playing a musical instrument, or signing up for a dance class.Immersing yourself in a hobby can also help distract you from your pain and fatigue.
 Whether you’re actively fighting depression or just trying to keep it away, therapy should be an integral part of your treatment plan. A therapist can help you find ways to deal with the emotional aspects of psoriatic arthritis constructively. Look for a therapist who has experience working with people who have chronic illnesses.Often, people with psoriatic arthritis may feel judged if they have visible plaques and may avoid being social or doing the things they love, which can make them feel lonely and unproductive. If you feel this way, work with your therapist to address these feelings, build your confidence, and accept yourself.

