 One of the simplest methods of keeping track of your medications is to keep a checklist. Your checklist will contain the name of all medications and the date and time when you need to take them. Once you have taken your medication, check the item to stay on schedule.Mark the dosage size, when to take, and if the medication needs to be taken with food on your checklist.
Make multiple copies. Try leaving them in convenient locations such as next to your medications or posted on a bathroom mirror.
 Making a medication calendar will allow you to visually recognize which medications need to be taken and when on a daily basis. Listing a medication's name and time of day that it needs to be taken will let you know if you are on track with your schedule or if you have missed taking a medication.On each day you need to take a medication, write down the time you need to take it and the name of the medication.
Cross off a medication after you have taken it.
 While you are keeping careful track of when you are taking your medications, you will also need to keep track of when you are going to run out. If your prescription is a recurring one, keep careful track of when you will run out and need to refill your prescription, keeping on your schedule.Some prescriptions can be prescribed for refills over a period of months or for a three-month supply, while others (like pain medication) cannot. It is important to ensure that when the physician prescribed the medication, you know how much is being prescribed at a time you can plan for refills.
Keep track of when your prescriptions are running low and refill before you run out.
Try to refill early to avoid running out of your prescription.
Discard any expired medications.
 If you have a smart-phone or other digital device with the capability to be used as a timer, you can enter in your medication schedule for an electronic reminder. Many smart-phones will sound an alarm when it is time to take your medication, helping you to never deviate from your schedule.Computers and tablets can also be used to set up reminders for your medications.
Entering your medication details into a smartphone calendar will allow your phone to remind you when to take a medication.
There are many apps that you can download which will help you stay on your medication schedule.

