 Honey has both antibacterial and antiviral properties, which can help if you have an underlying viral or bacterial cause for your cough. In one study, honey was found to be more effective than cough medicine for lessening coughs in children.Glycerin can be used in place of honey if you don't like or can't use honey. Instead of a cup of honey in these remedies, you can substitute 1/2 cup of glycerin mixed with 1/2 cup of water.Don't give honey to children who are one year and younger.;
, Lemon is great when you are sick because it contains high levels of vitamin C. It also has antibacterial and antiviral properties.


You can mix honey and lemon together for a great cough remedy. Warm up one cup of honey, and then add three to four tablespoons of fresh lemon juice. You can also add bottled lemon juice. Add about 1/3 cup of water, and heat it on low heat for 10 minutes. Place in the refrigerator, and drink one to two tablespoons when needed., Garlic also has antibacterial and antiviral properties, along with antiparasitic and antifungal properties. You can mix honey, lemon, and garlic for an effective cough suppressant.Warm a cup of honey, then add three to four tablespoons of fresh lemon juice. Then peel two to three cloves of garlic and chop them as finely as possible. Place them into the mixture. Add ⅓ cup of water, and heat on low heat for 10 minutes.
 Ginger is used as an expectorant, which thins out mucus and phlegm and acts as a bronchial relaxant. Adding ginger to tea, food, or a honey-lemon mixture can decrease the desire to cough.Peel and grate between one and two inches of fresh ginger root. Add it to a honey-lemon mixture.
 Warm salt water helps reduce swelling in your throat, which can lessen the cough. Just add one teaspoon of salt to approximately six ounces of water. Stir to dissolve the salt completely in the water. Then, gargle.Repeat every few hours or whenever your throat feels swollen.
If the cause of your cough is not a sore or irritated throat, this may not help your cough.

