 Keep in mind that you need to use a Rogue or Stalker class in order to change into a Shadow Chaser. The level requirement to start the quest is Base Level 99 and Job Level 70 or higher.
 Head to Morroc City using the Kafra Teleport Service. To locate a Kafra in the city, check your mini map, which can be found at the upper right corner of the screen, then look for an icon that resembles a brown satchel or treasure chest and head for it.

Once you reach the icon, look for a female wearing a maid attire. Talk to her by left-clicking and a window will open.
Scroll down the list to find “Use Teleport Service.” Click “Morroc” for your destination and then press “OK.”
Using Teleport Service requires you to pay for the fees. Depending on the traveling distance, fees ranges from 800z to 2500z, so make sure to bring money with you.
 Now that you’re in Morroc, from the center, head south of the city until you find a Girl with long purple hair standing next to a tent full of textile. Approach her and she will automatically talk to you, asking if you’re interested about a funny story.

After the brief dialogue, right-click her to start the conversation. Only then will she tell you about the Shadow Chaser.
If you click the girl again, she will tell you the destination of the Shadow Chaser’s hideout, the Pharos Lighthouse.
 The Pharos Lighthouse, also called the Rogue Guild, can be found at southwest from Morroc. To reach there, head south from Morroc City to leave and enter the field.

From there, head south again and enter the portal. Keep traveling west until you reach the map where there’s an island linked by two bridges; you can check this using your mini-map.
Head to the island using the bridge. There will be aggressive monsters in this area, but you can easily get rid off it. Head to the center of the island and climb down the long staircase.
Once you reach the end, look to your right and you will see a glowing portal, next to the pipe. Enter the portal to be teleported in the Rogue Guild.
 Inside the Rogue Guild, take the stairs that leads to the lower floor then enter the portal. In that floor, search for a man with an eye patch and surrounded by two young guild members. Talk to him and he will give you a cryptogram to solve in order for you to find the location of your next quest.

As the man explained, 35 11 54 34 33 is PAYON. If we break it as P = 35, A = 11, Y = 54, O = 34, N = 33, it gives us five letters with its corresponding codes as clue. Now the code which the Scary Man gives is 43 23 11 14 34 52 / 52 34 42 30 43 23 34 35 / 24 33 / 35 42 34 33 44 15 42 11.
If you can’t figure out the code, the answer is “Shadow Workshop In Prontera.”

, Now that we have deciphered the code, go back to Morroc using a butterfly wing, if you have any, or go on foot. Once you’re in Morroc, use the Kafra Service again to teleport to Prontera City.

In the city, go to the southeastern part of the map and then walk north, following the trail until you find a house with a portal by the door. Enter the portal.
 Once you’re inside, take the stairs that leads to the upper floor found at the upper left of the workshop and then look for an old man. He’s the manager of the workshop and the one who will give you the next quest.

When you talk to him, choose “Show the deciphered code” and then type in the code. For some reason, the “Shadow Workshop in Prontera” doesn’t work as a code, probably due to translation error. To get fix this, type in: “Shadow atelier in Prontera.”

, Right after you type in the deciphered code, he will reveal that their group breaks in and steals treasure. For your next quest, he will ask you to steal a treasure then return it to him, but first, you must solve his code in order for you to find your next destination.

He will give you a long set of codes, the same as the first one back in Rogue Guild. The message you will get from the code is: “Blue Fire in Turtle Island third floor.”

, To go to Turtle Island, you need to use the Kafra Teleport Survive again to travel to Alberta., From Alberta City, go to the southeastern part of the map where you will find sailors and ships. You will find an old man on the boat there and he can take you to Turtle Island for a fee.

Keep in mind that in order for the sailor to take you to the Turtle Island, you have to finish the Entrance Quest first, which is quite easy. All you have to do is to enter the Inn in Alberta found across the entrance of the city and look for an old man named Grandpa Turtle.
Talk to Grandpa Turtle and show that you’re interested about the Turtle Island until you get to ask him “How can I get there?” Only then will the Sailor allow you to travel to Turtle Island for a fee of 10,000z.
 Once you’ve reach the Turtle Island, enter the dungeon and then travel to the 3rd floor. At the 3rd floor, head to the upper left side of the map until you reach the dead end; that’s where you will find the Blue Flame., It will ask you for the code you deciphered previously. Simply type in: “Blue Fire in Turtle Island third floor.”, After you enter the code, the Blue Flame will summon a Shadow of Deception, which can be found somewhere in the map. Look for it and then kill it., Now that you have killed the Shadow of Deception, return to the Blue Flame and then talk to it to be teleported to a closed room. In that room is a treasure chest at the middle for you to take., Click the chest and choose whatever interaction you find fit and it will give you a coded message with “DECEIVE” and “HONESTY” as hints. The first to appear is a number of key, second will be the code. Once you have typed in the right answer, you will be given a “Key of Deception.”

Here are the answers of the codes in this order: Key, Code, Answer.

1 EFDFJWF IPOFTUZ
2 FGFGKXG JQPGUVA
3 GHFHLYH KRQHVWB
4 HIGIMZI LSRIWXC
5 IJHJNAJ MTSJXYD
6 JKIKOBK NUTKYZE
7 KLJLPCL OVULZAF
8 LMKMQDM PWVMABG



, To get out of the room, simply click on the treasure chest after you have received the key and then select, “Get out of the room” to be teleported back to 3rd floor of Turtle Island dungeon., Now return to Prontera and meet the Manager in the Shadow Workshop to give him the key., After you showed the key to the manager, he’ll be quite shock to know that the treasures are fake and that you have been deceived. He will tell you to go to Rachel to meet a manager of the Shadow Workshop there; he will give you the code you need once you tell the person that Graham sent you.

In order for you to reach Rachel, use the Kafra Service again to travel to Izlude. From Izlude, head south and follow the path that leads to the bridge and then to the aircraft.
Take the aircraft to Rachel by talking to the maid NPC standing next to the aircraft. She will ask you to pay 1,200z for the ticket.
After you pay for the ticket, you will be automatically teleported inside the aircraft. Remember not to leave the aircraft unless the announcement states that the ship has arrived in Rachel.
 First thing you need to do is to head to the center of the city where all the intersection meet. From there, take the right path and make sure you turned your camera around to see the doors of the shops lined up.

To turn your camera around, simply hold the right-click button of your mouse then move your mouse to left or right. Enter the portal next of the display of pots to enter the Shadow Workshop.
 From inside the workshop, head to the next room to find the Manager. Talk to him and select the option “Graham sent me.”

The Manager, named Paul, will give you another code to decipher, which will lead you to the Ice Dungeon and Lighthalzen for the next task.
 First, head to the Ice Dungeon to talk to the Red Flame. In order for you to get there, simply head out from Rachel through the east portal then keep on heading north until you have reached the last map. The last portal will teleport you to the Ice Dungeon., Once you’re inside, go to the next floor and then look at your mini map. You will notice that this map has four corners and each corner have a horizontal path that leads to the other road.

Notice that at the upper right side, the road has been cut off. Head to that direction and there you will find the Red Flame at the end of the path. Talk to the Flame and it will summon a monster named Shadow of Illusion.
 Look for the Shadow of Illusion in the map and kill it., After you killed the Shadow of Illusion, talk to the Red Flame to be teleported to a closed room., The same as the previous one, click on the treasure in the middle to receive a set of codes to solve., It’s very simple; all you need to do is to separate the numbers then add it to get the result like this:

COLD = 13 34 31 14 = 1+3+3+4+3+1+1+4 = 20
SEED = 43 15 15 14 = 4+3+1+5+1+5+1+4 = 24
FOOT = 21 34 34 44 = 2+1+3+4+3+4+4+4 = 25

, After you successfully answer the code, head back to Prontera to meet the Manager again and give him the Key of Illusion.

He will also advise that if the manager in Juno isn’t supportive, tell him, “I know what you did last summer!”

, You will be directed to go to Juno to meet the third workshop manager. To get to Juno, take the aircraft from Rachel., Once you get to Juno, you can find the Shadow Workshop at the most bottom right of the city, next to the city wall. Enter the building and then head to the basement where you will find the manager, Haled.

When you talk to Haled, you will be given an option to interact until it states that Haled refuses to cooperate. That’s when a command prompt will appear, type in the prompt: “I know what you did last summer!”
Haled will be alarmed and will tell you about a poem as hint, which will lead you to a place called Niflheim.
 You can only access Niflheim through Umbala, and to get to Umbala, you have to travel back to Izlude using the airship from Rachel and then use Kafra Teleport Service to go to Comodo City.

From Comodo City, leave the place through north and then keep on traveling north until you reach your destination, Umbala.
Looking at your mini map at the upper right side of the screen, you will see a red dot at the northern part of Umbala Village. Go there and then step in the portal to get inside the Yggdrasil Tree.
Going inside the Yggdrasil is the only way to get in Niflheim. Once you’re inside, be aware of the monsters and keep in mind that the mini map is useless at this point. Keep on exploring the place heading east until you find another portal that leads to the next level.
After entering two portals, you will be teleported to Niflheim. There are strong monsters in this level and mini bosses with high HP, so be careful.
 The Flame can be found at the middle northern part of the map.

Be aware that there are small monsters in this map and can detect hidden players. It’s best to kill the monsters first before you talk to the Flame.
 After talking to the Flame, it will summon the Shadow of Pleasure, which you have to kill in order to proceed to the next part., After killing the monster, return to the Flame to be teleported to a small closed room again for the code quest., This part of the quest is easy and simple, all you have to do is to convert each number to letters. For example, 1 is A, 2 is B, 3 is C and so on.

The answer for the code is “Turn and shake.”
After you enter the answer, select "Turn the house" and "Roll it to upside down" to get the key.
 Now that you have the key, you may now return to Juno and give the key to the Manager., Now for the final part of the quest, Haled will ask you to visit Vicente to figure out the mystery of the keys; he can be found in the city called Lighthalzen. Lighthalzen can only be accessed through the airship, so take the airship in Yuno, which can be found at the upper left side of the city., The Shadow Workshop can be found at the southwest corner of the town. You will find the manager as soon as you enter the building. Talk to Vicente and show him the key to receive your next step—visiting the Thanatos Tower.

Before heading out, make sure you have enough Flying Wings, which can be purchased from general store NPC. Thanatos Tower has a lot of mob that inflicts huge damage. Your hiding and tunnel skill is useful this time, but if you’re using Rogue, hiding will be enough.
 To reach Thanatos Tower, return to Juno using the airship and then leave the city through the south portal.

From the field, enter the portal to the east, then enter the portal at north and then north again.
From there, walk northwest of the map to find an idling NPC, simply talk to him and ask to send you to the Thanatos Tower.
 Now that you’re inside the tower, use your hiding skill to avoid the enemies. Look at the mini map at the upper right side of your screen and you will find a spiraling path at the northern part.

Head to that location and approach the center of the spiral to find a portal which leads you to a room. In that room, there’s a statue.
 Right-click the statue to interact and then insert the keys to get a Master’s Brush., Now that you have the item you need, you can leave the place and return to Vicente. In the conversation with Vicente, you get to choose different options. Select whatever you see fit until he will tell you to head upstairs and talk to an important person named Dumk., Ask Dumk to change you to a Shadow Chaser and you will receive a Makeover Brush, Paint Brush, Shadow Handicraft, and Green Apple Ring along with your class change.

Congratulations, you’re now a Shadow Chaser!

