 It is important to open the shirt in order to iron it. For some shirts, you will find that they iron much easier when they are inside out. Experiment with flipping the shirt inside out to see if it improves the final look.
 Read the fabric content label and set the iron to match, err on the cool side. For cotton/poly blend use a polyester setting.


If your garment label does not forbid steam, use steam. It will make ironing much easier.
 With the rest of the shirt off to the side, lay out the sleeve on the ironing board. The cuff should be at the narrow end of the board. Lay it as flat as possible, button-side of the cuff down, and smooth it out by hand.
 Starting with the seam on the underside of the sleeve (the one that leads into the armpit), flatten the sleeve from the point until another "seam" is created on the other side.
 Get some spray starch or sizing and spray it onto the whole sleeve, following the directions on the can.
 Iron the sleeve, starting from the shoulder and working down until about 3" from the beginning of the cuff. Be careful to avoid ironing over the buttons underneath.









If you want to avoid the seamed look, stop just short of the edges. Do a quarter turn on the sleeve before doing the other side and iron the new center to avoid wrinkles that you would have missed at the edge.
 There are a number of different ways to do this. Because off the little gathers and pleats at the cuff of dress shirts, this can be a very difficult area to iron. How you do it will depend on how much effort you want to put in and how dramatic the gathers and pleats on the cuff are.









You can simply iron the bottom of the sleeve and the cuff in small sections, if you want to save time and don't care too much about how it looks. Spread the pleats and gathers by hand and iron
You can roll up the hand towel into a tight roll (toughly the same size as your wrist) and place it in the cuff. Iron with this in place to avoid much of the difficulty of ironing this area.
If the pleats and gathers are very badly wrinkled, ball up the hand towel and stuff in down the sleeve so that it fills out the area as much as possible. Use the steam function to ease most of the wrinkles and then iron it as much as you can.
 This should be done in the exact same way as the first side, but should require less effort.








