 The following list explains exactly what is needed (also see Things You'll Need below for the crafting items):


At least 34 diapers (newborn or early stage)
2 receiving blankets
2 bibs, a chain linked toy (appropriate for a newborn or infant)
1 pair of infant socks
1 baby bottle
1 washcloth
1 plush stuffed toy (that does not contain buttons or any items that could pose a choking hazard).;
, Start by lining one side and stacking the diapers on their side so they sit upright, but placed horizontally. As you build up one wall side, migrate to the other side of the pan and build up that area.
 Keep creating the swirl shape.
 Wrap one of the rubber bands or soft elastic loops around the perimeter of the diapers.
 You may want to ask a friend to help with this because if a single diaper slips from the band, you’ll have to start the process all over again!

, Do this inside the pan the same way you designed the first swirl.


Add the rubber band around the diapers, then gingerly lift the tire from the pan and set next to the first diaper tire.
 Cover the rubber band or elastic loop with the ribbon. This improves the look and helps to give the impression of a tire.


Pin the ribbon in place, leaving the pin at the bottom of the tire so it doesn’t show.
 If necessary, iron the blanket to remove wrinkles.
 The roll must be tight enough to fit in the middle of the diaper tire hole. Pin the blanket roll in place.
 Match the ends so the blanket is hanging out half and half. The roll must remain in place, so pin each end of the blanket if necessary.
 Join the blanket from the first diaper tire to the second tire. Align the tires next to each other so they form the base of the motorcycle.


Tuck the end of the blanket into the hole of the second diaper tire. Pull gently so the blanket easily holds the two tires in place.






Add a pin on the ends of the blanket to ensure the blanket stays in place inside the tires.
 Then roll the blanket the same way you rolled the first blanket.
 Slide the blanket completely through the hole until both blanket ends meet.
 Keep the graphic or child’s name visible and facing outward.
 Slide the ring toy through the top so they hold the two blanket ends. Slide the toy until it is almost all the way down to the diaper tire.
 Check that it fits snugly.
 Slide a small piece of rolled-up light cardboard inside each handlebar roll.
, Try to pin in place if they don’t hold naturally.
, You may need to pin the toy in place, especially if the toy is pliable.
 You now have a fun, cute and very useful gift to give to the expectant mom.

