 Make reservations well in advance if possible, as the centrally located hotels are often sold out at peak times of the year (holidays, summertime, etc.) Hotels are much more expensive on the Island itself, so try searching for hotels around the Berlin or West Ocean City neighborhoods, as they are much more affordable but still close to the action.


Alternatively, consider booking a condo or timeshare for your vacation. There are hundreds of condominiums along the Island that often rent units by the night or week, and almost all of them are much larger and cost the same or less than a hotel room.





;
, Consider purchasing a pass for the day. You will find a much less crowded beach here than on the Island, and there are more water activities permitted, including surfing, skim-boarding, cookouts, and kayaking. You also will want to spot the Wild Horses (Ponies) and Sikka Elk (deer) that are native to the area. Assateague Island National Park also boasts walking and biking trails, nature walks, museums, beached shipwrecks, organized Ranger activities, camping sites, fishing and crabbing areas, and an off-road section which are great for recreational activities.


Keep in mind that Assateague isn't residentially populated. There are no restaurants, hotels, or the like on the island. There is a store where fast food is available for purchase, but this may be far away from where you are swimming. Packing your own picnic lunch is recommended.
 The boardwalk is approximately 2.5 miles (4.0 km) long, ending at 27th street, and is an excellent place to sight-see and jog by the ocean. There are many shops and restaurants, so bring extra cash to spend. Playgrounds and amusement parks along the beach for kids and families are located here as well. Consider getting dinner at Thrasher's Fries, or even purchase an Old Time Photos album as a memento of your trip.
 Ocean City has dozens of relatively inexpensive mini-golf courses, some with accompanying restaurants and gift shops as well. Ask a local or consult your hotel concierge for directions to the most popular courses.
 You'll find great crabbing and scenery to view, with a nature park.
 Book your tour well in advance, as reservations fill up early in the year. You can also visit the fishing pier for great elevated views and of course, to fish. The fishing pier is located along the inlet.
 There are many small antique shops, cafes, etc. to browse around in as well.
 This may seem obvious, but with so much else to see, you just might forget. Lifeguards are on duty Memorial Day through the end of September, from 10:00 AM to 5:30 PM. It is best to swim during these times, since the beach is guarded, and surfers won't be around.

