 You will want to make sure you have the appropriate supplies for washing dishes. You will need dish soap and a dish brush or sponge that can help you remove debris from the dishes. It will be helpful if the sponge has a side made for scrubbing.
 You will want to make sure your supplies are in a place that you can easily access while washing dishes. For example, you might want to place the sponge in a sponge holder that is on the back of the sink. You can position the dish soap right beside the sponge holder., Before you begin washing dirty dishes, you will want to make sure that the clean, dry dishes are put away. Use your hands to locate clean dishes on the drying rack or mat. Then place the dishes in their appropriate cabinets.

You can make putting dishes away easier by placing Braille labels on corresponding shelves and drawers.
 Before you attempt to wash dishes by hand or in a dishwasher, you should gently scrape all the food from the dishes. You can scrape the food directly into a trashcan or, if you compost, into the compost bin.

Use your hands to feel for any remaining food on the dishes after you have scraped them.
If you feel any leftover food, use a utensil or your hands to scrape it into the trash.
 An important part of preparing to wash dishes is making sure the sink is clean. Use your hands to make sure there is no food, debris, or dishes in the sink. If you locate food or debris, remove it and place it in the trashcan. Place any dirty dishes on the countertop beside the sink.As you clean out the sink, be sure to watch out for sharp knives and utensils.
 Turn on the water to a temperature that is hot, but comfortable to the touch. Put a small amount of dish soap in the sink. Place the tips of your fingers on the bottom of the sink with your hand straight up and down. Fill the sink until the water reaches the base of your wrist. The water should be no deeper than one hand’s length., After you fill the sink with hot water, add some soap to your sponge or dish brush. Then gently wash the inside and outside of each glass. Make sure you do not force your hand inside a small glass, as this can cause the glass to break.If you break a glass ask a sighted person to help you clean up the broken glass.
 It is important that you are careful when washing knives and other sharp utensils. Always hold the knife by the handle and gently run the sponge over the blade. Be careful not to push too hard on the blade as this can result in injury., Pots, pans, and other dishes that are covered in cooking reside, grease, or other debris should be washed last. This will help you keep your dish water as clear as possible while you are washing the dishes., As you wash the dishes, use your hands to feel for any grit, grease, or debris on the surface of the dishes. Then use your sponge or dish brush to scrub the problem areas until they feel smooth and clean., After you wash each dish, you will need to rinse. You can either rinse the dishes by running warm water over them, or by placing each dish in a separate sink of clean, warm water. If you rinse your dishes with running water, make sure you do so conservatively., Before you try to place the rinsed dishes in the dish drainer, dish rack, or drying mat, you will need to make sure there is free space. Use your hand to feel around for a space that will fit the size and shape of the dish. Then place the dish in the open space.