 If you're acting fine and chatting with your friends in the back of the classroom one minute, then trying to tell your teacher you're about to puke the next minute, no one's going to believe you. To pull off the illness ruse, you've got to lay the groundwork:


Stay quiet during the day, with a concerned look on your face. Cradle your head in your hands and sigh deeply. Squint your eyes.
Don't rush it. It's best if someone else brings up the subject of you not feeling good. If you lay it on thick enough, keeping your head down and looking ill, your teacher may say, "Is everything okay?" at which point you'll be able to play it off, and say, "I don't know, I just don't feel right. I think I'm okay." It's better to downplay it.
 After a long enough time has passed during which you can establish that you don't feel good, go up to your teacher: "Actually, I really don't feel well. I've got a bad headache and stomachache. Could I visit the nurse?" Get a hall pass and you're free of the classroom, your first obstacle.


For another option, get up in a rush and ask to go to the bathroom. Leave hurriedly, as if something were very wrong, then take your time and head to the restroom slowly. Kill some time in the bathroom, wash your hands, and head back to the classroom after a long enough period of time to vomit has passed. Tell your teacher quietly you just threw up and you'd like to visit the nurse.
 You've got lots of options available to you, depending on whether or not you want to be sent home, kill the rest of the class period in the nurse's office laying on a cot, or if you just want to cut out after you get your hall pass:



If you want to be sent home no questions asked, say you vomited. No one's going to make a kid stick around school who just puked in the bathroom, risking getting everyone else sick. The nurse will call your parents and ask if you can be picked up, or let you leave if you drive to school.

If you want to kill the rest of the hour go with a headache. If you just can't stand the thought of another boring lecture on nothing, why not nap it off in the nurse's office? When the period's over, the nurse will probably check on you, at which point you can tell them you feel better and you want to go back to class, or you can say you want to be sent home.

If you want to cut the rest of the day without calling home then just leave instead of heading to the nurse's office. Sign out and head wherever you wish.

