 Once you have characters and a world you can start turning the characters interacting with the world into a story. This involves creating dialogue. Use dialogue that matches the situation and the character. Try to make the dialogue as realistic as possible. Think about the way you talk and create conversations like that. Conversations are rarely 100 % directed. They sway and change subject constantly. Figure out a way to add authenticity, and humor to your dialogue. , The beginning middle and end doesn’t have to be incredibly distinctive, but keeping this organization in mind will help you plan out your plot. Take a look at other classic books and start to figure out what the beginning middle and end of those stories are.


For example, maybe the beginning of your anime has the protagonist’s little brother falling in a slime pit. The middle could be when your protagonist deciding to travel alone into the slime pit wearing an anti-slime suit to try to find his little brother. The end would be the thrilling conclusion where the slime demons living in the slime pit allow only one of the brothers to leave, and your protagonist stays behind so that his little brother can go home. , Character arcs don’t need to be really simplistic and dull. Not every story has to start with a sad character and end with a happy character. Rather, a character arc should allow the main character to undergo some sort of minor transformation or come to a realization. Even if that realization is that nothing changed from when the story started, that still adds a dimension to the story. What you don’t want is your character just running around doing assorted activities without any chain of logic. For example, maybe your protagonist is selfish at the beginning of the story but after helping save his brother he starts to realize that he really does care about other people but that he was shutting himself off to the world. Now you can address why he was shutting himself off to the world in the next episode.

