 Set your oven to 425°F (218°C) so that while you’re preparing other parts of this recipe your oven can heat up. In most cases, you can expect your oven to finish preheating in about 15 minutes, however this may vary depending on your oven., In a medium sized mixing bowl, use a wooden spoon or stirring utensil to toss your artichoke bottoms with 2 tsp (10 ml) of olive oil and 2 tsp (10 ml) chopped oregano. Then place the artichoke bottoms bottom up on one half of a baking sheet.To reduce cleanup, you may want to line your baking sheet with aluminum foil. This way, when you’re done, you can throw away the foil and won’t have to clean the baking sheet.
 Arrange your pancetta so it forms an even layer on the empty half of the baking sheet. Put the baking sheet in the oven for about 12 to 14 minutes, or until the artichokes begin to brown and the pancetta is crispy.

When the artichokes and pancetta are done, set these off to the side for later.
Be sure to use safety implements, like an oven mitt and potholder, when handling items fresh from the oven. These will be very hot, and can burn or cause damage to your kitchen., In a small mixing bowl, add the mayonnaise, yogurt, lemon juice, and water. Use a whisk or a fork to blend these ingredients until the mixture is smooth throughout. This is the sauce that will top your artichoke Eggs Benedict. Set it off to the side for later., Break your eggs into a large mixing bowl. Then use a whisk or a fork to beat the eggs. Beat the eggs until they form a smooth mixture., Place your skillet over medium-high heat and coat its bottom with the remaining 2 tsp (10 ml) of olive oil. Add your eggs to the skillet. Stir the eggs frequently with a spatula until the eggs are firm but are still moist and fluffy., When your eggs are firm, remove them from the heat. Use your spatula to fold cream cheese, the remainder of the oregano, and the salt into the eggs. Create an even distribution in these ingredients with your spatula., Divide your artichoke bottoms equally among 4 serving plates. On top of each artichoke, add the scrambled eggs, pancetta, and sauce in equal amounts. Garnish each artichoke with a sprig of oregano.