 You will all of the items below to make a plastic bottle mosquito trap. Every item is easily found at your local grocery and hardware store.


An empty, plastic 2 liter bottle
A marker or pen
A box cutter
A tape measure
1/4 cup brown sugar
1-1 1/3 cup hot water
1 gram of yeast
Measuring cup
Tape (duct, scotch, or electrical are fine);
, About 4 inches (10 cm) from the lid of the 2 liter bottle is about half of the bottle. You can use a ruler or measuring tape to find where 4 inches down the bottle is.









Extend the tape measure 4 inches.
Hold the end of the tape up to the end of the bottle’s lid.
Using your pen, make a mark where the tape measure ends; this is 4 inches.
 You will be cutting the plastic bottle in half. The measurements here do not need to be exact, but drawing a marked guide line will be helpful. Using the pen mark you just drew as a guide, draw a circle around the bottle 4 inches down from the lid. This will guide you in cutting the bottle in half.
 Keep both parts of the bottle; you'll use them both to make the trap.









Be careful of sharp plastic edges as you cut.
The edges don’t have to be perfect, so don’t worry if you’re a bit off from the marked guide line.
 Use your measuring cup to measure out 1/4 cup of brown sugar. Leave the sugar in the measuring cup; you will pour it into the bottle in the next step.
 You can heat up the water over the stove or in the microwave, whichever is more convenient. When the water begins to steam, it is hot enough for the trap.
 Pour the water slowly; since it is hot, you do not want to splash any water because it could burn you.
 Carefully pour the brown sugar from the measuring cup into the lower half of the bottle. Try not to spill any over the edges. Set the measuring cup aside once you’ve emptied it.
 Set the bottle aside for however long it takes the hot water to cool. Twenty minutes should be long enough.
 You don’t have to stir the mixture together. The yeast will consume the sugar and produce carbon dioxide, which attracts the mosquitoes.
 The lid of the bottle will be facing downwards at this point. While you are holding the top half of the bottle upside down, grab the bottom half with your other hand.
 Ensure the top of the bottle is above the water line.









Adult mosquito should have enough room to fly in the bottle and down the lid.
If there is not enough room for them to fly in the bottle, empty a bit of the solution out.
Now, insects can fly into the trap and die from suffocation or starvation.
 Use tape to keep the edges aligned. A few pieces of tape placed around the bottle will suffice to keep the edges in place.
 If there is a room or area where mosquitos have infested, place the trap there. A steady surface is optimal, such as a desk, counter, or the floor. Keep the trap out of people’s way so it won’t get knocked over.
 Eventually, many mosquitos will die in the bottle, and you will have to clean the trap for it to be effective again. Even if there are not many mosquitos, the liquid in the trap eventually loses its effectiveness because all the yeast has finished eating the sugar and no longer attracts mosquitos; many sources say this takes two weeks.Use a calendar to keep track of when you will need to change the liquid.
Change the liquid when the bottle is full of insects, even if two weeks have not passed.
 Luckily, this mosquito trap is reusable! Disassemble the trap by removing the tape. Then, wash both halves of the trap by rinsing it with water. Next, fill it up with more of the mosquito trap liquid.

