 Each sheep fleece is classified by a wool classer, who evaluates the fiber diameter, staple strength, staple length, yield and color. Before purchasing a sheep fleece, ask the seller about its classification.
 The fiber diameter, which is sometimes call fineness, is the thickness of the wool fiber measured in microns (one millionth of a meter). The finer the wool, the higher the quality. The fiber diameter should be uniform across a sheep fleece. Merino wool, which is the highest quality wool available, typically has a fiber diameter between 12 and 24 microns. On the other end of the spectrum, carpet wools have a fiber diameter between 35 and 45 microns.
 The natural bend or waviness of a wool fiber is called the crimp. Wool fibers exhibit natural elasticity, and can be bent approximately 30,000 times without breaking. The crimp varies along the diameter of the fiber, and can help predict how fine the wool is. Fine wools typically have more crimp per unit than coarser wools.
 To determine the staple length, measure from the base to the tip along an unstretched fiber. Length adds weight to the fleece; therefore, longer staple lengths are preferred over shorter staple lengths. The ideal staple length is between 2 and 4 inches (5.8 and 10.2 cm) because it is easiest to process or spin into yarn at that length.
 The yield is the amount of wool left after scouring. After it is washed, wool shrinks. The yield typically is posted as a percentage of the original greasy wool weight. The yield can vary from 40 to 70 percent. The bulkier the fleece, the higher the yield.
 Many farmers who raise their sheep specifically for wool take precautions to keep the wool protected. Ask about what efforts are made to prevent contamination of fleeces, whether the sheep are protected with coats, and what type of bedding is provided for the sheep. Inquire about the type of plants in the pastures and how the sheep are fed. The answers to these questions will provide insight as to the care of the sheep and the quality of the fleece.

