 Married couples can get comfortable with each other. This makes them lose some of the intense connection that made them get married in the first place. To prevent this from happening to you, tell you wife everyday how much you appreciate her. When she walks into a room, let her know that you know she is there. Give her a passionate kiss when you both wake up in the morning or she comes home from work. Let her know that you know she is there and still feel the connection between the two of you.


Try to hug her as well. Hugging is a simple physical connection that conveys how much you love her and that you appreciate her being around.;
, Something as simple as telling your wife you love her can make her happy. Everyday life can get crazy and small things like this can get lost in the shuffle. You may say it everyday out of habit, but say it like you mean it. Look her in the eyes before you leave the house and tell her you love her. Let her know that you are saying it because you feel it and not out of habit. She knows deep down you love her but hearing you say it with conviction will make her feel it too.


Pair this with an affectionate gesture, such as a hug, a kiss, or a caress. Keep it romantic but not sexual. You want her to feel that you still want to court her every day, just like you did before you were married., Surprise your wife every so often with a gift. It doesn't have to be elaborate or expensive. You can give her a small present that lets her know you were thinking about her. Show up at home with a box of chocolates. Pick her a bouquet of flowers on your way home from work. Buy her that book she has in her online wishlist. Notice what she says she'd like to have and surprise her by buying it for her. Not only will she love the gift you give her, she will be happy that you thought enough about her to get it.The gifts don't have to be bought. Anything you do for her that is unexpected will work. Surprise her by cooking her favorite meal. Do all the laundry because you know she hates doing it. You can even take the kids out of the house so she can have some time with her friends., A marriage can sometimes suffer from conversations that go something like "I did this, so you have to do that." Don't let your actions towards one another feel like they are payback for some other action. Instead, find time everyday to tell your wife thank you for the things she does. Say it in the morning when she puts on the pot of coffee. Tell her thank you when she picks up the dry cleaning after work when you have a meeting. No matter what the occasion, let her know that you see what she does for you.


Try to say it even when it's something simple. Tell her "Thank you for being you." or "Thank you for being the best wife a man could have." This lets her know it isn't just what she does for you that you are thankful for., You were both single people before you got married. Just because you now share a life doesn't mean that you have to share every interest you both have with each other. Give her time to write all day in the den if she wants. Let her go to the gym by herself. Give her the space she needs to work on the interests that she has that are separate from you. She will appreciate the time to recharge and be happier for it.


Don't take it personally when she wants to do something without you. Just because she wants to go to the bookstore alone doesn't mean that she doesn't love you. Encourage her to do the things she wants to do and do the same yourself. If you have happy as individuals, you will be happier as a couple., There are many small decisions in a marriage everyday. It can be something small like choosing what you have for dinner. Ask her what she wants to have for dinner. Let her choose what movie you see on date night. Give her the remote when you sit down to watch TV at night. Play her favorite game on game night. Letting her know that her opinion matters and that you care enough about her to let her decide will make her happy.


Don't grumble or act upset about what she chooses. That will just make her angry and make you seem like a spoiled sport., Writing love letters may seem scary, but it is a simple and effective way to make her happy. You don't have to be a gifted writer, just tell her how you feel. Let her know the things about her that you love and how she makes you feel. Tell her that you can't imagine your life without her in it. Explain how you don't work right without her in your life. Keep it simple by telling her how her laugh is the best sound in the world or how much you love the way her hair tickles you at night when you sleep.


Hide them around the house in locations she is likely to find them. Put one in her makeup bag or under her pillow before you both go to sleep. They will be a nice surprise for her and will make her happy all day long.