 Make math more interesting by turning it into a game. Download an app on your computer or tablet that uses math to solve puzzles or complete different levels in the game. You can also play old-fashion board games, like Monopoly or Yahtzee, to exercise your math skills while still having fun.Dice and Card games are also great ways to develop and test your math skills.;
, There are a lot of tricks in math that are fun to know because they save you a lot of time. They are often interesting, too. For example, adding up all the numbers from 1 to 100 is a lot of work. But, check out this very easy way to do it: 100 + 1 = 101 and 99 + 2 = 101, right? So does 98 + 3, 97 + 4, 96 + 5, etc. Instead, if you multiply 101 by the amount of these pairs, you will get your sum of all the numbers from 1 to 100, which is 5050. You could have added 1+2+3...but by doing this, you found a way out of doing extra work. That's fun.


Learn math tricks that will make calculating much easier.
 Math clubs will be filled with people who are passionate about math. By surrounding yourself with math lovers, it will inspire you to become interested in math, and to learn about the different ways in which math is incorporated in your everyday life. Join a club at school, online, or in your local community.
 A lot of people lose interest in math because it can be difficult to learn. Math can be difficult to learn because, in the modern-day classroom, students are taught to learn math by memorizing formulas. However, by learning math this way, students aren't taught the underlying principles and concepts, which are needed to understand why a particular formula is being used. Therefore, make math easier by learning and understanding the underlying principles and concepts of a given piece of mathematics.Ask your teacher during or after class why and how a particular formula works, while others do not. Ask your teacher, "What are the underlying principles of this formula?" or "How can I make this formula less abstract and more concrete?"
You can test yourself to see if you understand math by asking yourself these questions:Can I explain mathematical facts and concepts in simpler facts and concepts?
Can I make logical connections between different concepts and facts?
Can I identify the principles that make everything work in a given piece of mathematics?



