 Whether that interest is bowling, knitting, debating, experimenting, cooking, flying, sporting, or gaming, getting involved with a community of like-minded people will make a huge difference.


When you get there for the first time, introduce yourself. Try not to act shy. Maintain eye contact; try to stay relaxed. Remind yourself that other people are likely to be just as nervous as you are.
 Don't be afraid to ask your friends for help. When you do, be appreciative. As mentioned earlier, people get satisfaction out of helping others out; it makes them feel useful and accomplished. Guess what? Useful and accomplished people are generally happy and fun to get along with. That means that you'll have an easier time socializing and just being yourself around them.


Ask for help on your homework
Ask for directions when you're lost
Ask for help on a project
Ask for advice on a problem you're dealing with

, Holding it all in can be a tricky thing: you can feel stifled, like you have no one to open up to. For these reasons, it's best to trust in other people and tell people you trust about what you're going through. Talking about your problems, with a friend or a professional, can help you reach catharsis, which is a word for the cleansing of emotions.
 If someone trusts you enough to let you in on their secret, be good enough to keep it. That means no gossip, no accidentally letting it slip, and no playing sides against one another. Imagine what would happen if you told someone your secret and they let it accidentally "slip" to a group of other people? You'd be hurt and feel betrayed. Don't make the other person feel the same way. Finding happiness is all about keeping your friends close and giving them good reason to trust you.
 Along the same message: if you say you're going to do something, follow through with it. Words are only words until they're made true by actions. Understand that your friends depend on you; keeping your promises will help reassure them that you're a man or woman of your word.


What does happiness have to do with keeping promises? Following through on your promises is all about teaching trust. You teach your friends to trust you. If you constantly promise things that you can't deliver, your friends will stop trusting you. If your friends stop trusting you, you'll find that your friends aren't as close.
 When you're down and need someone to cheer you up, call a friend or two. Find a productive, fun way to keep your mind off of what's bothering you. Your friends believe in you. They're your friends because they want to see you happy, and because they enjoy spending time with you. Hopefully, they would do as much for you as you would do for them. Lean on them when you need to.
 Your family loves you unconditionally, even if they might not show it in the clearest of ways. Your family cares, first and foremost, about your safety and well being. Next, they want to see you succeed and live a fulfilling life. Even just talking with your family about problems you may be having can feel really good.

Try not to worry about your family judging you; ultimately, what they want is for you to be able to find happiness on your own. If you're afraid of telling your parents something, find a friend or another family member to open up to.
You don't have to have a "problem" in order to talk or hang out with your family. If you can talk with your family about normal, everyday things, that might bring a lot of happiness to you. Opening up to your family about everyday things is a huge step you can begin to take in your relationship with them.
 One study has found that people who engage in deep conversations experience more happiness than people who chitchat about small, trifling things.So next time you find yourself gossiping about the weather or what Rihanna wore to the Grammy's, resist the temptation to talk about life's emptier subjects and reach for something big and bold. You won't regret it!

