 Many paraprofessionals start as babysitters or daycare workers. Others are parents of young children and are comfortable with the prospect of working with elementary education students all day. , Take basic computer classes, typing classes or note taking classes. Almost all paraprofessionals are asked to write reports, keep track of disciplinary issues and perform administrative tasks for teachers. , Paraprofessionals who specialize in special education may have some personal experience working with people with mental or physical disabilities. A personal connection can help you to understand the value of this role.
 This is the minimum schooling required for general paraprofessionals.
 If you know the area where you will be working, call the local school district and ask if they provide training for people who are interested in employ as a paraprofessional. Apply for the program, if they do.
 Seek an associate’s degree in instructional assistant training, special education assistant training, early intervention provider or another discipline. , If you need to work while you go to school, you can apply for work as a paraprofessional, while seeking a qualification as a special education teacher or program administrator.


You may apply for paraprofessional work after you enroll in school. Some states may require that you take an exam to qualify or wait for 2 years of post-secondary education.
 If you have extensive experience working with children with disabilities or educational environments, you can study independently and try to pass an assessment with a local school.


The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 requires that you complete 2 years of higher education (60 credits), earn an associate’s degree or pass a local assessment.
The school district you work in may have further restrictions on which option you can take. Call the district before you choose which path you want to take.
 Inquire about open positions you can apply for.
 This is the time when schools renew contracts and learn about vacant positions. Few schools need to hire during the fall semester.
 Occasionally, paraprofessionals must work 1 or several part-time positions, depending upon the need for special education paraprofessionals.
 Take a job as a general paraprofessional while you wait for work in special education. You may be asked to assist an elementary school teacher, oversee a computer lab, work with pre-school children, be an administrative assistant or be a playground attendant.
 Many schools choose to promote people to new jobs from within. Ask if a special education position is opening up before the end of the school year.
 Most states offer conferences or certificate programs that allow you to learn about working with children who are deaf, blind, autistic, intellectually or developmentally disabled, or who have mobility disabilities. Complete a program during the summer term or breaks from paraprofessional jobs.
 In the US, special education paraprofessionals make between $17,000 and $39,000 per year. The more experience and duties you are able to cover, the higher your pay will be.
 Some states, such as Texas, provide paraprofessionals with over 45 community college credits to enroll in online special education training to increase their qualifications.

