 Use a rubber brush or a grooming brush intended for kittens or cats. Hold the ferret in one hand or have a helper do this. Use quick gentle strokes, and make sure you eventually brush all areas of the ferret’s fur.Ferrets tend to fidget when brushed so you may want to do frequent short sessions instead of longer attempts;
, Laxatone is the usual preventative hairball treatment given to ferrets. Administer laxatone by putting it on the ferret’s nose or paws for them to taste and ingest. These are orally administered medicines to smooth passage of hair in the ferret’s digestive tract.Laxatone works by allowing the hair to slide through the ferret's gastrointestinal tract, and out of the body without a hairball ever forming. Laxatone is available in many pet stores.
 Feed the ferret every 3-4 hours. A standard ferret diet should maintain good coat and skin health. The ideal ferret diet should be 30-35 percent meat protein, and 15-30 percent fat.Ferret’s need a diet high in protein, high in fat, low in fiber, and low in carbohydrates. Ferrets have a high metabolism so think about leaving some food out all of the time. Whole prey (such as a live mouse) is ideal for a ferret’s diet, but may not be practical for most pet owners. Ferret-specific foods are available in many pet stores. Cat food can sometimes be substituted, but ask your veterinarian.
 You can either find a ferret food with this already in it or add it in artificially. The taurine comes often in “FerretVite.” FerretVite should be added to the water in liquid form 1 teaspoon daily.FerretVite is a multivitamin that will help with overall nutritional health including coat and skin health. It also comes in the form of an edible paste.
 The usual supplement given for ferret’s for arachidonic acid is “FerreTone.” Mix 3/4 teaspoon (3.75 ml) of the supplement into the ferret’s food daily for adults or 1.5 teaspoons (7.5 ml) for kits, pregnant, and nursing ferrets.This is not normally necessary when feeding your ferret a normal diet, but may help with maintaining skin and coat health. Arachidonic acid helps with fur health, neurological health, and skeletal health.

