 If you are applying for Supplemental Security Income, you must apply in person. If you are applying for Social Security Disability Insurance, you can choose to apply in person or start the process online.
 A birth certificate shows proof of age and proof of citizenship, if you were born in the United States. Otherwise, you can provide a United States passport or naturalization certificate.
Medical documents, such as your doctor's, hospital's and caseworker's names, phone numbers and addresses. You will also need to provide your medical records and a list of all medication that you are taking. Provide all applicable tests and lab results.
Work documents, such as information about your recent place or places of employment. Gather your W-2 documents or federal tax returns, if you are self-employed.

Income documents, such as payroll stubs, tax returns and work expenses. You must also provide bank statements, investment statements and life or disability insurance statements, if you have them.
Residence documents, such as a lease, rental receipts or property tax records. You must also provide detailed information about anyone else living in the house and receipts for living expenses, such as utilities and food.
Medical documents, such as medical records, tests, laboratory results, medications and the names, addresses and phone numbers of doctors and hospitals that treat you.
Work documents, such as W-2s or federal tax returns. You should also be able to provide job descriptions, hours worked and other detailed information about jobs within the last 15 years.
 If you are applying for SSDI, you should go early or in advance, in order to give yourself time to fill out the claim application. If you are applying for SSI, the Social Security office will fill out the paperwork for you.


Apply for SSDI online, at SSA.gov/applyfordisability/, if you would prefer. This is the fastest way to start your claim. You will fill out the same form you would get at a SSDI meeting. The application will reference the documents you have gathered and ask you to provide your personal information. Once you submit your form online, you will need to gather your documents and mail them to your local Social Security office.
 Submit your application at your appointment or by mail.
 The Disability Determination Services Office will contact you with the outcome, or to request more information. You may need to go in for a separate medical evaluation.

