 One of the most under-appreciated and completely delicious ways to enjoy a slice of toast is by throwing some bread or buns on the grill and letting the heat and smoke crisp them up. Try this after grilling burgers, or bratwursts to pick up any meat juices left on the rack, or liven up your next campfire breakfast with smoky toast.If you're using a campsite grill rack, try to clean it up first by scraping it with a spatula or a knife. They can be kind of rusty and stuck with gunk. Let it heat some in the fire to cleanse it, and then scrape off any carbon bits left on.
 You can drizzle a little olive oil onto slices of hearty French bread to get a nice crunch going, or you can just place bread directly onto the rack. Keep a close watch, because it'll toast up very quickly.


Leave the lid off the grill. It'll happen too fast to worry about conserving the heat. If you're over a fire-pit, stand close by and watch the toast. It'll be burned by an extra couple of seconds.
 Toast over the grill can burn or even catch fire very quickly, so it's a good idea to keep it rotating from side to side, as you would a marshmallow. If it gets a little scorched, try not to worry too much.









It's difficult to get bread truly "toasted" over the fire, but that smoky scorching is a delicious alternative that's just as good.
 The early Romans made toast by laying out slices of bread on hot rocks close to the fire. It doesn't get any more simple than that. Lay out some bread on a rock and howl at the moon on your next camping trip., The old camp classic is perfect for making toast or grilled sandwiches over an open fire. Basically, a pudgy-pie maker is a metal clamp with long handles that you can use to toast bread over a fire with.









Butter or oil both inside surfaces of the metal, then place your slices of bread (plain white bread usually works best) inside the maker and clamp it closed. Hold over the fire for a few minutes on each side and check it periodically to make sure it's not burning. Enjoy hot.
Making a grape jelly sandwich in the pudgy-pie maker over an open fire is a camp luxury you owe yourself. Like, now.

