 Train another peon to go scouting for the enemy (he is always by a gold mine, but some mines are occupied by creeps).;
, Just as the builders finish building, send them to the gold mine, but have the last one build another burrow, then send him to the gold mine.
 Take one of the peons gathering lumber and have it make a war-mill real close to the trees. Now start upgrading your great hall.
 Just as your hero and a grunt finishes training, send them to a green dot on the map close to your base. Have them focus on one creep at a time.


If you see any chests or books drop from the creeps when they die, right click on them. If it is a potion, only use it when you're low on health for health potions, or low on mana with mana potions.
 When you're creeping, you should build one or two extra burrows.
 By now, your town hall should have finished upgrading. Use a peon from the gold mines to build a bestiary and spirit lodge.


Summon a second hero at the altar of storms. At the bestiary, research, ensnare, war drums, and envenomed spears.






At the spirit lodge, research witch doctor adept training and shaman adept training. Also, train a few shaman and a couple witch doctors and a couple kodo beasts and raiders.






While doing this, upgrade your stronghold.
 Now, with 2 heroes and 3 grunts, a couple raiders, a couple kodo beasts, a couple witch doctors, and a few shaman you can try creeping red dots.


Expand (clear out a gold mine close to your camp, build a great hall there,and train peons to gather gold and lumber).






Hunt for enemy expansions if you don't feel like creeping or if all the creeps near your side are gone. While doing this, you should build a few more burrows.
 When the stronghold finishes, it's your choice if you want the third hero.


In the beastiary, train 3-4 wyverns.






In the spirit lodge, research shaman master training and witch doctor training, and if any of your units died (other than grunts), replace them.






Use a peon to build a tauren totem and research pulverize. After it finishes researching, train 3-4 tauren.
 With all those units and 2-3 heroes and knowing where the enemy is, you should attack.


If the enemy masses towers, bring along a few catapults.






If you destroy all his towers but the screen doesn't say victory that means he either got a hidden building, a different base hidden somewhere,or a hidden expansion.






Use a goblin laboratory to reveal, or a far seers far sight ability to check out the gold mines. Hunt him down and wait for victory to appear on the screen.







