 While doctors and scientists do not believe a poor diet can cause eczema, healthy foods go a long way in promoting total body health.Opt for foods rich in vitamins and nutrients over those loaded with preservatives and empty calories. Eating good foods will improve much more than your skin health.


Try adding fish oil capsules to your diet. Check sensitivity to pork and food dyes. Seafood has also been known to incur an allergic reaction.
 Bargain brands often contain harsh chemicals that can strip away the skin's protective oils. Use only the recommended amount to ensure that your washer will be able to rinse it all out. Try to buy new clothing without tags, and make sure you wash it before the first wear., If you are treating a flare up, alternative bathing methods may be necessary. When the flare up subsides, look for soaps and shampoos designed to promote healthy, moisturized skin. Stay away from soaps and shampoos containing dyes and perfumes., When treating an eczema flare up, look for moisturizers that are designed to control itching and inflammation, repair the skin, and fight infection. When the flare up subsides, switch back to an everyday sensitive skin moisturizer. See this guide for more on choosing the right moisturizer., This includes licking your lips as well, if that is the affected area. There are several ways to reduce itchiness from eczema. Make sure your skin is moisturized by keeping the house humid and applying moisturizer throughout the day. Keep your fingernails short and smooth so that absent-minded itching is less harmful to your skin – but keep an eye on your hands!, In normal circumstances, a degree of sunlight is beneficial for your skin as a source of vitamin D. In fact, many eczema patients report that sunlight helps their symptoms in general. However, prolonged exposure to sunlight can also make your rash worse. If you're going to be outside for a long time, cover affected areas with clothing, if possible, to minimize damage from sunlight.


Be especially careful about the sun if you're using corticosteroid-based cream. If you use this cream, your skin will be especially susceptible to sunburn, so you should keep your affected skin out of direct sunlight.
 Remember to reapply moisturizer as often as recommended on the packaging. Make sure to moisturize at bedtime to get your skin prepared for the next day. You should also reapply moisturizer after getting out of the shower, as that process can remove your skin’s oils that keep you moisturized. For more on moisturizing, see .
 While stress may not cause eczema, it can contribute to its worsening and persistence. Try to reduce pressure in your life. Learn how to meditate or use relaxation exercises. Make sure you reach out to those around you to help you manage your stress.