 Pick a plan that works best based on your running abilities and goals. If you've never run before, your training routine will be different from the routine of someone who is a champion sprinter and wants to run a 5K in under 25 minutes. Check out online running resources to see which training schedule works for you.Once you pick your plan, you should write it into your planner so you know what you're doing every day for the next eight weeks.
 Don't wear yourself out by running and training every day. Pick two days that are far enough apart that fit your schedule.


Typical rest days are Mondays and Fridays.
 You should ideally cross-train one or two days every week. Cross-training is anything from biking or swimming to using elliptical at the gym.


Plug two days of cross training into your routine, but take one of them off to rest if you need to.
 Stretching will maximize your performance and prevent injury.
 Run the same distance for 2 days a week, such as Mondays and Thursdays, and build toward running a slightly longer distance on your long run day, which will be a Saturday or Sunday. Here is what your training should look like if you are able to run one mile before you start training:


Run one mile on the Tuesday and Thursday of the first week, and 1.5 miles (2.4 km) on the first Saturday of that week.
On the second week, run 1.5 miles (2.4 km) on Tuesday and Thursday and then 1.75 miles (2.82 km) on Saturday, and so on.
By the seventh week, you should be running 2 or 3 miles (3.2 or 4.8 km) on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 3 miles (4.8 km) by Saturday.
On the last week, you can train during the week but rest on the day before the race instead of doing your long run.
Go online to find a way to measure the distance of the streets in your town. You can also run these distances on a treadmill, but running outside is optimal for race training., Though it would be amazing to be able to do what you say you're going to do for 8 or even 12 weeks in a row, it's likely that you'll have to make some adjustments, whether it's because you got a cold, have another obligation to attend to, or if your body just feels too tired to do anything that day.


If you have to skip a day, keep up the rest of your schedule. If you miss a cross-training day and you have a running day the next day, just start back up on the running day. You shouldn't have to shift your entire schedule around because you missed one day.
If you have to miss a week of training because of a cold or minor injury, don't worry. It's better to take time for your body to recover than to make yourself feel worse. Just try to get back on schedule as soon as you can.
 It's important to maintain your health while you train for a 5K. Your training won't get you very far if you're not trying to be as healthy as you can in all aspects of your life. Though you can still have fun, you should aim to maintain a healthy diet and a regular sleeping schedule.


Eat three healthy and balanced meals a day. Have a blend of carbs, proteins, fruits, and vegetables in your diet.Work on going to bed and waking up at the same time so you build up a regular sleeping schedule.
Though you can still drink alcohol from time to time, try not to overindulge the nights before your training runs.
Don't overdo it. If you feel physically exhausted after all of your training, take a break. You want to reach your physical peak on your race day, not several weeks before.

