 Treat it well and treat it with respect. Your pet has feelings and responds to the tone of your voice, your body language and your emotional states.

Talk to your pet in a sweet, genuinely interested voice.
Talk calmly. The calmness of your voice helps the animal to feel comfortable.;
, Know which foods are best for it and will ensure its overall health and well-being. What diet would it normally consume? What good quality food can you source within the budget you have? Make sure you do your very best to obtain quality food for your pet.

Feed your pet regularly, when it is appropriate for the species. If you cannot be there on time, ask a family member, friend or neighbor to feed the pet as needed.
Do not overfeed your pet.
 Realize how strange and scary it can be to be removed from a familiar place to an unknown one. Speak reassuringly and kindly, and slowly introduce the pet to its new area, whether it be different parts of a cage, the house or even outdoors. Always remain present whenever a pet explores a new area, in case it needs help, gets scared or looks to bolt., Most animals like to sleep somewhere secure, where they can be reassured that nothing will jump on them from behind and where they won't be trodden on or in the way of anything. Make it comfortable for the pet, according to the pet's particular needs. Ensure that bedtime routines are established and kept to.

If it is a crate, make sure you associate the crate with positive rewards, like treats, or kind words. Don't associate their spot with anything bad, like a time out.
 Determine what treats are appropriate for your pet and use these sparingly but appropriately, to reward and sometimes to calm, the pet. If it is appropriate, help your pet to associate the treat with a word, so it knows when it is about to be rewarded. Your tone of voice can often help too.

Try stroking your pet while feeding it treats. This helps your pet to associate you with treats and enjoyment.
 Do humans want fleas? Why would animals want them either? Make sure your animal gets bathed every once in a while, like every week or so. Make sure the knots in the pets fur are sorted out, and they are feeling fresh and clean., As with grooming, pets want a clean and comfortable environment and this will help them to feel secure., Provide the right exercise gear for your pet and let it have the opportunity to exercise regularly. Whether it's a fish or a dog, your pet needs to move to stay healthy., Spend time with your pet and interact with it. If it's a pet that can be touched, pat it or hug it. Play with the pet and groom it. Talk to your pet, whenever you are near the pet. You can even talk to your pet as you do chores around the house.

If you have a dog, walk it often and take it to the park regularly.
Try talking to your pet while it eats or plays.
 Many pets can be trained and, in some cases, training is essential for good behavior. You could teach your dog to roll over, your cat to come when called or your rabbit to shake paws.