 Triathlons can be unlocked fairly early on in the story mode. One of Michael’s missions, titled “Daddy’s Little Girl”, allows the player to participate in triathlons once completed. This mission occurs after the mission “Marriage Counseling” (also one of Michael’s missions).

The mission begins with a cut scene—Michael is in his mansion, trying to watch a movie. His son, Jimmy, is making too much noise upstairs. After a brief argument that ends in Jimmy’s TV being smashed, the two decide to go out and spend some time together.;
, As Michael, enter your car and wait for Jimmy to get in. Once he enters the car, follow the yellow line on the map in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen, which leads to Vespucci Beach., Once you arrive at Vespucci beach, exit the car and approach the yellow dot on the map, which leads to the Bike Rental area. After approaching the area, you and Jimmy will get on the bikes and begin to race., Follow the yellow line on your map once more. Steer using the toggle stick, and accelerate by repeatedly pressing the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Shift key (PC).

After the race is over, a cutscene will begin. Jimmy reveals that Tracy is out on the boat with some questionable men; you’ll have to go rescue her.
 Approach the end of the pier, and dive into the water by pressing the button prompt that appears on screen. You can swim by pressing the toggle forward, and swim faster by repeatedly tapping the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Shift Key (PC)., It should take about a minute and a half to get there., Once you’ve reached the boat, climb onto the deck by toggling towards the ladder that extends into the water. Take the stairs on your right, and another cutscene will begin., You’ll have to flee from your pursuers on the Jet Ski. Michael will automatically board the vehicle, followed by Tracey. Take a left and turn into the outlet to go underground. Your attackers will begin shooting at you; you can retaliate or keep going.

Take a right, and you’ll be out in the light again. Keep going straight until you come to the docks, then take a right again, heading towards the sailboat.
 By now, you will have lost your attackers. Continue back out into the ocean, and head towards the yellow dot on the map to complete the mission. After completing “Daddy’s Little Girl”, you will receive a notification that triathlons are now available for your character., Unlike other sports, triathlons can be completed regardless of the time of day, so if you’re wanting to try the sport out, open the game map by pressing the Start button (PS3 & Xbox 360) or M key (PC)., These are triathlons. In total, there are three triathlons that will displayed at a time., While hovering over the triathlon icons, press the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Shift key (PC) to mark this as your destination., Depending on how far you are from the triathlon, you can either walk or take a vehicle., Once you approach the triathlon (which can be spotted by its large inflatable gate), an onscreen prompt will ask if you want to participate or not. Select yes to begin. After you have selected yes, the screen will grow dark, and reopen to a group of racers on the shore of the beach, including your character. A countdown will then commence., The first section of the triathlon is the swimming portion. The racers will begin on the shore of the beach. Once the triathlon begins, repeatedly tap the X button (PS3), A button (Xbox 360), or Shift key (PC) to sprint into the water., Once you have waded deep enough into the water, your character will begin swimming. You can control their direction using the toggle stick and make them swim more quickly by repeatedly tapping the X button, A button, or Shift key., Once in the water, follow the yellow checkpoints on the minimap in the bottom left-hand corner. You will eventually swim back onto shore, where a rack of bikes awaits you., Approach the bikes, and press the Triangle button (PS3), Y button (Xbox 360), or F key (PC)., Once on the bike, repeatedly tap the X button, A button, or Shift key to accelerate while using the toggle to steer. Once again, follow the yellow checkpoints on your map to advance. Once you reach the last checkpoint, your character will automatically dismount the bike, and begin the last section of the triathlon., Sprint by repeatedly tapping the X button, A button, or Shift key. Once again, follow the checkpoints on your mini map to the end of the race., As this is the last leg of the race, be careful with your character’s stamina. Their stamina bar is the blue bar next to their health, and decreases with excessive physical strain. If this bar runs out, your character will begin to take damage.

It is best to monitor stamina usage in the first two events, saving all of your character’s energy for the last sprint.

