 Tap the App Store icon on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “UPAD” on the search field and tap the “Search” button to begin your search.
 Locate the correct app and tap on it. The app is developed by Pockey Soft.


Tap the “Free” button beside the app then on “Install.”

, Locate the app on your iPad. It has an app icon with a yellow pad background with the letter “U” written on it. Tap on it.
 When UPAD loads, it will display all the pads or files you have on it.
 Tap the plus (+) sign at the bottom toolbar to create a new pad. You will be asked for the memo template to use.


UPAD has some good templates already installed. Scroll through them to see if it has the calendar template you can use.
 Most likely, there’s no calendar template existing yet. This shouldn’t be a problem as you can import any image to be your template. All you need is a workable blank calendar template. Tap the first button from the left to create a new template. The list of options for template sources will be displayed.



Import from Photo Album. Tap photo album icon if the calendar template is saved as a photo in your photo album. Select the template from your photos to load it.

Import from Camera. If you want to take a new photo of the calendar template you want to use, tap camera icon. Use your iPad’s camera and take a photo of the template.

Import from Clip Board. Tap the clip board icon if the calendar template you want to use is already stored in your clipboard. You may have already copied it to your clipboard from another source.
 Select the template by tapping on it. It will immediately be loaded on your screen, ready for use., The best calendar template to use is one set by month and year. Don’t get a calendar template for a whole year as it will be too cluttered and too small to be of any use. Once you’ve loaded it, first thing you have to do is to name it. A good naming convention will be to use the month and year. Write the name on the top of the calendar using your finger directly on the screen.
 If you’ve loaded a blank calendar template, most likely it won’t have any days or numbers on it yet. If it already has, you may skip this step. Otherwise, identify the date boxes by writing the corresponding day numbers.


Be sure to match it correctly with the actual calendar.
 After you’ve identified the month and year and put in the dates, you’re all set to use your custom calendar., Identify the date on your month calendar that you need to mark or write on. Tap on it so you can see where you’re going to write on.
 You can directly write on the screen, but if you’re limited to its size, you can always maximize or minimize, just like any photo on your iPad. Maximize the box you’re writing on for better control on what you’re writing.


You can format your entry by using the formatting tools in the header toolbar. Tap on the icons to use them. There are tools for text boxes, coloring, highlighting, and erasing.
 If you want to write across multiple dates, across the whole week, or even across the whole month, you can. Since the calendar you’re using is technically a photo, you’re not limited by the boxes on the template. You can do whatever you want and write wherever you want.
 Once you’re done making your entries, tap on the leftmost button on the toolbar to save your work and exit the current file. You will be brought to the main library with all your pads or files.