 If you find an inaccurate item listed on your credit report that was reported by a company or individual, the reporter also has a responsibility to correct that information.Typically you can find an address for the information provider on your credit report. If no address is provided, you may have to contact the business or individual listed and find out where you should mail a letter disputing information on your credit report.
If you are unable to contact the information provider, plan on sending your letter to any business address for the information provider that you can find.
Unlike credit bureaus, most information providers only accept disputes through the mail – they don't have options for you to file your dispute online or over the phone., Even though the credit bureau should notify the information provider if you report the error to them, you should also write to the information provider directly.Format your letter in traditional business letter format. Most word processing applications have templates you can use.
The FTC has a sample letter, available at http://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/0485-sample-letter-disputing-errors-your-credit-report-information-providers, that you can copy and paste into your word processing application.
In your word processing application, replace the bolded words in brackets with the information that is applicable to your situation.
 Once you've proofread your draft, you're ready to send it to the company along with copies of any evidence of the inaccuracy.Include any and all evidence you have to back up your assertions, such as old statements, letters from the business, or cancelled checks – but make sure you send copies, not the originals, because you can't expect to get the originals back.
Make a copy of your signed letter and everything you're sending with it before you mail it so you have it for your records.
 Once you've notified the company that you dispute the information in your credit report, the company has a responsibility to investigate the matter and remove or correct the information as necessary.Use certified mail with returned receipt requested to mail your letter, so you will know when the company receives notice of your dispute.
Once the individual or business receives your dispute, it must notify all credit bureaus to which it reports that you have disputed the item.
Information providers generally have between 30 and 45 days to investigate and respond to your dispute., If the information provider continues to report to the credit bureau, it must have the incorrect item updated or removed.The information provider also is responsible for having the information updated or corrected on credit reports issued by any other credit bureau – not just the one that prompted your dispute – if it reports to more than one.
Keep in mind that information providers aren't required by law to investigate some types of disputes, including disputes that involve the reporting of incorrect personal information such as your name, address, or Social Security number.