 If you would like to watch the snail for a couple days, then release it back into your garden, it doesn't matter too much which container you use, as long as the snail has access to air. A plastic container or jar with a few holes punched in the lid will work. Or instead of a lid, you could use a piece of cheesecloth fitted over the rim of the container with an elastic band.


Keep in mind that snails can climb vertical surfaces, and may escape if the container does not have a lid.;
, If you're keeping the snail for more than a few days, use a container that provides enough space for its size. Only baby snails or the smallest adult varieties can be kept long term in a plastic container.Most require a larger tank to stay clean and healthy. You can purchase a terrarium at a pet store made for this purpose.


Use a 5 gallon (19 L) tank or larger so the snail has room to move around. If you have several snails or intend to take care of young snails if the adult ones reproduce, get a larger tank.
 Just like humans, snails inhale air to use the oxygen, and exhale carbon dioxide. Your terrarium needs holes to let air in, ideally on multiple sides to allow for better air circulation. Some people have reported snails becoming more active when air was allowed to exit through a tiny gap in the bottom of the terrarium., As long as the tank is kept moist, many garden snails will be fairly resilient when it comes to temperatures. However, they will be most active and safe at room temperature. Keep them in the shade during hot weather, and avoid exposing them to freezing temperatures.
 To reduce the chance of harmful bacteria, pesticides, and other dangers, purchase terrarium soil from a pet shop.The next best option is to use natural earth from a garden not treated with pesticides or chemical fertilizers. Put the soil in a layer at the base of the terrarium, fully covering the glass or plastic.


Avoid potting soil for plants, which can contain chemicals harmful to snails.
 Place a layer of sphagnum moss, peat, compost, or vermiculite on top of the soil.This traps moisture inside the soil, which creates good conditions for snails.
 Put objects in the tank that the snails can hide in and climb onto, which will make them more comfortable and more interesting to watch. At most pet stores they have fake logs for small animals to crawl through or short hamster tubes that snails might enjoy. You might find material you can use in your garden as well! Never use rocks in your terrarium as snails could fall off the sides of the glass and break their shell. Bark and sticks usually fall apart after a few weeks, so you will need to replace them.


Cardboard toilet paper tubes also make great climbing objects.
 Snails are surprisingly strong for their size, and are able to climb to the top of almost any tank. A lid that can fasten closed with a latch will probably prevent them from escaping. If your terrarium's lid does not have a latch, weigh down the lid with a pile of books or other heavy objects.
 Look for snails in muddy garden areas, old plant pots, or other moist places. If you can't see any, place a few pieces of fresh vegetables in your garden and check back later to see if there are snails eating them. Heavy rain often drives snails out into the open, so you'll have a better chance of success if you look during or following a rainstorm.


Garden snails are almost always safe to handle, but it's a good idea to wash your hands before and after touching them to minimize the chance of harm to your or your snail.If you do not want to touch the snails, wear gloves.

