, Cat trees, cat condos, or climbing posts give cats a place to climb, perch, and survey their surroundings. Being near the windows allows them to look at natural prey, which satisfies their curiosity and stimulates them to the point that they will be less likely to jump onto countertops and other surfaces.
 Cat shelves are padded surfaces attached to the insides of window sills. Like cat trees and other cat furniture, cat shelves satisfy curiosity while stimulating your pet at the same time. Choose windows with good sun exposure, as cats do like to lay in the sun, and the cat shelf is a great place to do so in a window that gets a lot of sunlight. The cat shelf gives your cat(s) an alternative place to sleep and/or watch what's happening outside, which can help keep them distracted from countertops.
 These toys may help use up their energyso they will be less inclined to jump on counters. If you can keep your cat interested enough in toys that stay on the floor in particular, you may also be able to keep them from becoming interested in jumping onto countertops. Change the available toys occasionally so they don't get bored and start jumping on counters for new stimulation.


Many cats like simple toys, like small, fake mice that you can throw across the room for them to chase—they may even bring them back to you!
Some cats will inevitably avoid expensive toys and play instead with empty plastic bags, boxes, laundry baskets, etc. Experiment with different types of toys to see what you cat likes before you buy an expensive toy.
Many cat toys are now electronic, with toy mice that run around a track or even ones with wheels so they can roll across carpeting or other floors on their own. Still other toys incorporate LED lights and other technology. These toys can be very stimulating for cats, thereby keeping them off off-limits surfaces like countertops.
 Cats particularly enjoy beds in which they can "nest" or burrow. Cats sleep 16-20 hours per day, which is a lot of time they won't be interested in jumping on countertops.If you give them especially inviting spaces in which to sleep, you'll be encouraging them to sleep in these spaces and not on countertops. You'll also be helping to ensure they are taking full advantage of sleeping time and not seeking out new stimulation around the house—such as on the countertops.
 This is so they don't become curious about what is on the counter from the smell of food coming from there. Cats' sense of smell is forty times stronger than that of humans.They will smell whatever you are cooking, and this can excite their sense of curiosity when you're not around, so they may jump onto the surface these smells emanate from.


Cats might even have trouble controlling their curiosity and jump on the counter even while you are actively cooking. Putting cats in another room while you cook can minimize their curiosity about countertops and help keep them from jumping there.
Be sure to provide a toy and comfortable place to sleep in whatever space you leave them while using the kitchen to cook or prepare meals so they are stimulated and comfortable.
Confining cats to another room while you're cooking doesn't work with all cats, so don't be surprised if your cat whines from inside the room. If this happens, try not to leave them in there too long or you may cause them stress.

