 Make note of physical ailments that your parents suffer. This could be chronic disorders like COPD, diabetes, heart disease, or high blood pressure. Consider illnesses like pneumonia, or damage caused by falling or accidents. These are concerns that you parents may not be able to heal completely on their own and may require further assistance of a senior residence.;
, Mental disorders in the elderly may be hard to diagnose. Make note of anything that seems out of the ordinary with your parents including forgetfulness, depression, or anxiety.These mental disorders can progress with age and your parents may require further assistance to live a happy and safe life. Signs of mental distress may include:


Forgetting dates or appointments
Having trouble recalling names
Challenges in planning or solving problems
Difficulty with day-to-day tasks or routines
General confusion
Difficulty telling time
Unable to visualize images or relationships (For example, picturing or describing concrete items may be difficult.)
Trouble with speech and/or writing
Withdrawal from social activities
Changes in behavior, mood, and/or personality

, According to the National Center for Assisted Living, 54% of seniors aged 85 or older require at least some assistance with daily tasks.. If your parents or loved ones are having difficulty in the following tasks, it may be time to consider moving them into a senior residence.


Navigating stairs
Bathing
Dressing
Eating
Maintaining a clean house or yard
Paying bills
Tending pets or plants
Taking medications

, Signs of unkemptness may be the beginning warning signs of other, more problematic medical concerns. If you see a decline in your parents appearance, such as changes in cleanliness, you may need to investigate for further problems.
 Humans are living longer and longer lives. Your parents have not have financially planned for a future. Or, medical bills may make it difficult for your parents to live the retirement they wanted. Whatever the reason, moving into an assisted living or retirement home may help the burden of debt.Sometimes, insurance companies may even pay for a portion of living expenses.
 If you are already involved with your parents’ health, you may be able to talk with their doctors and get a professional recommendation. They may be able to provide specific medical insight on what would be best for your parents.


You can also ask the doctors for referral of different living facilities or other healthcare options.
 Sometimes, moving your parents into a new residents may not be the best option. If your parents can still live on their own but require some assistance in day-to-day tasks, an in-home health aide or nurse might be right for you. These assistants can give your parents the help they need but without having to move your parents out of where they are most comfortable.
 This may be an option for you if you are worried about your parents safety. They can be worn on the person to call for help in case of an emergency or accident. This may be a good option if your parents can still manage a healthy daily lifestyle.
 Retirement communities come in a wide range. They can provide little assistance so that the residents can live a fairly independent life-style. Or, they can provide personalized care for each resident. Consider what your parents need to live a happy and healthy life style. Retirement communities can be great for not only physical assistance, but also provide much-needed social activities.
 More than 735,000 people in the United States, as of 2010, live in assisted living.Assisted living is designed for short term or long term health care for the elderly or disabled.It is often personalized for the individual based on need. If your parents require more help than you are able to give, consider assisted living.
 As the baby-boomer generation ages, advancements in aging continue to to grow. There are now specialty facilities that can give specialized help to patients with unique disorders. Assisted living facilities may have a wing dedicated to Alzheimer’s patients. If your parent has a special need or condition, ask facilities that you are interested in if they have specialized care.
 Do not just announce the idea out of the blue. Your parents are likely to feel hurt and unwanted if that is the case. You should be honest about your concerns.Broach the conversation in a respectful manner. Consider:


“Mom, Dad, can we talk about the future?”
“I see that you’re having trouble walking down all of these stairs. Would it better if you were to live somewhere easier to navigate?”
“I know you’ve recovered from your broken hip, but would feel better if you would get more help.”

, Perhaps your parents have been thinking it is time for a change on their own. Before you make demands or offer suggestions, have a heart to heart talk with their wishes and needs. Use some of the following conversation for some ideas:


”Have you thought about moving to somewhere you can get more health?”
”Have you considered hiring a home health aide to help out with your diabetes?”
”Where do you see yourself in the next few years?”

, No good decision was ever made in the heat of anger. The decision to move your parents into senior living should not be made alone.Do not try and force your opinion on your parents without first talking about all the options and listening to their opinions. This might help make the idea of moving more palatable and less combative.
 Researching, reviewing, and presenting facts may help distance yourself from a very emotional decision. This may be a tough time in your life and your parents’ lives. Try and examine facts as much as you can rather than making a decision solely on emotion.
 Your parents may be resistant at first to moving. This may especially be true if they have an attachment to their current home. They have resided there for many years. Try to place yourself in your parents’ shoes. Try and be courteous to their wishes and respect what they want. This might not always be the case given health concerns, but at least consider their viewpoint.
 This is a stressful situation. Your parents might vehemently disagree with this at the start. Keep calm and keep the conversation open. Remember that you love them (and they love you) and everyone wants to the best for all those involved.
 No situation has to last forever. Do your research and try different options. If you and your parents do not like the first option that you have chosen, try a different one.
 If your parents are resistant to change or to moving, the first step you should try is compiling a list of factual reasons why they should move. Try and keep your opinion on of this list. Try and present logical reasons to make it more difficult for your parents to argue against the move.
 If your parents are resistant to the idea of moving, try and enlist a friend or confidant to help join the conversation. Perhaps you parent has a close sibling or doctor that they confide in.
 This may not seem like the best option as you may not see it as your parents agreeing with your point of view. However, give your parents a chance to acclimate to the situation.Say something like:


”Why don’t you try it for six weeks. If you don’t like it, we can look for other options”
”If you don’t like facility, how about this one or this one?”
”Okay, I understand you don’t want to talk about this now. We’ll talk about it tomorrow.”

, If your siblings or other family members are involved in this decision, it is first important that you all agree on the next steps. Presenting more than one solution or opinion may exacerbate or make the situation even more overwhelming., Moving is a stressful situation for anyone. When you and your family are moving your parents, be sure to stay organized.


Keep copies of important documentation (like birth records, medical records, power of attorney, etc)
Organize items by type (clothes, furniture, personal items, etc)
Keep medications well labeled
Have a list of all medications and doctors
Provide a list of family members’ names, phone numbers, and relation

, List the times that you will be moving so that you have a clear idea of what items are involved. Make a copy of this list and give it to your parents, the movers, the doctors, or facility director.
 Chances are your parents are moving into a much smaller space than before. Your parents may have accumulated a lot of items throughout the years. Take the time now to go through the items and get rid of, sell, donate, or keep things. This task may be overwhelming so be sure to do it over a span of some time.
 If your parents are moving into a facility with other residents, it is important to label items. You do not want items lost, stolen, or misplaced. Put initial on clothes labels and keep labels on personal items. Make sure valuable are insured and are kept in safe places.
 Before you make the big move, call the facility to ask what has already been provided. Ask about:


Furniture
Dishes, silverware, kitchen items
Towels, sheets, blankets, etc.
Toiletries

, Power of attorney is essentially designated another individual to act on your behalf.Talk with your parents before they move to see if they want to sign over this power to someone in the family. This can help with financial or medical decisions. This is particularly helpful in situations of limited health or mobility.
 Your parents may be nervous or anxious in this move. Do not just leave them to their own devices. Make frequent contact via phone or visits while they adjust to their new space.
 Talk to the facility director or nurses on staff to see what activities your parents can get involved with. This can help them acclimate faster to the environment, as well as make new friends. This can also be beneficial to their health and mobility.
 Get to know the people who are taking care of your parents. Know their names and history. This can help you better understand the care that your parents will receive, and allow the staff to get an insight into their patient’s life.
 Making a decision about moving a parent is not a light one to make. You have probably been focusing heavily on the process and may feel like you are abandoning your parent or loved one. Know that this is a very realistic feeling and consider ways to cope with it..


There are a lot of online resources to help you including stories done by NPR, Forbes, and Time.
There are professional organizations like the AARP, CDC, National Plan Caring Council that have programs specifically designed to help families in this situation.
 If this situation is overwhelming, consider seeking professional help for you and your parent. This is a big life change, and you need to feel comfortable with it as well as your parents. Talk with doctors who can understand and help you with a coping plan.

