 You do not have to reveal your hearing loss during the interview or before you take a job. Many people believe you should not include your hearing loss in the resume or cover letter. When you interview, you can decide whether you want to talk to them about your hearing status.If you have to do a phone interview, you will probably need to tell the employer what assistance you will need to do the phone interview.
You will need to tell the employer about your hearing loss if you need accommodations with the interview.
 You have a lot to offer an employer. The person interviewing you may be skeptical and have concerns about how a person with hearing loss will fit into the position. Use the interview to sell yourself and show them what you can bring to the position.Show them what skills and experience you can bring to the position. You can also provide evidence of your competence and abilities through examples from previous jobs, internships, or volunteer positions.
Be personable and show them your personality. Demonstrate that you are a confident, capable person.
Have specific examples ready to show your abilities and strengths.
 If you use an assistive listening device, you should take it with you to the interview. Using the assistive listening device will show your potential employer that you have initiative and take charge, that you can problem solve, and that you manage your condition.This helps give the potential employee a sense of how you can adapt to your job tasks and environment.
 If you are going to need any kind of accommodations at the workplace, you should discuss it with your employer during the interview. You don’t want to surprise the employer after they hire you with a list of accommodations. Instead, be upfront about what will be needed to do the job.Bringing a list of accommodations lets the employer know that you are prepared and serious about working. You show that you are prepared, driven, and focused on overcoming any obstacles.
You should also show prices for accommodations, especially if they are cheap. Many workplace accommodations can be purchased for low prices.
 Setting up the room in the best possible way you can to communicate effectively is important for you to be successful in your interview. Don’t hesitate to ask if people can change seats, if you need to face the windows, or if the blinds need to be closed.Be polite when you ask for these changes, and just explain that these small changes help you communicate better.
 You shouldn’t apologize for being deaf or hard of hearing. There is nothing to apologize for because you have a lot to bring to an employer. Try not to talk too much about your hearing loss. Instead, focus on your skills and your assets., Your attitude going into the interview is really important. If you are positive, you can give off positive vibes to the employer. If you are negative, it could turn the employer off from you. Don’t focus on your hearing loss. Focus on all of your qualifications and good traits.