 You'll find this in your applications folder.;
,, This will look like two overlapping, silver diamonds, and it's located in your address bar just to the left of your "Favorites" star. You will see a small menu pop up asking, "Allow mail.google.com to open all email links?"

, Gmail will become your default "Mailto" client when using your Chrome browser.
 Clicking “Mailto” links will automatically open an email draft with Gmail when using Chrome.


To change the client that receives emails, you'll have to change your email reader from Apple Mail.
 You'll likely find this in your Dock or via Launchpad. Alternatively, you may open "Finder" and then select "Applications." Safari will be listed there as well.
 You can download the extension at Mailto Extension Download.After clicking the link the file will go to your Safari downloads.


Since the extension is not officially support by Apple, you won't find the Mailto Extension in Safari's extension gallery.
A similar extension will also work for Chrome or Firefox.
 It's located in the upper, righthand side of your window and will open a list of your downloaded files.
 This will launch the extension’s installer.
 The Google Mailto Extension will install to your Safari browser.
 After installing the "Mailto" extension, a new "Options" tab will automatically appear. Select your preferred "Mailto" client from the list of email services provided (Fastmail, Outlook, Yahoo Mail, etc.).
, Clicking “Mailto” links will automatically open an email draft with your selected email client when using Safari.


To change the client that receives emails, you'll have to change your email reader from Apple Mail.
 The menu button is located at the upper, righthand corner of your screen., This is the fourth tab down the lefthand column of the "Preferences" screen.
 You'll find this listed under the "Content Type" column.


You can perform a query for "mailto" in the search bar or simply scroll down the column in order to find it.
 To the right of “mailto” you should see your current default mailto client and a triangle indicating a drop down menu. Click the triangle and select your new default. You'll have the options to "Use Gmail," "Use Yahoo! Mail," or "Use other..."


The "Use other..." option allows you to pick an external program for Firefox to launch
The "Application details..." option allows you to review information about the webmail services available on Firefox. You can also use this to remove certain webmail services.
 Your changes will be saved automatically.
 Clicking “Mailto” links will automatically open an email draft with your selected email client when using Firefox.


To change the client that receives emails, you'll have to change your email reader from Apple Mail.
 You'll likely find Mail located in your Dock and designated by a "stamp" icon.


These steps only adjust the email client that opens received emails. If you wish to change the email client that sends messages when you click a "Mailto" link online, those methods are detailed separately.
 The “Mail” menu is located in the top menu bar of your screen.
 This is the first tab on the left on the "Preferences" screen., Here you can select alternate email software like Thunderbird or Outlook.


If that client isn't readily visible, choose "Select" and browse through Finder to select a client from there.
 Your changes will automatically be saved.

