 Conflicts also arise when you seek to represent a new client whose interests are adverse to a former client. Model Rule 1.9 covers this scenario. Even though you no longer represent former clients, you must maintain their confidences, which can limit your representation. Ask the new client to identify who is on the other side of their dispute and check if they are former clients.


Clients are most clearly adverse when they are suing each other.
However, they may also be adverse in transactional matters. For example, if someone is negotiating a contract with an employer, ask who the employer is. It may be a former client.
 Different rules apply to current clients and former clients, so confirm that you have finished your representation of the “former client.” If you haven’t, then they are a current client and you need to analyze whether you can represent them according to the information above.


A client is a former client when you have completed all work and issued a letter to the client closing the matter.
If you haven’t issued a closing letter, analyze why. Is it because you still potentially have work to perform for the client? Is it because you forgot to send the letter? You may need to send a letter to clarify the relationship is at an end.
If you have regularly performed work for a client over a long time, then they may still be a current client even if you haven't done any work recently.You should analyze the situation with a lawyer who specializes in professional responsibility.
 You can’t represent a new client in the same or a "substantially similar" matter where their interests are materially adverse to a former client.Ask the new client why they need your services and compare this dispute to the matter you worked on for the former client.


Matters are “substantially related” when they involve the same legal dispute or transaction.
For example, clients are adverse where you helped former client A draft a retirement policy for its employees. Now one of the employees, client B, has come to you and wants to challenge the legality of the retirement policy. This dispute involves substantially the same matter, so there is a conflict.
 Matters are also “substantially related” where you are at substantial risk of using confidential information obtained from the former client to the benefit of your new client.If so, there is a conflict.


However, matters may be unrelated. For example, you might have represented former client A in a real estate closing. Now, new client B wants to sue Client A for personal injuries caused by an automobile accident. These matters are unrelated, and you are not likely to use confidential information gleaned in the real estate closing to client B’s advantage in the personal injury lawsuit.
 You can’t represent a new client in the same or a substantially related matter if you worked for the law firm that represents the opponent and you acquired confidential information.For example, you might have worked for a law firm that represents a chemical manufacturer in a personal injury class action. Now a potential client at your new law firm wants to sue the manufacturer for personal injury. There is a conflict here if you obtained confidential information about the chemical manufacturer at your former firm.
Remember that Rule 1.9 conflicts are imputed to all members of the firm.For example, say you hired a new junior associate who represented the opponent at a prior law firm. She must be screened per Rule 1.10, otherwise everyone in the firm is conflicted out.
 You can cure a conflict with a former client if you get their informed consent. The consent must be in writing.You should also get written consent from the new client, since your former representation may materially limit your ability to represent them.

