 Pilates is a type of exercise routine that includes increasing your flexibility, strength, and endurance. Pilates focuses almost completely on your core muscles. While there is pilates-related equipment available, it is not required for most of the poses. All you really need is a floor and a mat.Pilates classes are offered in a variety of settings, including through many local gyms, YMCAs, and city-run exercise programs.YouTube is also a good source for Pilates if choosing to work out at home, as many certified fitness instructors teach Pilates in their videos.
 Yoga is an interesting set of exercises in that it’s designed to help both your body and your mind. While many of the poses help with flexibility, balance and strength, they can also help with your stress levels and blood pressure.You can easily find yoga instructions on the internet through various websites and videos, or even apps that you can download to your tablet and smartphone. However, if you’ve never done yoga before, or it’s been a while, you may want to consider joining a class.
Yoga classes can be found at dedicated yoga studios, local gyms, the YMCA, and elsewhere., Tai Chi is a set of exercises based on self-defense that blend together into one fluid motion that was developed in ancient China. It is very much like mediation, except that you’re moving. Tai Chi requires you to focus your breathing and motions together to perform the various poses.It can help with decreasing your stress and anxiety, build up your aerobic abilities, improve your energy, stamina, balance, flexibility, and agility, and can build muscle strength.


Tai Chi should be offered at a number of places in your community, including some local gyms, city recreation programs, and even senior centers., If you’re really serious about the flat stomach, and you have sufficient funds, you may want to consider hiring a personal trainer.


Most personal trainers will have been certified by one of many certifying bodies (such as the American Council on Exercise (ACE), the National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM), the International Sports Sciences Association (ISSA), and others).Most personal trainers work through health centers and local gyms, which means you will also require a membership to whatever place your personal trainer works from.Many cities offer personal training options through their city-wide recreational programs and centers.