 Certain nutrients can help your body to produce more collagen, so make sure that you are including a good balance of vitamins and minerals. Some essential nutrients for collagen production include:Amino acids, such as from animal products like meat, milk, and eggs.
Proline, such as from gelatin, cottage cheese, and beef.Anthocyanidins, such as from blue corn, eggplant, and concord grapes.Vitamin C, such as from citrus fruits, peppers, and tomatoes.
Copper, such as from oysters, kale, and  shiitake mushrooms.Vitamin A, such as from sweet potatoes, carrots, and dark leafy greens.;
, Cruciferous vegetables contain sulfur, which is important for collagen production. Try eating between two and three servings of sulfur-containing vegetables each day, like kale, broccoli, or cauliflower., Legumes like beans and lentils also contain sulfur. Add several servings of legumes to your diet each week. Try eating beans and rice for dinner or a lentil stew for lunch. Consuming these foods can help your body optimize its collagen production., Isoflavone-rich soy products can increase your collagen production. Soy consumption can increase in the amount of collagen in your skin. It can also boost skin elasticity. Try soy products including tempeh, tofu, soy milks, and soy cheese., Eggs are a great source of collagen. They also provide the proper mix of amino acids needed to support the development and maintenance of connective tissue in the human body. Cooking can interfere with an egg’s membranes, so an egg collagen supplement is the best way to go. However, you can still get collagen by eating eggs., It is important that your skin and body remain hydrated if you are trying to increase your collagen production. Staying hydrated will support collagen production. Aim for at least eight 8-ounce glasses or about two liters per day., The best way to get vitamin C is by eating foods rich in this important nutrient. You can get your daily dose of vitamin C by eating foods like strawberries, strawberries, and bell peppers.