 To help you decide if you have an anxiety disorder or normal anxiety, you can take a self-assessment. There are many self-assessments online that ask a series of questions to help give you an idea of whether you may have more than normal anxiety.For example, a self-assessment may ask how often you feel anxious or how long your anxiety lasts.
It may ask you if you have experienced a panic or anxiety attack, or if you feel fear and apprehension on most days.
A self-assessment is not a proper diagnosis. A self-assessment is a helpful tool that can help you decide if you should go to the doctor due to your anxiety.
 There are many different anxiety disorders. The anxiety disorders manifest in different ways and have various specific symptoms. Some symptoms, like feeling nervous or apprehensive most of the time, occur in all of them. But some symptoms, like repetitive actions, are connected to specific disorders.Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is when a person worries constantly and it interferes with their everyday life.

Panic disorders or anxiety attacks occur when you have intense fear of situations or places. This disorder leads to episodes of panic attacks.

Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is characterized by obsessive thoughts or compulsions that interrupt your daily life.

Phobias are when you have intense, unrealistic fears about something. It may be a place, object, or concept. People with phobias avoid the source of the phobia at any cost.

Social anxiety disorder is when you avoid social situations because you have a fear of being humiliated or rejected. You may avoid interacting with people or have trouble making friends.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) occurs after a trauma, such as war or an accident. You may experience recurring nightmares or flashbacks if presented with a trigger.
 Certain factors may put you at a greater risk to develop an anxiety disorder. The risk factors depend on the specific disorder. Some common risk factors include:Gender. Except OCD, women are two times as likely to develop anxiety disorders.
Age. Children may develop phobias, OCD, and separation anxiety, while teens may develop panic disorders and social anxiety.
Traumatic events. Those who have experienced any type of traumatic event are at a higher risk for PTSD.
Medical conditions. Some medical conditions, like migraines, sleep apnea, IBS, and chronic fatigue syndrome, may increase your risk for an anxiety disorder.
Family history. If you have a parent, sibling, or other close relative who has an anxiety disorder, then you may be more likely to have an anxiety disorder as well.
 If you believe you have an anxiety disorder, you should see a medical professional. You can start by seeing your general practitioner. They can diagnose you or determine that an anxiety disorder is responsible for your behavior. They may then refer you to a psychologist.When you go to the doctor, tell them all your symptoms, even if you don’t think they are important. Being honest can help you get an accurate description.
With a diagnosis and proper treatment, you can manage an anxiety disorder and live a healthy, enjoyable life.

