 They are traditionally made of maize (corn) and served flat, although flour tortillas are made in the north of the country. Tortillas are either used to wrap certain meals or served along with dishes as a way to gather and eat ingredients.


Tortillas can be pressed or fried, depending upon how they will be served. Taco shells are often smaller, fried tortillas. Quesadillas are a larger, grilled version. Tostadas are fried to a crisp and loaded with various vegetables and meats.
 These beans are often boiled and then fried, earning the name "refried beans" in English. They are served along with meats, tortillas or in dishes.
 This is warm weather produce that grows closer to the equator. The following are common kinds of produce found in Mexican food:


Avocados are a large green, fleshy fruit that are native to Central America. The avocados may be sliced and served on tortillas, tacos or other dishes. It is most commonly mashed up along with onions, chilies and coriander (cilantro), and served as a dip or sauce.
Chilies are a type of pepper that are used very commonly to flavor meats and dishes. Generally, the bigger the pepper, the less spicy it will be. The larger versions are often stuffed, as is the case with "chilies rellenos." The habanero is 1 of the hottest and smallest chilies that is often made into sauces. Jalapenos are also commonly served.
Salsa, meaning sauce, is often made with tomatoes, onions, chilis and cilantro. The spiciness of the salsa varies greatly.
 Mole is made with a type of unsweetened chocolate, chili and other spices. Meats are often served spiced and grilled along with tortillas.
 This is made of the blue agave plant and aged to varying degrees. Tequila is enjoyed as a shot or as an ingredient in mixed drinks, such as margaritas.


Cerveza, or beer, is also a common drink in Mexico. There are many local beers, such as Pacifico, Negro Modelo, Sol, Dos Equis and Corona that are also served in other countries.
Another type of drink, normally served in the Oaxaca region, is mescal.

