 You can buy wooden shelves cut to size at a local home and building supply store, or cut your own (just make sure they’re even). Use two to five boards, depending on how many shelves you want. For example, you may want five boards that are 11” (28 cm) deep and 48” (122 cm) long.You can sand and paint or stain the boards, if desired. For instance, you can use acrylic paint for the boards and the rope. Let it dry before installing.If you’re using thin plywood, you may want to clamp two pieces together for each shelf., Cut a piece of paper into a square three inches (8 cm) on each side. Place the paper on the end of each board and mark a dot at each corner of the paper to indicate where you’ll drill.Practice on scrap wood first, if desired. Use scrap wood underneath the shelves to protect your work surface.
Use a drill bit that is larger than your rope.
 You can hang your rope from ceiling up against the wall, or from the wall itself. Take a measurement from where the hanging hardware will go (such as the ceiling) to where you want the shelves to end (above the ground). Double that number. Then add eighteen inches (45 cm) for each knot. Each length of rope will have one knot under each shelf.


For example, if your ceiling is eight feet (2.4 m) high and you want the shelves to end four feet (1.2 m) from the ground, the shelves will hang in a four-foot (1.2 m) area. Double the number four to get eight feet (2.4 m). If you have five shelves, you’ll need to add 7.5 feet (2.3 m) to each length of rope (18” x 5 = 90”, or 45 cm x 5 =2.3 m). Thus, you’ll want 15.5 feet (4.7 m) for each length of rope.
Knots can take up a lot of room; it’s better to end up with excess rope than not enough. You can trim off any excess later.
 Fold each length of rope in half so that the bent half will be where the rope hangs. Tie a knot below each hole, for each shelf. Make sure to leave the same amount of space between each shelf. Trim and fray the rope ends, if desired, to make tassels.


Screw on cable locks if you want to hang heavy items on your shelves.If your rope is thin, you can twist it together to make larger strands as long as they fit in the holes.
 Knock on the wall or ceiling with your hand or use a stud finder to ensure the best place to hang your shelves. Measure between the width of your holes and mark those places on the wall or ceiling where you started your measurements. Attach screw hooks or picture hangers where you made your markings. Use two hooks, one for each length of rope. Check the weight limit on the type of hooks you use before you start decorating your shelves.If you knock on the ceiling or wall, it should sound solid, not hollow. This indicates there is a wood plank or stud to screw the hardware into, rather than drywall or insulation.

