 Realize that by popping your pimples, they will probably bleed and form scabs. If you choose to pick at these scabs, scars will continue to erupt across your face. There is also a good chance it will get infected. Finally, the pimples will worsen and your face will take longer to clear.;
, Many people pop pimples when they space out or don’t realize that they are doing it. Try activities like reading, cross-word puzzles, hand held games, or similar activities when you have free time. Recognizing ahead of time that your hands are liable to drift when you aren’t thinking will help you control them when they do., Looking in the mirror is a reminder of your pimple. When you know you have a pimple, avoid looking long in the mirror in the bathroom and opening your visor mirror in the car. You’ll be surprised how quickly your pimple seems to go away if you take measures to avoid being reminded of it.


You might even try putting a sticky note on your bathroom mirror that says something like, “Hands off your face!” This way you can look in the mirror, but be reminded not to pop your pimples., In many cases, these habits are a result of impulses that come and go pretty quickly. There are numerous ways to divert your natural urge to touch your skin. Try wearing a rubber band on your wrist and snapping it gently when you feel like popping. Or, you can clench your fists for several seconds or even a half minute., One easy thing to do is wear gloves around the house. It will make it harder for you to pop a pimple, and it keeps your finger oils from getting on your face. This is great if you touch your face a lot, and it will keep dirt off your face. When you are out, cover your primary picking fingers with small adhesive bandages to put a barrier between them and your pimple., Opening them up does not make them go away. Instead, you are irritating your skin and increasing the risk of infection. If you accidentally popped your pimple, the best thing to do is leave it alone. The more time you keep your hands of the face, the quicker your skin will totally heal.
 This is training you do with a therapist. They will show you the ways your subconscious forms unhealthy habits and how to break them. Ask your doctor if they can make a recommendation, or do a simple web search to find HRT therapists in the area.

