 Express your concerns in list form. This will help you focus your concerns, and it will iron out your frustrations so that you do not take them out on your boss. If you are anxious about meeting with your boss, you may also want to rehearse what you say to them beforehand.;
, Whether your manager prefers to discuss routine tasks with email, in person during meetings or on the phone, learn to utilize their favorite method. Furthermore, you should observe how formal or informal they are when they communicate with you and match that style.
 When you approach your boss, state how you are working and how you feel. Avoid using “you” phrases such as “you should be doing better” or “you need to ___” These sound accusing and can threaten your relationship with your boss. Instead of saying “Nobody around here plans anything. Everything is so unorganized. You should be better at giving us information,” trying stating “I am struggling with scheduling in this office. I feel as though we do not organize effectively. Is there anything I can do to help improve communication?”

, A disorganized boss may give conflicting advice or cumbersome tasks. If you are confused about what you need to do, politely ask for clarification. It is best to ask as you receive the tasks. Phrase your questions in a positive light so that it doesn’t seem like you are complaining. Instead of saying “why do we have so many meetings when we don’t do anything important?” try stating it this way: “Since we’re all so busy with our work, is there any way we can have fewer but more productive meetings?”
You can also use “I” statements while asking. Try saying, “I was wondering which task has the highest priority for this week.”

, If you have a problem, come to your boss with a few solutions already in mind. You can let your boss decide which solution will work best, but by preparing ahead of time, you are making it easy for your boss to respond to the issue.


Start the conversation by telling your boss you have both a problem and some potential solutions. Be sure to tell them at the beginning that you want their thoughts on the matter. You can say, “I just wanted to bring an issue to your attention. I have a few possible solutions for the matter, and I wanted to run them by you.”
If your boss rejects your solutions, try asking what you can do instead to solve the problem. You can say, “What do you think is the best way we can handle this situation?”

, When your boss does manage to give you something on time or help you, thank them. Even bosses want appreciation and praise. By showing your gratitude, not only will you increase your rapport but you will encourage your boss to continue such behavior. 