 If your land has four equal sides, it is a square, and if all four corner angles are right angles (90 degrees) it is a rectangle. In these cases, the first method will work perfectly. Sometimes, however, your land may have four straight sides, but the corners may have angles other than 90 degrees (often different for each corner). This is known as an irregular four-sided shape.


In this case, calculating acreage gets more complex because you need to determine the area of a shape with often four different angles at each corner. A shape with four sides is known as a quadrilateral, and this not only includes right-angled shapes (like squares and rectangles), but also other shapes without right angles like kites, parallelograms, trapezoids or rhombuses..
Since there are four types of quadrilaterals that are not squares and rectangles, there are also separate formulas for each type. For this reason, the easiest way to calculate the acreage of your property if it has an irregular shape is to use an online calculator. Your job is therefore to determine the inputs for the calculator.
A Google search for "area of a quadrilateral" calculator will yield several results to choose. You may need to convert the results into acreage at the end (if the numbers you input are in square feet, yards, or meters).
 Calculating the size of an area of an irregular shape is more complicated than with a more straightforward square or rectangular shape. The same principles of determining the size in square feet, yards or meters and then converting it to acres still apply, but calculating the size is harder when you cannot simply multiply length by width.


Begin by designating the corners of your shape A, B, C and D.
Start by marking one corner as A, and then go around the shape clockwise marking the other corners B, C and D., Once you have marked the corners of the shape with the letters you need to begin your measurements. First of all measure from A to B and record it. Then measure B to C, and then C to D before the final measurement of D to A. Ensure you make clear records of these measurements and that you are always using the same unit of measurement., Calculators often require one additional value other than the distance between the points. While it varies between calculator, they often require the diagonal distance from point A to C, or from B to D. On occasion (depending which calculator you will use), the calculator will ask for one of the angles.This could be an easier choice if you only have a surveyor's wheel or tape measure.
 Once you have made these calculations you need to enter these details into an online tool which will determine an approximate acreage based on this information. It's important that you take care with the measurements as the accuracy of the calculation depends on the accuracy of the information you supply. This particular calculator simply requires the distances between points, and the diagonal distances between A to C or B to D.


If the results from the calculator are not in acres, use the conversion rates to convert them to acres from what ever unit you input into the calculator.
 You can calculate the acreage of an irregular shape without the use of an online tool by splitting the area into smaller constituent areas. If possible, split the space into a regular shapes such as rectangles or squares. You will need to measure the area of each of these constituent spaces individually and then add them together to determine the total acreage.This would be most easily achievable if you have a clear and accurate map of the area you are trying to calculate the acreage of.
It would be a good idea to try both methods for calculating acreage for an irregularly sized space and checking your results.
This is simply the same process used in Method One, except you need to add the area of all the squares together at the end.

