 The quality of the mother plant will determine the quality of the propagated plant. Recent growth indicates that the plant has not grown dormant, so you should be able to spur new growth from a cutting.;
, Choose the most recently grown stems, since these have the greatest growing potential.
 Use scissors or shears to cut them off. Yanking the leaves off by hand could cause damage.
 The cuttings do not need to soak. They just need to be a little moist.
 Dip the bottom of each cutting into the powder, immersing it by about 1/4 inch (2/3 centimeter). Doing so will increase the cutting's odds of taking root.
 Other small containers, ranging from pots to plastic cups, can also be used.
 If using a seedling tray, place one cutting in each separate compartment. Press the cutting down into the growing medium until the exposed stem is completely buried. Do not cover the leaves, however.
 Do not allow the growing medium to become completely soaked. Continue misting as often as necessary to keep the medium moist to the touch, paying special attention to your plant on dry, sunny days.
 This usually occurs within two to four weeks. If your plant continues to grow after a few weeks have passed, it has likely taken root.
 Select a pot that is at least 3 1/2 inches (9 centimeters) in diameter and depth.


Terra cotta draws moisture out of the soil faster than plastic. As a result, using a terra cotta pot will reduce the risk of over-watering and cut down on occurrences of root rot.
An all-purpose soil should work fine most of the time, but do not use standard garden soil. Dirt from your garden could contain pests and diseases that might damage your rosemary.
For a more precise soil mix, blend two parts potting soil with one part sand or perlite to promote better drainage. You can also add 1 teaspoon (5 milliliters) of lime juice to a 5-inch (12.7 centimeters) pot to increase the soil's alkaline properties.
 Pinching the top terminal bud increases the likelihood of your rosemary branching. Once the bud develops, literally pinch it out with your fingers or snip it off with a pair of scissors or snips. Removing the bud at the tip of a branch redirects the rosemary's energy to other buds along the sides, leading to more branches and a bushier plant.

