 At this point, do not attempt to touch her. Simply stand in front of her, slightly to her left, and offer her a treat with your open hand.Desensitization starts with simply being present in the vicinity of your horse's face. She will learn to associate your presence with something positive.
Work slowly, and allow the horse to direct the speed of progress. This will build trust.
After doing this several times, bring the treat within six inches of her muzzle. Then, drop your hand. She'll likely follow your hand with her head. Say "Yes," or "Good Girl," and offer her the treat. Do this several times, so that she learns to connect your hand and your words (or, to her, sound) with the treat.
 When she has made the connection between your hand and the treat, she will expect it. You are teaching her to desire your hand, because it contains the treat.


Hold this hand, palm down, fingers wrapped around the treat. When your horse lowers her head toward your other hand, let her have the treat.
Raising the head can be a sign of anxiety, and reinforcing a lowered head teaches her to be calm.
 Do not touch your horse, but simply hold your hand in place.This will teach your horse that having your hand in this area, close to her head, isn't dangerous. Although currently, this is something fearful for your horse, she can learn that having someone's hand here isn't always bad.
Repeat this many times over several days, until you're sure that your horse is aware of your hand and yet not bothered by it. Continue to wait until she lowers her head to reward her with a treat.
 When your horse has gained comfort with your hand near her head, you can start to touch her on her muzzle. Put your raised hand on the bridge of your horse's nose, below her eyes, as she eats her treat. Speak to her in a gentle, reassuring voice.As your horse finishes eating, she may try to pull away. Try to keep your hand on her muzzle until she relaxes. At the moment she relaxes, say, "Yes" and pull your hand away.
Repeat this step until your horse seems relaxed with your hand on her muzzle.
 Follow the same procedure as before, gently but firmly setting your hand to your horse's muzzle.Continue to keep the hand containing the treat low, so that she must lower her head to accept it.
When she relaxes, say, "Yes," and give her the treat, and release your touch.
 Continue to wait for her to relax before offering the treat with your other hand. When she relaxes, say, "Yes," and offer her the treat.Move slowly, gradually expanding the range of your touch, as you teach her to trust you on all areas of her head.
Start to stroke or massage your horse's head for a few seconds below her muzzle, before she gets her treat., Horses, like other animals, don't necessarily generalize well. For best teaching, train your horse in these steps on different times of the day, and in different places.Lowering her head should continue to be met with a treat in your palm. Don't offer her a treat unless her head is lowered.
When your horse is comfortable with your hand, start to teach her to trust the feel of cloth, or grooming instruments. Use the same training procedures as before.
 This will further your horse's sense of trust in you. Horses are a pack animals, and require a leader to feel safe and protected. Establishing leadership isn't about being dominant, but about establishing yourself as leader of the herd.


Correct your horse when she tests boundaries. Your goal is to make sure your horse knows who is in charge. When your horse is confident that you're in charge, she'll likely stop testing boundaries.
When your horse is fearful, encourage her to lower her head. A lowered head automatically relaxes a horse. Your horse may then learn to associate the feeling of relaxation and safety with you.

