 In this way, Vata Dosha may become better understood.;
, Out of Tridosha Vata is more critical because it governs the other two Dosha i.e. Pitta & Kapha in order to perform various physiological functions .Vata word is derived from the Sanskrit root word “va gati gandhanayoh” that means Speed /movement (gati) , knowledge (Gyan) & Acknowledge (Prapti) Panini. It is psychic nature Rajasic . In Ayurveda there are so many characteristics of Vata Dosha are described like dry, cold, light, penetrating, mobile, transparent, rough, and responsible for all the types of movement at macro cellular & micro-cellular level. According to Acharya Sharangdhar without other Dosha (Pitta & Kapha), Dhatu & Mala becomes paralysed like in external nature the air is responsible for the movement of cloud .It is present in all over the body but at gross level it is present below the umbilicus. The major site of Vata Dosha is colon, lower back, calf muscle, ear, bones, and joints out of these colon is the main site of Vata Dosha . the vata Dosha is present all over the body it single & very minute .for easy to understand it is divided in to five sub types on the basis of their residing site & function i.e. Prana ,Udana, Saman ,Vyana & Apana . It is very important Dosha in body because it performs much important function in our body like inspiration, expiration, movement at gross, organic, cellular & at microcellular level, movement of Dhatu, it is formed by the combination of Akash & Vayu Mahabhuta .
 It is gaseous in state; it is highly defuse-able, inorganic, radical gas & has been known for many years as a harmful pollutant in car, exhaustive fumes, fossil fumes & cigarette smoke. It binds cytochrome oxidizes the terminal enzyme in mitochondrial electron transport chain. It is the biological mediator. It controls large number of functions in human body. It plays important role in the formation of memory, coordination between neuronal activity & blood flow and in the modulation of pain .in peripheral nervous system it mediates some form of neurological vasodilation & regulates certain gastrointestinal, respiratory & genitourinary function. NO is synthesized from the amino acid L- arginine by the enzyme termed NO syntheses (NOS) .In central nervous system it acts as a neuromediator with many physiological functions, in involves formation of memory , coordination between neuronal activity & blood flow ,& modulation of pain .In peripheral nervous system it performs neurological vasodilation & regulates certain gastrointestinal , respiratory & genitourinary functions. It play an important role in immune physiology also ,it is generated in large amount during host defence & immunological reactions. It also play an important roles in penile erection ,bladder control ,lungs ventilation ,peristalsis .no is not stored at any part of body it diffuses freely to its site of action where it binds to its effectors . In human body its half life is only about 3-5 seconds.
 “Avyakto Vyakta karma ch.” It is also true for nitric oxide also. The action of Vata Dosha is quick & only when required i.e. “Ashukari muhuchari.........” the biological system half life of nitric oxide is about only 3 – 5 sec. The working area of both vata & Nitric oxide is whole body.As per Acharya shusrut, Vata Dosha is responsible for all the types of pain vatadrute nasty ruja ........... & nitric oxide is also responsible for modulations of pain .Like Vata Dosha nitric oxide play an important role in bladder control, peristalsis & lungs vasodilation & in control of blood pressure.
 So it is possible to correlate Vata Dosha with nitric oxide

, Palep Scientific Foundation of Ayurveda” ed 1st Choukhamba Sanskrit Pratisthan Delhi 2004
Richard Harvey et al Lippincott’s IIllustrated Reviews Biochemistry” ed 5th Wolters Kluwer India PVT LTD.new Delhi 2008
Narendra Tuteja ,Mahesh Chandra et al Nitric oxide as a unique bioactive signaling Messenger in physiology & pathology”Journal of Biomedicine & Biotechnology 2004:4:227-237

, (Med.) D.M.(Neuro.), & Dr. Kalpana Sathe M.D., PhD (Ayu.)

, (kriya sharer) M.A.(Sanskrit),PhD (Scho.) & Dr.Suwarna Umarkar M.D.(Kriya Sharir), M.A.(Sanskrit)

