 Ellie's hair is one of her signatures. It's a golden, light blonde, almost platinum. To look like her, though, you have to master the style, not just the color. Her hair is thick, so you might need to tease yours by backcombing it.


Ellie's hair has been called the "magical cool girl without trying look." It's not overly done. It's more accurately described as a little wind blown and tousled. Most people think of her hair as being worn in a long, slightly wavy style, with her bangs medium length and worn pushed to the side. Her hair has been described as having "beachy" waves. To get them, towel dry wet hair. Add mousse to the hair. Then, blow dry it. Finally, take two-inch sections of hair, roll them around your finger, and then use a bobby pin to fasten them at the roots. Let hair set for a short time, and then remove the bobby pins. You should have Ellie's loose waves.
You could use a styling wand instead of bobby pins to create the same look. Use a wide toothed comb, not a brush, or you will ruin the waves. However, she's also experimented with cutting her hair into a shoulder length bob that is parted in the middle. Still, it always looks a little tousled. To get this look, use a volumizer spray in your hair or put a few curls in it, but make sure it doesn't look overly done.
Ellie experiments with braids. Sometimes she plaits her hair into a long, thick braid that she wears to one side (and you might see her wearing a black baseball cap backwards on it besides). And sometimes she braids a small piece of her bangs near her face, leaving the rest of her hair long and flowing. Use a bobby pin to fasten the braid to the rest of the hair for a classic Ellie Goulding look. Ellie plays with color. She once put a light pink streak in her blonde hair. If you wanted to try this as a temporary look, you could try pink hair chalk. She takes chances with her hair. Once, Ellie shaved part of the side of her hair, leaving the rest of her hair her signature tousled and long look. , Ellie is not known for looking very obviously made up. Her look is more natural, and she is known for using "soft rosy hues" like peach or pink or neutrals on her lips and eyes. She focuses on the eyes for effect, and makes sure her skin is glowing. . Her ads for MAC makeup have been described as having a 1970s vibe.


Use black liquid eyeliner to create a cat eye look. To create a cat eye, line the top of the lid only, going slightly past the end of the eye. Don't put liner on the bottom of the eye. If you prefer, you could line the lids with soft brown eyeliner instead. A lighter peach blush dusted over the cheekbones is more Ellie's style than something harsher or darker. The goal of Ellie's makeup line is to make a person look better without it being obvious they are wearing a lot of makeup. A little mascara livens up the eyes. False eyelashes can place the focus on the eyes all the more. In fact, one of her makeup secrets is to apply false eyelashes on the top lid. You want fake eyelashes that are longer on the outside corner. Put volumizing mascara on your own lashes. Cut the fake eyelashes so the outer third of them matches the outer third of your eye. Put a drop of eyelash glue on the fake lashes and then fasten them to the top of your eyelids with tweezers. Hold in place for several seconds, and then curl with an eyelash curler.
Her eyeshadow is usually in neutral and natural colors, like brown and beige.
Ellie likes to play with makeup on her eyes, but she often uses nude gloss or gold shimmering lipstick. Every now and then, she will dab a light peach color on her lips, but you're unlikely to see her with dark or obvious lipstick. She has said she is a fan of lipsticks in various shades of pink. 