 Young babies are safe in strollers because they don’t really move and are just strapped in for the ride. Things become difficult for toddlers around 18 months to 2 ½ years because they want to escape or walk by themselves.


This can be especially dangerous in crowded places, where it is easy to lose a small child. If your child runs away or tries to escape, try to look at things from his perspective. Your child is most likely not running away to spite you, he simply wants to exercise his independence and walk or run on his own.
Talk to your child about why he doesn’t want to be in the stroller—once you understand the why of the problem, you can look for ways to solve the issue. For example, if you child just wants to run, let him run free of the stroller once you get to the park or other safe place.
If they try to escape because the stroller is uncomfortable, adjust the straps until they are at the right levels for baby comfort.;
, Establish a set of rules for the stroller that you and your spouse will always implement.


Make sure your child knows what the rules are and why it is important that they are followed. Teach your child that the rules are for their safety and that they could get lost or hurt if they don’t follow the stroller safety rules.
Follow general stroller safety guidelines—your child should always be strapped in to the stroller, no matter how wiggly they are. You should also always set the brake when the stroller is parked and not overload it with heavy bags.
When your child sees that you always follow the stroller rules, they will have a good example and want to follow the rules as well.
 Before each stroller outing, explain that outing’s specific expectations to your child. Tell him or her where you are going and what you want them to do.


If you are going to the mall, tell him, “We’re going to the mall. I need you to stay in your stroller because it is busy, but you can get out and play when we get to the play area.”
Reinforcing the rules and expectations before each trip keeps things fresh in a young child’s mind.
 You can also use entertainment to teach stroller safety principles at home by reading books and singing songs.


Picture books like “Stay Safe, Play Safe” and others can help your children understand stroller safety.
Songs can also be effective. You can make up your own tune to sing your family’s stroller rules or sing along to songs like “Safety Comes First” and “Street Smarts”. Once your child is familiar with the songs, you can sing them while you are out in the stroller to remind them to be safe and stay close to you.
 Children will more easily accept the rules and follow them if they are allowed some freedom. Instead of telling them everything they can’t do in and around the stroller, tell them some things they can do.


If running in public areas isn’t allowed, give them guidelines and show them where they can run around out of the stroller. Knowing that they have some freedom will help children, especially older children, understand and follow the rules.
This doesn’t mean you can’t set limits, but a child will accept limits and more easily regulate himself if there are positive aspects to the rules and places where he can be free.
 Another effective way to teach stroller safety to your child is to explain the consequences.


For example, you can tell your child in simple terms that if he stands or leans out he might fall and hurt himself. Try to be specific and tell him that he might bump his head, scrape his knee or hurt his arm.
You can also demonstrate using his stuffed toy. Make the toy fall out of the stroller and then pretend the toy is crying or hurt.

