 There are potentially thousands of children’s books on the market today, and you can find plenty of them at your local library. Look through your personal collection or go to the library in order to select a book that will grab a child’s attention.Books that tend to be successful with young children include those with bright pictures, funny-looking (and therefore memorable) or familiar characters, and predictable plots.
 You want to be able to anticipate the questions and reactions that the child will have to the story you pick out so that a reading session stays fun. It is good to flip through the story you have selected and make sure you understand the characters or plot—or both—so that you can answer the child’s questions as you read, instead of having to do this while you read, interrupting the story.If you are allowing the child to pick the book out themselves, you can distract the child and flip through it for a moment before sitting down to read.
Try making suggestions to the child if you see a title you are already familiar with.
 Decide on a fun place for reading the story ahead of time and designate this area as the “story spot.” Repeating reading times in this same place will teach the child to associate that area with reading, allowing them to look forward to story time. Make sure that the area suits your needs for reading books aloud, depending on how you like to conduct story time.Set aside about 15 minutes at a time for reading out loud.
If you like to sit and hold the book up for the child to see, make sure you have an area wide enough for the child to get comfortable and see the book.
If you like the child to sit next to you and look at the book with you, turning the pages themselves sometimes, make sure you have a couch or bench long enough to fit both of you.
A comfortable chair like an easy chair or rocking chair is suitable if the child will sit in your lap as you read.
 When you sit down to read, show the child the cover of the book and read them the title and author. Point out interesting portions of the cover art, and ask the child what they think the story may be about. You may even want to offer a reason why you selected this book in particular.For example, you may choose a book because you think it will be fun, such as having a character in it that you know the child loves, or because the story was one of your favorites when you were a child.

