 If your mouse's sneezing is a symptom of a respiratory infection then it may have other symptoms as well. These can include a runny nose and congested breathing.To check for a runny nose, look for moisture under your mouse's nose.
To check for congested breathing you will need to get your mouse close to your ear and listen to its breathing. Congestion in the lungs can make the mouse's breathing loud and rattly.;
, When a mouse is fighting off some sort of illness it can become lethargic and it may have less interest in eating.If you notice one or both of these symptoms, and your mouse is sneezing a lot, then your mouse is likely ill.


Keep track of how much your mouse eats on a regular basis so that you will be able to more easily notice if it begins to eat less.
 Try eliminating possible allergens from your mouse's cage to see is that is causing your mouse's sneezing. In most cases of an allergy, the mouse is allergic to its bedding. This means that when you are eliminating possible allergens you should clean the mouse's cage out and replace its bedding.Use a bedding that is paper based and dust free. In a pinch you can simply use shredded up paper on the floor of your mouse's cage.
Bedding that is made of wood shavings is likely the cause of your mouse's allergies. In particular, cedar shavings are known to increase the likelihood of respiratory illness.If your mouse was allergic to its bedding then the sneezing should clear up in a week or two after the bedding is replaced.
 If your mouse is repeatedly sneezing and you suspect that it has a respiratory illness, then you should have it checked out by a veterinarian. Keep track of your mouse's symptoms and how long they have been occurring so that you can tell your veterinarian this information.It can be difficult to find a veterinarian that is experienced with treating rodents. Call around to veterinary offices in your area to see if any have experience with mice. Even if they do not, you can ask them for suggestions about veterinary practices that do.
 If your veterinarian thinks that your mouse has a respiratory infection they are likely to prescribe antibiotics. These are usually given orally, either just in liquid form or added into the mouse's food.Antibiotics cannot eliminate all respiratory infections. However, even with those they do not eliminate, they can assist the mouse's immune system to keep the infection under control.
 Keeping your mouse's cage clean can help your mouse fight off any illness that it has. Eliminating bacteria and viruses in your mouse's environment will help it's immune system to focus on eliminating the infection in its respiratory system.Doing a weekly cleaning is important for your mouse's health, whether it has a respiratory illness or not.When cleaning out your mouse's cage, replace all the bedding and clean all surfaces thoroughly.

