 When you talk to your partner, tell them about your day. Be completely open with what bothers you and what you enjoy. Be specific about your emotional wants and needs. By opening yourself up, you’re expressing vulnerability and trust in your partner. Furthermore, by being so open with them, you invite them to be just as honest with you.


If something is bothering you, express it in a gentle way, but you should make your voice heard. For example, you can say, "I love you very much, but sometimes, I feel frustrated when I come home to a dirty house. Can we come up with a solution?";
, When your partner expresses a secret or insecurity, they are entrusting you with a very deep part of themselves. Don’t laugh at your partner or dismiss their problems. Express empathy. You may hug them, or reassure them that you still love them. Tell them that you understand, and thank them for being honest with you.
 Make a daily habit to thank your partner for what they do. Compliment them on their strengths. When they do something for you, thank them. This will make your partner happier, and it will make sure that neither partner is taken for granted., Communication is a two-way road. When your partner speaks, listen and remember what they say. Active listening requires your full attention on your partner. Keep steady eye contact, and do not interrupt them as they are speaking.Occasionally, you may repeat back what they just said to reaffirm that you were listening and that you understand their problems. For example, you may say, “I understand that you are frustrated at work” or “What I am hearing is that you have been depressed lately.”

, Your partner might state that nothing is bothering them, but you should pay attention to their body language to know whether or not they need comfort. While you should not use these to pry into your partner’s life, you can take steps to make them feel better if they are grumpy or tired.


Folded arms may indicate that they are defensive or insecure.
Lack of eye contact may mean that they are bored, ashamed, or evasive.
Turning away from you can be their way of ending the conversation.
If their voice becomes louder, they may be thinking that they are not being heard in the relationship, or they may be trying to escalate an argument. If their voice becomes softer, they may be uncertain of something., Broad questions can give your partner room to express themselves. By inviting them to answer a question, you are asking your partner to communicate with you. Allow them time to answer the question.Examples of open questions include:

“How do you feel about your job?”
”Where do you see yourself in five years?”
”If there is anything you could change about this house, what would it be?”

