 White buns can add a lot of calories and unhealthy carbs to your burger. Instead of eating on a white bun, change to a whole wheat bread source. But don’t grab the first wheat bun off the shelf. Take time to read the label.


Don’t buy breads with enriched bleached flour or wheat flour. Instead, choose a 100% whole wheat bread. Make sure it says 100% whole wheat. Look for the label to say whole-wheat flour as the first ingredient.Choose to only eat one half of the bun, making it an open-faced sandwich. This cuts your calories by half.
Substitute your regular bun for an English muffin.
If you are eating at a get together, remove some of the bun insides to reduce calories., Another way to eat healthier hamburgers is to go carb-less and eat no bun. Choose to eat your burger on a lettuce wrap, a collard leaf, or a romaine wrap. You can also place the patty on a bed of kale, spring greens, or spinach.Get creative with what you place your burger on. Try putting it between slices of grilled eggplant or zucchini.
 Ketchup is full of sodium and sugar, and mayonnaise if full of fat. Instead of covering your burger with these things, try adding other kinds of toppings to your burger. Condiments are typically processed foods. Adding whole foods like avocado or an egg are ways to incorporate whole foods that do not include added preservatives or sodium. Once you switch from traditional condiments, you’ll be surprised the array of flavors you’ve been missing on your burgers.


Mash 1/3 of an avocado and spread it on your burger. Avocado is a superfood that is healthy and delicious (though it is high in calories, so don't use too much).Add spices, fruit, vegetables, and herbs to the avocado for even more flavor.
Make your own spreads. Combine Greek yogurt with garlic, and lemon juice for a tasty condiment. Or try making a pesto sauce.
Try salsa on your burgers. This provides a lot of flavor without tons of fat, sugar, or calories.Add hummus onto your burger. Hummus comes in many different varieties, from plain to lemon to red pepper. You can also try tabouli.
Make a healthy slaw. Combine cabbage, greek yogurt, and other spices or herbs and pile it on your patty.
 Cheese can add a lot of fat and calories to your burger. If you have to have cheese on your burger, consider slicing block cheese into thin slices. You can also purchase ultra thin varieties of cheese.Choose low-fat cheeses and try to avoid highly processed cheeses like Velveeta.


As alternatives to traditional cheese, try adding feta or goat cheese to your burger. Feta cheese has a lower fat, saturated fat, and calorie content than regular cheese.Goat cheese has a few less calories and grams of fat than traditional cheese. For example, one ounce of goat cheese has 76 calories, 6 grams of fat, 4 grams of saturated fat, and 13 milligrams of cholesterol.One ounce of cheddar cheese has 113 calories, 9 grams of fat, 6 grams of saturated fat, and 29 milligrams of cholesterol., Another way you can make your burger extremely healthy is to pile it with more nutritiously dense food. Vegetables not only add nutrients, they also add flavor. Try roasted tomatoes, roasted peppers, sauteed mushrooms, or caramelized onions.Top with any leafy greens, like arugula, spinach, or kale. Put bell pepper, cucumbers, carrots, sprouts, and alfalfa.
Put fruit on your burger. Try grilled pineapple, mango, or persimmons.
Avoid topping that will add unhealthy fats, like bacon.
 Sometimes, it’s not the burger that’s unhealthy; it’s the sides. A small order of fries from McDonald's has 230 calories, 11 grams of fat, and 1 1/2 grams of saturated fat. A large order of fries has 510 calories, 24 grams of fat, and 3 1/2 grams of saturated fat.Even French fries that you cook at home have a lot of calories. Instead of eating an unhealthy side, add a salad or a serving of fruit.Take care to pay attention to what you drink, too. Instead of a sugary soda, choose water, seltzer water, or a diet soda.

