 Look at the wikiHow article titled “How to Face Paint a Child As a Butterfly”. This article covers the basic techniques and gives you information on the paint and supplies that you will need.;
, , Use the designs provided on this article for painting the feet. However do not paint the bottom of their feet so the children can walk and play without getting paint on everything. You can paint the top of the feed and lower part of the ankle. If you know the children and know that they won't have an allergy reaction to the paint you can paint higher up on the ankle to provide a sock.
 This should be a warm activity where the children can come wearing shorts and if possible sandals so you can easily paint their feet. Remember they will end up barefoot because you will be painting on their socks and shoes on the top of their feet. If necessary they could put on flip-flops or wear their sandals protect the bottom of their feet.
 Such things as soccer, line dancing, Limbo dancing, the Hokey-Pokey or a sock hop.
 Put a foot outline on your invitations. Add a paint bucket with a brush and some paint splatters on it as well. Tell your guests to come prepared to get their feet painted fancy.
 Play lots of dance music for dancing for these wild feet. If you like, you can teach them some line dances or other fun dances that they can easily learn. This would work well for older children who really want to learn ballroom dancing or other types of dancing.
 Put together a birthday cake that looks like a shoe or a foot. You could even make it look like a foot in a cast.
 You can use balloons and have the children step on them. The balloons can be loose on the floor where everyone can step on them. Or you could tie the balloon to a child's foot with a ribbon and they would have to pop their own balloon or another person could pop their balloon.
 Provide papers with a foot on it. Let the children design a sock or shoe or some other design for a foot. The design can be used either as the painting on their feet or in a contest to pick the best design.
 Let's try to get the kids back to dancing and dance the night away with their wild feet.

