 Depending on the needs of your business and the responsibilities of your employees, you may need to review different aspects of a candidate's background apart from verification of his or her employment history.


The scope and depth of your background check should reflect the nature of the position for which the candidate is applying.For example, if the job entails no financial responsibilities or handling of cash transactions, you probably don't need to pull an applicant's credit report. Likewise, there's no reason to look at a candidate's driving record if his or her job duties won't entail driving for the company (not including the commute to the workplace).
 Among the many different background check services, the best for you will be the one that provides all the information you want and doesn't waste your time or money pulling information about employee candidates that isn't necessary for you to evaluate that candidate's viability with your company.


For example, some companies verify an applicant's education records and driving records, but if you don't need this information, you can save time and money by not requesting it.Make sure the service you choose is in compliance with its responsibilities under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). The law mandates specific procedures for providing notification to applicants and ensuring all reported information is accurate and up to date., You must obtain consent before you can conduct a background check on a potential employee.


Federal law requires you to inform the candidate that you are conducting a background check, as well as explaining that the information you obtain through the background check may be used in deciding whether to hire him or her.The law also requires you to have written consent from the employee before any background checks are performed. The scope of the background check should be generally explained in the document the employee signs authorizing the check and report.If you're getting a full investigative report, which can include interviews with people who know the applicant, you also must inform the applicant that he or she has the right to a full description of the scope of the investigation and the types of questions that will be asked., The background check service will provide you a report of the results of the completed background check.


Keep in mind that federal law prohibits using this information to discriminate against applicants on the basis of certain traits such as race, sex, religion, or disability. Make sure you're using the information appropriately, and that any information on which you base your decision is directly related to the job and necessary for you to run your business.Under federal law, you must securely dispose of any background report you receive after one year, regardless of whether the applicant is hired., If the information in the background check raises questions, you may need to discuss these with the potential employee and resolve any discrepancies.


In many cases, a discrepancy may be due to a misunderstanding rather than any intent on the part of the applicant to mislead you about his or her past.
In some circumstances, it also may be helpful to get the employee's story behind what happened or what led to a particular entry on their background check.
If you decide not to hire the applicant based on information contained in the background report you received, you must provide him or her with a written statement specifying the information that led to your decision along with a copy of the report you received.