 Once you have found a potential school, you should arrange a time when you can go visit. Call the school, and tell them that you have a deaf or hard of hearing child. Let them know that you are interested in the school but that you want to come visit first.You may want to bring your child with you, so that they can help make the decision of which school they will attend.
 When you go to the school, ask if you can watch a class. This will give you a chance to see how teachers interact with students. It can also give you an idea of the structure and educational philosophy of the school.

If your child has partial hearing, the acoustics of the classroom may be important. Poor acoustics may interfere with how well your child can hear or pay attention.If it is a mainstream school, ask if you can watch the classes for children with hearing difficulties.
If this is a school for the deaf, try to get a sense of the different ways that they teach deaf or hard of hearing children.
If this is a residential school, ask to tour the dormitories as well.
 Take every opportunity at the school to talk to the principal, administration, and teachers. This will give you a full picture of what is available at the school. Some questions you might want to ask include:

What types of training do teachers receive to teach children who are deaf or hard of hearing? Do other teachers have Deaf-awareness training? Do you give Deaf-awareness training to hearing students?
How many members of staff know sign language?
In case of an emergency, how will my child be assisted?
Does the school offer any extra tutoring for students who are deaf? What assistance can my child expect to receive for assignments and exams?
What is your bullying policy?
Are there other deaf children at the school?, The school may offer hearing assistive technology for children who are hard of hearing. Ask if you can personally see this equipment to make sure that it is adequate for your child.

If this is a mainstream school with few other deaf or hard of hearing children, you may want to ask how often this technology is tested to make sure it works properly.