 Cultural heritage can provide a great amount of context to a person's life. In the United States, some ethnic backgrounds are more celebrated than others – being of Irish descent, for example, is generally treated as more exciting than being of English descent – but the fact is, every culture and country on Earth has a fascinating history and its own set of unique values and attitudes. These can provide a great amount of insight into your “roots” as a person.

Don't neglect to consider more recent history. Understanding the culture of your own birthplace can help you divine greater insights about yourself just as well as looking to the distant past.
 In some ways, learning the story of your own family, and how so many different lines converged to create you, can provide an even more powerful sense of self than hearkening to a past cultural identity. The effect is so strong that reverence or outright worship of one's dead ancestors was a central tenet of traditional belief systems in places as disparate as Iceland and China. By understanding your bloodline, you can begin to get a better sense of your place in the march of history, which can help guide your actions in the present.

The study of one's ancestors is known as genealogy, and there are many resources available to help you fill in gaps. Check out libraries, local government records, cemeteries, and online databases and services as well (some are paid, others are free). One of the best resources to start out with is https://familysearch.org/, administered by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (the Mormons). They offer a wide range of searchable public records (not just Mormon records) for free.
Once you have some idea about your family's history, speak to older relatives. They may or may not have many facts you don't already have, but they will have stories of your ancestors, stories that will help bring them to life and help you grasp your heritage in a way that all the birth and death records in the world can't.
 Meditation is a useful technique for gaining clarity of mind and insights into your true self. Meditation techniques vary widely, but the basics are almost invariably the same: get comfortable and focus on clearing your mind, then turn your attention to whatever you'd like to meditate on. Particularly deep meditation can even induce an altered state of consciousness such as a sense of one's body not existing, or a sense of being outside one's body.

Outwardly-focused meditation is used by shamans to journey in the spiritual world, which they believe exists as a normally-unreachable plane of reality. Such journeys are used to make contact with elemental forces and spirits, hopefully to gain allies and guides that will give insight and direction to the practitioner in the physical world. Many people find that having such a “spirit guide” helps them feel more in tune with themselves.
Inwardly-focused meditation can provide very powerful insights into your mind and spirit, and how they work. By blocking out the physical world and all outside influences, you can become intensely focused on yourself, viewing your personality as if through a clear lens. Such meditation can also lead to dream-like states, though visions induced in this manner tend to reflect the practitioner's personality more directly than those induced by shamanic meditation.
Many people also consider intense praying to be a form of meditation, one that focuses on the ineffable divine rather than the internal spirit or external universe. If you're inclined to prayer, use it to help you understand your relationship with whatever force you pray to, not just to send pleas and thanks to it.
 More than just reading your favored holy book(s), this step involves contemplating the wisdom they offer you and seeking to fully grasp that wisdom in all its subtlety and depth. Such “close reading” can yield more than a lifetime of things to contemplate from a large volume such as the Holy Bible; even small works such as Laozi's “Classic of the Way and the Virtue” (the Dao De Jing) can easily provoke months or years of slowly unfolding insight with a single line.

It is sometimes said that grasping the essence of the spiritual goes far beyond just a rational understanding of it, or even an emotional response to it. As you read and reread, strive to let the words and the meaning behind them digest slowly. Don't make the mistake of reading a holy text and thinking that once you can explain it, you understand it.
 As you explore yourself and try to connect with your own primary essence, keep close track of your thoughts and feelings. You don't have to share them with anybody else if you don't want to, but having a record of your journey will help you map out your journey no matter how far you go.

Don't be embarrassed or ashamed to write down anything you feel is worth noting. Even if you have an insight that you think sounds completely ridiculous out of context, if you feel it's significant in some way, write it down so that you'll always be able to go back to it and contemplate it later on. In the end, your true identity is nobody's business but your own.

