 Reflect on what is holding you back in life. Are you afraid to have a new relationship because you had a bad experience in the past? Are you stuck thinking about something bad you did before and don't know how to move forward? Do you miss your childhood and having fewer responsibilities? Do you miss having great times with old friends?


Figuring out the cause of what is holding you back is an important first step toward moving on.;
, As you are reflecting back on what might be holding you back, pay attention to how your memories make you feel. If something makes you feel a particularly strong emotion (whether good or bad) it may be the culprit.If you find yourself, for example, feeling very happy and nostalgic when you think about your teenage years, ask yourself some questions which can help you assess whether your thinking of the past is healthy or potentially harmful and holding you back in life.For example, you could ask yourself whether you find yourself talking a lot about your teenage years rather than talking about other parts of your life or the future.
You could also ask yourself whether your memories about your teenage years is limiting you in any way. For example, ask yourself whether your nostalgia is leading you away from trying new things.
 As soon as you pinpoint what does hold you back, write it down. This will serve as a reminder for you as you work to move on.


Do it if, for example, the cause of what is holding you back is that you witnessed a very traumatic event, such as a physical assault, and you are afraid something similar will happen to you.
You could write, for example, that you are afraid of being hurt, or that you are concerned about being out of control in a given situation.
Noting on paper the cause of what is not letting you move on can also facilitate you the process when it is time to confront your feelings., Although spending time thinking about the cause is by definition an incursion in the past, keep in mind that you do it ultimately in a way to move on.


Try to remind yourself of your ultimate goal as you reflect on your past.
Take a break from your situation with some restful distractions if you start to feel overwhelmed.