 Emotional support is incredibly important, as it can help people to feel connected, protected and loved, but it is especially vital for your loved one with OCD.Even if you have no mental health education or don’t feel as though you are able to “cure” the disorder, your support and loving regard may help your loved one suffering from OCD feel much more accepted and confident.
You can show support for your loved one simply by being there for her when she wants to discuss her thoughts, feelings, or compulsions. You could say, “I’m here for you if you ever want to talk about anything. We could grab a cup of coffee or a bite to eat.”
Try explaining to your loved one that you want the best for her and ask her to let you know if you say or do something that makes her feel uncomfortable – this will help your loved one open up in front of you and feel as though you can be trusted.;
, Empathy is a common practice in therapy because it helps people feel connected and understood; it is crucial when communicating with a person suffering from OCD.Try to understand what your loved one is going through.


Empathy is heightened with understanding. For instance, picture that your romantic partner needs to arrange her food in a very specific, peculiar way before each meal. At first you might find it odd, and ask her to stop or criticize her on this strange behavior. However, after a while, when you find out your partner’s deeper reasons for acting this way and the fears behind them, you are very likely to feel empathic.
Here is an example of how you can show your empathy in conversation, “You are trying the best that you can and I know how much it hurts when you are trying so hard but your symptoms won’t go away, especially when they are not really under your control. I don’t blame you for being upset and frustrated lately. You’re probably not only hurt but angry at being stuck with this disorder.”, When you communicate with your loved one you need to be supportive, but don’t approve or validate her behaviors related to OCD.Make your comments person-centered, such as, “I am so sorry you are going through this right now. What do you think is making your OCD symptoms so bad right now? I am here for you for support or someone to talk to. I hope that you will get better soon.”Help your loved one reevaluate the severity of her intrusive thoughts., No matter what you do, always avoid judging and criticizing the obsessions and compulsions of the OCD sufferer. Judgement and criticism is likely to force your loved one to hide their disorder; this makes it much harder to get them the proper treatment, and can also cause a rift in your relationship.She may feel better speaking with you if you are accepting.An example of a critical statement is, “Why can’t you just stop this nonsense?” Avoid personal criticisms to make sure you don't isolate your loved one. Remember that the individual often feels out of control of the disorder
Constant criticism any make your loved feel as if she can't satisfy your expectations. This may cause her to recoil and shield themselves from interacting with you.
 If you are frustrated or resentful of your loved one, it may be more difficult to provide adequate or helpful support.Understand that people with OCD are often resistant to change, and sudden change can cause OCD symptoms to flare up.
Remember to measure the individual’s progress only against herself, and push her to challenge herself. However, don’t pressure her to function perfectly, especially if it is beyond her ability at this time.
Comparing your loved one to others is never valuable, because it can make her feel inadequate and become defensive.
 There is wide variation of the severity of OCD symptoms and there are varying responses to treatment.Be patient when your loved one is receiving treatment for OCD.
Slow gradual progress is better than a relapse, so make sure you remain supportive and don't discourage her by becoming outwardly frustrated.
Avoid day to day comparisons, because they don’t represent the bigger picture.
 Acknowledge seemingly small accomplishments to let your loved one know that you see her progress and are proud of her.This is a powerful tool that encourages your loved one to keep trying.


Say something like, “I noticed you decreased your hand-washing today. Great job!”

, Don’t try to stop your loved one's OCD behavior by being with her all the time. This isn’t healthy for your loved one or yourself. You need your alone time to recharge and be as supportive and understanding as you can be.


Be sure when you are around your loved one that you converse about things not related to OCD and its symptoms. You do not want the OCD to become the sole connection between you and your loved one.

