 Like English speakers sometimes use terms like "adoration, "affection," and so on, Hindi has multiple words that mean "love" (or a similar idea). If you'd like, you can change the meaning of your phrase slightly by using different terms for love. Below are just a few Hindi terms you might want to try — substitute these for "pyar" in the phrases above:Ishq
Mohabbat
Dholna
Prem
Pyaar

, Hindi, like many other languages (including Spanish), uses different words for formal and casual situations. The phrase for "I love you" above is to be used for people you're close and familiar with — people like your significant other, siblings, children, and so on. However, for people who are older than you, authority figures, and people you don't know very well, you'll want to use the formal term "aapse" in place of "tumse".With this substitution, the formal version of "I love you" becomes "Main aapse pyaar kartha / karthee hoon."

, If you really want to express your love for someone else, try adding the word "bahut" before "pyar" in the standard "I love you" phrases above. "Bahut" is a Hindi word that means "very much" or "so much."


"Bahut" isn't pronounced like it's spelled — its pronunciation is closer to "bout" with a very light "H" sound in between the o and u than it is to "ba-hoot".
 If you've got serious feelings for someone but you're not quite ready to make the jump to a full-blown serious relationship, you'll probably want to spend some time dating this person before you tell them you love them. In this case, knowing how to ask someone out in Hindi can make a great first impression. Try using one of the handy phrases below, substituting masculine "a" verbs if you're a male and feminine "ee" verbs if you're a female:


"Main aap ko khaane par le jaanaa chaahathaa / chaahathee hoon." (I'd like to take you out for dinner).
"Kyaa ham ek saaTh ghoomane jaayem?" (Shall we go for a walk together?)
"Kyaa aap mere saaTh baahar jaayenge?" (Do you want to go out with me?)
"Main aap ke saaTh aur vakth bithaanaa chaahathaa / chaahathee hoon." (I'd like to spend more time with you.)
Note that, traditionally, Indian dating/courtship is much more structured and formalized than Western dating and may involve some (or all) interactions (including marriage) being arranged by family members. However, in recent years, young Indians and expats have increasingly begun to adopt Western-style attitudes to dating. To be safe and avoid embarrassment, you may want to try to figure out your potential partner's personal "rules" for dating before you ask him or her out.