 Once you have acknowledged your feelings, try to move past the situation by doing something that will improve your mood. Dwelling on what happened or how it made you feel will not make you feel better; it will make you feel worse. Find something else to focus on right away. For example, you can look for the good in the moment by writing down three things that you are grateful for. Or, you can distract yourself by doing something else that you enjoy. For example:


If you feel like you've been stuck at home while your friends are out having fun, do something to spoil yourself. Take a bubble-bath with your favorite scented candles and a book. Take a long walk or a run while listening to music. Go into town and go shopping, or just browse the shops on your own. Whatever you do, make it all about you and making yourself happy.
 Rejection can be very upsetting and you might find yourself feeling worked up or stressed as a result. Research has shown that taking a few minutes to practice deep breathing can reduce stress and promote a feeling of calm.To practice deep breathing, take in a slow deep breath as you count to five. Then, hold the breath as you count to five again. Then, slowly exhale as you count to five. Follow this exercise with two normal paced breaths and then repeat the slow deep breath.
You might also try yoga, meditation, or tai chi to help yourself feel calm.
 Being left out can cause you to feel sad and get down on yourself. Using positive self-talk can help you to combat these negative feelings and feel better after being rejected. After being left out, take a few moments to look at yourself in the mirror and say something encouraging to yourself. You can either say something that you believe about yourself or something that you would like to believe about yourself.Some examples of positive affirmations include:


“I am a fun and interesting person.”
“I am a good friend.”
“People like me.”
“People enjoy spending time with me.”

, Caring for yourself can make you feel loved rather than rejected. This can take many different forms because different people feel cared for by different means. Some examples include cooking yourself a nice meal, taking a long bubble bath, working on a project you love, or watching your favorite movie. You should also make sure that you are taking good care of your body. By taking good care of your body, you are sending your brain signals that you deserve to be taken care of. Make sure that you are devoting enough time to meeting your basic needs for exercise, food, and sleep.Aim for 30 minutes of exercise per day.
Eat a balanced diet of healthy whole foods like fruit, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins.
Get 8 hours of sleep per night.

