 If you are a teen or young adult, you may be tempted to use alcohol and/or drugs to help you cope with your parent’s PTSD. It may actually be easy for you to access these substances if your parent uses them. Substance abuse is quite common in both PTSD-sufferers and their children.Self-medicating with alcohol and drugs may help with the problem temporarily, but it is not a long-term solution. Instead, turn to healthier coping strategies such as journaling, regular self-care, or talking to someone you trust.;
, You may feel alone with your pain if your parent is not capable of consoling you. You are not. There are likely a variety of people who will be more than happy to lend a shoulder to cry on or an ear for you to vent your frustrations. Don’t feel like you have to face this alone. Turn to a friend, older sibling, teacher, coach, or school guidance counselor for support.You might say, “Ever since my dad came back from his deployment, he hasn’t been the same. I really need someone to talk to about what’s going on at home.”

, One way to feel more in control of your own well-being despite your parent’s condition is to develop a crisis plan. Such a plan details what you should do if you parent has an episode that places you in danger or in the event they are hospitalized.


It may be in your best interest to sit down with your parent on a good day and go over the plan. This crisis plan can help the both of you. It might include strategies to cope with flashbacks or anger for your parent, such as doing deep breathing, listening to calming music, or grounding techniques.
For you, it might include a list of emergency numbers like your local mental health clinic, your parent’s doctor, and close relatives who can oversee your care. You might also come up with a place you can go to in times of crisis like a neighbor’s house or the park down the street. You might go there and wait until help arrives., Children of parents with PTSD are at an increased risk of experiencing violence in the home.In addition, if your parents isolates and leaves you alone often, or uses drugs and alcohol, you might not always have food to eat or be in a safe environment.


If you are being abused or neglected by a parent with PTSD, you need to seek help right away. Don’t feel scared to call for help—doing so can even get your parent the care they need. If you live in the U.S., you can contact the National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD.