 A lot of people make use of the sleep and hibernate features of their systems a little too often, which mean that they can go days or even weeks without shutting down or restarting their computer. If you’re a culprit for closing your laptop and not restarting it regularly, then this could cause your computer to start acting slow. This happens because updates are being made regularly, some requiring your computer to reboot. When your updates aren’t able to complete installation, it can leave your system outdated, which can cause it to perform less than optimally. A simple reboot is sometimes all that’s needed.;
, When you have too much stuff on your hard drive, especially the one that holds your operating system, it can bog down the speed of your computer. The free space on your hard drive is used to run applications, so when this becomes limited, the performance of applications and functions becomes faulty. You can clear up some space by deleting applications and files that you no longer need. Your temporary files should also be deleted. You can do a disk cleanup to help you with this process.
 When there are files all over your hard drive, it can leave your system in disarray. Organization is always helpful for speeding up things, which is why it’s recommended that you regularly do a disk defragment. This will automatically place things where they belong, so that you won’t have to.
 You know that if you’re running too many programs at once, it can eat up your RAM memory, which slows down your computer’s performance. However, there are some programs that run in the background that can be causing the same issue. You can go to your task manager to see what’s running, so that you can stop them. Make sure not to stop important functions that are needed for the functionality of your system.
 When you have a virus or spyware, it can have a negative effect on your computer’s ability to perform. This issue can be resolved by installing software like Immunet or AVG.
 When your drivers aren’t properly updated, it can cause performance to drop. You can easily check for updates by going to your device manager in the control panel. Check all of the drivers to make sure that they’re up-to-date. Make sure that your drivers are setup to automatically update.
 A lot of people are still guilty of using an old version of Windows or iOS. When you wait too long to update your operating system, you risk having programs installed that are too strong for it. This includes Web browsers and other applications you use. Updates don’t continue to be made for really old operating systems, which leaves your computer vulnerable to viruses as well.
 If you notice that your computer is running hot, it’s likely due to your processor not getting enough ventilation. To help get air flowing through, you can use a laptop fan or upgrade the one that’s on your desktop. Make sure to also clean out the dust that’s inside.
 If you’re able, you should try upgrading the memory that’s in your computer. Your RAM is what helps to keep your computer running quickly, especially when you’re running more than one application or program. The more RAM memory you have, the more you can do at a time without it slowing down.
 Sometimes, your computer is just too old and simply needs to be replaced. As with anything, time kills the functionality of your computer parts. If replacing them isn’t doing anything or is too costly, you should instead opt for a new computer.

