 The human brain is about 60% fats which need to come from EFAs in the diet.EFAs like omega-3 fatty acids (including alpha-linolenic acid , eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid ) are needed for brain development. Studies have shown that deficiencies in EFA can affect cognitive development. They can also protect against Alzheimer's and other dementias.To get fatty acids in your diet, eat:Cooking or culinary oils: safflower, sunflower, flaxseed, walnut, soybean and sesame oil
Nuts and seeds: Eat sunflower seeds, pine nuts, Brazil nuts, pecans, chia seeds, walnuts every day or at least a few times a week.
Soybeans and soybean products: tofu and soymilk
Fish: Eat two to three servings of herring, salmon, sardines, oysters, trout (rainbow), tuna, or crab a week.;
, You should eat at least five servings of fruits and vegetables a day in order to get antioxidants. Antioxidants can stop free radicals from damaging your cells (in a process known as oxidative stress). These free radicals can cause inflammation, damage your DNA, and destroy cells (including brain cells).To get the most antioxidants (including vitamin C) in your diet, eat:


Berries: blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, strawberries, cranberries and huckleberries
Brightly colored fruits: pomegranates, cherries, apples, bananas, papayas, pears, plums, pears,oranges, grapefruits, tomatoes and watermelon
Vegetables: bell peppers, broccoli, brussels sprouts, spinach, Swiss chard, mustard greens, collard greens and kale
Dark chocolate: Eat 1/2 ounce to 1 ounce of dark chocolate, keeping in mind that it also contains some caffeine.
 Vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin that works as an antioxidant. Studies have shown that Vitamin E may prevent dementia, Alzheimer's, and other age-related cognitive conditions. Because it's an antioxidant, it also improves the immune system, cardiovascular system, and may prevent cataracts and some forms of cancer (particularly prostate cancer).To get vitamin E from food, use cooking oils (sunflower, grapeseed, canola, corn, olive and soybean oils), nuts and seeds (sunflower seeds, almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts and pecans) and avocados.
 Your brain needs a steady supply of energy that comes from glucose. Complex carbohydrates that come from whole grains, beans, and legumes are good sources. This steady supply of glucose to the brain will improve brain function, preventing confusion, foggy thinking, and lack of concentration. To get complex carbs, eat:Oatmeal
Whole grain breads
Brown rice
Green vegetables
Beans, lentils, and peas

, Try to drink two to three cups of hot or cold tea a day. Green, black, and white teas all come from the same plant, but contain different flavonoids (plant antioxidants). These antioxidants can protect your cells from free radical damage. They can also increase blood flow to your brain and throughout the body. Studies have shown drinking more than three cups of tea a day can reduce your risk for Parkinson's disease by 22 to 28%.Tea also contains caffeine (though in lower amounts than in coffee) which can help with mental alertness.
 The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet may reduce your risk for dementia while improving heart health.To follow the DASH diet, choose foods that are low in saturated fat and cholesterol. You should eat lots of fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products. Include whole-grain foods, poultry, fish and nuts.


The DASH diet avoids fats, red meat, sweets (including sweet beverages), and sodium.
 The Mediterranean diet is known for improving heart health and lowering blood pressure and it can also reduce your risk for dementia. Like the DASH diet, you should eat more fruits and vegetables and include fish and poultry at least twice a week. You should also reduce your intake of red meat.Limit your sodium by flavoring with herbs.
Use healthy oils (like canola, olive, or grapeseed) to cook with instead of butter.
 The Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND) diet combines elements of other diets. Research has shown the MIND diet cuts the risk of Alzheimer's by 53%.To follow the MIND diet, eat more fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, and beans (like the Mediterranean and DASH diets). But, you can include other foods that have been linked to improved brain health and function like:Olive oil, green tea and leafy greens (broccoli, spinach and kale): These can all prevent inflammation, which can eventually damage your brain.
Beets, tomatoes and avocados: These increase blood flow to the part of your brain that's responsible for memory.
Nuts (especially walnuts), curcumin and pomegranates: These prevent plaque buildup in the brain so that neurons can continue to communicate.
Fish, blueberries, grapes, coffee and dark chocolate: These foods increase proteins in the brain that create neurons, improving communication within the brain and the rest of the body.
 If you're caring for children or teenagers, recognize that their brains are going through rapid change and development. They need to eat foods that nourish the brain as it grows. Research shows that iron can improve cell communication within the brain and protect against Alzheimer's later in life.Since most children and teenagers do not get enough iron, include iron-rich foods like:Meat and poultry: chicken liver, beef, beef liver, leg of lamb, turkey leg
Seafood: clams, tuna, oysters, shrimp
Eggs
Beans: kidney, lima, navy
Whole grains: oatmeal, enriched bran cereals, whole wheat bread, brown rice
Molasses
Spinach
Peanut Butter
Lentils
Tofu

, Choose a supplement that has 2,000 to 4000 mg of combined EPA and DHA fatty acids. Taking an omega-3 supplement can improve the ratio of omega-3 to omega-6 so that it's closer to the ideal ratio of one to one. A diet high in omega-6 fatty acids can cause inflammation.Omega-3 fatty acids are anti-inflammatory which is why a balance of fatty acids is important.
Since omega-6 fatty acids are so plentiful in foods, there's no need to increase them in your diet.
 Get in the habit of drinking a glass of water right after you get up in the morning. Your body has become slightly dehydrated through the night and drinking water can restore your brain's hydration.Through the day you should drink six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water. Staying hydrated will prevent dehydration. Dehydration can shrink brain tissue, lower cognitive function, and impair brain function responsible for planning and visual processing.You should also make sure to eat regular meals. Your brain relies on a variety of nutrients to function. Skipping meals deprives your brain of hormones and nutrients that can protect brain health., Studies have shown that smoking may double your risk for dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Of those with dementia, smoking increased the mortality rate.Quitting smoking is a great way to improve your brain health. If you need help, ask your doctor to recommend treatment or aid to quit smoking.


The study showed that smoking has little effect on people who are already genetically predisposed to Alzheimer's.Try using the START acronym to help you quit:S = Set a quit date.
T = Tell friends and family that you plan to quit.
A = Anticipate problems and concerns with quitting.
R = Remove tobacco for the house, work, and car.
T = Tell you doctor in order to get more help.
 Determine your weight to height ratio to find your body mass index (BMI). This number will help you figure out what is a healthy weight range. The National Institutes of Health have several online calculators to find BMI.Keeping a healthy weight may improve your memory.In general, your BMI should be between 18.5 and 24.9. Talk with your doctor about adjusting your diet and exercising levels if you need to lose weight.
 Exercise creates new blood vessels in the body which can improve blood flow to your brain. It can also make cell-to-cell communication better. In general, exercise will improve overall health, which has a positive effect on your brain.Try to exercise several times a week. The President Council on Fitness,Sports, and Nutrition recommends 150 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise every week for adults 18 to 64. This is approximately 30 minutes five times a week. Exercises that are moderate intensity include slow biking walking, and water aerobics.Find an activity that you enjoy, so you'll stick with it. You'll find that exercising requires mental coordination which can improve brain health., Your brain can develop new pathways and connections when it's challenged. This can prevent future cell loss. Try mentally stimulating things like reading, crossword puzzles, math problems, or puzzles. You can also include activities that need mental focus, like painting, playing an instrument, or creating something.Research shows that it's important to start young. Reading and engaging with young children can increase their I.Q.s by up to six points.