 Early warning signs of diabetes are being hungry or thirsty even though you’re eating and drinking plenty of food and liquids. In both types of diabetes, your body doesn’t get enough energy through glucose, or blood sugar. As a result, it makes you feel like you need to eat or drink more., You experience fatigue for the same reasons you feel hungry and thirsty when you’re diabetic: your body doesn’t process the sugar in your bloodstream. Since you’re not getting enough energy from the food and beverages you consume, you feel tired. Take note if you complain of fatigue even though you’re getting plenty of sleep and rest., When your body is operating normally, it reabsorbs glucose through your kidneys. If you’re diabetic, your blood sugar (the amount of glucose in your system) is elevated: you have too much unprocessed and unusable glucose. As a result, your system will try to flush itself by producing more urine. Since your body is flushing itself, it diminishes your fluids and makes you thirstier.Bedwetting in children who don’t normally wet the bed is a sign of type 1 diabetes, which used to be called juvenile diabetes., With your fluid levels constantly changing, effects are visible in various systems. Look for signs in your body’s systems that change as your fluid levels fluctuate:Your mouth will often be dry as your body flushes itself
Your skin might frequently be dry and itchy.
The lenses in your eyes might swell up or change shape. As a result, you might have blurry vision or an inability to focus.
 Diabetes can be a "silent killer" disease, since many people do not notice they have it until signs of long-term damage appear.One of these signs is a lessened ability to heal, since high blood sugar makes it more difficult for your blood to flow. Note any skin abrasions that take a long time to heal. You should be concerned if you’ve had a cut for more than a week to 10 days, especially on extremities like toes or feet., If you've had diabetes for some time (though you may not have realized it), nerve damage can lead to pain or numbness in the extremities. In diabetics, lack of blood flow damages the nervous system the same way it prevents cuts and sores from healing properly. In both cases, high blood sugar is preventing blood from moving around your body.
 Men and women can both be affected by yeast infections, and diabetics are particularly susceptible. The reason is because yeast feeds on glucose, and since diabetics have plenty of unused glucose, yeast thrives. Check for infections in any moist folds of skin, such as:In and around the groin and genitals.
Between fingers and toes.
Under breasts.
Type 2 diabetes usually goes unnoticed, so enough time passes that your body becomes saturated with glucose, allowing for secondary indicators like yeast infections.

