 Be open to all questions and be patient with all members. Create a list of small tasks that you want all members to start with, so the senior citizen feels like they are involved and are not singled-out. Taping a calendar to your refrigerator marking the days until the move date is also a great idea so that both children and the elderly can plan ahead.;
, Seniors understand that their eyesight and physical abilities are not as they used to be, so it is always important that you are supportive and compassionate towards your loved one, knowing they are trying their best to assist you. When helping them pack, try to provide positive support and assistance to encourage them. However, it’s best to assist only when they ask you to because you may make them feel inadequate if you try to step in to do something they are capable of doing.
 Like your children or your pets, you should always be patient with the elderly. They might pack or clean slowly, but they are doing it which is very helpful. Try to schedule a pack day weeks in advance so they can pack their belongings without any stress or rush and so they would know where to find their things when it’s time to unpack.
 Our rooms are full of memories and stories that we all treasure. This is no different for the elderly. A good idea when they are beginning to pack their room is to take a picture of the room so they can rearrange all of their possessions the same way in their new room. Provide them with a layout to the new house so they can become adjusted to the idea of moving and try to visualize where everything will be. If you are moving locally, you may also want to show them the new house and show them the neighbourhood so they can see where all grocery stores, parks, and community centres are.
 You can also let them choose a room on the first level as their personal room so they can completely avoid going up the stairs.
 Once your belongings have been delivered to your new home, you should help the elderly unpack first so they are preoccupied with setting up their new room. Make sure that they have eaten at the end of the day because during stressful times, some people may forget to do so.
 You may need to explain how to operate thermostats and alarms to the elderly if they stay at home often.
