 Access the Finder feature on the Dock of your desktop screen. In the Finder menu, click on the option labeled “Go to folder…” In the new dialogue box, enter “~/Library/Caches” and press enter. Delete large files or folders in the resulting cache folder.Further clean your startup disk by similarly clearing out your general cache. Access the general cache by searching Finder for the same library but without the tilde ( ~ ), as in “/Library/Caches”.
The Finder feature is represented on Mac products by a face with one half colored dark blue and the other half light blue.Generally, cached files are safe to remove from your Mac. Not all files have to be removed. The largest files will have the biggest impact on the performance of your computer.
 Localization files support the use of languages other than the default for your computer. Open Finder on your computer and type “Applications” into the search box. Hold Ctrl and click one of the options in this folder. From the pop-up menu, select “Show Package Contents.” Delete any languages you don’t use.Removable language files are usually followed by the file extension “.lproj”. For example, Spanish would be expressed as “es.lproj”., Open a Finder window. From its menu options, choose “Go” and then “Go to folder…” In the resulting window, type in “~/Library/Containers/com.apple.mail/Data/Library/Mail Downloads” to access email downloads saved to your computer. Delete all unnecessary files in this folder.


Find email downloads more quickly by holding the ⌘ Command key and pressing space. Enter “Mail Downloads” in the resulting dialogue box. Select the “Mail Downloads” folder and delete files as per usual., Especially if your iTunes library is large, extra backups can take up a lot of space on your computer. Open Finder on your computer and click “Go” in its menu options. Select “Go to Folder...” and then enter “~/Music/iTunes/Previous iTunes Libraries”. Delete all backups except the most recent.


Each of the backup libraries in the previous library folder will include a date for each backup entry., Whole system backups take up a considerable amount of space. Open Finder and access the “Go to Folder...” option by clicking “Go” in its menu options. Enter “~/Library/Application Support/MobileSync/Backup/” in the dialog box to display a complete list of backups. Keep your most recent backup, but remove the rest.


Much like archived iTunes backup libraries, the date the iOS backups were created should also be clearly indicated along with the backup information.