 Major life events can contribute to distress and difficulty coping. Therapy can offer an outlet to talk about these transitions and ways to cope better. Consider whether you have experienced or are experiencing:


Moving
An accident or disaster
Life transitions (new job, going to college, moving out of parents' house)
Romantic breakup
Loss of a loved one (bereavement)

, You may think that a person only needs to see a therapist if he or she has experienced major trauma, or is feeling suicidal or majorly depressed, but this is not so. Many therapists are holistically oriented and will work with you on issues like low self-esteem, marital problems, child behavioral issues, interpersonal conflicts, and increasing independence.


If you're still unsure, set up an appointment with a therapist for an assessment. This may involve taking tests and answering questions. The therapist will tell you the treatment options and his recommendations

, Life will always throw curveballs when you least expect it, and it's important to know how to cope with difficult situations. If you lack positive coping skills or find your current situation too difficult to cope with, a therapist can help you discover ways to cope that will benefit you.Poor coping can include using drugs as a way to feel better, or drinking to get drunk.
A therapist can help you explore ways to cope and also help you practice these skills, such as using deep breathing or relaxation techniques.
 Think about your situation and the way you feel, and ask yourself what has helped. If you struggle to find things that have beneficially helped you, it might be time to reach out for some help. If you have tried and nothing seems to help, it's ok to admit that you don't have the tools to solve all your problems right now. A therapist can help you find healthy ways to cope and different ways to approach your problems.Maybe you've gone shopping to help you feel better, but afterwards you still feel bad.
If you've done things that have helped in the past (like deep breathing or exercising) yet find no relief, consider seeing a therapist.
 Sometimes, others' responses to you can clue you in to the fact that your issues are more than just feeling down or worried. If your friends or family are tired of listening or trying to help, it may be time to see a therapist. Or, maybe you feel bad about "bringing down the mood" and don’t want to talk about your problems to your friends. A therapist can be helpful for you, too.Perhaps others have become more cautious around you, worried about your health, and/or afraid of you.
Seeing a therapist can help you talk about your problems freely as well as find ways to communicate appropriately with your friends.
 If you have previously benefitted from therapy, it may help you again. Even if you decide to see a therapist for an entirely different reason, know that it has been helpful in the past and can help you now. Reflect on how you benefitted from in therapy and consider any ways that you think therapy can help you with your current situation.Contact your previous therapist and see if she has any openings.
 It's fair to say that therapy may not be the highest form of treatment for everyone, and people cope and sort through problems in many different ways. But if you do benefit from talking through your problems, being asked questions, and being honest with another individual, therapy may be beneficial.


A therapist may challenge your thought patterns, so be ready to be asked some difficult questions. Know that a therapist is there to support you and help you grow. A therapist does not tell you what to do.

