 There are many reasons why children may want to be homeschooled. For instance, parents may homeschool children due to bullying at school, and for religious reasons (you may feel that the school is not giving your child a proper education).


In the UK, you only have to write a letter to the headteacher explaining why you are going to take your children out of the school. If you are not in the UK, investigate the different laws/rules to take your children out of the school that they are attending.;
, There are many different ways of homeschooling your child. One of the most popular choices is online/virtual school. This is a way that is free in the USA, but unfortunately not in the UK, as there are private online schools that are quite expensive.

Another popular option is to order a pre-packed curriculum that includes worksheets to mark. These are not as expensive as online private schools, but if you are looking for one pack per subject, they normally cost between 150-300 pounds.
Consider buying different types of textbooks that cover each subject you choose to study online or from shops. This is one of the best, and quite cheap, ways of home educating. You can get good textbooks, that, for example will tell you how to solve a math problem in detail, whereas others just give the questions.
 If you choose to do virtual school, the school will give you times to be on the website and probably the duration of time that you should be using the website. However, if you decide to learn from textbooks, then you can choose what you want to learn for that day and how long you would like to do it for.

The average person wants to study about two to three hours a day. You do not need to do it for six hours, like an average school day, as much of the time is wasted in schools, particularly with lunch and recess. You should study at least two subjects per day, but it is advisable not to study more than four subjects per day.
 Children should be part of at least two clubs, in order to make new friends or stay in contact with old ones. There are also home school co-ops; they are in loads of areas, can help each other and swap textbooks. Your child will make plenty of new friends at the meetings!

, To make the lessons fun, it is best to know if you are learning something interesting in history or science. You can always go on field trips after you have finished the subject. Places may include the museum, the zoo, or an aquarium.
 This will always help with a child's education and will keep them more involved in the work.


Go beyond a textbook; this will make homeschool more engaging for children. For music lessons, you can have the children join a music class, or you can buy an instrument and teach different techniques through YouTube videos and teach that way! For P.E, you can have the children go roller/ice skating or swimming; these are all fun ways to get exercise. Also, you can join a sports team or go to tennis, ice skating, football classes. This is a fun way to make new friends!

, In some states or countries, you need to keep a portfolio of all the work you or your child has been doing. It is good to keep one, as you can show this to a college or university as proof of what you have been learning, when your children are ready for college.
 It is quite difficult for children to homeschool themselves, and it requires much dedication and commitment in order to get a good education.

