 You will need a large white egg, a needle, a paper clip, a drinking straw, scissors, alum powder, white glue, a small paintbrush, a glass container, food coloring or easter egg dye, a spoon, latex gloves, and a drying rack or newspaper., Take the needle and poke a small hole in one end of the egg. Unfold the paper clip and poke it into the egg. Stir to mix the yolk with the egg whites. Poke a hole in the other end of the egg that is large enough to contain a drinking straw. Position the egg above the sink or a bowl, and gently blow through the straw until the egg is empty., Use a small pair of scissors to cut the shell into two tidy halves. If you are having trouble splitting the eggshell, tap it lightly on the counter to crack it. Clean any remaining egg yolk from the shell., Use your small paintbrush to apply white glue to the inside and the edges of each eggshell half. Sprinkle the wet glue with alum powder until the eggshell's inside surface is entirely coated.Leave to dry overnight.
 Boil water and let sit while you get your glass container. Mix two cups of the hot water with 30 drops of food coloring or an entire packet of egg dye in the container. Wear latex gloves to protect your hands from the dye., Add ¾ a cup of alum powder to the hot dye solution. Stir until completely dissolved. If they are not all dissolved, place the solution in the microwave for a few seconds. Otherwise, the alum might not attach to the geode., Let the mixture cool for about half an hour. Then dip one of the dry eggshell into the mixture. Position it at the bottom of the container so that its hollow faces up. Leave for 12-15 hours., Put on your latex gloves and remove the geode very carefully. If you are pleased with the crystals, dry your geode on the rack. If not, return it to the solution for another day or so.You can re-use the solution to geodify the other half of the eggshell! Just the solution in the microwave first, so that the spare crystals dissolve.
The egg shell is part of the geode. Do not attempt to remove it.

