 Allowing your hamster to acclimate to his new environment is an important building block to gaining his trust. Finding a good location for your hamster’s cage will ease his acclimation. A warm room is ideal for your hamster,especially if it is draft free.The room should not be very busy with human activity—this may be bewildering or frightening to your hamster.Your bedroom is usually not a good place for a hamster cage, since your hamster is nocturnal and will make a lot of noise while you sleep.;
, Give your hamster at least a few days to acclimate to his new surroundings. During this time, your hamster will start familiarizing himself with where things are in his cage (food, water, sleeping area).


Do not be concerned if your hamster is washing his face or grooming himself excessively. These are not signs of nervous tension, as is commonly believed. Rather, he is scent marking and claiming his new territory.Scent marking allows your hamster to recognize places and items in his new home., Your hamster will probably see you as a huge predator at first. You do not want to confirm his perception of you by approaching his cage in a threatening manner. Instead, your approach should be slow and quiet, with no sudden movements or noises.Try talking to him in a low and soft voice when you get near to, and reach, his cage., During those first few days of acclimation, your hamster may hide in his cage when you approach it.He may still be very wary of you and his new surroundings. Over time, though, your hamster should relax enough to do normal hamster activities, such as exploring his cage, when you are nearby.Talking to him in a low and soft may help him relax and be comfortable with your presence.
You do not need to stand by his cage for long periods of time. Try standing there for a few minutes at a time to see how he reacts to you.
Once you see him going about his normal business when you are nearby, continue talking to him. The sound of your voice will continue to help him adjust.
Consider offering him treats when you are near his cage.Place them in the bottom of his cage, since he will probably not be ready to take them from your hand.
 It is very important that you not touch your hamster during his adjustment period. Acclimating to his new home will be hard enough without you trying to handle him and pick him up. Talking to him and being near his cage will be sufficient.
 Once your hamster is adjusted to his new home and your presence, you can gain his trust by handling him properly. He will be more receptive to working with you when he is fully awake and alert, which is in the evening.Do not wake your hamster up to work with him. If he is sleeping deeply, being woken up suddenly can cause him to jump into defensive mode,which could lead to you being bitten or nipped at.
If he is busy doing something else when you approach his cage, get his attention by lightly tapping on the cage, moving his water bottle, or softly talking to him., Clean hands are important to handling your hamster. If your hands smell like food, your hamster will see your hands as food and will probably try to bite them.Be sure to wash your hands with unscented soap—even a fruit-scented soap could cause your hamster to bite your hands.If you have multiple hamsters, wash your hands between handling each one. The smell of one hamster on your hands would lead the next hamster to believe he is being attacked., Your hamster will trust you when he can trust that your hands will not harm him. With your hands freshly washed, slowly place one of your hands in the bottom of his cage. Allow him to explore your hand by smelling it.Do not be surprised if your hamster runs and hides when you first place your hand in his cage. From his perspective as a prey animal, your hand reaching into his cage could resemble a large bird swooping down to scoop him up.Rest your hand in a non-threatening way, with your fingers curled. Spreading your fingers out could make your hamster think he’s being attacked.Do not pull your hand away if he starts to nibble on it. His nibbles are a way of exploring your hand. If you suddenly pull your hand back, you could frighten him and make him more wary of your hand.Try offering him treats, talking to him, or stroking his back as he becomes more comfortable with your hand.Eventually, he will take your treats from your hand., When your hamster is comfortable with your hand, slowly reach into his cage with both hands. Hold your hands like a scoop and wait for your hamster to walk into your hands. Support him with both hands as you slowly lift your hands out his cage.Have him face you when you lift him up—he will know what’s happening to him and will be less likely to jump.Your hamster may become skittish and jump off your hands when your hands are still in the cage—let him do so.If he seems agitated, calm him down by giving him a treat and/or stroking his back.Talking to him in a soothing voice could also calm him down.
Your hamster may squeal when you pick him up, signaling that he’s annoyed with being held.If he continues to squeal, gently place him back in his cage and try to pick him up at a later time.
If you are having trouble picking him up with your hands, place an empty mug in his cage and let him climb into it.When he has crawled into the mug, gently ‘pour’ him out of the mug into your hands.
 Being held by you can be stressful for your hamster. Try holding him for a minute or two initially, then slowly increase the amount of time each time you pick him up. Aim for handling him for about five minutes a day.


Hold him close to your body and stroke his back and forehead.When he is more comfortable with being held, sit or lay on the floor and let your hamster crawl and climb on you., When you pick up and hold your hamster, do not let him fall. Hamsters have poor eyesight and no depth perception,so your hamster will have no sense of how or low he is from the ground. In addition, your hamster could injure himself if he gets spooked and tries to jump out of your hands when you have him out of his cage.
 After a few minutes, or when he begins to get agitated, place your hamster back in his cage. Just as you picked him up, use slow and gentle movements to set him back in his cage.Try to set your hands on the bottom of his cage before letting him out of your hands.
Give him a treat when you place him back in his cage.

