 Click on the line that says “” next to “P.O. #.” Enter the purchase order number you are assigning to this purchase order. You can assign any alpha-numeric code you want for the purchase order number. You should come up with a naming convention that makes sense for your company so that you can use the purchase order numbers to easily track information., Click on the line that says, “” next to “Date.” Click on the down arrow. You will see a calendar. Select the date you want to use for the purchase order. Word will fill in this date on the purchase order template., Click on the lines to edit them. Click on the line that says “Vendor Name” to enter the name of the company from whom you are purchasing the good. Click on the following lines to enter their address and phone number. If you have a customer number for this company, enter it here.For example, suppose the dog groomer the dog groomer would enter the name and address of the vendor from whom she is purchasing merchandise, such as Pet Supplier, Inc, and address, 456 Animal Avenue, Puppyville, PA 19123.
 Click on the lines to edit the information in this section. Enter the name of the contact person and company name. Enter their address and phone number. If the billing address is different than the shipping address, you may have to enter columns and add this to the template.Highlight the cells that say “Ship to” and “Company Name.”
Click on the “Layout” tab under “Table Tools.”
Click on “Insert Left” or “Insert Right.” This will two columns either to the left or right. If you made your gridlines visible in the earlier steps, you will easily see where you can now enter your billing address information.
Copy the cell that says “Ship to” and the editable cells next to it. Paste them in the new cells you created.
Change the words “Ship to” to “Bill to,” and enter the billing address.
For example, suppose the puppy groomer has all bills sent to her accountant instead of to her business. She would create a “Bill to” section on the purchase order with the name and address of her accountant, Business Accounts Inc., 789 Main Street, Puppyville, PA 19123.
 Click on the cell that says “Shipping Method” and enter the carrier you want the vendor to use. Enter the shipping terms. This includes information like the cost, packaging requirements and transfer of liability.Finally, enter the delivery date. This is the date you expect to receive the merchandise.


For example, the dog groomer who is purchasing the shampoo knows that she is receiving a flat shipping rate of $5.95 for priority shipping with USPS. Under method, she would enter “Priority Shipping, USPS,” and under terms she would enter “Flat shipping rate $5.95.”

, At the bottom of the template, Microsoft Word has added some suggested terms and conditions. If you like these, then you can keep them. If you want to change or add any, type them in here., Enter one line of information for each item you want to include on this purchase order. Enter the quantity, or the number of items you want. Enter the item number, which is a number the vendor uses to identify specific products. Enter a description of the item. Enter the unit cost, or the cost for one unit of sale. Then enter the line total, which is the total for all the units you want to purchase.


In the example with the dog groomer, she is purchasing 10 bottles of shampoo that are sold in packages of 2 for $12.
Under quantity, she would enter 5 (because 5 packages x 2 bottles per package = 10 bottles).
Under item number, she would enter “ABC123,” which is the vendor’s item number for the product.
Under description, she would enter the name of the “Package of 2 bottles of Scratchy Suds.”
Under unit price, she would enter $12.
Under line total, she would enter $60 (5 packages x $12 = $60).
 First, calculate the subtotal by adding up the cost of all of the items you entered on the purchase order. Then calculate the tax if applicable.


For example, the total cost of merchandise for the dog groomer is $60. Then she adds 6 percent sales tax ($60 x .06 = $3.60). The total for the purchase order is $63.60.

