 This will help you direct your studies logically. If it's an essay exam, for example, you may want to write practice essays. If it's multiple choice, you may want to test yourself before the exam. If your teacher has not explained his or her format, it's perfectly acceptable to ask about the format at some point during class., You want to go into studying feeling positive. A good attitude can help you keep up your stamina throughout the studying process. It can also set the tone for a productive studying session.Think positive. Remind yourself of your skills and abilities. Think of studying as a way to build up your skill set and learn more.
Avoid catastrophic thinking when studying. Try not to engage in thoughts such as, "I should have started studying earlier. What's wrong with me?" Instead, think something like, "I wish I started studying a little earlier, but it's okay. I'm still on track to succeed."
Do not compare yourself to others when studying. Keep the focus on yourself and your abilities rather than comparing yourself to others in your class.
 Memory games can be an effective means to memorize difficult information. You can, for example, make up a sentence to help you remember a list or equation. A common memory game is the sentence, "Every Good Boy Deserves Fun." This helps students remember the five notes in treble clef (EGBDF). See if you can come up with similar memory games on your own., This is far more effective than simply re-reading the textbook. As you study, find ways to test yourself on the information. This will help you retain information later in a test setting.For example, you can write down questions for yourself to answer later. If the teacher offers any practice tests, always take them.
You can also use things like flashcards to help you memorize names, dates, and vocabulary.
 No one can study for hours on end without a break. You will study far more effectively if you give yourself breaks and rewards throughout the studying process.Take short breaks to do something you enjoy. For example, after 50 minutes of studying, you can allow yourself to go on Facebook for 10 minutes.
Reward yourself. You'll be more motivated to get through a study session if you reward yourself with, say, a slice of pizza afterwards.

