 There are three declensions in Greek: first, second, and third. Each noun must be declined with changes in its ending to denote whether its number is singular or plural, and whether its case is in the nominative (e.g., man in "a man sees a dog"), vocative (e.g., man in "O man, see the dog!), accusative (e.g., dog in "a man sees a dog"), genitive (e.g., of man in "the son of man sees a dog"), dative (e.g. for the man in "the son buys a dog for the man"). Adjectives are declined similar to nouns, and must agree with nouns in number, case, and gender.


For example, the word λογος (meaning "word" in English) is declined as follows:

Nominative singular: λογος
Vocative singular: λογε
Accusative singular: λογον
Genitive singular: λογου
Dative singular: λογῳ
Nominative plural: λογοι
Vocative plural: λογοι
Accusative plural: λογους
Genitive plural: λογῳν
Dative plural: λογοις



, A preposition requires the noun following it (called the object of the preposition in English) to take a certain case (there is not a single objective case). For example, the preposition απο ("from") must be followed by a noun in the genitive case. The preposition εν ("in" or "on") must be followed by a noun in the dative case.
 A table of verbs is typically found at the end of most Greek textbooks: make sure to study it carefully. The "Present" and "Imperfect" tenses denote continuous or repeated action. The "Perfect" tense denotes completed action. The "Aorist" tense denotes a simple, indefinite action, used when there is no need to indicate continuity, completion, or incompletion of the action denoted by the verb. A verb may be in the active, middle, or passive voice, and is conjugated accordingly. Furthermore, a verb is conjugated according to its context, i.e. indicative, imperative, subjunctive, optative.


For example, the Present Indicative Active of the verb λεγω ("I say") is as follows:

1st singular: λεγω "I say, or I am saying"
2nd singular: λεγεις "Thou sayest, or thou art saying"
3rd singular: λεγει "He, she, or it says, or is saying"
1st plural: λεγομε "We say, or we are saying"
2nd plural: λεγετε "Ye say, or ye are saying"
3rd plural: λέγουν(ε) "They say, or they are saying"



, These must be memorised with practice.
 Try to make it a habit to revise a list of new vocabulary regularly, reviewing old ones prior to learning new ones. It is better to learn a little everyday, than trying to learn a lot once a week.
 You may find help from recorded lessons, a native speaker, or a fluent Greek language tutor.

