 Even if the position you're applying for requires a great deal of writing, you may not be asked to provide a sample right away. Providing a sample too early in the interview process may torpedo your chances of getting the job if it isn't a good sample.;
, The type of writing sample you submit should relate in some way to the position you're seeking: For a technical writer position, sample topics from a help file or procedure manual would be appropriate. For a marketing position, advertising sample copy would be appropriate. For a public relations position, a press release would be appropriate.


If unsure about what kind of sample to send, research the position further to get a better understanding of the kind of work you'd be expected to produce, both by reviewing the company website and asking people in the company with similar positions about what they do.
In some cases, you may want to send more than one writing sample, notably if the position calls for the ability to write various types of pieces and you want to showcase your abilities in all the areas listed.
If you have several prospective samples to choose from, choose the most recent sample unless an older sample better showcases your capabilities with respect to the position.
If you haven't written in that area before, you can either send something you've previously written that's close to the area called for or write an original piece that falls within that area. In some cases, you may be asked to write an original piece "on spec" to demonstrate your skill in a particular area, such as a writer position for a particular publication.
Unless the position calls for it, avoid sending writing samples that contain political or religious opinions or caustic humor. In no case should you send a sample that puts down any individual or groups of people.
 This means four things:


Your writing sample should be your own work, not the work of someone else. If it involves the work of someone else, that source should be properly credited according to the style used by your prospective employer, such as APA (American Psychological Association) or MLA (Modern Language Association).
Although you may be asked to work with someone else on a writing project once hired, you should be the sole writer of any writing sample you submit, as you will be evaluated on how well you write.
You should have the rights to what you submit. Some companies may consider writing you've done for them as their property, if you wrote it as their employee, and you will need their permission to use it as a sample when applying for a position with someone else. Other companies may restrict you only to not using a given piece of writing if doing so violates any confidentiality agreements or until it is published or the product is associated with, such as a help file for a software application, is released.
Your writing sample should not be heavily edited by someone else. If you've worked on something that was heavily rewritten by others before publication, such as a white paper that went through multiple revisions, use the most recent draft that was largely your own work.
 In some cases, the type of writing will dictate the length of the sample: blogs and press releases typically run from 300 to 500 words, while legal memoranda should run 5 to 10 pages. If in doubt about the appropriate length, ask.


You can take an excerpt from a larger piece of writing, but if you do, include a note that explains this and summarizes the parts that were omitted and why you omitted them.
 Just as you want your resume and cover letter to be perfect, your writing sample should be free of spelling, punctuation, and grammatical errors. Look it over carefully yourself and have a knowledgeable friend look at it if necessary.
 Use adequate margins and spacing between paragraphs. Text should appear in a clean, readable font, with your name in a professional-looking header on the first page and on each subsequent page.


If sending a printed sample, print on clean, high-grade paper.
 Tell the recipient what each sample is and who it was originally written for.

