 It's important children learn to respect rules. A big aspect of sportsmanship is respecting how the game is played, even if some rules seem unfair or unnecessary.Tell a child why rules exist. Say something like, "Rules exist so the game can be organized. If everyone was allowed to do whatever they wanted, it would not be fun to play the game. Rules keep things under control so everyone can have fun."
Never encourage cheating. If your child gains a point by breaking a rule, do not count the point. Say something like, "Part of playing a game is following the rules. It's not fair to other players to cheat."

, Children should learn to be genuinely happy for other team members. Keep your child focused on games as a team effort. When a member of a child's team does well, praise that child and encourage your child to do the same. For example, "Eliza did so good today when she scored those goals, don't you think?" It's important your child learns to be enthusiastic about other people's accomplishments in addition to their own., Never let a child leave a game on a negative note. After a game finishes up, encourage your child to end things with a handshake and a sincere congratulations, whether they won or not.If your child plays on a Little League team, talk to the coach about incorporating a handshake at the end of each game.
If your children are just playing at home, have them shake hands before and after competing with one another in games.
 Your child learns a lot about acceptable behavior from watching you. Therefore, it's a good idea to watch your own behavior. Always try to be a good sport yourself, as your child will learn from watching you.Always congratulate both teams after a game. Cheer on players equally, and do not get discouraged if your child loses.
If you watch sports yourself, be careful not to complain about the other team. Try to be a good sport if, say, your favorite football team loses.
Children should play sports to have fun, learn teamwork, and become physically active--not to fulfill somebody else's dream of sports stardom. Avoid criticizing them if they lost, and make sure they want to participate.

