 Whether from cold, allergies, or infection, swelling will prevent Eustachian tubes from opening and allowing air to pass. This results in pressure changes, and sometimes, the accumulation of fluid in the ear. When this happens, you will feel the following symptoms:Ear pain or a feeling of "fullness" in the ear.
Ringing or popping sounds and sensations that don't come from the outside environment.
Children may describe popping as a “tickling” sensation.Trouble hearing clearly.
Dizziness and trouble keeping balance.
Symptoms might be heightened when you rapidly change altitude — for example when flying, riding an elevator, or hiking/driving through mountainous areas;
, This very simple maneuver is known as the first technique of the Edmonds maneuver.Simply jut your jaw forward, then wriggle it back and forth, from side to side.If the ear blockage is mild, this action can pop your Eustachian tube open and reestablish normal air flow.
 When you try to blow out through blocked passageways, the air pressure in your body is affected. The sudden rush of air when you release your breath can cause a rapid change in blood pressure and heart rate.Take a deep breath and hold it, closing your mouth and pinching your nostrils shut.Try to blow air out through your closed nostrils.
If the maneuver is successful, you will hear a popping sound in your ears, and your symptoms will be relieved.
 But instead of having the patient manipulate air pressure through breathing, it relies on the air pressure adjustment of swallowing. To perform this maneuver:Pinch your nose closed.
Take a sip of water.
Swallow.
Repeat this process until you feel your ears pop and open back up.
 It might look and feel silly, but this action, called the Otovent maneuver, can be effective for equalizing air pressure in your ears. Buy an “Otovent balloon” either online or at a medical supply store. This device is just a normal balloon that has a nozzle that fits into the nostril.If you have a nozzle around the house that will fit securely into the balloon opening and your nostril, you can make an Otovent balloon of your own at home.


Insert the nozzle into one nostril, and pinch the other nostril closed with your finger.Try to inflate the balloon using only your nostril, until it is about the size of a fist.
Repeat the process on the other nostril. Repeat until you hear the “pop” of free air flow in the Eustachian canal.
 Before swallowing, you have to build up air pressure in your body by bearing down like you’re trying to have a bowel movement. When you’re holding your breath and blocking your nose, it will feel like you’re trying to blow air out through all of your blocked orifices. Some people find it difficult to swallow under these circumstances because of the increased air pressure in the body. Be patient, though, and keep at it. With enough practice, it could pop your ears open.
 This can both ease any pain you might experience and treat the blockage. The gentle heat of a warm compress can help break up congestion, unclogging the Eustachian tubes.If you use a heating pad, you should place a cloth between the heating pad and your skin to avoid burns.
 Because the ears and nose are connected through tubes, a nasal spray is an effective way to treat Eustachian tube blockage. Angle the nasal spray bottle through the nostril toward the back of the throat, almost perpendicular to the face. Sniff as you spray the decongestant, hard enough to draw the fluid into the back of the throat, but not hard enough to swallow it or pull it into the mouth.


Try one of the equalizing maneuvers after using a nasal decongestant. They might be more effective at this time.
 Talk to your doctor about whether this is a good option for you.


Note that antihistamines are usually not recommended for people with ear infections.

