 If you suspect hearing loss, you should visit an ear, nose, and throat specialist to get a physical exam. You may be required to give a medical history and explain certain behaviors or habits related to your hearing. This doctor will rule out any underlying medical condition that may be causing your hearing loss.Your doctor will physically examine the ear to see if there is excess water or wax in the ear causing hearing problems.
You may want to visit your general physician first if you are not sure if you have any hearing loss.
 You may choose to see an audiologist for a hearing exam. If you see a general physician or ear, nose, and throat specialist first, they may refer you to an audiologist when they discover any hearing damage. If you know you have hearing damage, you may choose to go to the audiologist first, but you may have to sign a waiver since the FDA requires a patient to go to a general physician first before an audiologist.Your audiologist can help you determine the extent and type of hearing loss that you have.
An audiologist will also help you determine what treatment options are right for you, such as hearing aids.
 You may be given a pure tone test to help determine the extent of your hearing loss. A pure-tone hearing test determines the tones you can hear. You will be required to wear earphones as you listen to different low and high pitches. The test helps determine what frequencies you cannot hear.You will also be given different pitches in each ear. Your ears may have different types or severities of hearing loss, so this test will help determine the specific hearing loss for each ear.
 The audiologist may also want to perform tests that evaluate how your middle ear is functioning. These tests look for any fluid in the middle ear, if there are problems with the eardrum, or if wax is blocking the ear canal. The doctor may also check for the amount of air in the ear canal, which can give vital information about the eardrum.Acoustic reflex measures can help the audiologist figure out where the hearing loss is and what type of hearing loss you have.
Middle ear tests are most common with young children, but they are performed on adults.
 There are other tests the audiologist can perform to check for hearing loss. You may be speech tested, where you repeat back a speech that you listen to. You may also undergo auditory brainstem response (ABR), where electrodes monitor your inner ear and the brain pathways used for hearing.These tests may not be necessary to determine your hearing loss or the type of hearing loss you are experiencing.

