 Commonly, people who report symptoms of depression lack pleasure or lack of interest in activities and/or loss of meaning.The act of creating music allows you to take risks and experience yourself in a different way, while being supported in a therapeutic setting.Especially if you have a difficult time expressing yourself otherwise, you can experience moving emotions through playing music.


Allow the music you create to have meaning to you. You can create a song specifically around the sadness you feel from losing a beloved pet, the struggle you experience after a career change, the longing of leaving something of value to you. Let those emotions and experiences guide your music as you play.;
, When engaged in music, you allow yourself to relate differently. Instead of using words, you use emotion, tone, rhythm, and collaboration. Interacting and engaging through music allows you to express yourself when words may be difficult to find, but the emotion is not.Working with a music therapist can help you connect more deeply with your emotions and work through them in a supportive environment.


Notice how you feel when you play music. Do you feel present, focused on the moment, the music, and the feeling? These can be healing factors to depression.
 Music can be described as sound, which can be further reduced to vibration. Vibration therapy (called vibroacoustic therapy) uses low level vibrations that can be heard and felt and applies them to the body. Vibroacoustic therapy works with the body in a way that allows the emotions and body to work more harmoniously together by stimulating different parts of the body through vibration. While still gaining momentum as a treatment option for depression, some studies have concluded positive responses to vibroacoustic therapy as a treatment approach to depression.Vibroacoustic therapy also helps with chronic pain(such as fibromyalgia) by lowering pain, increasing movement, and reducing medication dosage.If you’re working with a music therapist, ask to play with vibration through drumming. Ask if vibroacoustic therapy is available.
 While many people know that exercise is a beneficial way to treat depression, even making movements and experiencing yourself as a physical being can be beneficial in treating depression.The act of strumming a guitar, banging a drum, or moving a bow on a violin can trigger movements that can beneficially contribute to treating depression.
The human body often reacts to music through the tapping of a foot, a head nod, or through clapping. Music helps you connect with your body and move naturally.
 It doesn’t matter whether you consider yourself a “good” singer or not, singing can help lift your mood and your thoughts and promote relaxation.Sing songs that you know and that put you in a good mood. Notice how you feel after a few minutes of singing; has your mood or thoughts shifted?


Sing in the shower, in the car, and around your house. Sing to your children, your pets, or your garden. Don’t be shy to sing, remember it’s good for you!
Create a sing-along playlist to play whenever you feel stressed or down. Sing along and guage how you feel afterward.
If you’re working with a music therapist, ask to include singing with playing instruments. Even if you sing nonsense words, it’s okay to just use your voice.
 If you don’t know how to play an instrument, pick one up. After all, playing an instrument engages more parts of the brain than any other known activity.Spend a few moments each day playing the instrument and notice how you feel. Choose an instrument that brings you joy and pleasure; it can be as complex as a trumpet or as simple as a rattle.


Don’t get overly ambitious in picking up a new instrument; this is supposed to be a fun experience, not a difficult or frustrating one. After all it’s not “working” an instrument, but “playing” one., Different musical styles can affect your mood. For instance, Classical music is associated with feeling calm, relaxed, and comforted, while rock music can lead to discomfort.If you’re stuck in negative thoughts (which is common when you feel depressed), try using music to boost your mood to a more positive space. Play music you associated with positive feelings and guage how you feel during and afterward.
 If you enjoy painting, dancing, drawing, writing, or meditating, add music to the activity to heighten the experience. This process can help induce feelings of relaxation and develop coping skills.You can engage with a whole new experience when you add music to your activities. Make the music congruent with your activity. For instance, if you’re painting a tranquil setting, listen to calm and reflective music.
 Actively engaging with music helps lifts your mood more effectively than passive listening.Harness the power of music by actively tuning in to the mood boosting abilities it has. Listen to happy, upbeat music and focus your attention on feeling happy and upbeat yourself.


Find songs that elicit a huge smile from you regularly. When you listen to these songs, place your attention of feeling happy and purposefully listening as a way to boost your mood.
 If you tend to feel rushed or hectic in the morning, consider making a playlist filled of songs that help you feel relaxed and at ease, or that inspire you for your day.Instead of immediately bogging yourself down with thoughts of yesterday, today, or tomorrow, focus on improving your moment now and lifting your mood from the start of your day.


Find songs that make you smile or feel good when you hear them. If you get tired of hearing the same songs, make a new playlist.
 Standard treatment for depression includes therapy or short-term psychotherapy intervention and, if necessary, medication. When music is included in standard care (including listening to music and playing instruments or singing songs, or improvising music), it improves outcome of depression.Music is especially useful as a therapeutic tool during sessions with a therapist, creating duets together or making solo improvisations.


The role of improvisation cannot be overlooked. It’s thought that music can be a pre-verbal expression of memories, hurt, or emotions and symbolic of these experiences., Especially if you struggle with negative thoughts, pairing a mantra or positive affirmation with a melody or tune can help reprogram the brain and lessen symptoms of depression.Mantras that include music can help trigger parts of your brain that signal that it’s okay to relax. The stronger the emotion, the greater amount of repetitions, and the frequency that you repeat the mantras, and the stronger the effect.Choose a mantra that has meaning for you. It can be a song lyric, part of a religious prayer, or a statement you want to remind yourself in daily life. It can be as simple as, “Today is a good day” or “I love and appreciate myself.”

, Using music and imagery together can help uncover hidden emotional responses as well as unleash creativity.Engaging different processes in your brain can stimulate emotional responses that are important to understand when enduring symptoms of depression.


You can find online guided imagery videos that incorporate music.
Use guided imagery on its own and then use guided imagery with music. Did you have a different experience?

, If you take antidepressant medication, music can help increase medication effectiveness.Talk to your prescriber if you notice any changes related to your dose.


If you notice a dramatic increase in your mood and symptoms of depression, don’t abruptly stop taking your medication. You may experience symptoms of withdrawal, worsen other conditions, develop thoughts of suicide, or set back your treatment.Talk to your prescriber before making any changes to your medication.

