 Start by packing earplugs for your hotel stay to help block out any noise. You may have a pair of travel earplugs that you usually use bring with you on trips. Or you may buy a pair of earplugs to bring with you so you can sleep better in the hotel, despite any noise. Pack your earplugs so you have a way to block out noise at night.You may invest in custom ear plugs that are made to fit your ears so they stay in and are comfortable. Look for custom ear plugs online.;
, You should also bring an eye shade that you can put on at night when going to bed to block out any light in your room. The eye shade should fit comfortably over your head and eyes. Look for an eye shade that is made of a soft material like silk or cotton so it lies nicely over your eyes.You can find eye shades online or in stores. If you are shopping for an eye shade in stores, try on a few first to make sure the eye shade fits comfortably around your head and over your eyes.
 You may find you get a better sleep if you bring your own set of sheets with you when you stay at the hotel. The smell and feel of your sheets can help you feel like you are sleeping at home. Pack a top sheet from home that you can slide onto the bed or bring pillowcases that you can slide onto the pillows on the hotel room bed.If you have enough space in your travel bag, you may bring your own pillow form home with you. Bringing your own pillow can help you feel more comfortable sleeping in the hotel bed.
 If you know you sleep better with certain sleep aids that you can pack, you should bring them with you. This could be packets of calming tea that you can prepare in the hotel room, sleeping pills, or a spray to make the hotel bed smell good.You may also sleep better with a sound machine on in your room. You may pack the sound machine if it is small or use an App on your phone to simulate the sound machine.
 When you call to book your room at the hotel, ask for a room that is in a quiet area. The concierge should be able to recommend several room options that are in the quieter spots in the hotel. If possible, book a room that is midway down a hallway, as this is often the quietest part of the floor, away from the ice and vending machines as well as the exits. You may also request a room that is located at the back of the hotel if it is low rise, as they are often quieter.You should also ask the hotel if there is a room on the concierge or suite level as these rooms often have taller ceilings and allow for more space between you and the room above you.
 Steer clear of a room that is by the hotel pool, as there may be noise at night from people using the pool or hanging out by the pool. You should also avoid a room above the banquet room or hall in the hotel or above the hotel bar, as they are often noisy.You may want to confirm with reception that your room is not near a dumpster or trash bin area, as you may end up being woken up by noises from this area. This is especially likely if your room has a window that faces the dumpster or the trash bin area.
 To ensure you get the best sleep at the hotel, go for a room that comes with black out curtains or shades. Many hotels have rooms with this feature, tailored for people who find it hard to sleep in a bright room.You should also go for a non-smoking room as you do not want to be irritated by lingering cigarette smoke in the room during your stay.
 If possible, try to get a mattress that is as close to the same size as the one you sleep on at home. For example, if you have a queen mattress at home, you may go for a queen sized mattress for your hotel room. Often, you sleep better on a bed that is similar in size to your own.You may also find you prefer a soft mattress or you get a better night’s sleep on a hard mattress. Speak to the hotel about how soft or hard the mattresses are there. They may use a mattress brand that is similar to your own. If they do not, you may try requesting a room that has a mattress that will fit your needs.
 When you book the hotel room, you should ask reception if there are any conferences, weddings, or large gatherings planned during your stay. If there are, you should be prepared for noise issues and pack accordingly. If you feel you will be too disturbed due to the noise, you may reschedule your booking for a time when the hotel is less full and will be less noisy.If you know there are going to be lots of people and lots of activity in the hotel, you may let reception know that you are a light sleeper. You may tell them that you will complain if the noise gets too loud and interrupts your sleep so they are aware of your needs.
 To ensure you sleep soundly in your hotel room, you should avoid eating a heavy meal close to bedtime. You may have a light meal for dinner so your stomach is settled when you go to bed. Or you may have a light snack a few hours before bed so your stomach is not too full when you finally turn in.Try having a cup of herbal tea before you go to bed to settle your stomach and get into sleep mode. Tea like chamomile, peppermint, and lemon can all help to calm your nerves and your digestive system.
 Hotel rooms can be stuffy and musty, making it difficult for you to get to sleep. Air out the room by opening the windows and letting in fresh air. If the windows don’t open in the room, turn on the fan on the air conditioning unit to circulate the air. You can also run the hot water in the shower to get some moisture in the air and make the room less dry.If there is a thermostat in the hotel room, adjust the temperature so it is comfortable for you. Having good air quality and good room temperature can help you get a good night’s sleep.
 To prepare for bed, do a relaxing activity that you enjoy doing at home at bedtime. This could be a warm bath, a cup of hot tea, or reading a good book in bed. You may also try watching television in bed to wind down and get your mind ready for sleep.If you find calming music helps you sleep, you may play it on your phone or on your computer to help you fall asleep.
 Before you turn in, you may let the front desk know you need a wake up call at a certain time. Having a wake up call set can help you sleep better and be less stressed about getting up tomorrow at the right time on your own.You may set your own wake up call on your phone so you are doubly prepared for the following day. Sometimes, the habit of setting your own alarm can also help you get into sleep mode.
 Once you are ready to go to sleep in your hotel room, make sure there is a “Do not Disturb” sign on the front of your room door. This will let others on the floor know you are trying to sleep and require quiet.If there are any noise issues that disrupt your sleep, do not be afraid to report them. Call down to the front desk and ask that they address the issue. A hotel with good customer service will often remedy the noise issue so you can get back to sleep in peace.

