 There are two types of auto dealers in the industry. Wholesale dealers are only allowed to sell cars to other (wholesale or retail) dealers. Retail dealers sell cars to the general public; these are often (but not necessarily) cars purchased from wholesale dealers. Wholesale dealers buy and sell at lower prices, but have the advantage of often being able to move many more cars per month than retail dealers, who can set higher prices but whose overall sales numbers are more beholden to the whims of consumers.


Generally speaking, wholesale dealerships are a good choice if you're already good at fixing up cars, and can buy good cars with one or two fixable problems at a low rate, then fix those problems and flip the vehicle to a retail dealership. Wholesale dealers also often acquire cars from police auctions, foreclosures, and other competitive markets, so a competitive and enthusiastic attitude is useful.
Retail dealerships are a better choice if you're a detail person with a good head for customer service and sales. You can purchase good working cars, touch them up cosmetically with a thorough cleaning and detailing, and then make your money connecting individual customers with the right car at the right price for both of you.
 As a businessperson, you'll be required to get licensed, bonded, and insured according to state and federal regulations. In addition to a general business license, you'll need a special dealer's license from your state's DMV. This typically involves filling out some forms, paying some fees, and taking a test that proves you understand the rules and guidelines an auto dealer must follow.


The federal government's Small Business Administration offers a searchable database that provides information on all types of business licenses and permits, filtered by state or zip code and type of business.Auto dealers should be familiar with the Federal Used Car Rule, including what information dealers are required to disclose to consumers and what forms are required to be in compliance with federal law., Go to the DMV once you feel prepared, and take the test to earn your auto dealer's license. Pay any other fees you need to at this time. In most cases, the test won't be very difficult as long as you've read and thought about the pertinent information. However, if you don't pass, you can always try again according to a retaking schedule set out by your DMV.


If you're anxious about tests or have trouble remembering information, try taking notes as you read, and then reading your notes aloud afterward. This engages all three primary learning styles: visual (reading), kinesthetic (writing), and aural (hearing), which should help you to remember things much more clearly.
 An unfortunate reality of the auto sales industry is that being bonded and insured is not only required by law, but actually very necessary to prevent misfortune. As a dealer of either type, you'll be required to purchase general liability insurance, comprehensive insurance, and (in most cases) lot insurance. These help protect you in the event of theft, disaster, or an accident.


You'll also need to purchase a surety bond, which is a (fairly expensive) extra type of insurance that guarantees quality in your transactions. A surety bond protects you when you purchase a flawed vehicle from another dealer, and it protects your customers from being sold a worthless lemon of a car.
 Now that you're licensed, bonded, and insured, be sure you have a properly zoned space to sell your vehicles, and begin purchasing your inventory. Look at estate sales, private and public auctions, liquidation sales, auto wholesalers, and private auto listings to find the best deals. Use a pricing guide (such as the Kelley Blue Book), your best negotiation skills, and a certified mechanic who can perform a quick quality check on the cars you buy in order to ensure that you get the best cars you can for the best price possible.


Consumers will be more loyal to an honest lot selling solid cars than they will to a slippery salesman peddling questionable goods. It's always worth the extra time investment to be sure your inventory meets a high standard of quality.
 With a handful of good used cars inspected, cleaned, and ready for sale, it's time to get the word out. Post fliers at other area businesses, start a Facebook page, and advertise each of your cars on Craigslist and in all the local newspapers. Put up a bright, easy-to-read sign somewhere that people driving by will be able to see easily. In short, do whatever you can to promote your business.


Consider staging or sponsoring a community event, if you have the money. Host a summer barbecue party in a nearby park, with proceeds going to a local charity, or even just pay for advertising space in a student newspaper or theater program.
Don't neglect the power of the Internet. In addition to Facebook, get on Foursquare, Twitter, and even Instagram to promote your business. Update your social media sites regularly whenever you have a new car for sale or offer a limited-time promotion. You'll generate lots of buzz in no time if you stick with it.

Eventually, consider investing in a custom website with a searchable, photographic inventory of all the cars you have for sale.



