 Use your bathtub, or fill a container large enough to submerge your feet in. Soaking your feet in warm water will benefit your feet in a handful of different ways, such as hydrating your skin, soothing any foot pain, and getting them ready to be exfoliated.


Try putting some Epsom salt into your foot bath. Epsom salt is used for a number of conditions, but it can help your dry heels by soothing the dry skin and killing off bacteria or funguses that might be in the skin.Sit in the foot bath for at least 5 minutes. Stay in it longer if you have the time. The longer you let your feet soak, the easier it will be to scrub off dead skin when it comes time to exfoliate. Staying in a window of 5-15 minutes is ideal. But, don’t soak and treat your feet this way more than 3 times a week, as it could ultimately dry out your feet.;
, You can use a number of ingredients in your scrub, most of which you can find in your bathroom cabinet or kitchen pantry. What you decide to use in your scrub will depend on your preferences, and/or any allergies you might have to various ingredients.


Try a simple scrub with 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) brown sugar, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) honey, and 1 tablespoon olive oil. Mix these ingredients in a bowl. After soaking, gently rub the mixture into your heels in a circular motion.You can also try adding a cup of milk to your foot bath. Soak in the milk and water mixture for 5-10 minutes. Make a paste out of 4 tablespoons (59.1 ml) of sugar or salt, and ½ cup of baby oil or coconut oil. After soaking, massage this mixture into your heels with a pumice stone to exfoliate dead skin away and soften your heels., If you don’t already have a foot file, they are easy to find in the beauty or personal care aisle of your local grocery or big box store. One side of the foot file will look a little bit like a grater, while the other side will have a sandpaper surface.


You can opt to file your feet while they are still dry, prior to soaking. Sometimes wet skin makes it more difficult to see the driest areas of your heels, so you can file your heels before soaking and scrubbing if you choose.Be careful not to file your heels too much. Once you notice the skin feeling smoother and softer, move on to another spot or your other foot. Over filing might lead to your skin being more sensitive, or prone to drying out again much faster. Avoid filing your feet more than three times a week.
 After soaking, filing, and scrubbing, you will want to make sure to lock in moisture on your heels. You can use a variety of moisturizers, whether you choose to make your own or use one you have on hand.


You can make your own heel moisturizer by combining a tablespoon of olive oil with a few drops of either lemon or lavender oil. Mix them together and apply the mixture to your heels. Wear socks to keep the moisture in as it soaks into your skin.If you have a bottle of moisturizer on hand, you can use that. Make sure you put on a thick layer, then let it soak in before putting on another.

