 Find good quality wrapping paper. If the box is to be used for a gift, choose paper that suits the recipient. If the box is for storage of your items, choose paper with a pattern, design or color that you like.
 You'll need to cut the paper for the narrow ends, the long sides and the lid, as follows:


Measure the narrow ends of the shoebox, allowing for an equal overlap around the edges of 5cm/2 inches width and 7.5cm/3 inches to the depth. Using this measurement, cut two squares of paper.
Measure the sides of the shoebox, making the length just slightly short of the full side length and allowing for an overlap of 7.5cm/3 inches for the depth of each side. Using this measurement, cut two rectangles of paper.
Measure the lid. The measurement should be the same as the lid plus double the depth of the lid's sides. Cut a paper rectangle to this dimension.
 Attach the end paper pieces first. Ensuring that the paper piece overlaps equally all of the way around, adhere it to the first end with paper glue. At the corners, cut into the fabric to make vertical slits that will allow you to fold the paper down. Spread the glue into the areas of overlap, then make a crisp crease to fold the paper down firmly over each of the overlapping edges of the box, sticking the side overlaps first, then the top and finally, the base overlap.
 Check that the overlap is equal. Glue the paper to the sides, ensuring that the overlap is glued inside the box and under it.
 Place the paper facing wrong side up onto a flat surface. Apply glue to the shoebox lid, then carefully place it down onto the paper, taking care to ensure that there is even overlap all of the way around the lid.
 Cut the corner edges of the paper into a slit each side, to make it easy to fold it over the corner. Make very crisp creases to fold the overlap paper over, then glue the overlap pieces over the sides of the lid, tucking them under to complete the cover.
 Once dried, add embellishments if using, such as gluing on a ribbon or burlap bow, drawing a design or gluing on some ribbon. Alternatively, simply leave the covered shoebox as it is.


If you want to know the contents of the box, add a paper label and neatly write or stencil on the word describing the contents. Using a calligraphy pen is another option for an elegant flair.
 The paper covered shoebox is now ready for using as storage. Items that will fit well inside include photos, jewelry, craft supplies, small bottles, perfumes, herbs and spices in their containers, clothes pins, and so forth.

