 One of the most important aspects of a book is its plot, and having a strong one is important if you want to keep your reader's attention. Choosing a plot that tells an important story or message can help your reader connect with your book. Check to ensure that it makes sense, and fix any weak points that may ruin it. Do your best to stick to it throughout your book, and don't stray far from it. For instance, if you're writing about the life and times of Lord Nelson, stick to the facts and avoid going off topic.


Be as original as possible. While it may be tempting to use cliches, it may discourage people from continuing reading, especially if they've already read other books similar to yours. Giving them a fresh and new book will capture their interest and encourage them to purchase it.;
, Be sure that they are relevant to your plot and strengthen it rather than distract your readers from it. Details help enhance the book and the topic you're focusing on. However, make sure that you avoid adding too many; otherwise, it'll become overwhelming and chase your readers away.


Beware of using too many simple sentences, such as "I ran to the house" or overly detailed ones like "I dashed off in a northern direction toward the house." Instead, opt for a descriptive sentence that is in between the two extremes.

You could try writing a sentence like, "A burnt smell swept through the air. With a yelp, I dropped the garden hose and dashed towards the house, hoping the kitchen hadn't burnt down. I pounded up the back porch stairs and burst into the kitchen, nearly crashing into my grandfather."



, Remember that there are certain types of books where including characters may be inappropriate, such as ones about fly fishing or a self-help book about recognizing one's limits. When creating a characters, be sure that they are relatable and realistic. Give them a balance of strengths and weaknesses, and feel free to include hobbies, likes, and dislikes. Select goals for your major characters so that they have an objective to work towards throughout the story. Be as original as possible so that you'll catch your readers' attention.
 Discuss cover designs with your publishers. When using different colors, make sure that they complement one another and capture the theme of your book. For instance, if your book focuses on a serious or dark topic, use darker shades. If your book is happier, you may want to consider selecting brighter, warmer colors. As for your title, make sure that it's related to the topic of your book, and be creative with it so that it captures people's interest. Be sure to use an appropriate, legible font. Few books, interesting or otherwise, have handwriting on the front cover. However, if you're not planning on publishing your book, you can design your cover with a card and any writing utensils (ex: markers, crayons, etc.).
 A literary agent will handle the task of promoting your book and meeting with publishers. By helping you with deal and sales negotiations, she can help boost the chances of your book becoming successful. If problems arise between you and your publisher(s), she can help fix them. Ensure that you have completed your book before attempting to find an agent, as you'll have a better chance of being accepted by one.


Note that a literary agent may not be necessary. If you're planning on convincing a big publisher to publish your book, then you may need to hire an agent to help you. However, if you're approaching a small company, you might not need one.
 Before choosing one, do your research beforehand to ensure that they accept the type of work you're submitting. Be sure that they offer high-quality performance. Once you have decided on a publisher, review their submission guidelines, which normally require you to have a query letter, sample chapters, and a synopsis/proposal of your book.


Remember that the process can be slow, and not every publisher may want you. You may be rejected the first time, but don't give up. Many authors have to resubmit their work several times before they're accepted. You can send your manuscript to more than one publisher at a time, but be sure that they allow simultaneous submissions.
 Although the idea of writing a book is nice, the reality is that it can be a long, difficult process that requires a lot of patience. Be sure that you have both the time and motivation to work on your book. You must be willing to go through several drafts of your work, edit out unnecessary parts, and sometimes even start over if the need arises. You may experience obstacles at times, and you need to have the strength and determination to overcome them. You might run out of ideas or be overwhelmed with so many that you don't know which one to include in your book. However, the harder the work, the better your book will become.

