 "Parted Magic" is a small Linux distribution which does exactly what we want. The download is about 140 MB in size. You can also use the "Ultimate Boot CD", this boot CD contains Parted Magic as well, but it's bigger in download size because it contains many other programs.;
,, You have two choices: Create a bootable CD, or create a bootable USB pen drive. To create a bootable CD, see step 4. To create a bootable USB pen drive, see step 5.
 Do a Google search for "ImageBurn" and proceed to download and install the program . Start ImageBurn, select "write image file to disc", select the downloaded .iso file as source file and start burning. When you're finished, continue reading with step 6.
 It's called "Universal USB installer". Go to http://www.pendrivelinux.com and proceed to download the Universal USB installer from the web site. Plug in your USB pen drive and backup any data stored on it, as it will be completely erased in the process. Start the program and proceed to agree the license agreement. From the first drop-down box, select "Parted Magic". In the text box below, select the .iso file you just downloaded. Then, select the correct drive letter for your USB pen drive and proceed.
 If you have an IDE hard disk, you don't need to configure anything. Proceed with step 7. If you have a SATA hard disk, you'll need to disable the controller's AHCI mode in BIOS and set it to IDE mode. If you are unsure if your controller is running in AHCI mode, just give it a try to proceed with step 7. The worst thing to happen would be Parted Magic being unable to detect any hard drives. In that case, you'll need to switch your controller to IDE mode, which is not covered in this guide. Do a Google search for "how to switch SATA controller to IDE mode".
 Insert your CD or plug-in your USB pen drive, and restart your computer. You need to change your boot device in the system's BIOS so the computer will boot from it. The easiest way is to bring up the boot menu by pressing F12 (or the escape key on some systems) when your computer starts, then select your bootable media from the list. Another way is to change the boot order in the BIOS, however this process is not covered in this tutorial. Do a Google search for "how to change the boot order in bios".
 Select option 1 (the default) and press Enter. If you have a system with a small amount of installed memory (RAM), consider using the option "Live with low RAM settings".
 Double click the icon named "Partition Editor" on the desktop to open the partition editor.
 If no partitions are listed and no hard drive is detected, you most probably have forgot to switch your SATA controller to IDE mode (see step 6).
 From the following menu, tick the "boot" check box and close the program. Reboot your computer to complete the process. Important note: If you have set the boot partition to a partition which does not contain the system files needed by the boot loader, your system will fail to boot. Do not set a partition as the active partition when no operating system files are installed on it. To do this for Windows XP, read step 5 in the following article: Change the Active Partition in Windows XP

,