 Most people are afraid to go out and do things on their own because they think other people will judge them, or they think they won't have as much fun as they would with a group. But actually, neither one of these things are true. We tend to overestimate other people's interest in what we're doing (few people will care or think about why you're alone), and we underestimate how much we will enjoy an activity if we do it alone.Don't let flying solo hold you back from going out and experiencing things. Chances are you will be way happier going out and doing something than staying at home instead.If you can't help but worry about what other people will think if they see you out alone, remind yourself that it takes some guts to do what you're about to do. If people see you out there enjoying yourself, shoulders back, not hiding that you're alone, you're going to appear more confident than anything else.
If you run into people from school and you're afraid what they'll think, don't hide from them or act embarrassed. Just act like it's not a big deal--yep, you went to see a movie alone. They probably wouldn't be brave enough to do what you're doing, so feel good about your solo adventure.
 Get involved with a cause you are passionate about and put your skills to good use. If you're good with your hands, look into Habitat for Humanity. If you're amazing with animals, spend some time at a local shelter, walking dogs and playing with kittens. If you're an environmentalist, look for opportunities to join a beach or forest clean up day. You'll be having fun, saving the world, and meeting cool people all at the same time..


Other possibilities include volunteering at a soup kitchen, visiting children and elderly people in the hospital, spending time with kids at the Boys and Girl's club, and tutoring.
Contact your church or a local political organization to see if they have any volunteer opportunities.
 Right away you know you have something in common with everyone there. Search online for free meet ups in your area--sci-fi lovers, hiking groups, photographers, foodies--and go to one of their events. You'll get to do the things you love and maybe make some friends in the process.


If you're a student, see what clubs your school has to offer.
There may even be a group for people who just don't feel like doing something on their own--like a movie in the park or visiting a theme park--and you can all go in a big group.
 Make a playlist of your favorite songs, pick a nearby town, park, or attraction that looks weird or interesting (world's largest hamster wheel, maybe?), and hit the road. You can sing along as loud as you want, stop wherever you feel like it--you don't have to worry about anyone else's agenda (or bladder getting full). The trip can be all your own.For some people, a long drive is a good way to clear your head and relieve stress. It gives you time to think and recharge but gets you out of the house at the same time.If you can't drive or aren't old enough to take off for another town on your own, see if you mom, dad, sibling, or an older cousin want to take an adventure with you.

