 Keep in mind that a cowboy themed wedding will lean towards the natural, so unless you are think bright red hats and kerchiefs and black boots, plan to use lots of muted browns along with whatever "signature" colors you choose.;
, For the perfect cowboy themed wedding, think of an outdoor location. Try selecting a date in late spring, summer or early fall. Remember, if you choose a summer date it can storm or be extremely hot midday so plan accordingly.
 Choose a wedding site that reflects your theme. Perhaps there is a lovely outdoor site where you can have the ceremony with a lodge, cabin or barn that would be appropriate for the reception. If you cannot find a suitable location in your area or price range, find a space with a large amount of prairie acreage and rent a large white tent.
 Choose food that is innately "cowboy." One big advantage to this is that almost any local barbecue joint that caters will likely have the perfect menu. Be sure to inquire about what kind of serving ware they will use and what kinds of place settings they offer if this is important to you.
 Choose a cake in your colors and add cowboy embellishments. Choose a topper with a cowgirl lassoing her man. Ask the baker if she can make cream cheese mints in the shapes of cowboy boots, hats and horseshoes.
 Hire a country band or select a song list for the DJ that reflects your down home style. Select you and your significant other's favorite country tune for your first dance and other important dances.
 Choose a dress for yourself that reflects your haute cowgirl-esque style! Find a garter embellished with a horseshoe pendant (or add one yourself) for good luck. Select suits for the men and choose bolero ties. Ask them to wear cowboy hats and boots that match the suits, and ask them to buy a matching belt on which they can put their favorite big buckle. Choose cute sundress-style dresses for the ladies. For the hair, flowers might be a nice touch for that natural feel. Also ask the maids to wear boots or to change into boots for the reception, if desired. Be sure to find a cute new pair of boots for yourself too!

, For a cowboy themed wedding, go with flowers that evoke nature. Messy bouquets of "wildflowers" would be perfect.
 Round up old cowboy boots and put slim vases with water inside of them. Fill them with wildflower bouquets. Find old horseshoes and large belt buckles and lay them on the tables around the flower arrangement. Buy cowboy boot place card holders and put boot, hat, or horseshoe embellished place cards in them. Hang a pair of horseshoes on the alter with the flowers for good luck. Place old cowboy hats on the buffet and cake tables for decoration. Turn old cowboy hats upside down and line a with a clear glass bowl and use to serve mints and nuts on the cake table.
 Choose cowboy-themed Toasting Glasses, Cake Knife, and Server Set. Find or have made a leather bound Guest Book (maybe embellished with your names and date). Buy a real wood Pen. Embellish the Ring Pillow and Flower Girl Basket with horseshoe or cowboy hat pendants. Create or buy an Aisle Runner in your theme (stencils and paint on a cheap standard runner would work great!).
 The stationary set you choose sets the stage for your event so make sure guests know that your hitchin' will be a hoedown for the ages. Start with save the dates in a traditional "wanted" poster style that read: "Wanted: A posse to witness the hitchin' of..." Send invites on recycled paper (maybe even wildflower seed embedded) with natural edges. Create programs to match.
 Nothing says "cowboy" better than riding on horseback or behind a horse-drawn carriage to the reception.
