 Everyone gets hungry and needs to eat, and hot dogs are a popular option most consumers. They're delicious, easy to prepare, and fun to top with a wide variety of toppings. Set up a grilling station and be sure to offer buns and basic toppings like ketchup and mustard.


Charge extra for more elaborate toppings. Set up a topping station with onions, cheese, pickles, potato crisps, bacon or other meats - the possibilities are endless.
Offer different kinds of hot dogs. Have normal dogs as well as sausages, veggie dogs, and corn dogs.;
, Offer different kinds of jelly, custard, and fruit so that your customers can create their own mixes and flavors. Make sure you have enough of the most popular flavors so that you can satisfy as many customers as possible.


Consider adding variations to the jelly and custard, like offering soda instead of custard. Arrange the ingredients on a table so that your customers can choose their favorites. Consider charging more for higher-quality or more expensive ingredients like cream or ice cream.
 These are a hugely popular dessert, especially on a hot day. Offer a large variety of flavors so that customers will be sure to find something they like. Classics like strawberry, chocolate, and vanilla are absolutely necessary, but come up with other flavors or combine flavors in order to spice up the options.


Offer toppings like whipped cream, sprinkles, chocolate sauce, or crumbled Oreos.
You can also sell soda floats as an alternative to milkshakes. Have a variety of sodas, and add some to ice cream to create the float.
 Make muffins, biscuits, cookies, brownies, pies, cakes, or anything else you want to bake, and sell slices of each in a bake sale. Ice the baked goods as appropriate and make them look good in order to sell more.
 Use string, beads, rubber bands, or any other crafting method to make bracelets, necklaces, rings, and earrings. Make sure to use many different color combinations and designs so that customers can find something to fit their tastes. Sell pre-made jewelry, or offer to make custom pieces for your customers, allowing them to choose their favorite designs and colors. Charge more for custom pieces and for larger or more complicated designs.
 Stuffed animals are quite easy to make. Make as many as you can, using different fabrics and patterns to come up with a huge variety of colors, patterns, shapes, and sizes for your animals. Sell these, charging more for larger or more complicated stuffed animals.
 Charge people for the opportunity to play one round, and give them prizes if they win. Use a classic carnival game like a ring toss or dart throw, or come up with your own game. It's easy to make money off of games because they don't cost a lot of money to set up or run, and your customers can keep coming back to play again.

