 Launch your favorite web browser on your computer by clicking its icon.;
, On the address bar, type http://www.4shared.com/, and press Enter.
 Click on the “Log In” button found at the upper right side of the page. Input your email address and password you use for 4shared then click the “Log In” button to proceed.
 4shared’s landing page is your main folder directory for your 4shared files. You can find all your folders and files stored in your 4shared account here.
 Navigate through your 4shared folders by clicking on them until you’re in the folder where the new folder will be created. Nested or subfolders can be created.
 Click the “New Folder” button with the folder icon on the header toolbar. A new folder will be created.
 The new folder’s name will have an empty field. Type the name of the folder here.
 Click on the folder link to go inside it. The folder will still be empty since it’s just newly created.
 Navigate through your 4shared folders by clicking on them until you’re in the folder where you want to upload your files.
 Click the “Upload” button with the cloud icon on the header toolbar. Your computer’s file directory will come up.


You can upload a whole folder instead of individual files. Click the downward chevron beside the “Upload” button to bring down a submenu, and click the “Upload Folder” option. Your computer’s folder directory will come up.
 Navigate through your computer’s files and select the ones you want to upload. You can select multiple files by holding the CTRL key as you select the files.
 Click the “Open” button to start uploading the selected files. You can see the upload progress on the progress bar on the bottom bar.
 Once the upload is done, you will be able to see your files in the designated folder in 4shared.
 Navigate through your 4shared folders by clicking on them until you’re in the folder where the files you want to download are located.
 Tick the tick boxes on the files and folders to select them. You can select as many as you want.
 Click the “Download” button with the cloud icon on the header toolbar. If you’re downloading multiple files, they will be compressed into one B1 file.


A B1 file is an open archive file format, much like a zip file. The B1 file will be created in the background and it will be placed in your main 4shared folder.
If you’re downloading just one file, it will not be compressed into a B1 file. It will be downloaded as is.
 Files in 4shared cannot be directly downloaded from your account. Each file will have its download page. Select the B1 file that was created from Step 3 and click the “Download” button on the header toolbar. You will be directed to the file’s download page.
 On the file’s download page, click the “Download” button. You may have to wait a few seconds for the actual download link to appear. Once it does, click on it and your download will begin.
 The file will be downloaded to your computer, into your default Downloads folder.


If it’s a B1 file, you have to extract it first in order to get the files inside.

