 Although spas and beauty salons may offer services such as chemical peels or microdermabrasions, these procedures should always be done by a dermatologist if possible. Treatment by a dermatologist will be safer and more effective, and the doctor will be able to monitor your condition to ensure that you stay healthy.


Often, combining professional treatment with medical treatment is the best way to reduce acne blemishes.
 Post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation is one of the most common indications for a chemical peel. Superficial chemical peels are generally well tolerated with good clinical results.However, it is essential to select the correct chemical peel to avoid irritation, which in turn can worsen hyperpigmentation spots and cause other complications, including new areas of dyspigmentation and scarring.
Chemical peels involve the application of an acid to the skin, which will remove the top layers of the skin and induce color changes.
Glycolic acid peels induce epidermolysis, disperses melanin, and increases dermal collagen synthesis.
Salicylic acid peels induce keratolysis.
Trichloroacetic acid and Jessner's solution peels may be used but clinical evidence supporting the use of these agents for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation is lacking.
Consult your dermatologist if you should get a chemical peel and be sure to mention any underlying health conditions you may have or any topical or oral medications you are taking.
Avoid significant sun exposure for at least a week after getting a chemical peel. Always wear sunscreen after getting a chemical peel.
 Lasers and light sources may be an effective treatment form for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation if topical skin-lightening agents fail. However, certain complications have been noted, including dyschromias, blistering, and scars, and more research is needed to evaluate the efficacy of laser treatment for post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation spots.Laser and light treatments are safest and most effective when performed by a dermatologist.
 This is an easy, painless, non-invasive skin rejuvenation procedure that uses a combination of crystals and vacuum suction to gently remove “plaque” and skin debris. Microdermabrasion is less invasive than dermabrasion and can be used to treat post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation spots.