 Eczema often appears as red to brownish-gray colored patches on the skin. These patches can appear almost anywhere on your body if you have eczema. Eczema generally shows up during childhood and will persist until treated, so you may have had these patches for a long time.The most common places to find these discolored patches include:on the insides of your elbows
on the backs of your knees
on your face, especially on your cheeks
behind your ears
on your buttocks
on your hands and feet
on your ankles and wrists
on your eyelids
on your scalp;
, These bumps often appear on the face and scalp of people who have eczema. This condition on the face and scalp is also called "cradle cap," especially on infants. Avoid scratching the bumps because this will cause oozing and crusting. Eczema on the face and scalp is more common in infants, but they can be present in children and adults as well. Some people compare these bumps to scaly pimples in appearance., Itchiness is a common symptom of eczema and the itching may get worse at night. Do your best to avoid scratching your skin because it will make matters worse and may lead to swelling and increased sensitivity.When this condition worsens, it can cause redness and swelling.You may also feel a burning sensation, particularly when you scratch the patches in an attempt to relieve the itching sensation.
You should avoid scratching because it can cause cracks in your skin and trigger infection.
 Sometimes the discolored eczema patches on your skin may ooze or break open from scratching and then crust over. This is common in eczema, but it is a serious hazard to your health. Any broken skin resulting from eczema puts you at a higher risk of acquiring a virus or bacterial infections, so it is important to get these wounds treated., Eczema causes patches of your skin to take on a leathery or scaly texture. The scaly or leathery texture is caused by chronic scratching or rubbing of the reddened patches of your skin. Touch your skin to see if the texture has changed. If it feels leathery or scaly, then it may be the result of eczema.These scaly patches might also begin to peel. When they do, your skin will look how it does after you get a sunburn.

