 A rheumatologist is a doctor who specializes in treating arthritis. If you have RA and would like to try TTT, schedule an appointment with your rheumatologist or rheumatic disease expert. The doctor can discuss your TTT options with you and help formulate the best treatment plan for your specific case of RA.Locate rheumatic disease experts who may practice TTT online by consulting organizations such as the American College of Rheumatology.Keep in mind that early detection and recognition of RA is essential for treatment, so see a rheumatologist as soon as you notice symptoms.;
, Whenever you meet with your doctor to discuss TTT for RA, you’ll undergo a multi-part examination. This helps establish the baseline for measuring your progress. During your first visit, talk to your doctor about your specific goals for TTT, which often include complete RA remission.Ask your doctor questions about his or her goals for you. Make sure that you and your doctor are on the same page about your TTT. For example, “I would like this TTT to significantly decrease my symptoms. What do you envision the treatment protocol doing for me? Oh… you think remission is possible? That would be my ultimate goal.”
Let your doctor know about any concerns you have or how the TTT protocol will look for you. For example, “Are there possible negative side effects?"

, Any initial or follow up appointments with your rheumatic disease expert should include a self-assessment of your RA. For this, you will talk to your doctor about how you are feeling and any issues that you may be experiencing.Keep a daily journal to note your symptoms and how you are feeling. This can serve as a useful tool for you to track your own progress. A journal can also cue your doctor in to how you’re doing on a daily basis and determine effective treatments. For example, “I feel a lot of inflammation and burning in my hands and feet today” or, “My joints were really stiff when I got up from my desk after work.”

, The second part of any exam for TTT is a medical questionnaire. This is standardized and your doctor will ask you a specific set of questions about your symptoms. From this and your self-assessment, the doctor can make a determination about your symptoms and begin formulating the best targeted treatment for you.Be honest when you answer the doctor’s questions. You shouldn’t feel ashamed of any of your answers. Remember that your doctor is trying to relieve your RA. For example, “Dr. Bob, I spent most of last week in bed. I had a fever and was so tired that I couldn’t move. Then this made my joint stiffness worse. I really feel like once I get one symptom, then more quickly follow it.”

, Your doctor will prescribe laboratory tests as the third part of your exams. These tests measure things such as the amount of inflammatory proteins in your blood. They’ll help your doctor set a baseline against which to track your progress during treatment., In most cases, target-to-treat therapy for RA is a combination of medications that you take. Over time, these are adjusted as necessary to control your RA symptoms. It’s important to follow your doctor’s instructions on how to take your medications to get maximum benefit from the treatment.Recognize that TTT and conventional medical treatment for RA usually includes so-called DMARDS, or disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, as the initial medication. Early use of DMARDs is important when treating RA. Methotrexate is the most common DMARD used.
For example, a TTT drug protocol for RA might include: a weekly 15-milligram dose of methotrexate that is increased to 25 milligrams if you respond poorly to it. Your doctor may add sulfasalazine after 12 weeks if it is necessary. If you are still not responding at 6 months, your doctor may replace the sulfasalazine with an anti-TNF biologic agent such as etanercept (Enbrel) or tofacitinib (Xeljanz).You may also want to discuss anti-inflammatory agents with your doctor, such as steroids and over the counter NSAIDs like ibuprofen and naproxen.
 Your doctor will schedule a follow up visit to check your progress every one to three months. Tracking how you feel at home during treatment can help you identify progress, however small, in your RA symptoms. It can also help your doctor track your progress between visits.Write how you are feeling and any issues in a notebook every day. Provide your doctor with it at each visit, which can inform decisions about treatment going forward.
 At each checkup, your doctor will ask you the same questions about your symptoms from your first visit. This clinical tool can also help measure your progress with specific medication protocols.Some typical questions your doctor may ask at follow up visits include:Do you notice any difference in your symptoms with the medication?
Where do you have pain? Has it gotten better or worse since your last visit?
Do you have difficulty performing daily activities such as bathing or dressing?

, Your doctor will use your baseline tests and counts to gauge your progress with a specific treatment protocol. This requires undergoing subsequent rounds of testing. Lab tests will again measure the inflammatory proteins in your blood, which can show how treatment is affecting your RA.In addition, examining your joints can provide a “disease activity score,” or DAS, that can indicate any progress.


Joint counts examine a specific set of joints and counts how many are swollen and/or tender. When combined with other factors, the tally of the joint count generates the DAS. This can provide further tangible evidence that your treatment is working or may need tweaking., If your medication relieves your RA symptoms for three months without needing to be switched, your doctor may consider you in remission. However, you may not have any measurable progress with your current treatments. If this happens, your doctor will adapt your treatment protocol to try a new medication. You may take the new drugs for another one to three months to see if your RA gets better. If not, your doctor will continue to try new medications until one puts your RA in remission.Ask your doctor to switch any medications that cause you uncomfortable side effects. These may include: nausea, vomiting, mouth sores, rash, or diarrhea. Seek prompt medical attention if you develop shortness of breath or a chronic cough., Effective treatment of RA includes regular appointments with your doctor. This can help manage symptoms, adjust treatment as necessary, or simply check to ensure you’re in remission. Your doctor may suggest appointment every month to every six months.