 Let them know that you're serious about wanting a car and speak with them about options and finances. Are you going to inherit mom's old van, or are you going to get a new (or new to you) vehicle?;
, If your parents want you to pay for a portion of the car, insurance or gas, come up with a plan to cover these expenses. Some parents decide to meet their child halfway with the cost, so you'll need to figure out how much you need to pay. Babysitting, dog walking, tutoring, and simple chores are easy ways to raise funds.
 Before you get on the topic of new vs. used, you need to research cars. Look everywhere. Look for the car brand on the Internet, and look at all of the models and features each one comes with. Some of the most popular brands for new drivers are Toyota, Ford, Honda, and Chevrolet.
 Every driver is different. Do you want a car with good gas mileage, an odometer with low miles, a sunroof, or a back up camera? Do you want a compact car, midsize sedan, or pickup truck? Write down the features that are important for you and the ones that you would like. Using your list, it will be easier to narrow down between brands and models.
 Once you have an idea of what brand you would like, you need to see the car up close. Car dealerships often put their inventory of new and used vehicles online. Talk with your parents and write down the stock numbers of these vehicles so once you arrive at the dealership, they can find them quickly.
 If you are purchasing a used car, ask the dealership if they can provide you with the car history. You need to know the miles, how many owners, and if the car has had any wrecks or recalls. If they don't have the history, walk away. It may be cheaper, but being sure that the car is reliable will save you much more money in the long run.
 You can find the most beautiful car in the world, but it may not run. Make sure the car is up to your standards by test driving it. Some dealerships will not let minors drive their vehicles, so it's a better idea to let Mom or Dad take over. Test the brakes, turning signals, and how long it takes for a vehicle to get to a certain speed.
 Tell your parent that this car is the car for you. Sometimes it is best to take a day to sleep on it just to be sure that this is really what you want, and not just excitement. When you are certain, have your parent do the wheeling and dealing. Parents have better credit, and are better negotiators than teenagers. Let your parent discuss the financial aspect with the salesman, even if you are purchasing the car.
 Congratulations on your new ride!

