 The easiest way to recruit friends to 4Loot is to use the Facebook invitation box on the Friends page. Just select which friends to invite and send the invites. The number of invites is limited per day so come back every day and invite more friends.;
, 4Loot creates a unique referral URL for each user. You can find this on your profile page right underneath your photo. This is a great way to spread the word about 4Loot without the limits of the Facebook invitations. There are tons of ways of distributing this link: email it to friends with a pitch for 4Loot, share the link on Facebook (at the top of your news-feed, choose the Share Link option and paste in your unique link), post it in gaming forums or paste it within a comment on a popular blog.
 4Loot offers a lot of ways to share achievements back to Facebook. If you share something back to Facebook and a friend clicks on the link and joins, you’ll get credit for recruiting them. So, remember to share your coin wins, quiz wins, purchases and any other achievements that you earn on 4Loot. Your friends will see these in their Facebook news-feeds and some will eventually join 4Loot.
 On the Promote page, there are a handful of banners that you can use on your blog, website, forums or share to Facebook. These banners are embedded with your special referral link. Clicking the Share button is a super easy way to post a banner back to your Facebook friends. If you have a website or blog, grab the HTML code and paste into your site. If you participate in forums, use the IMG/BB code to get a nice 4Loot banner to show up in one of your posts.
 Some of your friends may be skeptical about 4Loot or might not understand how it works. If you can coach them through the process, many will come around and prove to be valuable recruits for you. One key issue might be trust – so make sure to stress that 4Loot is a legitimate site and lots of users are earning Facebook Credits.
 The best recruiters send out messages daily to their friends or members of various groups on Facebook. Try sharing a banner to your Facebook profile on a daily basis.

