 A strain occurs when muscle fibers are stretched beyond their tensile limits and subsequently tear, which leads to pain, swelling and some guarding (muscle spasm in attempts to prevent further damage). A deep tissue massage for your lower leg muscles (focusing on the tibialis anterior) might be helpful for preventing a strain because it reduces tension and promotes relaxation.Furthermore, if you have a mild strain, a massage can be helpful for getting rid of mild inflammation. Start with a 30-minute massage, focusing on your shin muscles and calves. Allow the masseuse to go as deep as you can take it without wincing.


Drink lots of purified water after any massage in order to flush out inflammatory by-products from your body. Failure to do so might trigger a mild headache or malaise.
As an alternative to a professional massage, consider using a handheld vibrating massager on the soft tissues of your lower leg. Some research indicates that vibrations help to relax and strengthen musculature while stimulating nerves to reduce pain., Therapeutic ultrasound is a therapy used by some doctors, chiropractors and physiotherapists that reduces inflammation in soft tissues and stimulates healing.Ultrasound machines emit sound frequencies through special crystals (although you can't hear it) that positively impact injured cells and tissues within the body. As a preventative treatment, ultrasound may be able to stop the progression of shin splints if you start to feel some mild tenderness in your lower legs.


Treatments are painless and usually last five to 15 minutes, depending if your leg condition involves significant inflammation or not.
Although a single treatment is sometimes sufficient for mild strains, more than likely it will take three to five treatments to notice significant results.
 To better understand what shoes may be best for you, get an evaluation done at a reputable running store. High-end running stores sometimes employ people who are qualified to assess your running gait, examine your arches and check the wear patterns of your old running shoes. They typically aren't doctors or physiotherapists, but they are usually experienced runners or fitness experts who can give you sound advice, which may help prevent shin splints and other conditions of the legs and feet.


You'll get help with selecting the best running shoe based on your foot type (flexible pronator vs. rigid supinator).You may have to run or walk over a computerized force plate as part of your gait assessment.
 Another preventative strategy for shin splints is getting some custom made orthotics for your shoes and/or boots. Orthotics are semi-rigid sole inserts that help support the arch of your foot and promote better biomechanics while standing, walking and running.By providing cushioning and some shock absorption while you run, walk and jump, orthotics can help reduce the risk of developing shin splints.


Medical workers who build and sell orthotics include podiatrists, as well as some physicians, chiropractors, and physical therapists.
You'll likely need to remove the factory insoles from your running shoes in order to fit the orthotics in.

