 There are bound to be germs and lots of creepy crawlies, pests, parasites, diseases. The people you live with may come from far far away. Is it just me, or does far far away sound dangerous?;
, Sharing may be a show of love, but it is also a show of poor upbringing and bad manners. People from far far away are bound to be strange; are you sure you want to use their things, or allow them to use yours? At least have your own basics, like soap, sheets, and clothes. If someone attempts to borrow these, be frank in your disapproval. If you made the effort to have your own, why shouldn’t they?

, Listen to music on ear phones, shower everyday, don’t over-indulge in cosmetics especially of the cheap variety, or those brands whose labels bear spelling mistakes. Remember, not everyone thinks roses smell wonderful (I think only girls in the movies do).
 An annoying ring tone is difficult to bear in a bus. It becomes condescending to have to deal with the menace in a hostel. Worse is when the ring tone is only a preamble to hours of useless banter. If you have a roommate, spare them the sweet nothings you whisper on the free calls. Get a room!

, Eat noxious foods where there is plenty of fresh air, and then brush your teeth and wash utensils immediately afterward. Don’t leave traces hanging around, the fumes and morsels are unbearable, not to mention breeding ground for maggots, roaches and rodents.
 Avoid keeping closets you can’t open for fear of causing deadly avalanches.
 Don’t feel obliged to bare your soul, but basic courtesy will do. You don’t know what kind of fix you may find yourself in over the period of time you will be there. Who knows, someone might save your life. But bear in mind that familiarity breeds contempt.
 By all means, don’t be a diva, but if you don’t like something, say it. Lots of rights as we know them today had to be fought for. If someone encroaches on your privacy, tell them to back off. If the management fails to give you good value for your money, bring it to their attention. Don’t be a passive, grumpy type that whispers things under their breath but never has the guts to articulate their thoughts. While realizing that hostels cannot be expected to be at par with the standards at home, it is unacceptable that they violate the basic principles of humane living. They should be judged by a standard. In fact, there is legislation that provides a certain benchmark below which service should not go. Be conversant with your rights as a resident and demand them.
 If there is a common television, don’t make everyone watch Filipino soaps. Employ the little tenets of democracy. A little courtesy goes a long way. Instead of keeping the lights on while everyone is asleep, find another room to carry out your nocturnal activities, or engineer your program to coincide with others’.
 If you shall be bringing visitors to the hostel or guesthouse, it is only fair to let the people around you know. Seek permission from people who shall be directly affected by your actions. It is very rude to bring friends for sleepovers without checking with roommates first. It is extremely contemptuous if those friends happen to be lovers. Most hostels don’t even provide pillows to muffle sounds with!

, In case of an emergency, whom shall anyone call? And if you are out late and they need to lock the gates, how shall they reach you? Obtain contacts of at least two fellow residents, in addition to caretakers and watchmen. Be especially good to the watchmen, they tend to be drunk with power. Literally.
 You aren’t home anymore; you can’t let things like money, cell phones and laptops just lie around. In the same spirit, respect others’ belongings.
 Do lots and lots of new things too, but go easy on yourself. You are young, there will be enough time to do everything later. Just follow your heart for now, and be true to your values and principles.

