 By gently warming your ingredients, you’ll guarantee they gradually thicken, rather than burn. Place a medium saucepan on the stove when your ingredients are measured and ready to go., Pour your condensed milk into the saucepan, and then add your cocoa powder (or Nesquick powder) and butter.Stir well with a spoon until your butter is melted and everything looks thoroughly mixed.


The original Brazilian recipe calls for simple cocoa powder, but American cocoa powder is a bit less sweet. To crank up the sweetness in this recipe, you can either swap the cocoa powder for Nesquick powder all together, or use a portion of Nesquick powder, i.e., two tablespoons (29.57 mL) of cocoa powder and one tablespoon (14.79 mL) of Nesquick powder.
 Use a large wooden spoon to do this. Don’t stop stirring for the entire time your mixture is on the stovetop. As your mixture heats, it will gradually thicken. In about 10 to 12 minutes, it should be done. When it seems thick enough, turn off your stovetop.To see if your mixture is thick enough, test it by tilting the pan. It should appear to peel away from the bottom.
Another way to test if the mixture is done is by scraping the bottom of the pan with your wooden spoon. If you can reveal the bottom of the pan, it should be thick enough.
 Using your spoon or spatula, spread the mixture thinly and evenly across the pan. Allow to cool for around 10-20 minutes, or until it’s room temperature.Once you think it’s cool enough, test a section by trying to roll it into a ball. It should hold its shape.
 Spray some cooking spray on your hands or coat your fingertips with butter to keep the mixture from sticking to them. Once your fingers are coated, pick up enough of the chocolate to form small balls. Traditional brigadeiro is served in balls about 1.5 inches thick., Chocolate sprinkles are a common topping to use, but you can get creative!Try rolling them in crushed nuts, crystal sugar, coconut flakes, crushed candy, or anything else you might like. Anything that goes well with chocolate would make an excellent topping for your brigadeiro.


Store your brigadeiro in the fridge so they maintain their shape. Keep them chilled before serving.