 Ask a trusted friend for recommendations on an investigator. As well, do as much research on the investigator as possible.Use an online search engine like PInow.comto look up pre-screened, vetted, and qualified investigators.
You also can and should ask your potential PI for references you can call and check with before hiring them.
 A professional private detective will be able to provide their license number immediately. You can then check with your local municipality to make sure it is valid, it matches the name of the private detective, and if any complaints or issues have been filed against them.The only states that don’t require licensing for private detectives are Colorado, Idaho, Mississippi, South Dakota and Wyoming., Most investigators will offer a free initial consultation. This will allow you to become familiar with the investigator and confirm the PI has an office.


If the investigator only works out of restaurants or over the phone, this is a bad sign. You need to be sure you can easily locate the investigator at any time during the search at an office.
 It’s best to find a detective who specializes in the task you need or person you are looking for.


Double check that the investigator has insurance. Most serious PIs are insured up to a few million dollars. While insurance is not necessary for all jobs, if something were to happen during the course of the work, as the employer, you would be held liable if the investigator has no insurance coverage., The investigator’s fees may vary based on the circumstances of your search and who you are looking for, so discuss all fees and charges up front before you hire them.


Expect to pay a higher fee for investigators with extensive expertise and training.
Discuss if the investigator has a flat fee for basic searches like a background check, personal research work like a cell phone number search, a criminal record check, or a vehicle registration search, as well as a bug sweep of a home or car and GPS monitoring.Inquire about the investigator’s hourly fee. These can vary by expertise and by the amount of information the investigator needs to look for. Fees can range from approximately $40-$100 per hour or higher., Some private investigators may require a deposit depending on the type of service required and the circumstances of the investigation.Factors like travel time, estimated number of surveillance hours, urgency, and accommodation costs will affect the deposit or retainer fee.
If you are using a private investigator’s service through an attorney, there will usually be no retainer required as long as the attorney takes responsibility for paying the private investigator., The contract should outline the services to be performed, and require complete confidentiality between you and the investigator.The contract should also require the investigator to document all search activities, as well as a record or itemized list of work completed by the investigator., There are no guarantees the investigator will successfully track the person you are looking for or locate them. But if the investigator does their job properly, they may discover information on the person you are looking for that you should be prepared and ready to receive.