 You're probably going to keep thinking about the insult, particularly if you were hurt by the situation. The key is to go ahead and let yourself think about it. You shouldn't obsess, but when you feel the thoughts surfacing, just go ahead and feel the emotion. Then, let it go for the moment until it surfaces again. Try to take an objective approach to the feeling. You are feeling it, but you're not letting it drown you.Each time you go through the process, check if you're ready to let go of the shame. Just asking yourself the question can help you let go of a little bit of it each time.
 Once you've let yourself think though the event, try moving on. Start by closing your eyes and taking a few deep, calming breaths, focusing only on your breathing. Then, switch to thinking about something else. It doesn't matter what it is, as long as it keeps your mind away from the insult.Using this technique can help keep you from obsessing over what happened or what was said.
 Now that you have some distance from it, think about why the insult made you so emotional. Oftentimes, the insults that hurt the most conflict with a belief you hold or the way you view the world. The insult shatters that thinking somewhat. It may also play on an insecurity, and you may need to shift your thinking just a bit so you're not as susceptible next time.For instance, maybe you tend to think of people as generally good. Therefore, when someone insults you out of the blue on the subway, you're upset not just because of the insult, but also because the person has shattered your worldview a little bit. Just accepting that some people aren't nice can help take some of the sting out of the insult the next time it happens.
 You're probably thinking, "It's not about me? It was an insult directed AT me. How can it NOT be about me?" The truth is that when most people who spout off mean things, it's usually about some problem or stress they're trying to work through. Instead of dealing with it in an healthy way, they let it explode all over you with an insult.Someone who's always insulting may not have learned how to deal with other people in a positive manner. It's still not about you, but rather about the emotional problems the person has.
 While you may want to be over the insult quickly, realize it may take a little time, particularly if you are a sensitive person. It's fine to take the time you need to get over what happened and stop obsessing over what another person said. You have a right to take the time you need to stop feeling hurt., An insult only holds power over you if you let it embarrass you. If you have few things that embarrass you, people will find they have fewer things they can insult you with. The only way to be less embarrassed is to open up to friends and family about the things you find embarrassing. Secrecy will only increase your shame, and you'll likely find many of the people around you have the same "secrets."It can also help to talk about the insult that's upsetting you, as a family member or friend may be able to point out things that you hadn't noticed about the situation, making you feel better.
 While put downs can be hurtful, it is important to return the focus to yourself at some point and consider what you think. Do you agree with the comment? If not, then what is your opinion?


For example, if someone said your outfit looks trashy, reflect on why you chose it. Did you like the colors, the shape of the clothes, or something else about it? If so, then that is what really matters. Not the other person’s opinion.

