 You can stop chasing behaviors by teaching your canine to focus on you when they’re tempted by distractions like joggers, cars, or other dogs. If your dog loves to chase cats, closely manage their encounter with one. Put them securely on a leash, and lead them into a room where they can see and learn how to appropriately react to a cat.If you're worried about your dog getting loose, it might be a good idea to put the cat in crate at first so that you can protect the cat and control their encounter even more.
 If your pooch growls, barks, and/or lunges at the cat, immediately remove your dog from the room. It’s best to do so calmly but firmly and to bring your dog to a safe space like their bed or crate to reset their behavior.Once they’ve settled down, lead them back to the room with the cat to face it again. They will only learn to not react through repetition.
Do not react negatively or punish your dog for their bad behavior. It will only make them more agitated and could make their behavior worse rather than better.
 You want your dog to associate choosing the appropriate behavior with gaining a reward. Thus, as soon as your dog ignores the thing it wants to chase, you should immediately give it a treat. Each time it focuses on you instead of the cat, lavish your pooch with their favorite treats and affectionate praise., Once your dog has proven that they are able to face a distraction and not react at least three times in a row, perform the same ritual without having them on the lead until they can prove that they can control themselves without you physically restraining them.Even when your dog graduates to off-lead training, be sure that you continue to expose the dog to distractions within an enclosed environment in case they slip up.
Once your dog has one distraction (like cats) down, introduce them to a different distraction (like a dog) in the same way to ensure that the lessons are taking hold more broadly.
 Impulse control is a difficult thing to learn. Repetition over time is the only way to ensure the success of your lessons. It will take several training sessions over the course of several days (and potentially longer) to ingrain these alternative behaviors in your dog., If your dog’s chasing behavior persists in spite of your best training efforts, call in a professional trainer for a one-on-one consultation. They will assess your pet’s behavior and offer alternative techniques to control and change your pooch’s bad habits. Since chasing can be so dangerous, it’s well worth investing in a private training session or two to prevent it in the future.

