 Use only the freshest ingredients--consider trying organically grown vegetables and grain fed chicken eggs for a wholesome meal.


Select one or two large, ripe peppers. Look for peppers that are large enough so when you slice them, you can create a large pepper “mold.” Also, make sure the peppers are hearty and crisp so they don’t fall apart during the cooking process.
Gather a number of desired eggs. Go for the farm fresh, organic eggs for the ultimate healthy meal. Or you could use egg white substitute (or egg whites) if you are concerned about cholesterol.
Choose additional ingredients such as tomatoes, cheese, rosemary, bacon, etc. Essentially you will be cutting out a large slice of pepper and cracking the egg inside the pepper. If you want more than just the egg, throw in some cheese (especially if you use egg whites only) or other meat or vegetables.
Don’t forget your spices and condiments. Salt, pepper and even garlic salt/powder should be considered in order to spice up your meal.;
, The pepper slices will act as your “mold” so be sure you cut an even slice.


Wash and remove pepper seeds. As with any produce, wash the pepper and then slice of the top. Use your paring knife to remove any seeds before slicing.
Generate enough pepper slices to correspond to the same number of desired eggs. In order to be an efficient chef, pre-cut the pepper so you are ready to cook without having to stop and re-slice for every egg.
Consider either saving the remainder of the pepper to use in another dish or dice the pepper and add to your egg dish.
 In a prepared sauté pan coated with either olive oil or cooking spray, place your pepper in the pan and cook before adding the egg.


Season the pepper by sprinkling it with salt and pepper. Lightly coat the pepper with the desired seasoning, but do not overwhelm the pepper so you don’t detract from the rest of the meal.
Allow the pepper to cook in the sauté pan until slightly tender. You don’t want the pepper to become overly soft, but warm and slightly crisp.
 This may take some finesse as you want to make sure all the egg remains inside the pepper.


Crack egg on the side of the pan and hold closely over the pepper. Allow the egg to slowly slide from the shell onto the pan, inside the pepper.
If you are pouring egg substitute into the middle of the pepper, add it as though you are pouring pancake batter. Aim for the center of the pepper opening and allow the egg substitute batter to spread. Avoid adding too much egg substitute as more batter added will take longer to cook.
 Before the eggs are fully cooked, add other vegetables, meat, cheese and seasonings.


Don’t over garnish or add too many bits of meat or vegetables. You want the eggs to cook evenly, so only add enough to cover approximately a quarter of the egg area inside the pepper.
Lightly season the entire dish to taste. A light dusting of salt and pepper will enhance the dish without overwhelming it.
 Make sure eggs are thoroughly cooked before serving.


If you are feeling ambitious and you like eggs served over easy, use a spatula and gently slide the spatula underneath the pepper/egg combo and flip over. Depending on the egg size, the egg may drop down inside the pepper if you do this.
Stay on top of the cooking process to ensure that as eggs cook, the pepper does not burn or char. Consider lowering the heat if the pepper begins to overcook or complete cooking in the microwave if eggs are nearly done.
