 What you're really dealing with is a cluster of ingrown hairs. They may look like acne, but they're not. To lessen the problem, first try exfoliating. That will rub off the top layer off skin, possibly freeing the hairs from their derma-prison.


Make sure what you're dealing with is razor bumps. If they're pink or red (or dark if you can see the hair) and itchy, then razor bumps it is. They also may resemble whiteheads if pus has formed on top. B-E-A-utiful!;
, So, since we're dealing with ingrown hairs here, what you've gotta do is remove that layer of skin on top. Salicylic and glycolic acid do just that.


These two products quicken the turnover of dead skin cells -- that is to say, the layers you shed will be shed more quickly when this stuff is applied to your skin. Though it may not expose the ingrown hair, it will speed up the process.
 Make sure the needle is clean first! Sterilize it with rubbing alcohol if it's not brand new. Insert it into the top of the bump (blood or pus may come out) and switch to your tweezers. Carefully coax out the hair like you would a splinter -- plucking it straight off may lead the next hair to be ingrown, too.This needs to be done very carefully. It can potentially damage the skin and in the absolute worst cause scenario, result in scarring. Almost as bad as the bumps themselves!

, Hopefully, this seems logical to you. Shaving is how you got the bumps in the first place, so shaving more will just exacerbate the problem. If you can, avoid doing so. And if there's a no-facial-hair requirement you have to meet for work or school, consider getting a doctor's note to get around the rule.
 That stuff just irritates and burns your skin, dries it up and leaves it worse for the wear. And if you have razor bumps, that's a recipe for disaster and pain. If your normal lotion has it, you'd be wise to toss 'er out.


The only, only time you should use alcohol on your skin is the cleanse the area before using a needle. And then you should use rubbing alcohol -- no other kind.
 Many aftershave products have lidocaine in them. That's the ingredient that prevents itching and irritation. Bacitracin is the stuff found in products like Neosporin and is used to kill bacteria. You probably don't need an explanation as to why these two things are beneficial!


These products can be used on bumps and on unaffected skin. They're good treatments and preventative measures.
 The razor bumps may become infected if you do. You're just spreading around bacteria and mixing it in with the stuff on your hands (clean as they may feel). In general, staying away from your face entirely is your best bet.

