 This provides a number of benefits for your plants, including drainage, proper root movement to obtain the necessary water and nutrients, and aeration. Properly aerated soil ensures that roots obtain the oxygen needed to thrive.


Ensure the soil is not too dry. If it is too dry, it will not only appear dry but also be brittle or hard to the touch. Water the ground well and return the next day to check it again.
Ensure the soil is not too wet. Obvious signs include instances in which the ground is flooded is muddy.
Remove weeds and debris. Tilling under green matter will require waiting about a month until planting.
Pay a local farmer to cultivate a large garden, or use a rotary tiller to turn the soil.;
, While plants need sunshine and water to survive, they also need the vitamins and minerals provided by decomposing organisms to thrive.


Place a layer of organic compost over the entire area. Approximately 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.6 cm) of compost, worked into the first 4 to 6 inches (10.2 to 15.2 cm) of soil is one of the most commonly used methods to prepare organic soil.
Request leaf mold from the town leaf dump, if available. The leaves should be decomposed, as fresh leaves will harm your organic garden.
Ask a local farmer for manure. Most family farmers will gladly offer it for free, particularly if you do the work to obtain it. Use only aged manure or it may burn your plants. If only fresh manure is available, compost it for at least 6 months before applying.
Raise your own organic matter by planting buckwheat, hairy vetch, or rye. Either compost these or turn them under, waiting a month before planting.
 Planting too close together can drastically increase the susceptibility to illness of your fruits and vegetables, as well as reduce their productivity in general as they fight for the same resources.


Stake or cage tomato plants to prevent them from touching the soil.
Follow the recommendations on the seed packets or purchased plants as to spacing.
Transplant to another area if seedlings grow too close together.

