 This method requires you to slap your pointer finger against the side of the Skoal tobacco can or the top of the Skoal tobacco can to pack the tobacco together. To do this method, you will first need hold your hand so it is sideways and your palm is facing you. You will then need to practice relaxing your pointer finger so it hangs loose.Keeping your pointer finger loose and relaxed, you should try to slap your pointer finger against your middle finger, making a quick slapping up and down motion.
This may take practice but be patient. Over time, your pointer finger will relax and make a slapping noise as it hits your middle finger.;
, Once you start to get the hang of relaxing your pointer finger so it slaps against your middle finger, you can do this same motion on the can of Skoal.Start by placing your middle finger and ring finger on top of your thumb. This will look a little like you are making bull’s horns with your fingers. Then, place the can of Skoal, lid on tight, between your middle fingers and your thumb. The can should be turned on it’s side, with the lid facing towards you.
You can rest all three fingers on the side of the can, with your pointer finger relaxed and loose on the side of the can.
 With a tight grip on the side of the can, shake the can, keeping your wrist loose. Use your pointer finger to tap the side of the can. This is the same motion you practiced earlier, where your pointer finger slapped against your middle finger. Tapping the side of the can with your pointer finger a few times, making a slapping sound, should pack the Skoal nicely.Tap the can five to eight times before you plan to chew.
 Another option is to hold the can of Skoal so the lid is facing the ceiling, rather than facing you. Grip the can between your thumb and middle finger. Then, shake the can with a loose wrist and tap the top of the can with your pointer finger several times in a quick up and down motion.This option should also pack the Skoal nicely. Make sure you screw the lid of the Skoal on tight before trying this option, as you do not want to get tobacco everywhere.
Tap the can five to eight times before you plan to chew.

