 Lots of recipes are available online, but if you want more help creating a diet plan for yourself, talk to your doctor or request a referral to a dietitian.They can help you come up with specific meal plans and recipes tailored to your body and needs.
 Part of the Mediterranean diet is more than what you eat, it’s how you eat. Try to sit down to meals with family and friends at least 2-3 times per week, eat slowly, and — if you’d like — enjoy a glass of red wine.Embracing the culture of leisurely eating can help you identify when you’re full, and taking time to relax and be social can lower stress — both of which help with weight loss and overall health.
 A healthy diet contains almost no frozen, packaged, or pre-processed foods. Avoid the snack-food aisle and anything premade, which usually contain lots of fat, salt, and preservatives. The healthiest meals come from fresh products — fresh produce (or sometimes frozen, but never canned), fresh meats (not pre-prepared), and uncooked grains that you make at home yourself.


Try to make a meal plan at the start of the week and go shopping for fresh ingredients.
 You're not going to lose weight if you’re eating twice as much food as you need, even if you’re sticking to your diet. Consider some basic portions guidelines to keep in mind when preparing, and plating, your meals:A serving size of whole grain pasta (cooked) is half a cup — about the size of a hockey puck. This is about 70 calories.
2/3 cup of cottage cheese is about the size of 4 playing dice. This counts as a serving of dairy or protein, and is about 110 calories (if it’s low-fat cottage cheese).
You get one serving of fat from 1.5 teaspoons of peanut butter — about the size of two dice.
7 whole almonds is around 45 calories, or a fat serving.
A serving of protein (around 110 calories) equals 2 ounces of cooked lean beef, a little smaller than a deck of playing cards. Alternately, 3 ounces of fish (grilled or broiled, not fried), two slices of tofu, or 2.5 ounces of broiled and skinless chicken.
2 cups of raw spinach is about the size of two baseballs — and counts as one vegetable serving; so does a whole red bell pepper. A small apple is a fruit serving.
 Restaurants often cook with a lot of butter and fat to improve how food tastes. Try your best to stick to your Mediterranean diet while eating out. Request that your food be prepared with olive oil instead of butter, ask for sauces and dressings on the side (these usually contain a lot of fat), and start your meal with a salad dressed with olive oil and vinegar.
 It’s hard to completely change your diet overnight. Start by exchanging some of your unhealthy foods for those foods preferred in the Mediterranean diet. You’ll find it easier to stick to a diet if you make changes slowly.


Switch out red meat for fish one to two times per week to start, and gradually increase that amount.
Begin to decrease serving sizes of meat and increase serving sizes of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Try to limit meat to 3 ounces and base the bulk of your meals on grains, produce, and nuts and legumes (lentils, beans, and peas).
Snack on fresh vegetables with a dip like hummus or tahini, instead of eating snack-food aisle junk like potato chips.
Have fresh fruit for dessert instead of pastries. Fruit is sweet and healthy.
 In addition to eating healthier foods, keeping track of your calories is a great way to lose weight while dieting. The average adult needs to eat around 2,000 calories per day.However, to lose weight you have to burn more calories than you eat — so to lose about a pound (0.45kg) per week, aim for 1,500 daily calories or fewer.Read food labels, identify serving sizes, and record what you eat in order to tally calories.


Use a notebook, diary, excel sheet, or wall chart — whatever helps you stay organized.
The best way to lose weight is to have an overall healthy lifestyle. In addition to the Mediterranean diet, try to get at least 30 minutes of heart-pumping exercise at least 5 days per week.

