 The process for the varies depending on your version:


Windows 10 and 8.1 - Right-click the Start button in the lower-left corner and click Control Panel.
Windows 7 and earlier - Click the Start button in the lower-left corner and then click Control Panel.;
, Programs and Features appears when Control Panel is in Icon view. Uninstall a program appears under the Programs heading in Category view. Both open the same window.
 The name may vary on your computer. You can sort by name or date installed to help make it easier to find.
 The Uninstall button appears at the top of the list after selecting a program.
, RegClean Pro may open a window asking you to call. Click the No, I want full uninstall link or the Uninstall button in the bottom-left corner to proceed with the uninstallation.
 Take this time to scroll through your list of installed programs and remove anything you don't recognize or don't remember installing. If you're not sure about something on the list, perform a web search for the program name and the publisher to see if it's something you should keep.Programs that have "Search" or "Toolbar" in the name are usually unnecessary.
 Once you've uninstalled the program, you can run a few free malware scans to make sure its completely gone.
 This is a free scanner that can remove most major malware infections.
 The installer will begin downloading after a moment.
 You'll see it at the bottom of your browser window, or you can find it in your Downloads folder.
, Most users can leave the installation settings at their default.
 It will usually start automatically, but you can start it from your desktop if it doesn't.
 You can monitor the progress in the left frame of the Malwarebytes window.
 This scan will take about 20-30 minutes to complete.
 This will remove the offending files from your computer so that they can no longer cause harm.
 If anything was found in the first scan, it's always a good idea to reboot your computer and run the scan again.
 Once you've ran a few scans with Malwarebytes, you can use a second program to clean up anything left behind. AdwCleaner is another free and powerful scanner.
, You can find this at the bottom of your browser window, or in your Downloads folder. AdwCleaner does not need to be installed.
, The scan will take about 20 minutes to complete.
 This will remove any malicious items that were found during the scan.
 All traces of RegClean Pro should be gone from your system.