 You may occasionally be contacted by people or websites promising a windfall of money. These are “cash gifting” schemes that are illegal and can cost you money or even jail time.Cash gifting clubs work by new participants paying money out to join the scheme. These initial fees go to those who have been in the cash gifting scheme the longest.Though money is promised, those joining cash gifting clubs almost never receive any money. After paying money to those at the top, they only lose all of their money.
 If you were truly getting a gift, then it would not be necessary for you to make an investment or give the person or club something in exchange for the gift — true gifts are given with no expectation of something in return.As with cash gifting between friends and relatives, cash gifting cannot be transactional. If cash gifting schemes argue that you will receive payment, this is illegal per IRS guidelines for cash gifting.Even if ads say that members of the club consider their investments a gift, expecting nothing in return, don't fall for it. This is an attempt to cover up the club's illegal activity.
Any cash gifting schemes cannot require members to do anything based on their cash "gifts". This means that those who you give money to are not required to give anything back in return.
 Very few members of cash gifting clubs ever receive any money. If anyone does, it is usually only those at the very top running the scheme.You may hear many success stories when first learning about a cash gifting club. Realize that these stories are either made up or extremely rare. And, if they are true, chances are they are exaggerated.
Only those at the top of the pyramid get any money in the scheme. You are not going to make any money as someone at the bottom of the pyramid.
 If someone is pressuring you to make a decision on the spot, walk away. If the person says you will lose out on this amazing opportunity if you don't join immediately, walk away. Anyone who is making a legal, legitimate offer will allow you time to consider your decision.If someone is pressuring you into making a decision today, it may be a bad decision. Take a day before you decide anything about your finances.
Emotions can play a strong part in your decision making. Never make a financial decision when you're feeling emotional, especially if those emotions are overwhelmingly positive.
 If you are contacting by a cash gifting club, you can report them to the authorities. Either your state’s Department of Justice or the IRS has online forms or phone numbers where you can report cash gifting clubs.Find your state’s Department of Justice website. If you search for cash gifting, you should be able to find a form to contact them by e-mail or phone.
You may also want to contact the IRS; however, it may be more difficult to get an immediate response from them.

