 How you care for your skin will depend on your particular skin type. There are five basic skin types.Normal skin is clear and not particularly sensitive.
Dry skin is flaky or rough.
Sensitive skin may burn or itch when you apply certain products.
Combination skin is dry in some areas and oily in others.;
, Rise your face with the cleanser, but don’t scrub. Rinse with warm water and pat dry.If you find a particular cleanser dries out your face, experiment with different brands until you find one that works. A cleanser without alcohol or fragrance will work best with dry skin.
If you have oily skin, use an oil-free, non-comedogenic foaming cleanser.
For sensitive skin, choose a hypoallergenic cleanser that doesn’t contain unnecessary additives.
Don’t over wash your skin. Over washing dries out your skin. Unless you are exercising, you shouldn’t need to wash your face more than once a day. In the morning, wash your face with lukewarm water. At night, apply your gentle cleanser and moisturizer.Remove your makeup at night. Makeup clogs your pores and can lead to acne. Remove it each night before bed using a gentle cleanser.
 Skin toners help soak up oil and remove dirt. They should be applied before moisturizers.Begin by applying a gentle toner in after washing your face in the morning and the evening. Apply the toner to a cotton ball and gently rub the toner onto your face in small circles. Repeat the process with new cotton balls until you no longer see dirt on the cotton ball after you apply it to your face.
 Exfoliators remove dead skin cells. They should only be used two-to-four times a week since your skin needs time to regenerate. Mechanical exfoliators use small, rough particles to sand away the outer layer of your skin. They are best for oily skin. Chemical exfoliators increase your cellular turnover rate to slough off the dead skin. Some chemical exfoliators, such as those with high concentration of vitamin C, may not be appropriate for dry or sensitive skin.If you’re using a mechanical exfoliators, gently rub your face in small circles. Don't apply a lot of pressure—just enough so you can feel the rough surface of the exfoliator.
If you’re using a chemical exfoliator, apply a small five drops to your skin and let it soak in. Do not rinse off the exfoliator, but remember to apply moisturizing after the exfoliator has soaked into your skin., Whether your skin is normal, dry, or oily, it needs moisture. Choose an oil-free moisturizing to avoid blocking your pores.Choose a moisturizing the contains an SPF of at least 30.If your skin is oily, use a noncomedogenic lotion-based moisturizing instead of a cream to avoid clogging your pores.
If you skin is very dry, choose a moisturizing that contains hyaluronic acid and Niacinamide, both of which help reduce water loss.
If you have sensitive skin, choose a moisturizing that contains green tea, rose, or chamomile.Apply moisturizing twice a day: when you wake up and before you go to sleep.
Apply the moisturizer while your skin is still damp.
Apply moisturizing every day for the best results.

