,, The best way to get to develop your cool while wearing Google Glass is to get your own. This'll give you the maximum opportunities to develop your cool look. After all, you'll be an owner, and not just a borrower of Glass!


As of January 2015, Google has stopped producing the Google Glass prototype. However, they have announced their continued dedication to developing the product beyond this experimental phase.If you can't get your hands on a new or second-hand Google Glass now, you'll have to settle for borrowing a pair from someone else.
 Start thinking about how you are going to approach an unsuspecting person who has Google Glass so that you can try on their pair.


Read up on how to talk to strangers. It can be unnerving to have stranger walk up to you on the street, so try to approach the task from the shoes of the person you're approaching. Keep calm, stay friendly, and do everything you can not to put them off.
 Search the local area for any Google Glass owners that might be nearby.


Tweet out to the hashtag #GoogleGlass that you want to try a pair and where you are located.
Attend a technology workshop and see if one of the attendees or presenters have a pair you can use.
 Remember to maintain welcoming body language so you can get a chance at that Google Glass!


If all else fails and you can't design a confident approach, be like Nike and "Just Do It!" if you see someone nearby who has a pair, approach them excitedly and ask to try on their Glass.
 If they say no or they're in a hurry, be respectful and friendly, and walk away. If you can't find anyone to borrow a pair from, don't despair; just keep your eyes open for a good opportunity in the future. With Google planning to develop Glass more, chances are good you'll come across an owner sooner or later.


If none of the options above work, return to part one and investigate just buying your own pair.
 Be sure to project your utmost confidence when you exclaim, "OK, Glass" while nodding your head slightly to the ceiling to active it.
 For a simple example, think about the "'Sup?!" head nod that was popular in the '90s.


For more practice check out this detailed list of various head nods that you could try to up your "coolness" look. Be sure to choose the type of nod that best fits your personality.
 You can always choose to forgo any air of confidence and go for the crazy cross eyed look that many people have when first using glass. This looks a little bit like you are having a seizure while trying to talk to an invisible friend. It's not the coolest approach but you can rely on the fact that you are wearing Google Glass to up your coolness factor.
 For an extra coolness rating read up on simple Google Glass commands ahead of time. Then you can project stellar confidence when using them once you get a chance to try them on!

, That way, you can prove your coolness to others.
 If you are lucky enough to get Google Glass to activate with your chosen head nod style, be sure to take a picture with Google Glass and send it to a friend for proof that you were wearing them and activated them on your own.
 See if maybe it is worth the money after all!

