 Use a squeegee, towel or cloth to dry all tiles after they get wet. Make sure you have a bathroom fan or window that can suck the excess moisture out from the air.


If you do not do this, grout will absorb excess moisture, which will turn into mold and mildew. It will stain and breakdown the structure of the grout, causing it to crumble prematurely. In extreme cases, the water and mold can get behind the grout and into the tiles.;
, Many multipurpose surface cleaners are pH neutral, so check on the bottle before you buy and use it.


A neutral cleaner means that the pH, or "potential of hydrogen" is not acidic or alkali. The potential of hydrogen is judged on a scale of 0 to 14, with 0 to 6.9 being acidic, 7 being neutral, and 7.1 to 14 being alkali. Water is also neutral, at a pH level of 7.
 The frequency of deep cleaning grout depends upon the amount of traffic the bathroom gets. Deep clean every month, if it is heavily used, with 1 of the 2 methods below.


Mix 1/2 cup of powdered oxygen bleach into a gallon of water. Use a spoon to stir it until it is completely dissolved. Pour the mixture all over your dry bathroom grout. Reapply after the solution soaks into the grout, or about every 15 minutes for vertical surfaces. After 30 minutes scrub the tile and grout with a nylon brush, or a toothbrush for an extra thorough cleaning. Rinse well with warm water and dry with a towel or squeegee. The more you reapply the oxygen bleach on your tile and scrub it, the cleaner your grout will become.
Wet the surface of your bathroom tile. Fill an empty salt shaker with baking soda. Sprinkle baking soda generously all over the grout. Let it sit for 10 minutes and then scrub it with a nylon brush. Rinse well with warm water and dry immediately.
 Make a paste with a small amount of water and apply it directly to the affected areas. Allow it to sit for 30 minutes. Scrub the grout with a toothbrush, and then rinse and dry it.
 A penetrating sealer is important for bathroom grout, because it is absorbed into the grout's pores and protects it from mold and mildew. Some of these sealers can be expensive, but it is a good idea to choose based on quality rather than price.


Allow your tiles to dry. It will take approximately 5 days for the moisture behind the tiles to evaporate. Do not use your bathroom during this time.
Apply the sealer to a sponge. Wipe it over the tile and grout of the entire bathroom surface you want to protect. Leave the sealer on for the time indicated by the product's directions.
Wipe the excess sealer off the surface of the tile with a damp cloth or paper towels. The directions may suggest you use a pH neutral cleanser first and then rinse off the tile with a damp cloth.
Apply a second coat, if it is recommended by the product. Allow the last coat of protective grout sealer to sit overnight before you use the bathroom.

