 Although the least desirable method of action, letting your body calm down on its own is the most effective method of stopping caffeine jitters once they start. As you wait, it may be a good idea to distract yourself with another activity to get your mind off how you’re feeling.


Try lying down for a few minutes and closing your eyes. You may be unable to nap, but doing so may help you calm down and relax.You might also watch TV, run errands, or clean your living space.
 You are less likely to get the jitters in the first place if you don’t drink coffee on an empty stomach. If you have already made this error, correct it by consuming a hearty meal. Try something filling like oatmeal or stew.Because caffeine dehydrates the body, drink some water with your meal, also.
Caffeine drains the body of needed nutrients. You might also experience benefits from eating nutrient-rich fruits and vegetables like oranges, bananas, spinach or kale., When you add natural organic fats, proteins and sugars to your caffeinated coffee or tea, it will help to balance out your blood sugar and energy levels while simultaneously decreasing the stress hormones that give you the jitters. Do not do this with artificial sweeteners and creamers.


Try adding in whole raw organic grass fed milk, soy, almond, or coconut creamers.
Use raw sugar cane, coconut sugar, maple syrup or honey as a sweetener.
 Physical activity can help you burn off some of the excess energy created after drinking too much coffee. Exercise may neutralize the effects of caffeine, so carve out 15 to 30 minutes to get your body moving.Run, jog, walk, or dance. Just focus on getting your body moving to help burn off the extra energy created by caffeine consumption.
 Chances are you have no idea how much caffeine you are actually consuming daily. Most people think of coffee, tea, and energy drinks as having caffeine in them. However there are plenty of other foods that have caffeine as well. An 8 ounce cup of coffee will typically contain about 80 milligrams of caffeine (but this can vary slightly depending upon the source). Your decaffeinated coffee still contains a small amount of caffeine (about 2-25 milligrams).


Most soft drinks can have anywhere between 23 and 69 milligrams of caffeine.
Your teas will vary greatly in the amount of caffeine depending on the source, brand, and type of tea. Some teas, such as black tea can have as much as 47 milligrams of caffeine for one 8 ounce cup of tea.
Chocolate comes from the cocoa beans which typically have a high amount of caffeine. With chocolate, the higher the cocoa content, the higher the caffeine content you will consume. A chocolate bar that is between 45 to 60 percent cocoa can have up to 70 milligrams of caffeine in it.
Ice cream may also contain caffeine if it is flavored with coffee, tea, or chocolate. Some brands and types of ice cream can have as much as 125 milligrams per 4 ounce serving.
 If you’re already feeling jittery due to caffeine consumption, you should stop drinking it immediately. Never continue drinking coffee if you already feel edgy, as doing so will only worsen the problem. In the future, drink a little at a time to reduce the possibility of over-consumption.


The appropriate amount of caffeine varies from person to person. In general, however, 5 to 6 cups may lead to “caffeine intoxication” for some. Symptoms might include a fast heartbeat, sleep disturbance, headache, anxiety, irritability, and frequent urination., In addition to drinking too much, another reason people feel jittery due to caffeine is having it too close to bedtime. Because it’s a stimulant, you may begin to feel on edge and have difficulty getting to sleep. Avoid consuming caffeine at least six hours before your bedtime to reduce these effects.Listen to your body. Some people may have to cut their caffeine intake much earlier to prevent it from interfering with sleep quality.

