 Now that you've picked a job and decided to train int it, you'll have to know that it is not easy to reach level 200. Get ready for a bumpy ride.;
, To get to level 200, it requires a lot of effort and that you keep motivating yourself not to switch to another job. If you think training your character is boring, then MapleStory isn't your cup of tea.
 If you're between level 1 to 20 then it is best to start off with some quest that will give you a bunch of EXP. Warning! Don't continue to quest when you hit level 20 and above because by then, the EXP is rather useless. Just go to Henesys and look for a place called golem temple and train there till you hit level 30. The EXP given by the golem is around 1 to 3% each so its pretty high and fast and of course, when you reached level 30 then you'll receive a quest that require you to complete it. Attention! This is a must-do quest since it'll give you new skills with better damage.
 When you reach level 30 and have done the quest then your job instructor will ask you to go to a place called the mushroom kingdom. Just go to the mirror of dimension that can be found in all of the towns and look for an icon entitled monster carnival. This party quest can make you level 5 times faster than completing the mushroom kingdom's quest. You can level up from level 30 to level 51 in just 2-3 hours. Just ask for someone to invite you to join his/her party and let him do all the work. You just have to kill the monster when the carnival starts. You'll notice how much you can level up.
 Way to go! You'll notice that you couldn't enter monster carnival anymore since you're already level 51 but never ever enter monster carnival 2 because it's stupid and worthless. Just go to a place called Sleepywood and train on the monsters over there. Make sure to have enough potion with you so you won't die because dying means -10% exp . 10% exp is a lot ! Train till you hit level 60 or 70 and then there you go! You'll receive the third job advancement quest that enables you to learn more powerful and awesome looking skills! Focus on the skills that gives you the most advantage and neglect the skills that gives you the least advantage.
 And hard of course. After you've finish your quest just keep doing all those new party quests that can be found on the mirror of dimension! Trust me, most of these party quests actually gives you 20 to 30% percent of exp which is really huge and are an easy way to level up! Oh and remember always go to channel 1 when you're looking for a party because channel 1 usually has lots people and your chance of getting invited is higher. Of course, you'll have to ask nicely.
 But self-discipline will always make it easy. Let's say you've reached level 100 by doing all those party quests every day! Your hard work has paid off! Now your level 100! Almost there! Just finish the fourth job advancement quest and get the strongest skills for your class. Start by training in the Evolution World!It gives a lot of EXP! I know! Boring right? That's what you've got to face if you wanted to reach level 200. And you also might notice that some people might ask you to go bossing. If you feel that you're ready, then be my guest, just join them. For your information, bossing is a word used by maplers as a substitute for fighting bosses

