 Finding a job when you have PTSD is often difficult. It might be helpful to make a list of some qualities you desire in a job to guide your search. Examples of good jobs for people with PTSD may include those that require minimal interaction with others, such as landscaping, pet-sitting, or cleaning/maintenance.However, there may be resources available in your area to help you find a suitable job. For example, you can get in touch with your mental health case worker to inquire about finding a job that won't aggravate your condition. Such professionals are aware of your unique needs and can guide your job search. It may also help to ask your doctor or therapist for recommendations.;
, You have a greater likelihood of succeeding at work with PTSD when you are familiar with your triggers and symptoms. Knowing them can help you avoid certain situations or leave the environment to prevent your symptoms from worsening.For instance, you may have found that loud noise cause an episode for you. With this information in mind, you might choose a job in a more quiet environment, such as a library or office.
Many people with PTSD choose not to disclose information about their condition to others. However, if you have a trusted friend at work, it may help to inform this person so that you have support on hand.
 Take a walk or remove yourself from the situation if you feel your panic level starts to rise. Getting some exercise and walking away from what upset you may be what it takes to manage your symptoms.


This may require you to speak with your boss about your condition. You will have to tell them you’ll need to get away for a few moments or do what you need if your PTSD bothers you.The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has a mobile app that can help you track your triggers and cope with your symptoms during an attack.
Use a variety of methods to handle stress. These can include deep breathing, exercise, meditation, or muscle relaxation., Victims of PTSD commonly turn to drugs and alcohol as a way to self-medicate and cope with their feelings. Unfortunately, this addiction will only make things worse. It will even make getting and then keeping a job difficult.


Talk to your doctor if you are struggling with substance abuse. They may be able to find you help. You may also get assistance through your church or a drug treatment and rehabilitation center.