 When the amount of work that you have to do seems overwhelming, it can often help just to write it all down. Go through and think of every task that you must complete to catch up. Make a note of the specific deadlines, any unusual requirements for each task (materials that must be ordered, for example) and time needed to finish each item up.Don’t spend days creating this list. Be quick, but be as thorough as you can.
For example, you might write down, “PowerPoint presentation for investors, deadline July 6, need 3 hours to complete.”;
, Look over your list and identify those tasks that need to be done as soon as possible. Write each task on a single post-it note and then place these somewhere visible in your work area. This will keep your most important tasks right in front of you. Throw away each note as you complete the task and add another one to replace it, as you slowly make your way through your list.Making these notes is a great way to regain control over your projects. You are once again in charge of what tasks are a “must do” and when they should be completed.
 When you first arrive at your workplace, sit down at your desk and begin a task that is in progress or start a new one. Resist the urge to wander around and talk to your colleagues or hang out at the watercooler.This same approach is effective if you are working or studying from home. As soon as you get up in the morning, head into your workspace and keep going until you get a scheduled break.
 Target larger projects and look at how they can be performed in stages or parts. Perhaps you need to research the project first. Or, maybe you'll need to make a handful of phone calls to kick-start the task. This approach makes complex jobs seem just a bit less daunting.

For example, if you need to create a PowerPoint presentation, you'll need to research the subject matter, outline your slides, create your slides, and then proofread everything.
 You’ll have the most energy at the very start of the workday, so it makes sense to jump into your most challenging or difficult projects at that point. This will prevent you from putting them off. Instead, select the post-it note task that requires some additional manpower and push to complete it.For example, if you are scared of giving presentations, it might help to prepare that PowerPoint presentation at the start of your workday. The adrenaline boost of the morning can help to balance out your anxiety.
 It’s important to set boundaries when you are fighting to keep up with your work. A good rule to follow is to ask yourself how a certain task fits within your larger career or life goals. If you can’t clearly answer that question in 30 seconds or less, than you should not take that task on.Always be polite when saying “no” to a task. It’s fine to say, “I’m making my way through a backlog. So, I really can’t help you right now.”

