 You don't need mortgage insurance indefinitely. Once you've built up 20% equity in your home (i.e. your LTV is 80%) you can request to cancel your mortgage insurance.


Keep in mind that lenders won't automatically cancel your mortgage insurance until your equity reaches about 22% based on the original appraisal of the home.Don't wait for the lender to cancel the insurance for you. Do it yourself once you reach a 20% equity stake in your home. The lender will need an appraiser or real estate agent to give them a valuation before the insurance can be canceled.
If you have an FHA loan, you need to have paid 22% of the mortgage before you can cancel the insurance. You also need to have made five years of monthly payments before it can be removed.
 Just like your credit score affects your ability to get approval for loans, it also may affect your ability to get good rates on mortgage insurance rates. Those with lower credit scores may not get rates as favorable as those with high credit scores.
 Some lenders will allow you to purchase a mortgage without insurance if you agree to pay more interest on the life of the loan. Anywhere from .75 to 1 basis points more is normal, depending on the down payment.This is a tradeoff. Most people will pay more money in the long run, since the interest rate hike applies for the whole mortgage. Again, the mortgage insurance only lasts until the buyer has pumped enough equity into the home. You'll most likely end up paying more if you make this tradeoff.
At the same time, this tradeoff does come with one perk. The payments you make on your interest are tax deductible, whereas the payments you make on insurance premiums are not, unless you took out your mortgage after Jan 1, 2007 and your Annual Gross Income (AGI) does not exceed $109,000. If you fit this category, you can reduce your AGI by 12 times your monthly PMI payment. So in these parameters, it is deductible.
 Figure out if your lender is asking you to pay one sum, up-front, or will stagger your insurance in monthly premiums


Paying your premiums monthly has the benefit of a smaller initial cost as well, and they are harder to forget.Remember, you should request to cancel your mortgage insurance after you've reached a 20 or 22% equity stake in your home. You may forget to do so if you make an up-front payment.

