 When choosing an album for your scrapbook, you have several sizes to choose from.The 12x12 is considered the standard size. Other sizes include the 8.5x11, the 8x8, and several different sizes of mini albums.


The size you choose depends on the sizes and amount of your pictures, what you hope to accomplish with your scrapbook, and also the scope of the project you feel comfortable taking on.
If purchasing your album as part of a scrapbooking kit, then the 12x12 size will have more of a variety of materials for you to use.
If you don’t want to take on a large project and if you prefer to finish your scrapbook quickly, choose an 8x8.
One of the mini-sized albums is perfect for taking on a small project and capturing snapshots of occasions, like a baby shower.;
, You can purchase your scrapbook as part of a scrapbooking kit. This is especially helpful if this is your first time starting a scrapbook. Most of the design materials will be included in the kit, such as patterned paper, ribbon, stenciled designs, and word art.


Here’s an overview of the essential materials you’ll need: an album with acid-free and lignin-free pages, page protectors to protect your photos from the oils on your fingertips, photo-safe glue or tape, pigma ink pen in your desired color(s), and scissors.In terms of the design materials included in your scrapbooking kit, the color of the paper and the types of designs you choose will depend on what your scrapbook is for. The materials you use to commemorate the birth of your son will likely differ from what you’ll use to celebrate your daughter’s fifth birthday.
 Before getting started, it may be helpful to plan the layout of your scrapbook. Since you already know which photos you’re going to be using and essentially how you want them grouped, you can make a sketch of four to six common layouts you’d like for your scrapbook to include.


Your layout will show how you’d like your pictures to be placed on the page. Some pages could feature only one photo, some only two or three, while another could have a collage of several photos.
Take a sheet of paper and draw out the layouts you’d like to use. Include spaces where you may want to add designs and/or hand written or printed messages. If you’re having trouble with this step, physically arranging a layout with some of your pictures at a table may help.
 With your layout ideas in place, you can begin putting your pages together. If your scrapbook doesn’t come with a printed background already included on each page, you will likely have to cut and glue printed paper for each page’s background. Once the background is applied, you can begin laying your pictures in their proper places, using your layouts as a guide.


Don’t glue them down until you feel confident about their placement. You may need to trim some photos if they aren’t totally fitting on the page.
Once your pictures are set and glued down, you can add your designs, like stickers or images, or special quotes and written messages.
For a wedding scrapbook, you could include a biblical scripture that was read during your wedding ceremony.
If you’re creating a scrapbook of all of your kids, include comments identifying the dates and/or locations of some pictures.
You could include elegant designs, like flowery prints or swirling lines. Prints of stars could occupy free corners of some pages.
 Work your way through your scrapbook until all of your pictures have been included and designs added, or until you feel you’re all done.

