 The best thing you can do when returning to exercise after being sick is to talk to your doctor about it.Depending on your illness there are probably specific things to work on and avoid. Know the effects of any medications you’re taking – like if you’re more likely to become dehydrated while exercising. Your doctor may refer you to a Physical Therapist or Occupational Therapist for professional help getting moving, depending on your needs.

Say something to your doctor like, “Now that I’m feeling better I want to start a fitness regime. Can you help me make a safe plan?”
Call your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following during exercise: chest pain or tightness, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, nausea or vomiting, irregular heartbeat, numbness in your arms, lightheadedness, faintness, you pass out, or start to sweat profusely (more than would be expected for your activity level).;
, No matter how fit you were before your illness, being sick for a while takes a toll on your body. Your muscles are weaker than before and your stamina and endurance will be lower. This is normal! Acknowledge that you’re basically starting over, like it’s your first time exercising. Prepare yourself mentally to start slow, increase your activity gradually, and be patient. Remember that you can and will get fit, it just takes time.

If you start lifting heavy weights right away, there’s a chance that your weakened muscles will get a tear, sprain, or strain.You have to rebuild your cardiovascular fitness, i.e. endurance. It’s likely your heart rate will elevate more easily now that you’ve been inactive for a while.
Your immune system has been fighting hard to overcome your illness, so if you overwork your body you’ll probably feel unwell the next day.Take it easy to avoid getting symptoms again.
 What do you want to be able to do again – run a marathon, go back to aerobics class, play a sport? If you make goals and write them down, you're more likely to achieve them.


Keep a workout journal to help you stay motivated. Write down your main goal, and then smaller goals for one week, two weeks, and one month. For instance, if your main goal is, “Run a marathon in a year,” don’t expect to start running 10 miles this week. Increase your goals gradually, starting with something like “Week 1: Walk for 30 minutes a day” and working up to “6 months: Run 10 miles 2-3 times per week.” Start as big or as small as is safe and comfortable for you.
Be realistic and specific in your goals. “Walk 30 minutes a day” is more specific and motivating than “do some walking.” Write down your accomplishments to see how far you’ve come.
 Getting acclimated to your fitness routine after an illness can be challenging. Try working out with a friend or family member to help you stay motivated and safe. Some hospitals, clinics, and health clubs sponsor exercise programs for patients with specific conditions – ask your doctor about availability and consider joining up so you have support.