 If the business guarantees extremely high profits in a short amount of time, the claims may be illegitimate. Alternatively, if the business promoters argue that you are lucky to have found them at the right time, remember that the Internet is easily accessible to all.


Check for pressure tactics. Websites that try to pressure you into investing in a business opportunity may use tactics like deadlines for investing or advertise that the offer is limited to a small number of people. These pressure tactics are usually telltale signs of illegitimate opportunities.;
, Contact the business promoters to ask for backup documentation and evidence in support of the promised profits.


Request the names of references. Ask for names of people you can call to speak to about the opportunity. This strategy does not guarantee that you will hear an honest assessment. However, it gives you a chance to ask more detailed questions about the business and the opportunity to gauge the sincerity of the response.



Search the Web for the specific business. Enter the names of the business, the product and/or the business promoters into a search engine, along with the words "scam" or "review." Look for complaints filed with government agencies and forum posts from past investors. Reading 1 or 2 posts may not be useful, but 10 or more evaluations on a variety of sites will help you formulate your own opinion.
Post questions about the Internet business on professional forums. For example, you may be evaluating a medical billing business that requires paying for lists of doctors and special software. Find a legitimate medical billing forum and ask others if they have experience with the opportunity. Ask the medical billers how long it took them to build up their business and how much time and money they invest to maintain the business.
 A small business opportunity may be a match for one person and not another. For example, one person may be a fast typist and respond quickly to electronic communication, making the Internet business opportunity a lucrative one. Another person may take longer to complete the same tasks, resulting in a low hourly wage.
 Ask accountants, lawyers and others in the specific industry to review the business contract for undesirable terms and conditions.

