 Many flea collars are ineffective and some contain organophosphates which are potentially toxic to the pet. The only collar that is both effective and safe is the Seresto collar, available from your vet.;
, “Spot-on” treatments are applied directly to your pet's skin to kill fleas quickly. Many of these monthly treatments should be used year round as a preventative treatment. Be aware that just because a product is a 'spot-on' doesn't mean it is effective. It is essential to use a flea product with is licensed to kill fleas, which means that it is proven to be beneficial. If in doubt speak to your veterinarian. Make sure that the product you choose is labeled for your pet. Cats can get very sick (or even die) if they are treated with a flea medication that is meant for dogs. Frontline will kill rabbits.Some common flea medications include:Permethrine: Many products for dogs contain permethrine alone or in combination with other drugs, to effectively treat fleas in dogs.It is not safe for use with all pets, and it can cause health problems in both humans and dogs.
Dinotefuran and pyriproxyfen (known as Vectra) is used to treat fleas in cats. Be careful: Vectra 3D is a product for dogs. Vectra 3D contains permethrin, which is harmful to cats.Fipronil and (S)-methoprene (known as Frontline Plus for Cats): This product kills flea larvae, eggs, and adult fleas. It also kills ticks and chewing lice.Imidacloprid and pyriproxyfen (known as Advantage II): This product kills fleas of all life stages. Be sure not to get a similarly named product, Advantix II, which is a product for dogs. It contains permethrin, which is harmful to cats.Selamectin (known as Revolution): Apply this once a month. It also kills ticks, heartworms, ear mites, and sarcoptic mites.Be careful about what chemicals you are using. Products like Advantage manufactured by Bayer contain neonicotinoids which have been shown to have serious ecological impacts including contributing to the wide spread loss of bees around the world., Oral products usually act quickly and don't leave any residue. They're only available through your vet, who can recommend the best product. Many of these monthly treatments should be used year round as a preventative treatment. These medications may include:Lufenuron (known as Program): This comes as tablets, an oral suspension liquid, or injections. Give this medication with food once a month. Be aware that Program does not kill fleas but sterilizes them, making them incapable of breeding. If you have a heavy flea infestation then this is not the best product for you, as you will have to wait for the fleas to die of old age. It's best use is in a clean household when you don't want the odd visiting flea to establish a family.Nitenpyram (known as Capstar): This comes as a pill. Give it to your pet according to your veterinarian's directions to kill adult fleas and their eggs.Spinosad (known as Comfortis): This comes as chewable tablets, which you should give your pet with food once a month to kill fleas., Many veterinarians and groomers will provide this service. For smaller pets, it is recommended that you see a veterinarian and not a groomer. A groomer is unlikely to be equipped to help treat a bird with fleas. Be aware that after the bath, once the pet is dry, there is nothing to deter more fleas from jumping back on the pet.

