 Flat feet from childhood don't usually cause significant symptoms, although having your arches fall or flatten as an adult is typically more problematic. The most common symptoms due to fallen arches is sharp and burning pain throughout the arch and into the heel area, although other symptoms include: calf, knee and/or low back pain, swelling around the ankles, difficulty standing on tiptoes and inability to jump high or run fast.Common issues associated with fallen arches include plantar fasciitis (inflammation), chronic foot fatigue and increased risk of arthritis of the foot / ankle.
Fallen arches are not always bilateral — it can occur in only one foot, especially after suffering a broken ankle or foot.;
, One of the biggest risk factors for fallen arches is obesity, especially if combined with wearing unsupportive shoes.The more weight you put on your frame, the more pressure the bones, ligaments and tendons of your feet have to endure. Too much pressure leads to overstretching and damage to the posterior tibial tendon, which runs from the calf muscle along the inside of the ankle and terminates within the arch of the foot. This tendon is the most important part of the arch because it provides the most support or "spring."


Many obese people have fallen arches and tend to over-pronate their ankles (the joints collapse and turn in), which then leads to a knock-knee posture.
Losing weight won't reverse fallen arches in most cases, but it will make a positive impact on foot symptoms and biomechanics (movement).
The key to losing weight or maintaining a healthy weight is reducing your daily calories. You will need to calculate your basal metabolic rate and strive to eat fewer calories than you burn every day.
 Wearing sturdy shoes with good arch support won't completely eliminate the risk of fallen arches, but it will certainly make a positive impact on your feet and reduce tendon strain.Avoid flimsy shoes, flip flops and high heels (greater than 2.25 inches), especially if you're on the heavy side. Instead, choose comfortable walking or athletic shoes with substantial arch support, a roomy toe box, firm heel counter and a flexible sole. Furthermore, make sure the materials of your shoes are somewhat breathable — leather and suede are good choices.


Get fitted for your shoes later in the day because that's when your feet are at their largest, usually due to swelling and slight compression of your arches.
You should have enough room in the toe box of your shoes to be able to wiggle your toes.
 Soaking your feet in a warm Epsom salt bath can significantly reduce pain and swelling, especially if the pain is caused by muscle and/or tendon strain.The magnesium in the salt helps the muscles and other soft tissues to relax. The warm salt bath is more for symptom relief and prevention of plantar fasciitis than it is for directly preventing fallen arches, but anything that promotes health in the feet is a good idea. About 30 minutes spent soaking on a nightly basis is a good starting point.


If swelling is a particular problem in your feet after a day at work, then follow the warm salt bath with a quick ice bath until your feet feel numb (about 10 to 15 minutes).
Sometimes women develop fallen arches during the later stages of pregnancy that then recover once the baby is born.
It’s considered normal for children to have flat feet until the age of five years (and sometimes as late as 10 years) because it takes time for the bones, ligaments and tendons of the foot to form a supportive arch., Give yourself a foot massage on a regular basis. Getting at your arches may prove a little awkward, so buy a small wooden roller with ridges that's made for massaging feet. Place it under your feet while sitting down and roll back and forth over it while applying light pressure. A deep tissue massage is helpful for mild-to-moderate muscle and tendon strains because it reduces muscle spasm, combats inflammation and promotes relaxation.Start with 10-15 minutes worth on a nightly basis and progress up to 30 minutes after a few weeks time


As an alternative to a wooden roller, position a tennis ball underneath your foot and roll on it slowly for 10 to 15 minutes a few times daily until the soreness in your arches fades away.
After the foot massage, stretch the sole of your foot by wrapping a towel around the end of your toes and then trying to extend your leg — hold for 30 seconds and repeat of few times.
Consider applying peppermint lotion to your feet after massaging them — it will tingle and invigorate them.
 Since arch support is the best strategy for avoiding fallen arches, consider getting custom-made orthotics for your shoes. Orthotics are semi-rigid shoe inserts that not only support the arch of your foot, but they also combat over-pronation and promote better biomechanics while standing, walking and running.By providing cushioning and some shock absorption, orthotics also help to reduce the risk of problems developing in your ankles, knees, hips and low back.


It's important to realize that foot orthotics don't reverse any structural deformities of the foot nor can they reconstruct an arch by wearing them over time, but they are a good preventative strategy for avoiding fallen arches.
A variety of different healthcare professionals make custom orthotics, but they are not always covered by health insurance, so check your policy.
Wearing orthotics often requires taking the shoes original insoles out in order to make enough room for your feet.
 Podiatrists are foot specialist who are familiar with all conditions and diseases of the feet, including fallen arches. Podiatrists can examine your foot and try to determine the risk factors that contributed to your flat feet.They will also look for any signs of bone trauma (fractures or dislocations), possibly with the help of x-rays. Depending on the severity of your symptoms and the cause of your fallen arches, the foot doctor may recommend basic home care (rest, salt baths, cold therapy, anti-inflammatory medications), orthotic therapy, casting or bracing the foot, or some form of surgery for the tendons of the feet.


X-rays are ideal for seeing bones, but they are not diagnostic for soft tissue problems affecting tendons and ligaments.
Podiatrists are trained for relatively minor operations of the feet, but more complex surgeries are usually reserved for orthopedic surgeons.
 If you're particularly concerned about developing fallen arches, then get a referral to a physical therapist and discuss how rehabilitation might help prevent them. A physical therapist can show you specific and tailored stretches and strengthening exercises for your feet, Achilles tendons and calf muscles that can help prevent fallen arches and other common foot problems.Physiotherapy is usually a longer-term commitment for rehabilitating most musculoskeletal issues, so plan on two to three times per week for four to eight weeks as a general guideline. Make sure that you do the exercises at home that your physical therapist teaches you, not just during your sessions together. This is the best way to see improvement.


A good Achilles tendon stretch involves leaning against a wall with one leg at a time outstretched behind you in a lunge-like position. Make sure you keep the outstretched foot flat on the floor to feel a stretch in the tendon that connects your calf muscle to your heel. Hold for about 30 seconds and repeat five to 10 times daily.
Physical therapists can tape your foot with sturdy medical-grade tape, which essentially provides a temporary artificial arch to help relieve symptoms.
Physical therapists can also treat plantar fasciitis (a common complication of fallen arches) with therapeutic ultrasound, which helps to reduce inflammation and tenderness.

