 the first and hardest part of map design is the theme. It is what makes your map, your map. To decide on an idea, first look at the themes in other maps. They are usually war-related. Next you should look for something that fits with zombies, but doesn't already exist.

Tribal Island
War Struck Town
Labour/Concentration Camp
Mansion;
, You want to make sure you know exactly how your map will work before you start designing it. Use mind maps and try to think about the following:

Perks on the map
Weapons on the map
Wonder Weapon?
Easter Egg Ending?

, It is a good idea to start by drawing a top-down layout of your map. This doesn't have to be the final product, it is just to give you somewhere to start. You should try to include as much detail on this plan as you can. Things like perk locations, doors and box spawns will all help you when drawing your final plan., You now need to check whether your map is going to be fair for the player.

If your map has a Pack-a-Punch, make sure all routes there cost the same amount of points. You should also think about the prices of doors. If a door only leads into one room with not much in it, it isn't fair to charge 1500 points, think half that.
Furthermore, doors out of spawn should only cost 750, and then up in the following order: 1000, 1250, 1500, 2000.
It is also a good idea to think about zombie spawns if you haven't already. Don't make their locations unfair.
 Now the map is fair for the player, you want to check it isn't too generous. Look for potential areas where they could camp or find immunity glitches. Also check that the zombie spawns aren't lacking in any areas, leading to camping. A good way to avoid camping is to include a spawning window at the end of a corridor or potential camping spot., Make this drawing as neat and detailed as you can. Use colours to define important things and even use a form key to help. Include everything your map will include, from easter eggs to zombie spawns. Take your time and don't rush it; it may spoil your finished product., Download the COD mod tools and get started. The longer it takes the better it will look. Some of the best custom maps take months to make, so don't be afraid to spend some time fixing minor details.