 The most important thing is to keep your head high and to never look down at the ground unless you want to look lost and insecure. If you want to practice the "swag walk," you can try spreading your legs out a bit and tilt your feet out as you walk with a bit of extra bounce in your step. Keep your arms at your sides or use them to gesture as you talk, but don't cross them over your chest or you'll look unsure of yourself.


Don't be afraid to smile. Smiling does not mean you're uncool.
When you talk to people, make eye contact. Don't make it seem like you have more important things to do than to really pay attention to the person in front of you.
 For guys, the clothes are less important than the accessories that go with them. Just make sure to wear a comfortable, loose-fitting t-shirt, a hoodie, a jersey, or any top that makes you feel and look good. As for pants, you can wear baggy basketball shorts or pants, any workout pants, or tight-fitting jeans.


Though you may want to sag your pants because you think it'll make you have swag, a lot of girls are turned off by this, so it's your call.
Avoid V-necks, if you can. They're too pretty for a traditional swag look.

Be bold and wear a denim vest, striped sweater, or any retro look that you want to bring back with some hipness and flair.
For a more dressy look, wear a button-down with a funky pattern.
Your pants can be loose, but not so loose that they fall off you.
You can't go wrong with a white t-shirt.


Wear a suit jacket with a white button-down shirt and a pair of jeans. You don't have to be going anywhere fancy to bring out the suit jacket.
 If you want to have swag, then you have to have the right footwear. For guys, this mostly means sneakers unless you have to dress up -- and if you're feeling bold, you can get dressed up while still rocking a cool pair of sneakers.


Jordan Retro's
LeBron's
Kobe's
KD's
Roshe Runs
Nike SB
Vans
Sperry's
Nike Foamposite's
Converse High Tops

, For guys, a few key accessories can help kick an ordinary outfit into the realm of the extraordinary. You don't have to wear a ton of accessories, but you do have to choose your accessories carefully, whether you're rocking a new pair of sunglasses or wearing an old but eye-catching hat. Here are some things to keep in mind as you accessorize your outfit:


Black frameless glasses or shutter shades
A gold watch
Any baseball hat

Laplanders
Snapbacks made by Mitchell and Ness, Zephyr, American Needle, New Era, and Last Kings
If you have the money, go for a designer belt, such as Hermes, Gucci, Fendi, or Louis Vuitton
Dog tags or chains

