 Start with your introduction explaining how you feel bullying is as a form of torture. Bullying includes fierce acts so that people feel threatened and depressed when they are bullied. Mention all the painful adjectives that express the feelings of the victims of bullying. When you start with a paragraph expressing with clarity how it impacts someone, the reader gets prepared to know more and hopefully take some action against it.;
, Make the essay engaging in the following passage by including the experience of real time victims of bullying. Relate other parts of their lives and how other areas are affected/influenced because of the sadness, shame, feeling self-conscious and being ridiculed. You could use the example of their studies, personal growth, happiness quotient, interaction, enthusiasm and participation in other activities that get affected with most or all involved students.
 Whether you are writing the essay to merely express your feelings or to evoke some feelings in the readers, try not to judge or condemn the bullies as being evil, bad people or any such harsh comments. At one point or the other, each one of us has troubled someone around us. Even if you have not done this to anyone, you may have bullies read it too and they might stop bullying after reading it.
, Write a passage of 3 to 4 sentences about the motives of bullies who do it. You could mention various emotional pleasures, feeling of power, control and conquest they might get to do it. Also, you could indirectly leave a question for them by suggesting that you are wondering about how they might have benefited by killing their juniors', classmate's or seniors' joy.
 While writing about a topic such as this where someone is suffering. Keep the language empathetic so the victims don't feel that they are alone and all others are lucky enough to escape it. Suggest ways how it could be tackled like sharing experiences with others, counseling, direct communication with the bullies, getting stronger themselves, finding humor, connecting with other victims, etc. You will have a very good essay with all these and more that you would want to add spontaneously.

