 Mindfulness in essence is not just being aware, but more importantly being engaged and dynamic with yourself and your surroundings. This allows you to be more creative, realistic and pragmatic with every situation. In a business context, or any leadership role, the art of being more aware as well as more creative significantly enhances opportunities, addresses potential challenges and creates a more fulfilling personal life.;
, A simple method is to close your office door, sit in a comfortable chair and close your eyes. Be aware of your breath, your sensations in the chair, or just background noises. Mindfulness should ultimately be effortless, but at the beginning, many of the subtle aspects may not be apparent to you, but will with time become more and more evident exposing things that you may not have been aware of.


The purpose of this exercise is simply to draw you into the present moment. This means that you aren't being tied down to the past experiences, future deadlines or other distractions that get in the way of being able to process information to make an informed decision. Ultimately everything is in the present moment, even though the past, present and future condition the way people think and act. Critically, this method is not just a relaxation method in which you can refresh your mind, but it allows things to settle which often allows a creative solution to become evident.
 Mindful leadership is not just awareness, but being able to see and listen to what is happening all around you. Interestingly, mindfulness is also critically linked with memory, so it enhances dynamic memory, but also allows memory to be more versatile.


One of the major challenges in a busy environment is being aware of what's going on - often there is simply too much happening at once. Mindfulness allows you to accept your situation, delegate and prioritise your workload as well as the people and projects around you so it prevents a blockage in the flow, and allows solutions to be implemented in the most efficient and effective way.

