 Records are not a regulated market, and other than a few well-known and high-value records, most of the prices are subjective. While there are guides out there to price 1,000s of records, they depend on the quality of the cover, vinyl, and the scarcity of the record in the store. This means two things -- you can often find incredible deals, especially at thrift stores and garage sales, and that you should be ready to bargain to your desired price.


Even record store clerks are ready, and used to, bargaining for records. If you feel like something is overpriced, be sure to make an offer.
 On the spine of the jacket and the record's ring is a combination of letters and numbers, such as CBS 88478 (London Calling, The Clash), that tells you a bit of the pressing and history. It is also a simple way to look up the value of the record, simply using your smartphone to check the code on a site like Discogs. You can see what other people are selling the disc for, as well as other ways to identify record's price.


If the record is worth some money, be sure to keep reading. For example, many early Beatles pressings have the same code for many pressings.
 This isn't some scientific formula, as the popularity of a record is almost entirely determined by how well known the band is. Thus the Rolling Stones, Beatles, Led Zeppelin, and other still-popular bands tend to be worth much more money, as collectors across the world are still searching for these major bands.


On the inverse, if you've seen lots and lots of the same record you can be sure that it is relatively cheap, like Fleetwood Mac's popular but incredibly common "Rumors.", The record jacket is, in many ways, just as important as the actual vinyl. If the jacket comes with extra stuff, like the poster of Prince in original Purple Rain copies, the whole record will likely be more expensive. While most people listening to records simply want an album that sounds good, collectors know that the jacket is a major indicator of a record's worth. Issues that will lower the price of the record include:


Writing on the record, such as the old owner signing their name.
Splitting seems, cracking, or ripping.
Missing or ripped lyric sheets and sleeves
Torn/bent corner, hole punched (indicates it was a discount buy when originally released)., Records vary wildly in price. Most record stores have "budget" bins of records selling very cheaply, while incredibly rare records can fetch large amounts in online auctions. If you want to build a large collection cheaply, you can easily do so by picking up records in thrift stores or in the budget section of record stores. Either way, remember that the record market is a bargaining system, and you can always ask for a deal or discount to save money. The more you know about the record, the better price you can often get:


Note any defects or issues to the seller that may get them to lower their price.
Try making a deal on a stack of records, not each individual one. Many sellers are willing to get rid of a lot of inventory quickly for a discount.
Look up the pressing and average online price -- as this is a good base point to negotiate from.

