 To make this type of bioplastic, you will need gelatin or agar powder, glycerol, hot water, a saucepan, a stove, a spatula, and a candy thermometer. These ingredients should be readily available at your local grocery store. Remember, glycerol is also known as glycerine, so look for that if you can’t find glycerol. You will need the following amounts of each ingredient:3g (½ tsp) glycerol
12g (4 tsp) gelatin or agar
60ml (¼ cup) hot water
Food coloring (optional)
Agar is a substance derived from algae that can be used in place of gelatin to make the bioplastic vegan friendly

, Combine all of the ingredients in the saucepan and stir until there are no clumps left. You may need to use a whisk to disperse all of the clumps. Place the saucepan on the stove and start heating the mixture on medium-high heat.If you want to color your plastic, you can add a few drops of food coloring at this step.
 Put the candy thermometer into the mixture and monitor the temperature until it reaches approximately 95°C (203°F) or begins to froth. If the mixture begins to froth before it reaches temperature, that is okay. Remove it from the heat when it either reaches temperature or starts frothing.Continue to stir the mixture while it is heating up.
 After you remove the pan from the heat source, you will need to remove any excessive froth. Spoon it out before pouring the plastic out of the pan. Stir everything to remove all clumps from the plastic.


If you just want to make plastic for fun, pour the mixture out onto a smooth surface. Make sure the surface is covered with foil or parchment paper so the plastic can be removed easily.
If you want to mold the plastic into a specific shape, you will need to do it during this step. Refer to the last method on molding for more details and help.
 The amount of time it will take the plastic to harden is dependent upon how thick the piece is. Generally, it will take at least two days for it to fully dry out and harden. You can make this process go a little faster by using a blow dryer on the plastic. It’s easiest to leave the plastic undisturbed for a few days so it can dry on its own.Once the plastic hardens, it can no longer be molded or shaped. If you want to shape it, you must do it while it is still warm and moldable.

