 Cervical mucus that is thin may be more favorable to the male Y-chromosome. Guaifenesin, which is generally found in cough syrups, can also help thin cervical mucus.Taking guaifenesin during ovulation may increase your chances of having a baby boy.Talk to your doctor before taking guaifenesin to ensure it is safe for you to use.
Check the labeling to ensure that the product only has guaifenesin and not additional ingredients for the symptoms of a cold.
 Reducing the acidity in a woman’s cervical fluid can also increase the chances of conceiving a baby boy. Eat alkaline foods such as spinach or beets in the weeks prior to ovulation to optimize your chances of having a boy.Examples of high-alkaline foods include:


Buttermilk
Coconut, olive, flax, and sesame oils
Avocado
Banana
Sour cherries
Figs
Lima and soy beans
Almonds and almond butter
Beets
Yams
Asparagus
Leafy greens
Broccoli

, There is some evidence that women who consume more potassium and sodium may be more likely to conceive boys.Increase your potassium and sodium intakes within reason in the weeks before ovulation.Foods that provide potassium and sodium include:Bananas
Breakfast cereal
Canned beansLeafy greens
Oranges and grapefruits
Sweet potatoes and winter squash
Plain yogurt
Cheese

, Caffeine may make Y-chromosome sperm more active. Have your significant other drink a cup of coffee or soda before you have sex. This may increase your chances of conceiving a boy., Weight loss may increase your risk of having a girl. Instead of doing intense cardio, reach for some weights. This can increase your muscle mass and add healthy weight, both of which may help you conceive a baby boy.Ask your doctor if you are healthy enough to lift weights. Then, meet with a certified fitness trainer to develop the best strength-training program to build muscle.
 Tight underwear or pants may affect your partner’s sperm production because they keep the scrotum too warm. Having your partner wear boxer shorts and looser pants may increase your chances of conceiving a boy.