 Your doctor knows your medical history and can discuss your options based on your particular situation. Pharmacists are experts in medication and chemistry and can discuss over-the-counter options for pain relief.


Always contact your doctor or pharmacist before using any medication for non-approved purposes, even if it seems safe.
Be sure to keep all of the safety and information documents that come with your purchase, so that you can check for side effects and dosages.
 Milk of Magnesia may provide some pain relief if you apply some to your canker sore a few times a day, as needed. You can also try holding the Milk of Magnesia or Maalox in your mouth to wash and coat the sore for some relief of swelling and inflammation.You can also try brushing your teeth using a soft brush and toothpaste free of foaming agents, such as Biotene or Sensodyne. ProNamel., This numbing medication is sometimes used to ease the pain when a baby is teething, though the FDA now recommends against it. If you follow the dosages correctly, however, you can also use the gel on a canker sore to numb the pain.During application to your mouth or gums, avoid swallowing the medication.
After application, you should avoid eating for an hour.
There is a risk for a rare but life-threatening side effect of this kind of medication called methemoglobinemia. This condition reduces the amount of oxygen in your blood stream to dangerously low levels., These drug ingredients have been approved for pain relief and may help ease your pain quickly. They may even help with healing, if applied soon after the appearance of a mouth ulcer.Benzocaine-containing products numb the area temporarily, easing discomfort.
Fluocinonide is an anti-inflammatory that may help with pain relief as the inflammation is reduced.
Hydrogen peroxide, as an ingredient in medicine, works as an antimicrobial agent, preventing infection and promoting healing, although it should never be used alone.
 Contact your doctor if you’re having trouble brushing your teeth or eating because of the pain of a mouth ulcer. She can prescribe a medicated substance to put on the sore to help the healing process, which will also alleviate your pain.


Antimicrobial mouthwashes help kill bacteria, viruses or fungi that could infect the ulcer. Keeping your mouth clean will help the ulcer to heal and will lessen the pain.Benzydamine, available as a mouthwash or spray, offers local anaesthetic (numbing) and anti-inflammatory properties for pain relief.Note that this mouthwash should not be used for children under 12 years of age and you shouldn’t use it for more than 7 days., These medications for mouth ulcers are usually a last resort, but your doctor may prescribe a mouth rinse containing corticosteroid. These medications are anti-inflammatories and can offer powerful pain relief.


These medications may not be safe for children under 12.
Ask your doctor about the potentially serious side effects of corticosteroids., If your ulcer is extremely large and or painful, you and your doctor may consider a cautery. For this procedure, an instrument or chemical substance is used to burn, sear or destroy the tissue to potentially reduce healing time.


Debacterol, a topical solution created to treat canker sores and gum problems, may reduce healing time to about a week.
Silver nitrate, another chemical solution, may not speed the healing process, but can ease the pain of a mouth ulcer.