 You should eat a healthy meal, accompanied by a glass of milk with honey, to ease into a night of good sleep. If you want to make sure you're not tossing and turning throughout the night, then avoid the following foods:


Alcoholic beverages. Though you may think a glass of whiskey or wine helps lull you to sleep, it can actually have the opposite effect. Though alcohol can help you fall asleep faster, it will keep you from falling into a deep sleep and is more likely to make you wake up throughout the night, or wake up earlier than you intended without being able to go back to bed.
Spicy foods or foods that are high in fat.
Coffee. Though some people can't live without it, try not to make coffee a part of your everyday routine. You can allow yourself a cup in the morning now and then when you really need it, like times when you have to get up much earlier than you normally do, or after nights when you went to bed much later than your normal routine.
Chocolate or sugary snacks. This can spike your blood sugar and can make it harder for you to fall asleep or stay asleep.

Try to eat dinner several hours before you go to bed. If you shove a bunch of food into your stomach and pass out right after that, you won't have time to digest your food and will feel unpleasant throughout the night. Just a little light snack before bed, such as a banana or a handful of almonds, can help you fall asleep faster.

;
, This may sound silly, but if you're really desperate to get up in the morning, this is a great trick. That's right — you should actually put on your pajamas, set your room to sleeping conditions, and turn on your alarm. Lie in bed for a minute before it goes off, and visualize what you'll do when the alarm goes off. Then, when it goes off, shut it off and get up immediately and act like you're going to start your day.


If you do this 10 times or so, your body will slowly begin to be trained to get up as soon as your alarm goes off.
If you think this is too extreme of a measure, then you should just visualize getting up instead. For a few minutes before you fall asleep, try to hear your alarm clock in your mind, and visualize how you would turn it off and go about beginning your day. Imagine how great it would feel if you just started your day without being groggy and taking forever to get going.
 Your alarm may be the most important part of your plan to get up in the morning. You should set your alarm to go off more than once just in case you're worried you'll sleep through it. If you really need extra motivation, you can even set multiple alarms to make it even more difficult for you to stay asleep. Here are some other things you can do:


Put your alarm across the room. That way, you'll have to get up to turn it off, which will make it harder for you to fall back asleep.
Put the alarm in another hard-to-reach spot. You could place it high on a bookshelf or even under your bed. Just make sure it's close enough that you can still hear it and that it's not dangerous for you to turn it off.
If you're really committed to your new game plan, you should get a new alarm with a new sound. Your mind may already be programmed to sleep through your old alarm, and a new sound will give your system the shock it may need.
If you have an iPhone or another phone that lets you set a message with your alarm, write yourself a little motivational note to go along with it. Something as simple as, "Get up for your morning jog! I know you can do it!" can help motivate you and may even make you smile.
 This is an easy one. There are just three or four things you can do to make the idea of getting up not so painful for you the next day. This will also give you some shortcuts for getting up the next day, and the whole process will be easier and will take less time. Here are a few things you can do:


Lay out your clothes for the next day. Instead of having to rummage around for a clean pair of underwear in the dark, you'll be set and ready to go.
If you like to wake up and feel comfortable, place a nice robe out for yourself as a reward for getting up.
Set up your coffee maker in advance. If you're a tea drinker, make sure your kettle is full of water. You can even place a tea bag in an empty cup.
Place a glass of water next to your bedside. You should drink the water right when you get up, and this will make it easier to do than having to go to the kitchen to pour it. Also, if you wake up in the middle of the night feeling dehydrated, this will make you less likely to fully wake up by having to go to the kitchen to pour a glass.
Leave yourself a small reward for getting up. If you wanted to watch the last fifteen minutes of your favorite show, have it ready on the DVR. If you were excited to read your favorite journal, set it up in your breakfast nook.
 You should go to bed feeling free of worry, happy with yourself and the people around you, and excited about what the next day will bring you. This may sound like a heroic task, but there are just a few things you can do to help yourself fall asleep in a peaceful way.


Don't go to bed mad. This will make it harder for you to fall asleep, and may wake you up in the middle of the night. If you had a fight with your friend or your spouse, try to resolve it as best as you can before you rest your head on the pillow.
Wind down in the hour before bed. That means no texting, no loud TV, no Internet browsing, and no intense conversations. Read a relaxing book and listen to a little classical music. Meditate. Do what you need to do to decompress.
Tell yourself why you're excited to wake up in the morning. Are you really looking forward to that homemade blueberry muffin? Are you excited to catch up with an old friend during lunch? Are you just pumped for an invigorating day of work? Try to think of at least three reasons why you really want to wake up. Write a creative list of those activities so that your anticipated game plan can be reviewed at a glance when you do awake.
Create a game plan. Even if you have a relatively leisurely day ahead of you, make a plan that would be difficult to execute if you woke up too late. This will make you feel more confident, more productive, and excited about the tasks ahead.
 Consistency is key. Sleeping well does not mean sleeping for eight hours whenever you can. In fact, sleeping for eight hours is too much for some people and can even make them groggy. Figure out how much sleep you actually need, which should be somewhere between six and eight hours. Make sure you get that same amount of sleep almost every night.


You should also go to bed and wake up at almost the same time every night. It's okay to sleep in a little and go to bed later on weekends, but if there's a regular dramatic difference between when you get up and go to bed every day, your body will be confused and won't be able to fall into a routine.
Go to bed when you're tired. If you're used to going to bed an hour later but are falling on your feet, make an exception and just go to bed. You will feel much better for it the next day.
 You should do whatever works best for you after you hit that alarm. Still, there are a few tricks that would benefit absolutely everybody and would make it easier for even the soundest sleeper to feel more alert. Here's what you do:


Hit your alarm.
Take a deep breath and fill your lungs with air.
Stretch deeply to wake up your limbs.
Stand up.
Smile. Smiling to yourself will make you feel more positive about starting your day. Even if you feel absolutely silly for doing this, it will make you feel better.
If you feel like your system is still not alert, step outside on your balcony or front porch and take a few deep breaths of crisp morning air.
 Going to the bathroom will help you feel refreshed and can help you get in your morning routine. Brushing your teeth and hair will make you feel more fresh, and the bright lights in the bathroom will slowly wake you up.


Splash cold water on your face.
If you have a hard time waking up, then you should really shower in the morning. This will wake up your system. Keep the water on the colder side. Nothing will make you want to go back to bed faster than a warm bath.
If it helps you wake up, have a radio in the bathroom that plays your favorite music or talk show.
 The wrong breakfast can make you feel sluggish, bloated, and too tired to do anything. Here are some foods you should eat:


Oatmeal or whole grain bread.
Fruit, yogurt, and granola.
Greens like spinach or kale. If eating greens in the morning doesn't feel right, you can blend them into a delicious smoothie.
Eggs. Eggs are full of protein.
Ham or turkey. Just make sure it's on the leaner side.
Avoid foods that are soaked in grease, butter, or maple syrup.
 Exercise is a great way to get your body moving, to improve your energy levels, and to make you feel invigorated. If you don't have time for a full workout, there are still a few small things you can do to wake up your body and get pumped for the day.


Go for a jog around your neighborhood. Your lungs will feel healthier and you will feel more alert when you realize how many people are also waking up.
Take a morning yoga class. This will clear your mind and will get you ready for the day. If you don't have time to go to class, take some time to hit a few poses or meditate in your own home.
Just take a ten-minute walk. Maybe you need to drop something off at the post office or you want to pick up a cup of gourmet coffee. Taking a walk to get there will clear your head.

