 Find a large, flat wall with no windows and decide who will start the game. Establish the parameters of the court by either marking lines or using ready made boundaries like bushes or lines on the concrete. The game starts once the first player serves the ball, or throws the ball, at the wall. Ensure that the ball must bounces once before it reaches the wall.You may play with just 2 players or with multiple players at once. Decide the order of players to keep things organized. Depending on the size of the court and the variations of the rules, players must determine how far they are allowed to stand from the wall prior to the serve. For example, some rules indicate that everyone must stand back behind the throwing line prior to the first serve, in line with the server. Other rules state that only the thrower must stand behind the line.
Do not choose a wall that you may damage or is close to items that you can damage like windows or cars. It also is ideal to find a wall where the ground has a slight decline towards the players.;
, As a receiving player, allow the ball to bounce once after it has hit the wall and then return it. Return the ball by hitting it with your hand and letting it reach the wall directly, without bouncing on the ground.Follow your order. If you’re first, that means you're the server! Serve the ball. If your turn is second, third, or fourth, but you play the ball out of order, you are out.
 The ball is out when it bounces on a boundary line or outside of the boundaries completely, hits the ground before it hits the wall, bounces twice before a player is able to return it, or if a receiving player doesn’t let the ball bounce after it has hit the wall., If a receiving player fumbles the ball in an attempt to return it, she must run to the wall. Another player may then go for the ball in an attempt to throw it at the wall before the fumbling player reaches it. If the fumbling player does not touch the wall before the ball gets there, she is out of the game.If the fumbling player touches the wall before another player can throw the ball, she is still in the game.If the fumbling player reaches the wall first, she gets to serve again. If she is out, the next player takes her turn and serves to begin the game again.
 Depending on the rules, players may be eliminated in a variety of ways. Once someone is out, play is continued dependent on the rules that you and the other players have established. Common ways to continue play are:


If the thrower is out because another player catches the ball, play continues with the catcher as the new person serving the ball.
If the thrower is out because she has fumbled the ball and someone has thrown her out before she has had a chance to reach the wall, play continues with the person who threw her out as the new person serving the ball.
If a person who is not a thrower tries to field the ball but fumbles it, he must then try to reach the wall before someone throws him out. If he is thrown out, the same server still continues to serve.
For younger or less skilled players, play continues by establishing a throwing order at the beginning of the game. This gives everyone a chance to throw.

