 Smart girls, like most girls, know their way around appearances, so they know when you aren't taking care of yourself. And more often than not, dirtiness is associated with sloppiness and an apathy, or carelessness, about the way you look. That is not appealing.


Like any girl, she isn't going to be drawn to a gross guy. Clean up your act to attract any girl: shower about every day and take the time to find clothes that fit properly.;
, She wants her guy to impress her with knowledge, not fashion.
 You know the saying "fake it 'till you make it"? This is where it comes into play. The importance of good speech cannot be overstated when attempting to impress a clever girl. Often people judge your intelligence based on how you speak. I'm not talking about using really fancy words, but just thinking before you talk. Phrasing your sentences properly and trying


It can also risk a huge turn-off. Particularly in written text, now what you're doing. There is nothing hotter than a guy who knows his way around a semi-colon. Don't use internet slang or abbreviate your words.
Avoid using words like "ain't" and "sup".
 This is where you make your move. If you've now been speaking to your girl for a while, she might have already picked up on your interest in her. That's okay, but now take it one step further. If she isn't attracted to you, she has probably already let you know. If there are no telltale signs of danger, make your move. Start small like a high-five or even a light hug. Then move on to more intimate stuff if she lets you in.


Girls like this often value physical relationships more than other girls. When they are interested in a guy it is a meeting of minds. This makes physical affection more special. Some smart girls may not be comfortable with physical touch. In a world of education, there's not a lot of experience with touch.
 Make it known throughout the lands. Do it face to face, forget social media or a text. Gather your guts and ask her in a romantic way. These ladies have been reading fairy tales since they were little girls. They dreamed of Prince Charming and roses. They're much harder to sweep off their feet when they've grown up with standards like Sir Lancelot and Mr. Darcy. Make it charming and meaningful.
 The most desirable thing for any guy to be is cheerful, charming, and confident.


Smart girls know when you're lying or nervous or mean. The key to making her happy is to be completely upfront about yourself. She is understanding of real life and flaws.
Be happy with yourself and she will be happy with you.

