

The D-pad controls the direction that the character is moving.

A is for attacks, or sticking out Yoshi's tongue.

B is to jump. Press B three times in a row to do a triple jump.

X zooms the camera in and out. When the camera is zoomed in, you can change the direction you're looking in by using the D-pad.

Y is for dashing.

LT (the left tab button on the back of the DS) turns the camera to the left.

RT (the right tab button on the back of the DS) turns the camera to the right.

RT and LT are used for crouching, when pressed at the exact same time.

RT and B are used for ground pounding, when pressed at the exact same time.;
, Standard mode is all the same controls seen above, but there are two other modes, known as touch mode and dual-hand mode.

In touch mode, you control your character's movements by moving one of your fingers or your stylus across the touch screen. The other movements, like jumping, crouching and attacking are still executed the same way as in standard mode.
In dual-hand mode, you control your character's movements again by using the stylus, and movements such as jumping, attacking, and crouching are done by using the buttons if you are left handed, or the control pad if you are right handed. All camera adjustments are done by using the touch screen, and the LT and RT buttons are not used at all.
If you don't like either of the two methods that aren't standard mode, or are confused by them, then just stick with standard mode.
To switch between control modes, press the Select button on your Nintendo DS and pick your desired control mode.
 Some are required for certain stars, and most you have to unlock at some point in the game. There are also multiple differences between each character:

Yoshi is the character that you start off with when you first begin the game. He has the ability to swallow enemies, as well as breath fire when he obtains a power flower, which can burn ice blocks and kill enemies. However, he cannot punch or kick, so keep that in mind.

Mario is the first character that you unlock after Yoshi, and the only character who can use the Wing Cap and wall jump. His power flower ability causes him to blow up like a balloon, which can be helpful if you want to skip a point in a level.
Luigi is the second character that you unlock in the game. His jumping style is similar to Yoshi's, and his power flower ability causes him to turn invisible, which can be helpful for certain stars in the game.
Wario is the final character that you unlock, and the only one who can break black brick boxes. These black bricks will house certain stars, so you will need him. When Wario obtains a power flower, he turns into metal, which means although he cannot swim, he sinks to the bottom of water, which can be helpful when obtaining certain stars.
 When you turn on your game for the very first time, you'll see a star on the screen that says "Touch to start!" However, if you've started the game before, the star will travel around the screen before opening the title screen.

If you want to start the game quicker when the star is traveling around the screen, touch it with your stylus or finger and you should automatically see the title screen.
 There will be three save files to choose from for the game, all of which will be empty if you have a new copy of the game.

If you want to clear an old save file, select "File Options" at the bottom the files screen, and then select "Delete", and choose which file you would like to delete.
If you want to copy a save file to another file, select "File Options" once again at the bottom of the files screen, and select one file. Then select which file you would like to copy the first file to.
 The cutscene is officially complete once Yoshi jumps out of the green pipe, so when you see that, you're free to start the game., When you start the game, you'll walk up to the castle and Lakitu will talk to you. He'll say that you need to find the key to unlock the castle. Know then that there will be a yellow rabbit hopping around in the courtyard. Run after him and catch him by pressing A to stick your tongue out when you're close enough. He'll then give you the key to the castle, and you are free to enter and officially start your adventure., A brief message from Bowser will pop up, but nothing will happen. If you'd like, you can speak to the Toad near the door, and he'll give you some backstory of the game., This is the door to the left that has a star on it, but no number. Jump inside of the painting to be taken to the level-select screen., To do this, make your way to the top of the mountain in this level. A battle with King Bob-Omb will then start up. To beat him, as Yoshi simply eat the Bob-Ombs that he throws at you, and quickly spit them out back at him. Once you do this three times, he will finally cough up your first star., You can either go in and obtain the second star of Bob-Omb Battlefield, or you can move on to the second level, Whomp's Fortress. You can also attempt a secret star level, the Princess's Secret Slide, if you'd like., As you get more stars in levels, more levels should open up, and you'll have a lot more freedom for what you can do. However, note that some stars require certain characters, so if you don't have that character, then you won't be able to get that particular star., In order to be able to even enter the level, you must have Mario unlocked and be playing as him, as well as 8 stars. Once you've met those requirements, head to the giant door with a star on it, which is up the staircase in the middle of the castle and to the left. Once you've opened the door, walk towards the painting, which looks like Princess Peach. As you get closer, the painting changes to Bowser, and a trap door opens beneath you, and you fall into the level. To beat the level, travel all the way through it, and go into the green warp pipe at the end. You will then enter the battle after a brief message from him. In order to beat him, grab him by pressing the A button, then swing him around by drawing circles on the touch screen using the stylus or your fingers. Once you throw him into one of the spikes on the edge of the Arena, you'll have won the battle. Take the key that he turns into, and you'll leave the level., This key will open the door to the basement, which is through the brown door in the castle, with nothing on it, not even a star, and down the stairs that are in there. This will open up multiple new levels for you to try., There are multiple to choose from, with multiple different themes, so play as many of them as you'd like. Once you have achieved 30 stars, you're able to tackle the second boss battle of the game., As said above you need 30 stars to open this door, which looks the same as the door to the first Bowser battle. In case you missed it, when you first walk into the basement, go to the left and you should notice the door. You must again also must be playing as Mario. When the door opens, you should notice a blue portal. In order to officially unlock the second Bowser boss battle, you must get the first star this course, Dire Dire Docks. The first star is pretty easy, and all you have to do is travel through a tunnel that can be found once you go underwater, and find a sub with a Bowser logo on it at the other side of the tunnel. Once you've found it, climb on the sub and obtain the star. Once you have it, you should notice the portal moved back and a hole appeared, jump in this hole to enter the level. Navigate this tricky course until you get to a green funnel looking thing, jump in it and enter the battle with Bowser. The procedure to beat him is the exact same, except now Bowser has added teleportation and moving the arena to his list of tricks. Beat him and he'll give you another key., This key opens that door with a keyhole that you probably noticed at the top of the first castle staircase. This will lead to another room with stairs. Walk up those stairs and enter to find even more levels for you to play through., Once you've reached 50 stars, you will be able to open yet another big star door that you may have noticed upon entering the new area. It is slightly to the right and up another staircase. You don't need Mario for this door to open, however., These are the last levels in the game, and you don't need to jump into typical paintings for any of them. One of the levels, Tick Tock Clock, is found when you jump into a clock that you should see when you first walk into the room, and the two others, Rainbow Ride and a secret star (explained later) level, are found by jumping into holes that you'll find in the two alcove-like areas at the sides of the room. Accessing them might be easier with Luigi or Yoshi because of their flutter jump ability., To do this, you may need to go back to previous levels, but these new levels will also provide you with stars. Once you have 70 stars, you'll be able to open the door to the final Bowser boss battle, which will mean you're one step closer to saving the princess., As stated above, you must have 70 stars, and yet again be playing as Mario. Walk up to the door, and watch the cutscene for a third time, and enter. Begin the ascent up the stairs and you'll see a painting of Bowser, and a hole in front of it. Go in the hole, and you'll be in the final battle. This course is very tricky, but navigate it the best you can, even though it may take you a couple tries. Keep going until you reach the final green warp pipe. Enter it, and you'll be in the final boss battle of the game. Scroll through Bowser's message again and start the battle. The procedure is almost the same, but now he has more tricks, such as jumping and producing electric shock waves, and new fire breathing techniques. Also, you must hit him into spikes three times instead of the usual one. After the second time, he will break the arena into a star, so be prepared. Once you've beat him, collect the final star, and you'll automatically have a wing cap, and fly out of the level and outside the castle. Congratulations, you've beaten Super Mario 64 DS!, These can be annoying, but while they're going, celebrate because you've officially beaten the game., This is a fun, extra sidequest type adventure that you can have.

Each character has their own unique rabbits. Yoshi's rabbits are yellow, Mario's rabbits are pink, Luigi's rabbits are green, and Wario's rabbits are orange. There are also some white, glowing rabbits that can appear when playing as any character, and they're needed to access a secret room in the character selection area (the one with no logo above it), and get a star.
 These are hidden stars around the castle that are needed if you are attempting to obtain all 150 stars.

All "character unlock" levels - the levels played to unlock Mario, Luigi, and Wario - have Red Coin stars. There is also a switch star in the Mario Level, a star in the Luigi level which needs to be obtained by grabbing a power flower as Luigi, and going into the boo picture in the last room before the boss, and a star in the Wario level that needs to be obtained by punching a black box as Wario.
All Bowser boss battles have red coin stars as well as switch stars to obtain.
The are two stars in Peach's Secret Slide, located in the right-hand stained-glass window in the character select room. Jump into the window, and you'll get one star for simply beating the slide and hitting the yellow box at the end, and one for beating the slide in under 21 seconds.
There are two stars in the switch tower, located in the foyer. Playing as Mario, step into the painting of the sun, hit X, and use the D-pad to look up. By activating the switch at the center of the level, you'll get a star. You can also get another star by gathering the red coins.
In the minigame room, jump into the painting on the left-hand wall. Collect all 5 silver stars in this level to obtain a star of your own.
In the courtyard, which can be found by following the Boo that you'll see when you enter the first door that leads the basement, kill all the Boos and collect their 8 red coins to obtain a star. Also in the courtyard, head off to the side until you see three red brick blocks. Break them, enter the level and collect the five silver stars. However, be aware that these can be quite hard to obtain.
There are three stars located throughout the castle being held by toads. One is the toad near the pool that leads to Hazy Maze Cave, one is the toad located near the painting for Tall Tall Mountain, and the last one is the toad that is slightly to the right of the clock for Tick Tock Clock.
Located in the castle's moat, make sure that you have lowered the water level for this. Play as Wario, find the black brick, and punch it. Then fall into the hole where the brick was. There are two stars here, one of them can be found by going through a series of platforming, and the other is an 8 red coin star.
In the room for Jolly Roger bay, look to the side, and there should be an alcove. Jump into this to enter an 8 red coin level. Swim through the level and collect all 8 red coins to achieve a star. However, be aware that you won't have an opportunity to come up for air, so make sure you constantly collect coins.
In the room with the mirrors that you go in to unlock Wario, go in as Luigi, and collect a power flower. Go to the other side of the mirror and enter the door to get a star.
In the alcove opposite of the Rainbow ride level, there are two stars to obtain in this secret level. First off, you can get 8 red coins, by playing as Mario and using the wing cap. You can also play as Wario and get a star by shooting out of a cannon to other various clouds in the level.
In behind the waterfall, which is a level that can be accessed through Hazy Maze Cave, there is an 8 red coin star, which can be only obtained by becoming Wario and grabbing a power flower, as well as a star which can only be obtained by grabbing a power flower as Mario, and floating directly up from the spot you got the flower.
 You may notice a map at the bottom of your screen. This map is super helpful when you're obtaining stars as it will show you where they are located. Also, if you talk to a pink Bob-Omb, it will show you where 8 red coins are if you are going for that star., This is important to know in case you forget how much progress you've made. When you've already collected a star, it will appear as a shadow on the map at the bottom of your screen.