 Teach them life's lessons early on. Perhaps you should introduce them to people like Mahatma Gandhi, Robert Louis Stevenson, Joan of Arc, Einstein, Napoleon Bonaparte, Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Winston Churchill and anyone else you find inspiring. Explain why they are an important figure in the history of mankind in an easy way so they remember and understand. If you want, you can start of in a simple approach by teaching them about the brains behind their favorite TV show. Say something like, "You like watching this show, don't you, Harry? Well, the people who made it are very clever. They listened to their teachers and used their imagination. Do you want to be like them?" This way is fun and easy.;
, Start off giving them books (non-fiction and fiction are both good) that are suitable to their age, and then allow them to read slightly harder books. The books can be about anything to start off with, but as they grow older, give them books that will teach them something. Always keep in mind what their interests are and make sure to pick out books on those subjects. If they enjoy drawing, give them a children's book on famous painters. Don't fill their whole bookshelf with educational books though, buy them fiction suitable for their age, after all, they're still children. Even these sort of books can grow their imagination!

, To make this process fun, take them on regular outings and let them take in what they see. It can be a park, a theme park, a foreign market, a farm, a museum, and more. If they know how to write, encourage them carry a notebook and write about any interesting sights, smells and sounds they experience. Consider asking them to use this information to write a story or poem.
 As your child gets older, (especially when they reach middle school and high school) ask them what career they would like to pursue for a living. At a more mature age, they will give an answer with reasoning, whereas a child of five may say a 'fireman' just because it sounds fun. Give them more information on their dream career, but be sure to state the pros and cons of the job.
 Tell your child that failure is not something to be ashamed of--making mistakes is the start of learning. For example, the radio wasn't invented in one day, the inventor had to think, scrap and repeat his ideas; and millionaires weren't born with ten-million dollars in their pocket, they had to make mistakes and yes, sometimes they failed. If your child is a teenager, get them to read books about how famous people came to be. Elon Musk by Ashlee Vance is recommended, it shows that the character failed sometimes, but he made some of the biggest companies: Tesla Motors, SpaceX, and obviously, his biggest achievement, PayPal.
 Tell them that success is what drives you further, but you have to manage it wisely. For example, Charlotte Brontë was just another Bradfordian girl who wanted to escape her difficult childhood through her writing, but she managed to become one of the biggest and most successful British writers of her time with Jane Eyre; and the same with Emily Brontë, her sister, who wrote Wuthering Heights. The Industrial Revolution which struck Victorian Britain with such strength is the base of all electronics. If one clever Victorian hadn't thought of the idea of a gadget, iPhones, computers, cars and machines would not exist.
 Teach your child that being greedy for money is wrong, but you should have enough to be a stable adult. This is where mathematics comes in. Numeracy is a 'must do' subject, so advance on what they learn in school and teach them more!

, Support them through childhood, adulthood and everything else they may come across. Never underestimate them-they are capable of doing good things.
 Although it's unrealistic for a child to dream of becoming a princess, don't crush their dreams while their young. It may take a few years, but it's far better for a child to let go of a dream that isn't hurting anyone than for the dream to be crushed, even if it's done with good intent. If it seems like a realistic dream, like dreaming to be a doctor one day, help your child in the process and teach them everything they need to know.
 Make sure they are surrounded by people who love and care for them, so they are not led to bad influences. Obviously bad people will cross your child's path, but make sure that whenever you can, your child is encased in good vibes.

