 Excel will help you create a gridline like this so that you can base your painting off it.;
,

From the Dock, select the green X for XL.
From the File menu, select "Open New Workbook".
Name the top worksheet "Life-size Photo Grid".
Save the file as your photos name, or something similar, into a logical folder.


Do Format Row Height 1.44" for the actual vertical height of your painting (canvas), i.e. if it is 16" high, select rows R1:R16 and then do the Format menu command.
Do Format Column Width 1.51" for the actual horizontal width of your painting (canvas), i.e. if your canvas is 20" wide, select columns A:T and then do the Format menu command.
Check these equal 1" by 1" with a ruler, preferably a bendable plastic one.
Adjust the Row Height and Column Width until correct -- your computer's display may vary somewhat.
 This will darken the grid., Make sure to adjust evenly for any overall disparity between what was advertised and what was produced and sold. In general practice, shortening both ends 1/16" to make up for an overall discrepancy of 1.8" is probably the best approach. Either that, or adjust your Row and Column lengths on the ends in the Excel file (but this is harder to figure out how to do correctly).


Size it using the menu tool for Adjust Size to set it to actual.
Export it to an appropriate folder.
Do Select All.
Do Copy.
Go to your Excel file at actual size and, holding down the Shift key, do Edit Paste Picture (or simply command plus P might work) into cell A1.
, Do very light shading to indicate the dark regions. Acrylic paint does not pick up pencil very much but it will pick up erasure dust, hair and other undesirable elements. Still, it's best to be light-handed.
 This is not an exercise in how well you can draw, but it how well you can paint. Painting the Masters comes with the strong warning that forgery is a crime. Make the painting your own in some fashion. Add a flower here or there, another person, a book, a building, etc., etc. Change the color key. Something to make it your own idea. Notice in the example that there are additional flowers in the lower left, an absence of detail made up for by regions of gold, and so forth -- all changes from the original photo. Notice in the Van Gogh "copies" that the types of iris are different and are differently placed, the originals are drawn somewhat differently, etc.






It is assumed that you know color theory, how to paint In acrylics/oils, blending and basic painting techniques, brush cleaning, etc. Some people apply 1 to 4 blended colors at a time, then rinse their palette bowl, blending tool and brushes, dry them and move on to the next color / (series). That seems to work for acrylics quite well.
 Soon you will have finished -- hooray, you did it!




, Above is the final painting and another series done via the same method.







