 This will help acclimate your child to the different flavors. With luck, you may find that your child likes vegetables before he learns to throw his plate.;
, If he is not used to the taste he may spit it out or throw it. Continue giving him different vegetables and asking him to try each one.


Give your baby less vegetables when you anticipate a negative reaction. If he decides to throw his plate or food, you will have more to spare. Only put fresh vegetables onto his plate. If the vegetables are on the floor, throw those away.
 A couple spoonfuls of something tasty and then a random spoonful of vegetables. He may not like that bite, but you are getting him used to the vegetables.
 Have a routine during which everyone sits down to eat for a period of time. No body gets up until the meal is over. If your baby chooses not to eat then he sits there with a plate of food until the meal is over.


This is more effective with older babies. Younger babies may not understand a mealtime routine and become very anxious and upset if forced to sit without stimulation for long. Consider the age and understanding if your baby when you decide to enforce the routine.
 When he is hungry, he will feel satisfaction when eating vegetables. He will start feeling his hunger go away as soon as he eats. This self-rewarding feeling can be very beneficial to encouraging your baby to eat vegetables.
 If your baby will not eat broccoli, try telling him they are little trees. Build structures or faces on his plate. Tell him he is eating the snowman's nose rather than a carrot.
 Most of what a baby learns he learns by replicating others. If you eat the same or similar vegetables as you are feeding him then he may be more interested in eating them.


This can be difficult if you have other household members who refuse to eat their vegetables. Try to have everyone pitch in to show your baby everyone is eating the same vegetables he is.
 Try a different vegetable with each meal. He may like different brands of vegetables more than others. You may also want to try preparing them different ways such as cooked or raw.


Be careful not to mix processed vegetables in on a regular basis. Keep a close eye on the nutritional content of the vegetables you use to ensure your baby is not getting too much sodium, fats, or sugars.
 Kid's shows on television may also be a great way to stimulate your baby to emulate favorite characters. Chose stories that emphasize a certain vegetable. Then incorporate that vegetable into a meal.


Be careful with television shows and kids' movies. Although some encourage kids to eat vegetables, others may commiserate with the child. Poor choices of stories may actually discourage eating vegetables. Preview whatever you choose to show your baby.
 Many people may only eat sweet peas when they are in pot pie. Others may avoid lima beans unless they are mixed into a stew. Likewise, hiding vegetables in your baby's food may help encourage them to eat vegetables without them knowing it.


Consider a fruit and vegetable smoothie as a treat for you baby. He will likely have no idea what vegetables are in it unless you tell him. Make it right and he'll love it. Try mixing various fruits together with one or two vegetables so the vegetables' tastes are hidden.

