 If you suffer from migraines it's important that you learn to recognise the symptoms quickly so that you can act fast and take some medication. Abortive drugs such as painkillers and anti-inflammatories can be taken when you first begin to experience the symptoms of a migraine. Over-the-counter drugs such as ibuprofen and aspirin can work well.Even though your migraine may be stimulated by the fluorescent lighting in your office, medication may reduce your pain and suffering.
Take the medicine before your migraine progresses in severity.
 If you feel a migraine coming on, try to ease the symptoms by taking some breaks from the light and stimuli that are causing you problems. Try to sit in a dark and quiet room for a few minutes to try and relax. Close your eyes and let any tension that has built up in your shoulders and upper back fade away.If it's possible, you can try to lie down and close your eyes for a few minutes. You might even find yourself drifting off for a rejuvenating nap.Just stepping outside for a few minutes could give you a valuable respite.
 Applying an ice pack or cold compress to your head can help to ease the symptoms. Try placing the compress on your forehead, at your temples, or on the back of your neck.A cold compress can a have a numbing effect that may dull the pain. Alternatively, applying something warm or hot to your body can help relax tense muscles., Normal over-the-counter painkillers will not always be effective against migraines, but you should try these drugs first. If you find that they do not have an impact, speak to your doctor and ask about what prescription drugs might be appropriate. You should also speak to your doctor if you find yourself regularly taking over-the-counter painkillers more than two days a week.Generally doctors are advised to prescribe nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) for all but the most severe cases.
If the attacks are more severe and do not respond to NSAIDS, migraine-specific agents, such as triptans, ergotamine, or dihydroergotamine, may be prescribed.Antiemetics may be prescribed if you experience vomiting and nausea with your migraines.
 If you are suffering from migraines brought on the by environment of your office, you should talk your colleagues to explain your condition. If you keep leaving the office for a few minutes to give yourself a break it's important that people understand why. You will probably find some sympathy from your colleagues, who might help you to adjust the lighting, cover for you for a few minutes, or generally help you out when you have a migraine.

