 The top menu is located directly under the website’s logo and contains nine (9) links, beginning with ‘Home’ on the left and ending with ‘About Us’ on the right. A description of each section of the website follows.


Home. The home page is the first page of the site and offers links to the same items listed in the top menu. These items are available both along the left side of the page and in the middle column. Advertisements for other sites that may be of interest are contained in left column, or side bar of the home page.
SAT/ACT Prep. SAT/ACT Prep offers students and mentors thousands (1,000’s) of vocabulary words and math problems and includes daily quizzes so that students may test themselves as they progress through the information and activities. If you are preparing for the Scholastic Aptitude Test (“SAT”) or the American College Test (“ACT”), this is the section for you.
Common Core. The Common Core section of the website takes the principles of mathematics (“math”) learned in grades kindergarten (“K”) – 8, and breaks it all down to individual lessons and activities. Both students and teachers will find valuable grade appropriate games, activities, and lessons in the Common Core section of the website.
Grade Level Help. In the Grade Level Help section, users will find lessons and activities listed by grade and then subject matter. The section covers grades K – 8, and breaks down the lessons by the following subjects, math, language arts, social studies, and science.
Links PreK-12. The Links section of the website provides links to other websites containing lessons, articles, and activities. The links are listed by subject, grade level, intended audience, and type of website. This section contains information for middle and high school students, parents and teachers of special needs children, and school specialists such as counselors, librarians, and speech therapists. If you cannot find what you are looking for in any other section, check here.
Tech Tutorials. If you need to learn how to use a program such as Microsoft Word or an entire operating system, such as Mac or Windows, this is the section of the site for you. Tutorials are broken down into individual lessons so you can view instructions for the specific task you wish to perform and skip the lessons that cover the things you already know.
Assessment Assistance. From the Assessment Assistance page, students in grades K – 8 can access various skills tests in order to practice what they have learned and acquire additional test taking skills.
Daily Dose. Daily Dose offers links to fun websites in several different categories including Brain Teasers, Question of the Day, and Interesting Trivia.
About Us. Visit this section of the website to learn about Internet4Classrooms, its creators, and the site’s advertising and link exchange policies.;
, To do this:


Create an account. Fill in the student and mentor information on the registration form to create an account. If you are a mentor, you will have to provide your student’s information in order to proceed.
Verify your email address. Once you have created an account, you will receive a verification email, containing a link that you will need to click before you can use your account.
Log in. After you have verified your email address, you can log-in and begin preparing for the SAT/ACT or helping your student prepare.
 Choose the Mathematic Standards link for the appropriate grade from K – 8th grade.
Choosing the general category of math you wish to work in. Once you have selected a grade level, you will need to choose the category of math for which you would like to find lessons and activities.
Clicking the learning agenda of your choice. Read the description for each learning agenda and click the appropriate one to access links to free lessons, games, and activities.
 The links are broken down by grade level’s K- 8 in this section of the website. Scroll down to the appropriate grade, and choose a subject link from those listed in the box for that grade.
Selecting a specific area of the chosen subject. The next screen will break down the subject into specific areas, for example, language arts may be broken down into communication, writing, and literature.
Choosing a learning standard. Read the descriptions for each learning standard and select the one in which you want to find lessons and activities.
Choosing from the list of free activities and lessons. Select the activity you want from the list of links displayed.
 You can use the side menu to access the subcategories in each main category, or view all of the categories and sub-categories by scrolling down the page.

Choosing a tutorial from the list of options that appear. Each program contains several tutorials with individual lessons covering specific functions within the program.
Selecting a lesson from the tutorial.
 Additional resources, including teacher preparation tools and state standards are listed below the high school category.
 Daily Dose contains short learning activities designed to be fun to do on a daily basis.
