 You can't create a promotion or raffle on a personal Facebook Timeline, so you'll need to create an official Page on Facebook. Also, you'll have to write a disclaimer that explains that Facebook is not associated with the promotion. Raffles must also have their own eligibility requirements and rules and cannot give away firearms, alcohol, tobacco, or adult products.To get the full list of restrictions and guidelines on Facebook promotions, visit https://www.facebook.com/page_guidelines.php#promotionsguidelines.;
, Think of the type of people who you think would want the prize offered in the raffle. If you have a diverse market of people who buy your products or services, choose a subset of specific people within your customer base. Targeting specific age groups or people with particular interests will increase the number of individuals who feel compelled to enter.For example, if you are running a raffle for a new toy, you'll want to adjust the advertising to children or the parents that will purchase the toy for their children.
Look at the analytics for past advertising campaigns to get an understanding for the type of people who previously clicked similar ads., The raffle should have a positive outcome for your business. This could include increased exposure for a new product or service you're launching, growing your email list, or getting new customers through word of mouth. Figure out what you want the goal of the raffle to be so that you can incorporate it into your raffle as you create it., You don't want to choose just anything for your prize. Good prizes include a free product or service from your company, a gift card for your products or services, or a partner company's product or service. People are usually more interested in the prize rather than the company running the raffle, so choosing a relevant prize will remind entrants of your company and increase your exposure., You must have the rules of the raffle posted somewhere that's accessible to the entrants. Rules for promotional Facebook raffles typically include eligibility restrictions, the duration of the raffle, the prize that the winner will receive, terms and conditions, and any restrictions that exist.In the text of the raffle post itself, make sure to leave a link to the full rules and regulations.
If you are running a raffle for a company, make sure to refer to your manager or the legal department before trying to formulate the rules and regulations yourself.
If you are having trouble writing up your own rules and regulations, find another raffles rules and regulations and use it as a template to fill out all of the information.
 Common entry methods for promotions on Facebook include liking the post, sharing the post, tagging a friend, commenting, filling out a form on an external website, or submitting a photograph. Determine which way you'd like contestants to be able to enter. Keep in mind that the harder it is to register for the raffle, the fewer people will likely sign up.