 A 3/16" or 1/4" thick foam board will make great walls, floors, and even the bases on which to craft the rest of your terrain. Foam board will make it easier to cut out windows and doorway shapes with precision. It is easier to make any modifications to your design before assembling the building. Be sure you are satisfied with your design before proceeding.
, Use a pencil to outline the doorways and windows.


Design the walls. You can just make the foam board wall pieces the same size if you want an intact structure, or you can design walls that are partially destroyed from being in a war zone. If you are new to crafting Warhammer terrain, designing ruins is a good way to start. Even if you mess it up you can work around it since the building is supposed to be destroyed anyway.
, You can trim away the foam at the edge of one wall, then fit the other wall into the corner. This will conceal the gap between the foam board pieces and make it look more realistic. Be sure to get the pieces lined up exactly how you want them. Then, add some glue then fit the two walls together.


Hot glue will dry the fastest and allow you to keep working. Be sure to let the glue dry completely before painting so you don't ruin your brushes by getting glue in them., Use straws to create realistic looking pipes coming out of the rubble of your building. Break down some styrofoam packaging to create debris, bricks, rubble, impact craters, or rocks. Start with a simple object or design, and use these creative details to build a more elaborate scenery.
 You can use small pieces to shape in random bricks and rubble to add more detail to your terrain. Using the same materials you can shape foam board in a raised circle and attach it to a base to create a blast crater.



Visit model train shops. Many terrain objects, such as trees, can be found ready-made at a hobby shop. While many train modeling pieces will add a great touch to your Warhammer terrain, just be sure to select pieces that are durable enough for gaming purposes.
Check out garage sales. They offer a cheap way to find lots of materials that can be incorporated into your Warhammer terrain. Take an old action figure, mount it on a tin cup, give it a little gray paint, and you have the beginning of a statue. The possibilities of what you can create are limited only by your imagination.

