 Add the shells from 1 pound (454 g) of fresh shrimp and 4 cups (946 ml) of seafood stock to a large saucepan. Set the peeled and deveined shrimp aside for later use.If you have shrimp stock that you’ve made previously, you can use 3 ¾ cups (424 g) and skip these steps.;
, Place the saucepan on the stove on medium heat. Allow the mixture to come to a simmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes. Let the mixture simmer for another 15 minutes.Stir the stock and shells periodically as the mixture is heating to ensure that the flavors are distributed evenly.
 After the stock and shells have simmered for 15 minutes, remove the pan from the heat, and pour the stock through a strainer into a measuring cup. Discard the shells, and add enough water to the measuring cup to create 3 ¾ cups (424 ml) of the stock.You can use tap or filtered water to add to the stock.
You can make the shrimp stock up to 3 days ahead of preparing the bisque. Store it in the refrigerator.
 Add 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of olive oil to a large pot or Dutch oven, and place it on the stove. Turn the heat to medium, and allow the oil to heat for 5 minutes, or until it starts to shimmer.If you prefer, you can substitute butter for the olive oil.
 Add 3 chopped leeks to the pot, and lower the heat to medium-low. Allow the leeks to cook for 10 minutes or until they are soft but not yet brown.When you chop the leeks, include both the white and light green parts.
 Once the leeks are tender, add 3 minced garlic cloves to the pot. Allow the mixture to cook for 1 minute or until the garlic becomes fragrant.You can adjust the amount of garlic based on your preference. Add more if you like a strong garlic flavor and reduce the amount if you prefer a more subtle garlic flavor.
 After you’ve cooked the leek and garlic mixture briefly, add a pinch cayenne pepper and the pound (454 g) of large fresh shrimp that’s been peeled and deveined to the pot. Cook the mixture on medium-low for 5 minutes.Stir the shrimp mixture occasionally as it’s cooking to ensure that it heats evenly.
 When the shrimp mixture has cooked for several minutes, pour ¼ cup (59 ml) of brandy into the pot and allow the mixture to cook for 1 minute. Next, add ¼ cup (59 ml) of dry sherry and cook the mixture for another 3 minutes.Any brandy will work for the bisque, but Cognac is a particularly good option.
 After the brandy and sherry have cooked off, remove the pot from the stove. Add the shrimp mixture to a food processor that’s fitted with a steel blade, and process it until it forms a coarse puree. Set aside for the moment.Depending on the size of your food processor, you may need to process the shrimp mixture in batches.
If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a blender or immersion blender to puree the shrimp mixture.
 Add 4 tablespoons (57 g) of unsalted butter to the same pot or Dutch oven that you cooked the shrimp mixture in. Turn the heat back up to medium, and allow the butter to melt, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.There’s no need to clean the pot or Dutch oven before adding the butter. You want the flavors from the shrimp mixture to help season it.
 Once the butter has melted, add ¼ cup (31 g) of all-purpose flour to the pot. Cook the mixture on medium-low for 1 minute to get rid of the raw flour taste.Make sure to stir the butter and flour mixture constantly with a wooden spoon as it cooks to ensure that it heats evenly.
 After you’ve cooked the butter and flour for a minute, pour 2 cups (475 ml) of half-and-half into the pot. Blend the ingredients together with a whisk, and cook the mixture until it thickens, which should take approximately 3 minutes.Whisk constantly as the mixture heats so none of it burns.
 When the butter, flour, and half-and-half mixture has thickened, add the shrimp puree, shrimp stock, ⅓ cup (75 g) of tomato paste, 2 teaspoons (12 g) of kosher salt, and 1 teaspoon (2 g) of freshly ground black pepper to the pot. Stir well, and turn the heat up to medium-high. Heat the bisque until it is hot but not boiling, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.You can adjust the amounts of salt and pepper to suit your preferences. It helps to taste the bisque to determine how much seasoning it needs.
 When the bisque is hot, remove it from the heat. Use a ladle to transfer it to warmed bowls and serve immediately.You can garnish the bisque with chopped parsley if you like.
Store any leftover shrimp bisque in the refrigerator after it’s cooled. It should keep for 3 to 4 days.

