 8 glasses of fluids per day is a general guideline- this is about how much most people need to not feel thirsty and have clear or light yellow urine. More active people may need more. All fluids count, but keep in mind that some are not as healthy as water. If you are retaining water, consider whether you are staying hydrated; if your body is suffering from dehydration, it retains water as a survival mechanism.Drink plenty of water, fruit juices, herbal teas and other non-caffeinated beverages allows your kidneys to flush out excess fluids.
Avoid caffeine and alcohol, because they contribute to dehydration.
Avoid too many sugary drinks or drinks containing high fructose corn syrup (sodas, juice cocktail drinks) because these are simply unhealthy and cause people to gain unwanted weight. , High-sodium diets are the number one cause of excess water weight.


Avoid processed foods, deli meats, salty snacks and other foods that are high in sodium.
Don't add salt to cooked meals at the table. Avoid foods like potato chips and salted nuts.
Prepare meals using fresh (not canned) vegetables and fruits, grains, lean proteins, and low-fat dairy products. Watch how much salt you use while cooking; don't add more salt than a recipe calls for. Or, use specifically low-sodium cookbooks and internet recipes.,


Six servings of grains (at least half of which are whole grains - check the labels) are recommended per day. One serving is one slice of bread, or 1/2 cup (about the size of a baseball) of cooked rice, pasta, or cereal.
Four servings of vegetables are recommended per day. Eat a variety of colors and types (if you find that you eat mostly potatoes and corn as your vegetables, you should change this). One serving is one cup of raw leafy vegetables (spinach, kale, lettuce - the size of a small fist), 1/2 cup of cut up raw or cooked vegetables, or 1/2 cup of vegetable juice. Be careful of added sodium in some vegetable juices.
Four servings of fruit are recommended per day. Again, eat a variety of colors and types. One serving is one medium sized fruit (about the size of a baseball), 1/4 dried fruit, or 1/2 cup frozen, canned, or fruit juice. Be careful of added sugars in canned fruit or fruit juices and try to avoid these., Avoid ingredients like MSG (monosodium glutamate), sodium nitrates and nitrites, butylated hydroxy-anisole (BTA), sodium and potassium benzoates, artificial sweeteners (aspartame, saccharin, sucralose), corn syrup, palm oil, and food colorings (Red, Blue, Green, Yellow). This can be a hard habit to stick with. But, there are countless hidden added ingredients that are unhealthy in:


frozen foods (chicken nuggets, French fries, TV dinners),
anything from a can (beans, meats, vegetables, fruits),
boxed foods (rice and pasta side dishes),
children's cereals, and
popular drinks (sodas of course, but even teas, juices, and flavored waters)., It can be difficult to make time to cook meals using fresh ingredients and making the move away from quick, processed foods, but it can make a huge difference in your health.


Get your family involved in looking up recipes and cooking with you to make it a fun activity that everyone looks forward to.
If you must use certain processed foods in a recipe, there are ways to adapt them, such as draining and rinsing the salt from your canned beans before putting them into the meal.

