 As difficult as it may be, leave your blisters alone and avoid scratching. They will crust over and then fall off on their own. If you scratch them, they will open up and become more susceptible to infection.


You will also spread bacteria with your hands if you scratch at the blisters. If this does happen inadvertently, always wash your hands afterward to stay hygienic.;
, Baking soda has a pH greater than 7 (making it alkaline), giving it the ability to neutralize the chemical that creates the itching sensation. The chemical creating the itching sensation is acidic with a pH that is less than 7.Apply a paste made of 3 teaspoons baking soda mixed with 1 teaspoon of water. This relieves itching and helps the blisters dry out quicker.
You can apply this paste as often as needed to relieve the itching.
 Use a cool, moist compress to ease discomfort. You can apply this compress for up to 20 minutes at a time, several times a day.


You can make a cold compress by wrapping an ice block in a clean towel and pressing it against your skin. Alternatively, you can use a bag of frozen vegetables. Just make sure not to put it directly on your skin and not to keep it on your skin for more than 20 minutes at a time as both of these conditions can lead to tissue damage.
 Apply a topical cream, such as nonprescription benzocaine cream, directly after your cool compress application. Benzocaine works as an anesthetic, numbing the nerve endings in the skin., Infected sores are bad news, so if you think that your sores may be infected, you should contact your doctor immediately. Signs that your sores are infected include:A fever
An increase in inflammation that causes additional pain
The sore feels warm to the touch
The sore is shiny and smooth
Your symptoms are getting worse

, You can soak any infected sores in Burow’s solution (commercial name, Domeboro) or tap water. This helps to decrease oozing, clean away any crusting and soothe the skin.Burow’s solution has antibacterial and astringent properties. You can purchase it without a prescription at your local pharmacy.
Instead of soaking your sores, you can also apply the Burow’s solution directly onto your sores via the cold compress. You can apply the compress for up to 20 minutes, several times a day.
 Once a lesion has crusted over, you can apply capsaicin cream (e.g. Zostrix) to it. You can apply the capsaicin cream up to 5 times a day in order to promote healing.
 After the blisters have healed, you can apply a 5% lidocaine patch to your skin to reduce nerve pain. The lidocaine patch provides effective pain relief without the risk of negative side effects


These are available at most pharmacies and online. Stronger patches may be available through your doctor.
 Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) are often prescribed in addition to other narcotic medications in order to boost pain relief. They are inexpensive and odds are you already have at least one in your bathroom cabinet.


Examples of NSAIDs include acetaminophen, ibuprofen or indomethacin. These medications can be taken up to three times per day – just be sure to follow the label for instructions on the appropriate dosage for you.
 Corticosteroids are often prescribed for relatively healthy elderly people who present with moderate to severe nerve pain. The corticosteroids are often prescribed in addition to antiviral medications.


Talk to your doctor about this option. Effective (that is, stronger) corticosteroids are available by prescription only.
 Narcotic analgesics are sometimes prescribed to treat severe nerve pain caused by shingles. However, narcotics only provide symptomatic relief – they do not treat the cause of the pain.


In addition, narcotics are addictive substances which the patient can quickly become dependent on. Therefore their use must be carefully monitored by a physician.
 Sometimes tricyclic antidepressants are prescribed to treat specific types of nerve pain caused by shingles. Although their exact mechanism is unknown, they work by blocking pain receptors in the body.
 Antiepileptic drugs are widely used in pain clinics to treat neuropathic pain. There are many types of antiepileptic drugs, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, lamotrigine and gabapentin, any of which may be prescribed to treat nerve pain in shingles patients.


For the above two steps, your doctor will know if these are viable treatments for you. In general, these two are reserved for more serious cases of nerve pain.
 One of the simplest surgical techniques for relieving nerve pain is an injection of alcohol or phenol into the peripheral branch of the nerve. This causes permanent damage to the nerve, thus helping to prevent pain.


This is a procedure done by a medical professional. Your health history and condition will determine if this is a suitable route to pursue.
 This treatment involves the placement of electrodes over the nerves that are causing the pain. These electrodes deliver tiny, painless electrical impulses to nearby nerve pathways.


Exactly how these impulses relieve pain is uncertain. One theory is that the impulses stimulate the production of endorphins, your body’s natural painkillers.
Unfortunately, this treatment doesn’t work for everyone, but it tends to be more effective if it is given in conjunction with a drug called pregabalin.
 These devices are similar to TENS, but are implanted ‘’underneath’’ the skin. Like TENS units, you can turn these units on and off as needed to control pain.


Before the device is surgically implanted, doctors do a trial first using a thin wire electrode. The trial is done to ensure that the stimulator will provide effective pain relief.
The electrode is inserted through your skin into the epidural space over the spinal cord for a spinal cord stimulator, or under your skin above a peripheral nerve in the case of a peripheral nerve stimulator.
 This a very safe and effective form of pain relief that uses radiofrequency to modulate pain at a molecular level. After a single treatment, the pain relief can last for up to 12 weeks.
 Shingles first presents as pain, itching and tingling of the skin. Sometimes these initial symptoms are followed by confusion, fatigue, fever, headache, memory loss, an upset stomach and/or stomach pain.


Up to five days after the appearance of these initial symptoms, a painful rash may appear on one side of the face or body.
 If you think you have shingles, visit your physician within 24 to 72 hours. Antiviral drugs like famciclovir, valtrex and acyclovir can be used to effectively treat the symptoms of shingles, but only if they are started within 72 hours of onset., In addition to antiviral medications, your physician may prescribe a topical medication, such as caladryl. Caladryl may help your already open lesions by reducing pain and itching.


Caladryl works by interfering with the pain signals the nerves send to the brain and is available in gel, lotion, spray or stick form.
Caladryl may be applied every 6 hours, up to 4 times a day. You need to wash and dry the affected area prior to application.

