 There are many yoga styles available for overweight people to choose from. In the end, you’ll need to pick a style that suits your personality, goals, and abilities. Consider:


A vigorous yoga style that will help you become more flexible and challenge your cardio abilities. For instance, try the Kundalini style. This is a vigorous style that will keep you moving continuously.
Yoga styles that will work for your body type. Try the Yin style, which relies heavily on poses that are passive and let gravity work for the practitioner. In addition, consider Viniyoga -- a similar style.
A yoga style that is geared more toward meditation and relaxation. For example, try the Kripalu style -- which will balance poses that work for your body with meditation.;
, This pose is very simple and will help relax your mind and body. Ultimately, while this isn’t a very challenging pose, it’s great for beginners and serves as a good pose to start your yoga routine with.


Lay flat on the floor.
Close your eyes.
Lay your arms flat on the ground about half a foot from your side.
Practice breathing exercises while doing the savasana., The child’s pose is a pose that overweight people can do when sitting on the floor. Not only is this pose good because you won’t have to stand up and balance, but you can modify it and do it as slowly or quickly as you like. To do the child’s pose:


Sit knees forward on the floor.
Place your knees and feet on the floor. Your feet should be touching each other.
Rest your stomach and chest on your legs.
Slowly move your head to the floor and move your arms out straight in front of you., The mountain pose is a simple pose that people of any size can comfortably do. It will not only help you improve your flexibility, but also help you relax. Start by positioning yourself on a yoga mat in a relaxing location.


Stand straight up and space your legs apart slightly. Make sure you feel stable and balanced.
Make sure your legs, shoulders, and torso are relaxed.
Inhale deeply and slowly raise your hands so they're over your head. Keep your fingertips straight and pointed upward.
Your palms should wind up facing each other and your arms should be straight., One of the big drawbacks about being overweight is decreased flexibility. As a result, you need to make sure not to force any positions when doing a yoga move. If you force a position, you might injure yourself and undermine the whole point of practicing yoga.


Don’t complete a movement if you experience any sort of pain.
Stop immediately if you experience serious discomfort.
Make sure to differentiate healthy muscle stretching from dangerous discomfort., While you may be tempted to keep a pace set by someone else, you should adapt the exercise or routine so you can set your own pace. By setting your own pace, you’ll challenge yourself without putting yourself in danger.


Adjust any ready-made routines you decide to adopt. For instance, if you plan to use a 30-minute yoga workout routine, you may need to lengthen it to 45 minutes. Don’t worry, though, you’ll likely be able to get it down to 30 minutes over time.
Rest whenever you need to. For instance, if you feel winded after completing several poses, take as much time as you need to recover before continuing on to the next pose., Because your balance is different than average weight people, you may need to take a wider stance to balance yourself. Ultimately, taking a wider stance will help you stabilize yourself and prevent potential injury.


Adjust the stance of a specific pose. For instance, if a pose requires you to separate your feet by a foot, consider widening the stance so you can balance and hold yourself up better.
Talk to a yoga trainer or teacher about how you can alter individual exercises, poses, or routines so you can stabilize yourself without hurting yourself., Many yoga experts recommend that people who are overweight should focus on doing as many poses on the floor as they can. This way, rather than working against gravity, you’ll be working with it.


Talk to a yoga trainer or teacher for a list of poses in which you can work on the floor.
Some floor-based poses include the child’s pose, Savasana pose, the bound angle pose, the wind relieving pose, and the half wind pose., Fundamentally, yoga is just as beneficial – if not more – for overweight people than normal weight people. Yoga can have a number of positive effects for overweight people, including:


increased general health
improved mood
lowering lipid levels
Reducing weight, There are a variety of safety considerations to take when thinking about doing yoga while being overweight. If you’re not safety-focused, yoga might do more harm than good.


Consider pre-existing medical conditions. For example, if you have a heart condition or a skeletal-muscular problem, you should be extra cautious of yoga.
Never push yourself beyond your abilities. If you know you can do intense cardio exercise for 20 minutes at a time, use that as your baseline for advancing your abilities.
Discontinue any yoga, aerobic, or fitness routine if you feel any pain.
Consult your doctor if you have any pains when practicing yoga., While yoga is a useful tool for overweight people, you should commit to a yoga routine in conjunction with a cardio routine. This is important, as yoga and a cardio routine will reinforce each other. In the end, you’ll be more fit, agile, and relaxed.


Consider performing 20 to 30 minutes of cardio every day.
Good exercises include powerwalking, running, swimming, cycling.