 Keep the body of the dress out of the water while following this step. Make sure the bathtub is clean and use warm, sudsy water to soak your hem for a couple of hours.


Working your way around the dress, use a toothbrush and the liquid detergent to "massage" the hemline clean. Be careful not to scrub too vigorously on lace or trims, and clean the underside of the hem and dress lining, as well.
Rinse the hem thoroughly when you are finished cleaning it.
 Turn the dress bodice inside out, and spray the lining of the bodice area (the part that fits on your upper body) with a dish soap and water solution. Use the toothbrush and the detergent to clean perspiration stains that may appear in the underarm area., If your dress has many layers of lining in the skirt, be sure to look over all of them and clean all the stains you find with a spot-cleaner. This is where inspecting every area of the dress comes in handy.
 Spray any stains on the outside of your dress with your spray solution using the toothbrush if necessary. Be very gentle and carefully blot the fabric. Be particularly careful of laces and trims.
 If soap and water do not remove the stains, mix up a solution of a stain remover, such as OxyClean®, and water. Place the stained area in the solution to soak until the stain disappears. Do not use chlorine bleach, such as Clorox, as it leaves a film that is very difficult to remove.
 When you are satisfied with the cleaning of your dress, fill the bathtub with warm water and place the whole dress carefully in the tub. Swish the dress around in the water as soaps from the cleaning process are rinsed out. Let the water drain and then fill the tub again and repeat the process.


Follow this procedure several times until the water is very clear without any soap bubbles. It is critical to get all soap and cleaning solutions rinsed out of the dress to avoid potential damage from chemicals.
 The dress should be "line" dried, but not by hanging it on a hanger because the weight of the wet dress could damage it. Line dry it safely by placing a fold-up drying rack (vinyl coated) in the bathtub and hanging the dress over it.


Place the dress so the weight is equally distributed over the rack.
You can also place a clean towel over a shower enclosure, and then place the dress over the towel. If you do this, be sure to place some towels on the floor underneath the dripping dress to protect the floor.
Do not place the dress on bare wood.
 After the dress has dried for several hours and the bulk of the water has dripped away, it may be possible to hang the dress to finish drying it. Carefully spread any layers of tulle in the skirt or lining and smooth out all wrinkles in the dress as much as possible. This will make the pressing process easier.

