 He had extremely large hands with long fingers. This allowed him to do some things that just cannot be imitated by all (example: he could wrap his right thumb {he was left hand dominant, so his right hand played the fret board} around the top of the neck and play the two low strings such as low E and A two frets below his first finger. This allowed him to play dominant 7 barre (or bar-) chords with a 7th and 3rd in the bass (as opposed to the typical 1 and 5, or "power chord" .


Look at a more Conventional Barre Chord. Use the photographs to compare the Conventional Barre Chord to A La Jimi Chord. The first photo is the Conventional Chord which is a Barre Chord that most guitarists first learn.
Now examine the A La Jimi Chord. This second photo is the Hendrix aka A La Jimi Hendrix Chord was a not a Conventional Barre Chord. Notice the different hand and finger positions.
A note on left-hand technique: normally it would be terrible technique for the wrist to be collapsed against the neck like this. Frankly doing it too often or in an unrelaxed manner is a great way to get carpal tunnel syndrome. But call this is an ‘advanced technique,’ and Hendrix himself had huge hands with long fingers. One does not need to play the 'Hendrix way' to sound very very close to the real thing. In general the wrist should be straight, with the thumb gently against the neck allowing you to squeeze and also one rotates on the thumb like it’s a lever when doing vibrato.
 He invented his own unique, highly "guitaristic" move whereby he placed his first finger on the first fret of the 2nd string, third finger on third fret of the 4th, and fourth finger on the third fret of the 1st string, then played these, along with the open 3rd string, and rapidly slide this finger formation up and down. This can be heard in parts of 'Watchtower,' 'Castles Made of Sand,' among other places. (Whole move with variations could be diagrammed with tablature).
 Use tablature or whatever means, and than play them the best you can according to your own gifts. Familiarizing oneself in the blues, esp. delta (Robert Johnson) and Chicago (Muddy Waters, Buddy Guy, Magic Sam) styles, can help too.

