 Diffusers, attachments that spread a blow dryer’s heat evenly throughout the hair, were created for those with curly and wavy hair. The diffuser will bring your natural curl out quicker.









Run a few drops of smoothing serum through your towel dried hair to prevent frizz. Apply from the middle of the hair shaft down to the ends—do not apply to the roots.
Dry your hair with the diffuser. Place the blow dryer near the ends of your hair and angle the tool towards your face. As you dry your hair, move the blow dryer up towards your roots. Your hair will scrunch onto the surface of the diffuser. Repeat this process until all of your hair is dry.
Brush through your waves with your fingers and mist with hairspray or an anti-humidity spray., When you are looking to tame your naturally curly, springy hair into loose waves, all you need are a round brush, a blow dryer, and patience.









After washing your hair, keep frizz at bay by applying a smoothing treatment to your damp locks.
Place the flat nozzle attachment onto your blow dryer.
Divide your hair into 1 to 2 inch sections. Leave one section out and pin the rest back. This will provide you with more control.
Use a round brush a your blow dryer to smooth out the section of hair you intentionally left out. Once dry, twist the hair around the brush in the direction you wish the curl to fall. While keeping the section twisted, carefully pull out the brush. Repeat on the rest of the sections.
Finger comb your hair to separate the twists into loose waves. Add volume to your do by fluffing the hair near your roots.
Mist with hairspray or an anti-humidity spray to complete this look., Medium sized velcro rollers will allow you to achieve the perfect wave without exposing your hair to the heat of a curling iron.









Apply a tennis ball sized amount of mousse to your damp hair.
Allow your hair to air dry until it is just slightly damp.
Divide your hair into three layers—a bottom, middle, and top—and secure them with a duck clip.
Unclip the bottom layer and divide it into several one to two inch sections. Begin with the left front section. Place a velcro roller on top of the ends and roll it up towards your roots. Secure the roller with a bobby pin. Repeat this process until all of the hair in the bottom, middle, and top layers are rolled.
Use a blow dryer to apply heat to each individual apply roller. When your hair feels cool to the touch, mist your hair with hairspray.
Remove the rollers one at a time. Start with the bottom layer and work your way up. Unpin the roller and grab it near the roots. To remove the roller, do not unwind the hair but pull the roller from your roots and down the strand of hair. Repeat until all of the rollers are removed.
Finger comb through your locks to separate the curls into loose waves.