 Kids are more likely to get interested in tasks and projects at school if you present the information in a fun and engaging way. Of course, field trips are great for getting kids excited, but you don’t have to rely on extracurricular or out-of-the-classroom activities to attract and involve your kids in conservation.


Children as young as preschool age can start getting engaged with nature and conservation in the classroom. For example, have the kids collect and bring in natural artifacts like bark, leaves, rocks, and feathers. Construct a communal nature wall with these objects, creating a piece of art in the room which everyone can touch and discuss.You can ‘hook’ older children on conservation issues by sponsoring a whale or other endangered animal. This lets kids get excited about the exotic animal, as well as feel like they can make concrete change, even from the remote position of your classroom., Since children have limited world experience, they are often easily overwhelmed or find it difficult to connect new information to their daily lives. You can address this challenge by breaking information into smaller chunks and couching them in accessible language which is relevant to daily life.For example, don’t say, "Birds all over the world are endangered.” Not only is this language elevated, but the generalization of the statement makes it sound abstract and overwhelming to a child. Say instead, "Lots of birds lose their nests when people cut down lots of trees.” This allows kids to picture flesh-and-blood birds and imagine the problem as a simple and understandable scenario.
 Instead of presenting a solution, explain to the child what is going on, and ask them to think of a solution. For example, ask the kids the following question: "Humans need to build houses, but animals also need that space for their homes. How do you think we could work this out?"


Small group activities can be particularly helpful for this kind of problem solving.Assign each small group the task of coming up with a solution to the conservation problem which has been posed. The members of the group can work together to brainstorm and propose a resolution, and then present their ideas to the other small groups in the classroom.
Be sure to present both sides of the issues in order to encourage complex thinking and understanding. For example if you’re assigning a problem-solving activity regarding oceanic life and overfishing, say something like, "Overfishing is bad, because it kills off lots of species. But fishermen work very hard and need those fish to feed their families."

, Kids should learn about being a good member and contributor to society at home, but they should also get involved at school. Have your class get involved in projects like gardening and planting trees, and assign in-class tasks like science fair projects about saving water and electricity.


Consider giving extra credit for ecologically-minded practices like riding bikes to school or organizing a recycling collection.
 While it's important to let children know how urgent conservation issues are, you don't want them to feel hopeless, discouraged, or impotent. In order to make them feel empowered and eager to tackle the problems you're discussing in class, take the time to include examples of successful change in your lessons.


For example, bring up the multiple species which have been taken off the Endangered Species Act since 1978 due to successful conservation measures.Outline the specific measures that were taken, and discuss how or why these remedial actions proved effective.
 While it might seem like science and social studies are the disciplines most suited to teaching environmental awareness, don’t limit your classroom learning about conservation to these subjects. In fact, studies have shown that artistic and creative approaches to learning about and connecting with nature can be extremely effective.Think about using a variety of art and creative resources and activities. Have students view paintings of natural landscapes and wildlife, and ask them to process their feelings about the visual art. You can also use literature to introduce them to and educate them about nature.
Don’t just have your kids read or look at literature and art; have them make their own! Get your classroom to write their own plays and stories or paint their own pictures. This helps them imagine themselves as active participants in the situations and problems you’re talking about, as well as to link their own lives to these situations.