 In order to get Pokémon that are optimal for battling, you may need to breed for desirable egg moves, IVs, or natures. Pokémon can learn moves from their parents. If both parents have a move that the baby can learn from level up, it will start with that move.

There are also certain moves, called egg moves, that a Pokémon can only learn by breeding a father or mother (from Gen VI onward) with that move.
TM or HM moves can only be passed down in games prior to Gen VI. These moves are only passed down from the father.
Natures can be inherited if the parent holds an Everstone. The chance is 50% prior to B/W 2, and guaranteed from then onward.
 An IV is a randomized hidden value for each stat, from 0-31. At level 100, a stat will be roughly increased by the IV value, with the increase being lower at lower levels. These can make a huge difference in the power of your Pokémon, as well as determining what type of Hidden Power it has. Therefore, you should have as close to 31 IVs as possible in each of your Pokémon's stats.

Hidden Power is a Special move learned by nearly every Pokémon which changes type and power based on its IVs. It can be useful for special attackers who need coverage of a certain type. There are online calculators which can determine what IVs you need for Hidden Power.
Three of a Pokémon's IVs are randomly inherited from its parents. If either parent holds a Power item (Power Bracer, Anklet, Band, Lens, Weight, Belt), the baby will inherit the corresponding stat. If both parents hold one, the baby will only inherit one of those stats from a randomly chosen parent. After that, the baby will inherit two other random IVs. From B/W onward, if one Pokémon holds a Destiny Knot, 5 IVs will be inherited.
 Hidden Abilities can be passed down if the female Pokémon has it. Male and genderless Pokémon can pass on their hidden abilities when bred with Ditto. The female Pokémon has an 80% chance to pass her ability to the baby. This chance does not apply if Ditto is one of the parents.