 There are various waterless car cleaners on the market. Take a look at critical and user reviews for different brands. Relate customer experiences and choose the brand that you trust the most. Waterless car cleaners can be purchased at some department stores, most major automotive retailers, and online.


Some popular brands of waterless car wash include, Meguiar’s Wash & Wax Anywhere, WOW Classic & Sports Box Kit, and Eco Touch Waterless Car Wash.Some car washes like Eco Touch Waterless Car Wash use eco-friendly or biodegradable ingredients that aren't harmful to the environment.;
, Soak a microfiber tower with a cleaning solution produced specifically to clean cars. Waterless cleaning solutions allow you to wash your car with minimal or no water. Make sure that cloth is completely saturated before beginning to clean your car.


Microfiber cloth is non-abrasive and works better than regular rags at cleaning your car and preserving its paint.Do not use a household soap or dish detergent because it could strip the protective wax from your car., Fill a spray bottle or use one that comes with your product to moisten a small section of the car that you want to clean. You should only need three to four sprays for this. Do not spray over the entirety of the car because the solution could dry before you get to wipe it. Work in small concentrated sections of the car before moving onto another section.


Get a car cleaning solution that helps break down dirt rather than moving it., Take the cloth saturated with your cleaning solution and work it into the surface of the car.You should start to see the solution start to sud or streak across where you are wiping. Go over each area for around 10-30 seconds.


Start in small areas and move around the car. For example, you can start on the hood of the car then move your way to the passenger side door.
 Place your microfiber cloth in a bucket filled with a cup of water, or run it under your sink for five seconds. Once it's saturated, go over the areas that you scrubbed with your cleaning solution. Continue to do this until the remainder of the solution is off your car, and there is no leftover residue or fogginess., Once the area is rinsed, work the area in a circular motion with a dry microfiber cloth. Once you're done drying it, the area that you've cleaned should look shiny and reflective. Make sure that you dry each section thoroughly so that you aren't leaving any chemicals behind on your paint.


As an alternative, you can also use a squeegee to help dry areas of your car., Repeat the process and move to different portions of your car until the entirety of the car is clean. During this process, you may have to use a lot of microfiber cloth, so make sure to be as conservative as possible and reuse them when you can.

