 Applying for a loan before you approach a treatment facility can help you get a better deal for rehab. Some treatment centers demand proof of ability to pay before they will admit you, so having the funds ready will help the process along.Some facilities work with certain lenders to help provide financing, so talking to them is important. As with any loan, you will need to provide credit and income information.Alternatively, if you are a homeowner, you can apply for a home equity loan, which means borrowing against the value of your house., This can be hard emotionally, especially for someone struggling with addiction. Before asking, make sure you’ve done your research so you can state a good approximation of what you need. If you are really broke and will be unlikely to pay it back any time in the near future, be honest about this and tell them about your need. If your friends and family are invested in your recovery, they will likely want to help in any way they can.If you don’t feel comfortable asking for money outright, it might be in your best interest to ask for a loan from family or friends. They may be willing to loan you money if they know you want to recover from addiction, and they may be more comfortable lending than giving money.If asking for a loan, make sure you explain how and when you’ll pay them back, and make sure you know how much you need before you ask.When asking for money or a loan for rehab, ask your friends and family, "Would it be possible to get a loan for rehab?" Be prepared to answer their questions., Grants and scholarships are more helpful than loans because you do not need to pay them back.Some nonprofit organizations, such as the Sobriety Optimization League, even provide scholarships for people seeking recovery.Some grants are only for the organizations and rehab facilities. Don't apply to these as an individual., Identify any items of value you own. You can make a list of any antiques you own, high-quality jewelry, and other valuable items. Of course, you may want to consult your family before selling a family heirloom — they may be willing to buy it or loan you the money in lieu of you selling it. If you are unsure of an item’s worth, you should consult an expert.You should make sure the items you want to sell are clean and in good repair. Cleaning what you can for free is the best way to get the best price for your items. This is true for most items; however, some items such as antiques or collectibles lose value when they are cleaned.A car should be tuned up and clean, inside and out, before you sell it. This means making sure it is up to date on oil changes, etc., and perhaps even going to a detailing service.To determine an item's worth, you can appraise it with someone qualified to do so or check online at websites such as eBay or Amazon Marketplace. If you think a piece of jewelry may be worth thousands of dollars, it may be worthwhile to get it appraised.