 A broken wrist requires medical attention so it can heal properly. If you aren’t experiencing a lot of pain, you can wait until you’re able to see your regular physician.If you have any of the following symptoms, you should seek emergency medical attention:Significant pain or swelling
Numbness in the wrist, hand, or fingers
A deformed appearance of the wrist, looking crooked or bent
An open fracture (where the broken bone has pierced through the skin)
Pale fingers;
, Most broken wrists are treated first with a splint, which is a rigid piece of plastic, fiberglass or metal attached to the wrist with bandages or a brace.This is usually used for a week, until the swelling reduces.After the initial swelling has gone down, a plaster or fiberglass cast is usually placed after a few days or a week.You may need a second cast after 2-3 weeks, if the swelling goes down further and the first cast becomes too loose., Most broken wrists heal within 6-8 weeks with proper treatment. This means you will probably have a cast for most of that time.Your doctor will usually conduct regular x-rays through this period to make sure your wrist is healing correctly.
 After your cast comes off, you may be referred to a physical therapist. Physical therapy can help you regain the strength and motion that you lost after your injury.If you don’t need formal physical therapy, your doctor will probably give you exercises to do at home. Make sure you follow your doctor’s recommendations to help your wrist return to its full functioning.
 Elevating your wrist above the level of your heart will help reduce swelling and pain. It’s important to elevate your wrist for at least the first 48-72 hours after having a cast put on. Your doctor may recommend that you elevate it longer.You may also need to keep the wrist elevated while you sleep or during the day. Try propping it up on a few pillows.
 Icing your wrist can help reduce swelling and ease your pain. Make sure to keep your cast dry while applying ice.Put ice in a zip-top plastic bag. Make sure the bag is sealed properly to avoid leaks. Wrap the bag in a towel to make sure condensation doesn’t get into your cast.
You can also use a bag of frozen vegetables as an ice pack. Look for veggies that are small and even in size, such as corn or peas. (And obviously, don’t eat them after you’ve used the bag as an ice-pack.)Hold the ice on your wrist for 15-20 minutes every 2-3 hours. Apply ice for the first 2-3 days, or as long as your doctor recommends.You may also find it helpful to use a commercial gel-based ice pack. These are reusable, freezable ice packs that won’t melt and leak water onto a cast. You can find them at medical supply stores and most pharmacies., Most wrist pain can be treated with a non-prescription pain reliever.You should talk with your doctor about what type of painkiller is appropriate for you. Some can interfere with medical conditions or other medications you’re taking. Your doctor may recommend a combination of ibuprofen and acetaminophen/paracetamol to fight pain and reduce swelling. These are more effective together than either one is alone.Ibuprofen is an NSAID (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug). These help reduce fever and swelling by inhibiting your body’s production of prostaglandins. Other NSAIDs include naproxen sodium and aspirin, although aspirin has a more prolonged anti-clotting effect than other NSAIDs.Your doctor may not recommend aspirin if you have a bleeding disorder, asthma, anemia, or other medical condition. Aspirin can cause negative interactions with several medical conditions and medications.When administering pain relievers to a child, be sure to use a children’s formula and follow the dosage for the child’s age and weight.Aspirin is not recommended for children under age 18.
There is a risk of liver damage when taking acetaminophen, so use only as much as recommended by your doctor.Do not take an OTC painkiller for more than 10 days (5 days in children) unless directed by your doctor. If your pain persists after 10 days, see your doctor., It’s important to exercise any joints that aren’t under the cast, such as your elbow and fingers, to keep circulation flowing.This will help speed your healing process and increase mobility.If you experience pain when moving your elbow or fingers, contact your doctor.
 You may find that your skin gets itchy under the cast, and you’ll probably want to scratch it. Don’t! This can cause harm to your skin or the cast. Don’t poke or stick anything into the cast.Try raising your cast or blowing on it with a hairdryer on the “low” or “cool” setting instead.Don’t put powders into the cast, either. Anti-itch powders can cause irritation when they’re trapped under the cast., Your cast may rub or irritate your skin where its edges meet your skin. You can apply moleskin, which is a soft fabric with an adhesive backing, directly to the skin where the cast is rubbing. You can purchase moleskin at drug stores and pharmacies.Apply moleskin to clean, dry skin. Replace it when it gets dirty or loses its stickiness.
If the edges of your cast become rough, you can use a nail file to smooth out the rough edges. Don’t peel, cut, or break off pieces of your cast.
 In most cases, your wrist will heal in a few weeks with proper care. You should call your doctor if you experience any of the following:Numbness or tingling in your hand or fingers
Cold, pale or blue fingers
Increased pain or swelling of the area after the cast has been put on
Raw or irritated skin around the edges of the cast
Cracks or soft spots in the cast
Wet, loose, or tight casts
Casts that smell bad or itching that won’t go away

, Because many casts are made of plaster, they are easily damaged by water. Getting the cast wet can also encourage mold or mildew growth inside the cast. Wet casts may also cause sores to form on your skin under the cast. Do not get the cast wet.Tape a heavy-duty plastic bag (such as a garbage bag) over your cast when you bathe or shower. Hold your cast outside the shower or bathtub so you reduce the likelihood of getting it wet.
Wrap a washcloth or small towel around the top of your cast to keep water from leaking in under the cast.
You may be able to purchase water-resistant cast shields from your doctor’s office or a medical supply store.
 If your cast does get wet, pat it dry with a bath towel. Then, use a hair dryer on the “low” or “cool” setting for 15-30 minutes.If the cast is still wet or soft after you’ve tried to dry it, call your doctor. You may need a new cast.
 If your fingers get cold while you’re in your cast, you may be having circulation problems. (Or it could just be cold in your house.) Elevate your wrist and wear a sock on your hand to keep your fingers cozy.Wiggling your fingers can help restore circulation.
 Putting on clothes with fasteners such as buttons or zippers may be difficult while you’re in a cast. Wearing fitted clothing or clothes with tight sleeves isn’t usually a good idea, as these may not fit over a cast.


Choose loose, stretchy clothing. Elastic-waisted pants or skirts mean you don’t have to fumble with fasteners.
Shirts with short sleeves or sleeveless shirts are a good idea.
Use your good arm to put the shirt sleeve over the cast and pull gently. Try to minimize how much you use the arm in the cast.
Use a shawl or blanket to stay warm instead of a jacket, which could be harder to get into. A thick poncho or cape can be an easier choice rather than an outdoor coat.
Don’t be embarrassed to ask for help when you need it.
 If you’re a student and you’ve broken the wrist of your dominant hand, you may need to ask for a note-taker or other accommodations while your wrist heals. Speak with your teacher or your university’s disability resources center.


If you can learn to write with your non-dominant hand, this will help, but this can be difficult and takes a long time.
If you’ve broken the wrist of your non-dominant hand, use a heavy object like a book or paperweight to hold paper in place while you’re writing. Use your injured arm as little as possible.
 When you can, use your non-injured arm to do daily tasks such as brushing your teeth and eating. This will help reduce inflammation in your injured wrist.


Don’t lift or carry things with your injured wrist. This could cause re-injury and prolong the healing process.
 This is particularly important if you have broken the wrist of your dominant hand. It is unsafe to drive in a cast and your doctor will likely tell you not to drive.Although it is not illegal to drive with a wrist cast, use sound judgement when deciding whether to drive or not.Other machinery – particularly machinery that requires two hands to operate – should be avoided.
 You will notice dryness and perhaps some swelling after the cast is removed.


Your skin may also look dry or flaky. Your muscles may look smaller than when you put the cast on, which is normal.Soak your arm/wrist in warm water for 5-10 minutes. Gently dry the skin with a towel.Use a moisturizing cream on the wrist and arm to soften the skin.
To reduce swelling, take ibuprofen or aspirin as recommended by your doctor.
 It can take some time before you’re able to return to your full routine. In particular, you may need to wait 1-2 months to resume light exercise, such as swimming or cardio. Vigorous activities such as sports may require waiting 3-6 months.Take care to prevent further injuries to your wrist. Braces can help prevent future wrist injuries.
 Just because your cast is off does not mean you are completely healed. It may take six months or longer to heal if the break was severe.You may continue to have aches or stiffness for months or years after the initial break.Your healing process is also affected by your age and overall health. Children and teens tend to heal faster than adults. Older adults and people with osteoporosis or osteoarthritis may not experience healing as fast or as fully.