 Just like you can improve your score, it can also go down if you are not careful. You should get into the habit of checking your credit score from each of the three major credit bureaus annually. Contact the bureaus quickly if anything seems troublesome or out of the ordinary.
 Don't pull out a credit card to pay for everything, as it will push you up against your credit limit and make you look irresponsible. You will want to keep your debt utilization ratio (how much you owe against how much you are allowed to owe) as low as possible. Ideally, you will only spend about 30 percent of your credit limit, showing you will use money loaned to you, but are able keep debt manageable.


You do need to spend some money on your cards. Otherwise, banks and other institutions won't loan to you. Without a credit history of any kind, they can't prove you are reliable.
 Pay off small balances on cards that you don't use very often, and stick to a few cards. All those cards floating around may be harder for you to track, and doesn't look good to a reporting agency.Keep paid for or unused credit cards, unless you are still incurring fees whether they are used or not. You may actually make a small purchase on an unused card so the issuer continues to report the action, but pay the amount off immediately. Maybe keep a card for paying one or two specific bills. Make sure you keep track of your spending on those cards.
 Your credit score is checked every time you apply for a loan and too many inquiries on your credit can decrease your score. Note however, that a bunch of credit inquires within a short period of time is not treated negatively, so consider shopping for loans within a 2-week period., Increasing the limit on credit cards without increasing your spending can make your debt to credit ratio look better. Increasing the limit is not an excuse to spend more money. You want to make your current debt look better, not give yourself an opportunity to spend more.


You should only do this if your credit is already fairly strong, and you are in a good habit of paying on time. If you are not careful, and your credit is particularly bad, your lender may actually reduce your credit.

