 When buying Rib eyes, shoot past the shelves and make a beeline for the butcher’s counter. Purchase a steak that is an inch to an inch and a half thick (2.5 cm to 4 cm). Thicker steaks allow for a great crust on the outside while still cooking to a perfect medium-rare on the inside.
 If you have a burner just for searing, get that going too. If you have a sear burner and a steak that is thick (over an inch), get one side of the grill (away from the sear burner) going at medium-high in case you should need to cook it a little more after the sear.









Before grilling, always clean and lubricate your grill grates with some cooking oil on a paper towel (using your tongs, of course). If you don't, you risk the steak sticking.
 How much you use is up to you, but don't scrimp on flavor. The olive oil has just the right body to make the salt and pepper create a savory, caramelized crust.
 Don't go anywhere! Stand at the ready with your tongs. At this point, you are on flare-up watch. The fat dripping off of those beautiful slabs is bound to create a flare-up. This is normal.









If a flare-up does happen and sticks around (more than a couple seconds is not okay), use your tongs to slide the steak away from the flame until it dies down and then move it back over the main source of heat.
 After this duration of time passes (depending on how you like your steak of course), flip the steak over onto the other side, still over the hottest part of the grill.









Remember: You can always throw it back on the grill if it isn't done enough; however, you can’t undo an over-cooked steak. So err on the side of rare if you find yourself unsure.
 Keep the lid open. Note: this time is for a medium-rare steak. If you like yours a little more done, wait a minute or two longer.
 Be patient -- the resting period is important. The juices need time to stabilize; you don't want them running out when you cut into the meat.
 A juicy Rib eye as the centerpiece of your meal can be served with virtually anything. Grill up some corn, toss a salad, open that bottle of red wine, and you'll be good to go.








