 Sick and injured animals may try to hide to protect themselves. You should try to find a way to get close enough to the dog or cat so that you can properly evaluate the situation. If you are outside or if the animal is a stray, you may have to follow them to their den. If you are inside your own home, your pet may likely be in a favorite hiding spot or in their bed.


If you notice an injured animal while in the car, you should be careful not to start an accident. Pull over your car safely, and be sure to check for other cars and pedestrians. Put on your hazards. Do not park your car in middle of the street, and do not run out in middle of a highway.If the injured or sick animal has hidden somewhere, such as under a bed or in a pipe, you should not just stick your hand in. You may be attacked. Lure them out, or try to remove the obstacles between you.;
, You should try to make a note of what you think is wrong with the animal. While you may not be a vet, you can quickly try to figure out what the problem might be.


If the animal is limping or if they have a crooked tail, a broken bone or fracture may be to blame.
Bleeding and torn fur are obvious signs of injury. They could have been attacked by another animal, or a human may have hurt them.
Shaking, stumbling, and vomiting are often signs of serious illness.
If the animal has patchy and scaly fur, they may have mange. Mange is caused by parasites and can cause pain or discomfort to animals. That said, it is harmless to humans.Be extremely careful with animals who appear to be drooling excessively, biting or self-mutilating themselves, or acting extremely aggressive towards you. These are all signs of rabies., If you can, gather a few essential medical supplies that will help you take care of the animal until they are able to be seen by a vet. You can keep an animal first aid kit in your car or home. You can also substitute some supplies with things that you have lying around. These include:


A dog leash
A muzzle. You also use gauze or nylon strips to muzzle a dog
Bandages and bandage tape
Rectal thermometer
A pillowcase, towel, or blanket to wrap a cat in
A flashlight