 Does he or she see only the trees but not the interdependent forest? Obviously, God exists, because His creation is not only one thing, but all the instructions for all the physics of the biosphere of the world, the galaxy that the world is in, and the universe that the galaxy is in -- and is the driving force behind it all. The living cells that were designed and created to be self-replicating cells or organisms.


Each system intermingles, is interdependent, with others. The "universe of life" operates according to sophisticated and precise instructions to form trillions of cells to correctly make one life, for example, one human. Who or what conceptualized and formulated these interdependent instructions? The Bible indicates that God is the being who spoke the first words and that God is the source of all life (which would entail all the plans, genes, and the living cells needed to process the plans).;
, For example follow the interdependence of the sequence of events as proteins are assembled solely in the living cell (which came first the cell or the instructions used within it -- and nowhere else).


These proteins become part of the structure of the organism in its instructed manner and perform a multitude of functions, but forming them requires stepwise processing of materials of nucleic acids, called "nucleotides", of sugar plus nitrogen and phosphates -- so where did those originate. They were all manufactured by that single cell (or by cooperating cells in a multicellular organism) following very specific plans.
 The instructions only make sense when processed by existing, "living" cells and they function only there.
 Why? Dead/non-living cells do not need or use plans, no processing, nothing constructive (can not read or follow the genetic plans).


Visualize how an existing, living cell was necessary to use DNA and RNA (acid molecules) which are assembly line worker following instructions on an "automated assembly line" (explained below) by matching opposite DNA nucleotides to "messenger RNA" plus "transfer RNA" together with the "ribosome" (form of RNA) which proceeds on the assembly line: which is the messenger RNA. At every third nucleotide on the messenger RNA, the ribosome stops and a transfer RNA attaches an amino acid as the next link in the growing chain which will finally comes of the line as one protein of the trillions of these in forming living systems.
DNA polymerase, catalyzes the formation of DNA. This raises the question, which came first, DNA or the DNA polymerase? This is only one of many similar functions and cycles which make up the chemical apparatus found in all living cells. If any of these cycles were broken, life would not exist. The instructions either exist, or the life does not. That is another gap which cannot be explained.

