 One pound is equal to 3,500 calories, so 5 pounds equals 17,500. Over the course of 14 days, this equals a 1,250 calorie deficit per day. You can create part of this deficit with exercise, but you will also need to cut calories from your diet to meet your weight loss goal of 5 pounds in 2 weeks.Although cutting calories results in weight loss, cutting too many calories out from your diet can actually end up in slower weight loss, nutrient deficiencies and fatigue.Also, remember that you're burning calories through exercise as well. This in combination with a smaller calorie deficit from your diet will help you reach your goal easily.
Use a food journal or food tracking app to find out how many calories you're currently eating and subtract 500 to 750 from that number. Also continue to track your calories to ensure you're not eating too much and staying within your calorie goal.
 Breakfast is an important meal, especially when you're trying to lose weight.Don't just choose any breakfast food. This meal should be rich in protein and fiber to help fuel your day and keep you feeling satisfied longer.The combination of higher protein amounts and higher fiber help you feel more satisfied long after your meal has been completed. In addition, the fiber adds bulk to your meal so you feel more full.
Try oatmeal with low-fat milk, 0% fat Greek yogurt with ¼ cup of low calorie granola and a handful of berries or a 2-egg omelet with non-starchy veggies or a boiled egg.
 Losing 5 pounds in 2 weeks can be easy, but certain diet patterns make it even easier to do. Limiting some carbohydrates in your diet can help you shed pounds a little quicker.Carbohydrates are found in many foods. However, limiting certain types of carbs may help you lose that 5 pounds easier than just following a low calorie diet alone.
Carbohydrates are found in the following foods: dairy products, grains, starchy vegetables and legumes and fruits.
Instead of eating breads, rice or pasta, replace these carbs with non-starchy vegetables, such as broccoli, spinach, cauliflower, celery, and peppers. These are high in fiber, vitamins and minerals that are essential to your overall health.
 Like breakfast, protein heavy meals supplemented with low calorie vegetables can help you reach your weight goal faster than just a low calorie diet.Instead of counting grams of protein daily, focus on eating one to two servings of leaner cuts of protein at every meal and snack. This will make sure you're getting enough of this essential nutrient.
One serving of protein is about 3 to 4 oz or about a 1/2 cup of items like beans or lentils. Make sure to measure your portions to help you stay on track.Choose leaner proteins like poultry, eggs, lean beef, tofu or low-fat dairy to help you stay within your calorie range.
Pair your protein with any type of vegetable. Try to stick to non-starchy vegetables like salads, broccoli, peppers, Brussels sprouts or tomatoes since these are very low in calories. Include a 1 cup serving or 2 cup serving of salad greens.They're also high in fiber and other essential nutrients which can help you feel more satisfied with less calories overall.
 Limiting or avoiding processed foods during your two week weight loss window will help you to meet your goal without any hang-ups.


Processed foods are known to be slightly higher in calories, added sugars, unhealthy forms of fat and many other added preservatives.Eating processed foods on a regular basis or in large quantities can stall weight loss or even cause weight gain.
Cut out processed foods like: alcohol, sweetened beverages like soda, candies, baked goods, ice cream, breakfast pastries, sugary cereal, fried foods and processed high fat meats.
For example, swap out your evening cookie with fruit and dark chocolate or even a small yogurt for fewer calories and sugar. Or instead of ordering a fried chicken sandwich, opt for grilled chicken breast on a bed of greens.

