 The layaway plan now extends to student travel, vacation rentals, cruises and packages. You will get a better idea of the market before committing to a company.;
, Read reviews and do your research to be sure the company you want to book a trip with is strong enough to make it through the next few years. Travel is a volatile market and you can lose your layaway payments if the company goes bankrupt.


The Fair Credit Billing Act protects people who have purchased travel tickets or packages on a credit card, if the company goes bankrupt. This protection does not extend to payment plans.
Popular layaway websites are eLayaway.com and Lay-Away.com. Disney is also a big proponent of helping families to save through a layaway plan.
 Not all vacations are good candidates for layaway plans. The following are good monthly payment plan guidelines:


Don't choose a layaway plan for trips abroad. Currency fluctuates every year. You may end up paying much more, if the local currency decreases in value. If you feel like you are getting a good deal because you have invested early and the local currency rises in value, you may be billed for a "currency surcharge."
Choose layaway options to reserve hard-to-book locations. If you want to get a low-cost stay at an expensive ski resort, a local vacation rental may offer the ability to put 20 percent down and pay monthly. They get the security of booking their rental far in advance, and you have the security of a guaranteed price.
Book monthly payment plans with tour companies. The nature of most tour companies is to take a deposit, bill monthly and require the remaining balance 45 days before departure. Ask about their payment plans and whether you can pay online.
Disney's "Magic Your Way" vacation packages offer a very flexible payment plan. It is geared toward families who want to visit their theme parks. You can make monthly payments or occasional payments, as long as you pay everything 45 days in advance.
 Almost all layaway plans come with fees, because they are offering an extra account processing service. Pay attention to booking fees, agent fees, cancellation fees and percentages.


For example, a vacation rental may offer layaway for a $25 fee. This is a reasonable fee because you are getting peace of mind by booking early. Websites like eLayaway.com may charge a 2 percent fee plus other charges for the service. This can add up to a few hundred dollars.
 Before signing, you should feel comfortable that there is the ability to reschedule or get some of your money back, if you cannot take the vacation. Layaway vacations are planned well in advance, and life or money situations can change during that time.
 These can range from 10 to 50 percent.
 Starting payments less than 6 months before travel may mean you only make 2 to 3 payments before the final payment deadline. You may not know your own schedule if you start payments over a year in advance.
 Creating a payment plan can leave you exposed to human error. Check your statements carefully, and call someone immediately if you see a problem.
 Choose a plan that offers coverage in case of cancellation. Ask if the service you are using will be covered before signing up.

