 Family day care is usually operated by a woman who opens her home to care for other children. Depending on locality, the family day care home may be licensed. Most states now require some form of licensing if the day care provider cares for more than one family. Family day is usually fairly inexpensive, offers a homey setting and may have more one-on-one care for your child. Family day care providers also offer the chance for your child to interact with his or her peers. Family day care homes are more likely to care for newborns and sick children. Drawbacks for unlicensed family day care include no state requirements to meet minimum care standards. Also, if the licensed or unlicensed day care provider becomes ill, then the parent must find alternative care or stay home from work.


Most states allow child care homes to operate with or without a license. Licensed child care homes or facilities are required to meet specific requirements. Some of the requirements may include a mandated child to caregiver ratio (for example five children per care giver); required posted safety plans, required safety procedures and posted evacuation plans.






Unlicensed child care homes are usually limited to caring for a limited amount of children. Homes such as this do not have to meet state requirements.






Large Day Care Setting - Consider a large child care setting. State licensing and inspections are standard for the large day care setting. Large day care centers are required to offer staff training and most, if not all workers, have some early childhood development education. Care is given in more of a educational setting and children are usually cared for by age groups. Babies are usually placed in a nursery type setting while older children are placed in age appropriate environments. Workers also receive first aid training and usually other forms of in-service training. Drawbacks for the large child care setting include less personalized attention given to a child and access to large child care facilities may be limited. In other words, finding openings at a large day care center are usually limited.






Preschool - Consider the preschool option if your child is 2 1/2 years-old and up to six-years-old. Most preschools will accept potty trained children once they reach the minimum age. Preschools offer age appropriate learning opportunities.






Family Care - Consider a trusted family member such as grandparents, aunts or cousins. Usually state licensing is not required, if a family member takes care of your child. Encourage your selected family member to take first aid and CPR classes to make sure your child stays safe.






In Home Care - Consider hiring a nanny or care giver to come to your home to care for your child. Your child will receive plenty of personal care. Drawbacks include the cost of hiring someone to come into your home. Make sure the person you hire has received first aid and CPR training.







