 In order to install the Google Play Store on your Kindle Fire tablet, you'll need a USB cable and a computer running Windows. Installing the Google Play Store will give you access to all Android apps, including purchases you've made on other Android devices., This will open your Kindle settings., This will display the advanced options for your Kindle device., You'll see several advanced options., This allow you to connect your Kindle to your computer and manage it using the command line., Windows should begin to automatically download and install the correct drivers to allow you to connect to it. If everything installs properly, you can skip the next step., If Windows does not detect your Kindle Fire properly and the drivers don't install, you can do it manually:Download the Google USB Driver from developer.android.com/studio/run/win-usb.html#.
Extract the ZIP file after downloading it by double-clicking it and selecting "Extract."
Open the Device Manager by pressing ⊞ Win and typing devmgmt.msc

Right-click "Fire" in the "Universal Serial Bus controllers" section and select "Update Driver."
Point the driver update to the extracted files that you downloaded.
 This script simply automates the long list of commands that you could perform yourself. It does not contain any viruses or malware. Visit rootjunkysdl.com/files/?dir=Amazon%20Fire%205th%20gen and download the "Amazon-Fire-5th-Gen-Install-Play-Store.zip" file., Double-click the ZIP file and click "Extract All." This will create a new folder in your Downloads folder with the files you'll need., Open the folder that was created when you extracted the script files. Double-click the "1-Install-Play-Store.bat" file. A Command Prompt window will appear., After starting the script on your computer, you'll be prompted to allow ADB on your Fire tablet. You'll need to unlock it to approve the request., Press 2 in the Command Prompt window to install the Google Play Store and Google Play Services., After installation is complete, the Command Prompt window will instruct you to restart the Fire tablet. Hold the Power button on the tablet then tap "OK" to confirm. Turn it back on once it shuts off., This will prompt you to sign in., Sign in with the same Google account you use for Gmail or your other Android devices., The Google Play Store and Google Play Services will begin updating in the background, which may take 10-15 minutes to complete. You won't notice a change until you exit the store and open it again in a little bit., Now that the store is installed and you're signed in, you can download and install any Google Play app, including Chrome and Hangouts.If you get prompted to update Google Play Services, agree and you'll be taken to the Google Play Services store page. Tap "Update" to update it.

