 The curtains should extend a few inches to either side of your window. They can fall to your window, just past it, or even all the way down to the floor. Here are some common curtain lengths to get you started:


Use floor-length curtains for a formal dining room.
Hang curtains that touch and puddle on the floor for a family or living room.
Make curtains that reach the windowsill, or fall just below the apron, for the kitchen.
 Add 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) to the width measurement, and 7 inches (17.78 centimeters) to the length measurement. This will be enough to give you double-folded hems, which will make your curtains look more professional., Choose a nice, patterned fabric for your curtain panels, and a plain, thin fabric for your lining. You can find great curtain fabric in the upholstery section of your local fabric store. Plain, white or off-white cotton is a great choice for the lining. You can also use a bed sheet.


You need to wash, dry, and iron the fabric to remove any shrinking, starches, and wrinkles.
 Cut the curtain fabric according to your measurements, including the hemming. Next, cut your lining fabric down to the exact size you want your finished curtains to be. Do not include the hems for the lining. Set the lining aside for now.
 Turn the fabric so that the wrong side is facing you, and fold the long, raw edges over by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) Press the edge flat with an iron, using a heat setting that is suitable for the fabric. Fold the edge over by another ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and press it flat again. Do this for both of the long edges. Use sewing pins to keep the fabric in place, if you need to., Fold the top edge over by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and press it flat with an iron. Fold it over again, but this time by 3 inches (7.62 centimeters), and iron it flat once more. Use sewing pins, if you need to. Leave the bottom edge alone for now., Make sure that the lining is cut down to the size you want your curtain to be. Next, place it down on top of your curtain panel, right-side-up. Tuck the raw edges under the hems, and secure them with sewing pins.If you used sewing pens earlier, pull them out, and use them to hold the lining in place.
 Next, sew the side hems from top to bottom. Use a thread color that matches your fabric, and pull the pins out as you go. Be sure to backstitch a few times at the start and end of you sewing to keep the thread from coming undone.


If you'd like a casing for your curtain rod, start sewing the side hems just below the top hem.
If you plan on using clip-on curtain rings, you can sew the side hems straight down, from top edge to bottom edge.
 Fold the bottom edge up by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) and press it flat. Fold it up by 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) and press it flat again.
 You can use your sewing machine to topstitch the hem down, ⅛ inch (0.32 centimeters) away from the inner, folded edge. You can also stitch it down by hand, using either a hemstitch or a blind hemstitch. It all depends on whether or not you want the stitching to be visible.
 If you left a casing at top, you can simply slide it onto a curtain rod. If you didn't, you will have to clip some curtain rings to the top hem, then slide them onto a curtain rod. Once you have your curtain secure, hang the rod up.

