 Even though they’re less temperamental than other types of paint, acrylics can still be ruined with inappropriate materials and techniques. Before you employ DIY cleaning methods, understand that tampering with a painting may ultimately lower its value.Consider having valuable works cleaned professionally by a qualified art restorer. Though it will cost more, you’ll be able to rest assured that the painting is receiving proper treatment.
Never use harsh chemicals or abrasive tools to clean a painting. This includes traditional substances such as mineral spirits and turpentine as well as commercial cleaners.
 Fill a sink or bucket with clean, warm water. Add a few drops of a non-astringent liquid dish detergent and stir the mixture by hand until it forms a mild solution. You can use this solution to spot-clean cured acrylic paintings.The detergent will help emulsify dirt and grime to lift them from the surface of the paint while the water flushes them away.
 For best results, use a cloth made from a soft material like cotton or microfiber. Saturate the cloth with the soap solution, then wring out as much excess water as possible. If you’re using a sponge, give it a good shake before you begin. It should just barely be damp.


Make sure there’s no heavy soap residue on the cleaning cloth.
Some types of acrylic paint are water-soluble. If there is too much moisture in the cloth, it may begin to dissolve the paint, creating a blotchy, fuzzy appearance., Go over the painting with long, smooth strokes from top to bottom and from side to side. Clear away as much accumulate grime as you can. Don’t scrub or apply too much pressure, as this is practically guaranteed to strip the paint off. If necessary, make multiple passes, allowing the surface of the painting to dry between each attempt.Fold the cloth a few times to create a wider surface area. This will help distribute the moisture more evenly over the paint and help you avoid pressure smudges.
Test the soap solution on a corner or another out-of-the-way area to see what effect it has before wiping the entire painting.