 It may feel overwhelming to try to address racism on a structural or institutional level as one person in the world. Instead, you may want to focus on how you can be proactive against racism on an individual or personal level. This may mean doing small actions throughout your day to address and work against racial bias. Even a small action can have positive consequences and poke a hole in larger racial issues.


For example, you may choose to have lunch at an ethnic restaurant instead of your usual stop at McDonalds to support ethnic businesses and work against racist stereotypes of ethnic food. Or, you may have a discussion with a Mexican co worker about a race based holiday, like Cinco De Mayo, and ask the coworker more about their holiday. This will allow you to have an informed, respectful conversation and learn more about your co worker’s experience.
 Perhaps one of the most direct ways you can stand up against racism is to organize a protest in your community. You may protest in response to a specific racial issue that affects your community, such as the police shootings of unarmed Black men in your city. Or, you may protest a specific racial event that affects you and those around you, such as the presence of a white supremacy group on your college campus. Getting out into the streets and protesting in person can be a powerful way to respond to racism with the support of others.You should communicate the plans of your protest to your friends, peers, and relatives. You may also circulate information on your protest on your social media so people can join and stand with you in solidarity.
 Remember that you do not have to try to work against racism on your own. Reach out to existing anti-racism groups on campus and in your community. Partner and work with them on a specific racial issue or volunteer your time to a racial cause. Getting involved with existing groups can also allow you to learn more about how to protest against racism and how to take on a useful role in the fight against racism.You may want to start by looking up the student groups listed on campus and contact them about getting involved in anti-racism initiatives. You may focus on social justice groups and groups that address specific social issues that are tied to race.
You can also do an online search for community groups in your area who work on anti-racism projects. You may donate your time or your knowledge to help support the project and ensure it is a success.
 Working against the system of racism in your country is a process and will not be achieved in days, weeks, months, or even years. It is an ongoing fight and requires continually discussion and action. You can keep the conversation around anti-racism alive by having in-person talks with others about race.This may be with your group of friends or peers at school, or with your coworkers in the workplace. Share any information you learn about racial stereotypes and call out someone if they do something racist. Use a racist moment as an opportunity to discuss why racist ideas of a certain group exist and why it is important to dismantle these ideas.

