 Taking care of your body by eating well can favorably influence beard growth. As hair is mainly made up of protein, your beard will benefit from protein-rich foods, such as oily fish, lean beef and chicken. You should also try to increase your intake of healthy, saturated fats, such as those from nuts, fish and eggs. These will promote increased levels of testosterone, which is essential for thick, healthy beards.


Green leafy vegetables, such as spinach and kale, are also a good addition to your diet, as they will help your body to metabolize estrogen (the female hormone), leaving a higher level o testosterone in your system.You should avoid high-sugar junk foods, as these provide no nutritional content and will contribute to weak, brittle hair.
 Vitamin supplements can be a great way to optimize hair health and stimulate beard growth. Perhaps the best supplement for maximizing hair growth is biotin, a dietary supplement found in pharmacies and health food stores. Dermatologists recommend taking 2.5 mg of biotin every day, for best results.Other vitamin supplements which have been said to improve beard growth include vitamin B1, B6 and B12, along with beta-carotene, flax seed oil and nettle oil.
There is also a multivitamin called VitaBeard which is specifically designed to promote healthy facial hair, allowing beards to grow faster and stronger. It also helps to minimize itching, as it regulates skin's oil production. VitaBeard is available to buy online at beardvitamin.com.
 Regular, moderate to intense exercise can contribute to a thick, healthy beard as it helps to stimulate testosterone production and improves circulation. Good circulation is important as it carries the required vitamins and nutrients to the skin and hair through the bloodstream. Try to combine both cardiovascular and muscle-building exercises in your workout routine, for best results., Sleep is important as it allows cells to repair and regenerate - which is essential for healthy hair growth. Your overall health and well-being depends on getting enough sleep, so you should try your best to get 7-8 hours of good quality sleep each night. You should also try to minimize your stress levels as much as possible, as high stress levels have been linked with hair loss.
 Your beard is not like a plant - drinking more water is not going to make it grow faster. However, keeping yourself hydrated is essential for optimum body function, which will improve your overall health. Water flushes out toxins from the body and keeps skin hydrated from within - and neither of these things can hurt your chances of a healthy beard.

