 Federal Rule 35 and corresponding state rules provide for your sentence to be reduced if you give information to the state about other crimes.


Typically you must seek reduction within a year of when the judge announced your sentence. However, there are some exceptions where you may be eligible for a reduction even after a year.If you acquire new information, you should talk to your attorney and let the prosecutor know as soon as possible, even if you've been in prison for more than one year, if you want to get your sentence reduced.
If a prosecutor promises to get your prison sentence reduced if you work for him on the inside and gather information about the case, but after a year the prosecutor has not filed a motion to have your sentence reduced, talk to your attorney and find out what you should do in those circumstances.If you are considering cooperating with prosecution to get your prison sentence reduced, you should also talk to your attorney. Experienced defense attorneys understand the risks you take in assisting prosecution while you are behind bars, and will help you minimize those risks and protect yourself and your family., If you talk to another criminal, either in prison or out, and he gives you information about another crime, sharing that information with a prosecutor can get your prison sentence reduced.


Any information you share within one year of being sentenced can be helpful in reducing your sentence.You can have your sentence reduced even after a year if you have new information to offer that you just learned, or if you gave information to the prosecutor within your first year, but it didn't become helpful until later on.If you have information within a year of your sentencing, but you didn't tell prosecutors because you didn't think it would be helpful, you can share it later and still be eligible for a sentence reduction, provided you share the information as soon as you realize it might be helpful.For example, suppose you knew where a friend was keeping his money, but you didn't realize your friend was the subject of a criminal investigation, so there was no need to give prosecutors this information. However, two years after you've been sentenced to prison you see a news report indicating that prosecutors are looking for this money stash. If you inform prosecutors of what you know immediately, you may be eligible to have your sentence reduced., If the information you provide leads to a conviction in the other crime, the prosecutor can file a motion to have your sentence reduced in exchange for your cooperation.Cooperation doesn't guarantee the prosecutor will file a motion. Prosecutors only file motions to have prisoners' sentences reduced if the cooperation amounts to substantial assistance in the criminal case. What constitutes substantial assistance will vary from prosecutor to prosecutor.