 Bring your dog an article of clothing that belongs to your partner. It doesn’t matter too much what the item is - but choose something that they wore and haven’t washed. A sweatshirt is a great option.Let your dog sniff the item, then give them a treat. This exchange will cause your dog to associate positive feelings with the scent.
Say your partner’s name in a positive and lively voice as you offer the treats.
Repeat the process periodically in the days preceding an actual introduction.;
, Choose a specific time and location to introduce your partner and your dog. Somewhere neutral is recommended. A park is probably your best bet. Hold the introduction during the day, ideally somewhere bright and spacious.It’s best to avoid simply coming home one night with your new partner. Your dog will likely be protective of the space you share together.
 Direct your partner to stand on either side of your dog without initiating interaction. Your dog will likely be curious enough to step towards them and sniff them. When they do so, say your partner’s name and give your dog a treat. As you and your partner talk normally and calmly, continue to give your dog treats when they sniff your partner.
 Your dog may quickly grow comfortable with your partner, and they may simply hit it off immediately. If not, some bribery can speed up the process. Provide particularly special treats for your partner to offer your dog once your dog is comfortable approaching them.Special treats might include pieces of cooked chicken breasts, turkey hot dogs, or even steak. Direct your partner to crouch down when offering the treat.
If your dog remains skittish, have your partner place these treats on the ground near your dog and say your dog’s name in a friendly voice.
 Another reason it’s best to meet at a park is that your dog will likely be happy to be there. After the introduction is made, spend some time in the park together, perhaps doing whatever you like to do with you dog, such as playing a game of fetch. Whenever your dog dog gives your partner attention, have your partner offer a treat.After your dog will receive treats from your partner, have you partner crouch down and pet your dog while talking in a calm voice.
Once your dog and partner seem comfortable together, give them some space so that your dog is receiving attention and praise from your partner.

