 As soon as you have your border collie in your house, you can start training it. Your puppy is absorbing information whether you are actively trying to train him or not, so you might as well start teaching good habits young., You can use a crate or a leash. You can also try a small room. That way, you can keep an eye on the puppy, and if he starts to go the bathroom, you can take him outside.Also, dogs don't like going to the bathroom in the same place they sleep, so your puppy is less likely to go in a relatively small space.When picking out a crate, check to see if it is large enough. Your dog should be able to stand up in it and turn around.Stop using the crate for a time if the dog decides to go the bathroom in it, as that defeats the purpose. He may not be ready for house training, or he may have other issues you need to solve, such as taking him out more often., Your 2-month-old puppy can hold it for about 2 hours, while a 3-month-old can hold it for about 3 hours, and so on. However, when you are trying to house train your puppy, make sure to take it out at least every 1 to 2 hours to go to the bathroom.Some experts recommend waiting until 3 months to start training your puppy, when he has more control over his bladder.The best way is use a leash and lead your puppy to the same spot in the yard every time. One of the benefits of using the same spot is your puppy will smell her scent there and want to go in the same place.Also, begin using a verbal cue, such as "potty time" each time, so your dog learns to associate those words with going to the bathroom.If your dog doesn't go to the bathroom when you take him outside, put him back in the confined space, and try again in 30 minutes.,, Start by making a noise to startle the pup a bit and get her to stop going. Then, take out to her spot in the yard. If she keeps going there, follow with a reward., Of course, you need to take your puppy out on schedule. However, you also need to feed him on schedule, as that will lead to more consistent bathroom times. You'll need to feed your dog about 4 times a day, so spread the feeding times out evenly over the day., If you're not consistent with providing and taking away rewards, your dog will be confused about what you want., For instance, pushing the dog's face in an accident or getting angry will only make the situation worse. Your dog may learn to be afraid of you, rather than what you want--to go to the bathroom outside. Give as little attention as possible to the problem when he has an accident because even negative attention is attention to a dog., It can take up to half a year to fully house train your dog. You may get frustrated at all the accidents, but you will be rewarded in the end with a dog who knows when to go to the bathroom., If your dog seems to have potty training down, you can give him more freedom to roam around the house. However, you should still try to keep him out of areas that you really don't want him to use the bathroom in.