 Often, the underlying cause will be a viral infection. If that's the case, the cat will need to be given antivirals to treat that condition. However, not all viral infections can be treated directly through medication.Typical viral infections include herpes and calici. Herpes is usually treated with L-lysine (an amino acid supplement), famcyclovir (an antiviral), trifluridine (antiviral eye drops), and/or betadine (antiviral eye drops). These medications will not completely eradicate the disease, but they will help lessen its effects and the possibility of recurrence.
With the calici virus, treatment will be focused on the symptoms, including pain medications and antibiotics to prevent other infections.
 Your vet will often recommend antibiotics, particularly if the inflammation is caused by an injury or an underlying bacterial infection (cold). Antibiotics are also given to help ward off other infections.Mycoplasma, bordatella, and chlamydia can all be treated with antibiotics.
 At times, anti-fungals may be necessary to treat the underlying problem. For instance, if the cat has a fungal infection on its eyelids, the vet may prescribe an anti-fungal cream to help treat the issue., Allergies can be a cause of eye inflammation, and therefore, treating the allergies can help. Your vet may recommend an antihistamine to diminish the cat's reactions to allergens. Steroids can also be useful on occasion.Ask the vet about an omega-3 fatty acid supplement, which may help your cat's allergies.
You can also take steps to minimize allergens by limiting your cat's exposure to the outdoors, as well as changing up the cat's food to find one your cat doesn't react to.
 In some cases of inflammation, such as uveitis, your cat may need surgery. Generally, your cat will need surgery if it has a more serious underlying condition, such as cancer, in which case the eye may need to be removed.Another condition where your cat will need surgery is if the lens moves out of place. The vet will need to put it back.