 Allergies can be a common cause of watery eyes in cats. Like humans, cats can be allergic to certain allergens that cause a histamine reaction in the body. In turn, that can cause symptoms like watery eyes.The vet can run an allergy test on your cat to determine if that's the cause. Some vets may come to this conclusion simply from a physical examination.
Cats can be allergic to pollen, trees, and grass, just like humans. They can also be allergic to things like milk, rubber, dust, flea bites, certain foods, and some fabrics (wool, nylon)., Before you can treat the virus causing your cat's cold, including the watery eyes, you need an expert opinion. The two main viruses that cause colds are herpes and calici. Three bacteria can cause cold-like symptoms, too: mycoplasma, bordetella, and chlamydia.While even a vet may find it difficult to determine what virus or bacteria is causing the problem, they may be able to narrow down the options to determine the best treatment.
 If your cat has a "cold," they may have developed a more serious eye condition called conjunctivitis. Typically, the treatment for this condition is the same as treatment for the infection, but it's important to ask your veterinarian if they think your cat has developed conjunctivitis., This test lets the veterinarian see your cat's eyes better. Basically, the vet adds a dye to the cats eye which can illuminate problems in the cornea. The vet will then use a blue light to check out the eye more closely.A stain test can show an ulcer or erosion on the cornea., Your veterinarian will likely perform other tests to determine the cause of your cat's watery eyes. For instance, they may perform a Schirmer test to see if your cat's tear production is normal or not. They may also flush the tear duct system to see if it has good flow, as well as do a pressure test on the eye to rule out glaucoma (which is high pressure in the eye that can damage the optic nerve).Cat scans, MRIs, or x-rays may also be needed.

