 Whether your fellow workshopper is discussing their struggles in writing or actually reading their piece aloud, there is no way you can give thoughtful, helpful critique if you don't know what you're talking about. Often, the person seeking criticism will mention one or two key points they'd especially like to focus on in terms of critique; whether it's the dialogue or characterization, having a specific goal in mind gives you a clearer idea of where you can help.;
, Same goes for this as for the first step- you can't talk about something you've never read. Read slowly and carefully- taking notes can also be a helpful way to remember specifics about what you've read, especially if more than one piece is being workshopped on the same day.
 Consider specific aspects of writing, such as point of view or tone, as well as the impression of the piece as a whole.
 More often than not, the person being workshopped will have specific points or questions to discuss, but if they open it up for more general criticism, it can be helpful to have a few specific things to mention. These can be aspects you liked, such as an effective passage of description or a lifelike section of dialogue, as well as aspects you didn't feel worked in the story.
 Writing, like any other method of personal expression, is something that people may take very seriously, and careless comments such as, "This paragraph sucked" or "this character is annoying" can be rude and seriously disheartening. However.
 The entire point of critique is to improve and receive honest feedback, not to have an ego-boosting praise-fest about what everyone loves about the story. Rather than too nice or too mean, keep your comments balanced and specific. If a character is boring or flat, that's a critique you want to express, but say it in a way that the author knows you're speaking critically, not cruelly. Balancing critique about aspects you didn't feel were effective with aspects you did enjoy can convey your critique in a fair manner; for example, "I really enjoyed the language you used to describe the castle, but a few paragraphs later when the prince is being introduced to the princess, I feel like we're being bogged down with TOO much description."

, Through honesty and communication, everyone in the workshop can grow together.

