 Many professional ballerinas start training programs young. Summer workshops and boarding schools often provide the opportunity to learn the art of ballet. If possible, try to enter a training program between the ages of 6 to 11.


In order to be accepted into the most prestigious ballet programs, you need to audition. Therefore, try to get some prior training in via ballet lessons before attempting to enter a program.Auditions can be intense experiences. Students audition in groups and are then given the news as to whether or not they'll be asked back for a second audition or a mini training program to assess whether they'll be admitted into the school. If you do not make it one year, you can usually compete again at the more competitive programs.Training teaches the basic underlying skill set behind ballet. Ballet schools do offer basic academic, such as English, math, science, and history, in addition to dance classes. In some schools, classes are very small. This can allow teachers to provide students with more individualized attention., A full training program is not realistic for everyone who wants to become a ballerina. If this is the case for you, consider taking summer workshops and spending other breaks from school in dancing programs. You can take classes in your area and ask your instructors for advice on what affordable workshops you can take during summer, winter, and spring breaks. While this may sound less intensive than a full training program, many professional dancers are successful enrolling in a regular public school and doing workshops over breaks., As you get towards the end of high school, you need to think about where to go next. You can enroll in a college program that teaches dance, but you may be better off taking open classes with dance companies if you are invited to do so. As most professional dancers begin their career very young, many go straight into the professional world and put off college for a few years.


Open classes are dance classes at respectful studios. If you're invited to take open classes, you'll have the opportunity to dance in front of company directors without undergoing a formal audition. If you work hard at open classes, you may get an offer to train or apprentice with a professional dance company.If you want to attend college, many schools offer rigorous dance degrees. Top-tier colleges are very competitive, so work hard on your routine for auditions. You should also strive to keep your grades up and score high on standardized tests as you'll need to meet the basic academic requirements of a college as well., An apprenticeship is very important if you want to become a professional dancer. It's essentially your foot in the door to professional performances and steady work. Is an entry-level position in which you act as an understudy, training all day in the event you'll need to perform on stage. You can audition for apprenticeships after college. You may also be noticed at open classes and asked to be an apprentice for a company.