  Someone who is Sophisticated is never fake. A Sophisticate honest with her self and others. In the 21st Century, she is ethical.;
, A Sophisticate never competes with others. She realizes that the only competition is with herself. She focuses on her own self improvement and growth. She doesn't criticize others to make herself others. Instead of hurting others to succeed, she focuses on her talents and skills to succeed.
 A Sophisticate doesn't expect anything. She gives to others because she wants to show kindness and concern. A Sophisticate doesn't expect gratitude nor does she give to others because she wants recognition. She wants to give and knows that she may not receive a 'Thank You'.
 A Sophisticate smiles because she wants to show kindness and friendliness to whoever she meets. She realizes that even if she doesn't feel like smiling, a smile brings out the best in herself. She doesn't smile because she expects a smile in return. She smiles because she wants to radiate what is special inside to others.
 A Sophisticate is herself no matter what. She is an individual who doesn't follow the crowd. She is not different merely to seek attention. A Sophisticate receives attention because of her kindness, not her outfit or style of her haircut.
 A Sophisticate is polite. She is kind and shows appreciation to those who bestow kindness to her. She recognizes kindness is rare. Therefore, she says 'Please' , 'May I', and 'Thank you' because she realizes that people don't have to go out of their way for her.
 A Sophisticate does what makes her happy. She does not does what she wants to harm others. She does what she wants to make herself and the people she loves happy.
 In the face of problems, a Sophisticate turns a 'setback into a comeback' She recognizes that life is filled with ups and downs. Failure for a Sophisticate is merely a stepping stone to something better. In the face of failure, a Sophisticate learns and grows.
 A Sophisticate is always appreciative of love or hate. She knows that life is a gift and that is why they call it 'The Present'. A Sophisticate appreciates that her life is a gift and shows appreciation to each moment and person. If someone treats her horribly, a Sophisticate appreciates the feedback and challenge of making a foe into a friend.
 A Sophisticate is confident and self-assured. She is unafraid because she is up to the challenge of living each day to the fullest.

