 The first few weeks of college or grad school it can be difficult to remember exactly what time each class starts and what days they meet. Create a master schedule of a typical week and tape it on the inside front cover of your calendar so you can always have it with you for reference. You can include not only classes, but also any internships, music lessons, or recurring appointments you’ll need to contend with on a weekly basis., Unlike high school grounds, college and graduate campuses can be large and confusing. Before the first day of class get a campus map and mark where each of your class buildings is located. This will help you know how where your classes are relative to one another.


If you have time before the first day of school, it can be helpful to do a dry run of the routes you’ll take to from building to building. This will give you a better idea of walking time and help you familiarize yourself with the best way to go.
If you’re someone who plans to bike on campus, you can also note good places to lock your bike, for example. Or if you’ll need to grab lunch between classes, you can find a good place on the way or plan to bring a snack.
 At the beginning of your semester, make an index card bookmark with the pages assigned and corresponding due dates for each of your books. For example, for your Chemistry book, you’d write “Chemistry” at the top of an index card with 9/5: 1-47; 9/12: 48-102; 9/19: 151-160; 9/26: 161-194. This way, whenever you have a spare moment, even without your syllabus, you can get some reading done.If you prefer a digital approach, make digital reading assignment notecards using the “Notes” app or something similar in your phone. That way, even if you just have your phone and book with you, you’ll know what to read.
 Take a look at your class schedule and see when your free time falls. Use this information in combination with the time of day you feel most productive to create a study schedule. By scheduling time to study and do work for each of your subjects, you’ll maintain better organization and keep on top of your work.


For example, if you’re a morning person and have lots of free time in the mornings every Thursday, that would be a good time to tackle studying for your most difficult subject.
 On Sunday of every week, look at the week ahead and make a list of all the assignments that are due in your various classes. Next to each estimate how long it will take you. If you’re not precisely sure how many hours, break it down into days. Is it an assignment that can be done in one day, or will it take more? Assign each project an appropriate place (or multiple) in your study schedule based on your estimate.


It can be helpful to leave one study session a week that you set aside for studying but don’t allocate to a particular assignment. Use this window as a buffer to complete any assignments that run beyond the time you’d anticipated.

