 Perhaps the most common facial piercing aside from the ears is the nostril. It's a stylish and increasingly well-accepted facial piercing in most communities, amenable for both studs and rings.



Pros: Nostril piercings are much more common than they used to be, making them a good foray into a facial piercing. They're easy to care for and relatively quick to heal.

Cons: It's mostly impossible to hide a nostril piercing, and you won't be able to take it out for several months while it heals. Corkscrew-style studs are also somewhat difficult to remove.
 The septum is the center wall that separates your nostrils, just under the cartilage. The septum is an increasingly popular choice for a variety of reasons.



Pros: Septum piercings are very versatile and easy to hide. Rings can be twisted up into the nostrils to make them practically invisible.

Cons: Septum piercings look really stylish with the right jewelry, but can look a lot like boogers with the wrong choices. It's also sometimes a painful piercing, depending on the make-up and size of your septum.
 Typically, the lip is pierced just below the lip-line of the bottom lip, in the middle, to the left or right side, or some combination. The top lip is also sometimes pierced, which is called a "Madonna" to one side and a "Monroe" to the other. Whether solo or combination, lip piercings are both hip and very common.



Pros: There are lots of combinations and variations of lip piercings, which means you can start with one and evolve your piercings as you grow. If you want to end up with snakebites, or fangs, you can try out a single piercing and see how it works for you, then go back for more.

Cons: Any lip piercing comes with some measure of dental risk, including chipped teeth and enamel wear. Like any facial piercing, lip piercings need to be performed by safe and experienced piercers., Eyebrow piercing used to be completed to show courage and virility.It's a punky and stylish selection.



Pros: Eyebrow piercings are powerful and commanding in their presence. Both bars and rings look cool on the eyebrow.

Cons: These are possibly the most difficult piercings to hide, and can't usually be hidden without removal or using a bandage. They're also somewhat less popular than they once were.
 Tongue piercings are a more advanced type of facial piercing that some people choose to work up to when they're ready. It's not usually a first piercing, but tongue piercings are popular for a variety of reasons.



Pros: For some people, tongue piercings offer both style and sexual advantages. They're also easy to conceal.

Cons: Tongue piercings are one of the more dangerous and painful facial piercings you can get. There is some risk of nerve damage and vascular damage, if piercings aren't done by a professional. They also bring some danger of dental problems.

