 All home theater systems can handle both movies and music, but if you exclusively watch movies then you might want to pass on 4 high-end speaker boxes. Ask yourself if you spend more time with your iPod or plopped in front of the TV.’’’Movies and TV:’’’ Most movies are multitrack (sounds come from many different speakers), meaning 5 or 7 smaller speakers will create a more immersive movie watching experience than 2-3 expensive, large speakers. This helps you create realistic surround sound.
’’’Music:’’’ Speaker quality is more important than quantity. Invest in a good receiver and purchase 2 hi-fi speakers to get the best quality sound you can., The popularity of home theater systems has led many companies to bundle all of the necessary equipment together for one price. Ranging from several hundred dollars to several thousand, many large retailers have a variety of sound system packages depending on your needs. Some considerations to consider include:

,


’’’Number of speakers.’’’ Base your decision on the size of your room – small rooms (200 sq. ft) might only need a sound bar while large rooms (700+ sq. ft) might need a large 5 or 7 piece speaker set.’’’Receiver:’’’ Receivers allow you to run your entire home theater system, TV and audio, through one box and one remote. While many complete packages come with a receiver, some smaller and cheaper sets may connect right into the TV.
 You will often see phrases like 5.1-channel surround sound, but there are few explanations for what this means. The first number, 5, tells you how many speakers are included in the package and the second number, .1, indicates how many subwoofers are included. So a 5.1-channel system has 5 speakers and 1 subwoofer.


5.1-channel and 7.1-channel are the two most popular speaker packages, offering a subwoofer, two speakers in front of you, two behind you, one in the center, and one on either side (for 7.1)., Sound bars are long, thin speakers that fit right under your TV to deliver decent surround sound on a budget. They connect right into your TV without a receiver and can be installed and used in minutes.


Sound bars attempt to bounce sound off of the walls and into the room evenly, effectively creating the illusion of surround sound.Some sound bars can be paired wirelessly with a subwoofer, bringing deep, room-rumbling bass to your system for a fraction of the cost of a full speaker system.
 This option is best for small rooms that want a fuller sound than a sound bar with minimal set-up. You’ll need a receiver tucked near the TV. You can then connect each speaker to the receiver, connect the receiver to the TV, and start enjoying high-quality sound.


This is a good option for someone who wants to build their own system. If you already have a nice pair of speakers or a receiver you can quickly convert them into a nice home theater system., Often sold as 5, 6, and 7 speaker sets, pre-matched surround sound systems are perfect for people who want great audio but don’t know enough about sound to buy the parts separately. The set-up is more intensive than a sound bar or stereo system but mostly consists of running wires to each speaker from an included “control center” or receiver.


High-end systems often come with built-in music apps, iPod connections, and the ability to add more speakers over time.
Some systems are wireless, making set-up even easier., If you want to take full control of your home theater system and get the best sound you should consider building your own system. This is best for people who already have a few pieces, like a nice TV, speakers, or Blu-Ray player, but want to expand. To do so you’ll need the following components, or parts:


Two raised, front facing speakers.
Two rear speakers at the back of the room.
One subwoofer, usually tucked in the corner.
One multichannel receiver, capable of accepting 5-7 audio inputs.
One small center speaker (optional)
Two side speakers (optional)
High-definition TV
Media Player (DVD, Blu-Ray, Apple TV, cable box, etc)., A Home-Theater company recently did a test on its employees to illustrate how important sound is. They showed the same movie twice on identical TVs, once with average sound equipment and once with a high-end system. The employees not only noticed the sound; 95% of them even thought that the TV itself had a higher quality picture because of the sound. The moral of the story: don't spend your whole budget on the best TV and forget about your speakers.