 To access Gmail's help resources, first, you'll need to log into your account. Go to www.mail.google.com, then, when prompted, supply your username and password. You should be brought to your Gmail inbox after logging in.;
, From your Gmail inbox, click the "apps" button in the top right corner (it looks like a small square grid). Click "more", then click the "Even more from Google" option. You’ll be directed to Google’s Product page. Here, scroll to the bottom of the page and click the small "Contact us" link. This will take you to the Google Contact page, which has lots of options for getting in touch with Google about your Gmail problem.
 Once you access the contact page, you have several options for notifying Google of your questions or concerns. Your first is to use the reporting feature for online privacy and security problems. Under the "Report a safety or abuse issue affecting a Google product" header, select "Gmail" from the drop-down menu. On the next screen, browse through topics until you find one that matches your issue, then follow the on-screen instructions.Note that this option (and others in this article) may require you to include the message-ID of the email for which you experienced problems. To do this, you'll need to view the entire message header — instructions for doing this are available on the Gmail support website, support.google.com., If your Gmail account doesn't seem to work correctly — for instance, if it's not receiving messages your friends send you — there may be a technical issue keeping it from functioning properly. In this case, the Google Help Center, which has lots of information on how to fix common problems, is a wise choice. From the Contact page, click the "Browse our help center" option at the top of the page. On the next page, click "Gmail", then start browsing through the options for your exact issue.
 If you'd rather read and respond to actual human beings, the Google help forum may be the best option. Here, users are free to post their questions and problems and have them responded to by technical staff from Google. You can easily search through these past posts to find an answer to your problem by typing your problem into the search bar. If you don't find the information you're looking for, you can also start your own post, which others will be able to respond to.To get to the Help Forum, on the Contact page, simply click the "Browse popular help forum discussions" link underneath the Help Center button. On the next page, you can search for your issue by typing a description of it into the search bar.
If you don't get a satisfactory answer from your search, click the "Post a Question" link at the top of the screen to write your own post. Describe your problem as well as you can and a Google staff member or another user may be able to help you find a solution.
 For the most personal, in-depth level of customer support, try using Google's "Helpouts" service. This service allows users to schedule appointments with real experts on a huge variety of topics, then receive a live one-on-one tutorial session via video chat. For instance, if you're having trouble with your Gmail account, you might type "Gmail" into the Helpouts search bar to see a selection of Gmail experts who are available to help you.


To access the Helpouts service, simply go to helpouts.google.com. Alternatively, from the Contacts page, press the back button on your browser to return to the "Even more from Google" page, then click the link for the Helpouts service near the top of the page.
Note that since Help out sessions are essentially appointments with trained experts, they usually cost money (the price for each expert is clearly listed on his or her ad). However, some experts offer their first appointment for free.
 If you're having trouble accessing your Gmail account or sending and receiving messages, the problem may be due to a service outage on Google's end. To check the status of Google's App products (including Gmail), visit the Apps Status Dashboard at google.com/appsstatus. With this handy tool, you can see all past and present service issues for Google's online products — Gmail is at the very top of the dashboard.The dashboard is set up like a table or spreadsheet with dates running along the top and Google's apps running down the left side. Note that blank cells indicate no problems, while red or yellow dots respectively indicate service outages or minor issues on the indicated days.
 Technical problems are far from the only reason why you may want to contact Google. For instance, if you wanted to comment that you're unhappy with a new feature added to the service, rather than using the typical technical support resources, you'll probably want to use Google's feedback feature. This solution allows you to voice your thoughts to Google in as little as a minute with easy-to-follow onscreen suggestions, making it a time-saving choice for novice users or those with non-essential issues.


To use the feedback feature, navigate back to your Gmail inbox, then press the cog-shaped icon in the top right. In the drop-down menu, click "Send feedback". Follow the prompts in the window that pops up — you'll be asked to briefly describe your problem, visually highlight areas of the page that are giving you difficulties, and finally confirm your submission.

