 One way to avoid overdraft fees is to use mainly cash in your transactions. You can do that and stay within budget by using the envelope system.Take several envelopes and label them according to budget items (gasoline, eating out, groceries, etc.).
At the beginning of the month take out cash from your account and put the amount that's budgeted for each expense item in the envelope with the appropriate label. For example, if you've budgeted $100 for gasoline for the month, put $100 in the envelope labeled "gasoline."
When you want to buy something within your budget, do so by pulling the cash out of the appropriate envelope. If it's time to spend $20 for gasoline, pull $20 out of that envelope and use it to pay for your fuel.
 Give yourself a cushion in the event something goes wrong or you make an error when balancing your checkbook. Set a lower limit for your balance, and never let it fall below that. For example, you might prefer never to let your account fall below $100 (perhaps $500 if you write a lot of checks or often write big checks). Some accounts require a minimum balance to avoid fees. Fees for going below a minimum balance are generally smaller than overdraft fees, but they are still an unnecessary expense. Ask your bank or credit union if they have such fees, and what their requirements are for your minimum balance.
If you're trying to build up savings, maintain your own minimum balance (above whatever the bank requires), and raise that minimum every month. Besides creating your own insurance against overdraft fees, you'll also be providing a cash cushion, which can help you avoid going into debt in case of a financial emergency or unexpected expense.
 Some banks will process payments prior to processing deposits. That means if you have a deposit and a payment on the same day, your account could drop below zero if the payment is processed before the deposit. Understand the policy, and schedule your payments accordingly.
 You might find that corporate paychecks clear sooner than handwritten checks do. Familiarize yourself with the bank's policies about how long it takes certain checks to clear, so that you know when you can expect the money to be credited to your account.

