 Cluster C personality disorders are defined by fear and anxiety. Avoidant personality disorder, dependent personality disorder, and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder all belong to Cluster C., Does your partner avoid interacting with other people, get very upset when criticized, and avoid emotional intimacy in their relationship with you? If so, they may have avoidant personality disorder. People with this disorder have a fragile sense of self and are afraid of rejection. This causes many of them to isolate themselves socially.Don’t confuse avoidant personality disorder with introversion. Introversion is normal, and it doesn’t usually interfere with a person’s ability to function. Someone with avoidant personality disorder, on the other hand, may have a hard time going to work or school because they are so afraid of criticism. Whether or not someone has a disorder usually depends on how it affects their quality of life and how strong it is on a spectrum.
 Someone who relies on other people to provide for them financially and emotionally may have dependent personality disorder. If your partner acts clingy, insists that you make trivial decisions for them, and refuses to take responsibility for themselves, they might have dependent personality disorder.A partner with dependent personality disorder might be very submissive or agree with everything you say for fear of losing your approval and support.
 If your partner is perfectionistic, obsessively neat, or overly structured, they may have obsessive-compulsive personality disorder. People with this disorder are often rigid in their thoughts, behaviors, and expectations. They may get angry when other people don’t share their need for order.Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder isn’t the same thing as obsessive-compulsive disorder, though the two are often confused.
If your partner has to do everything “by the book,” obsesses over budgets or time management, or is too perfectionistic to finish imperfect tasks, these could be additional signs of obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.

