 When getting married in North Carolina, you can choose many locations to get married. You’ll want to consider what type of venue you may want and how many guests you plan to invite.There are many places you can get married from a church or synagogue to an outdoor wedding. Choose the venue that best suits the mood and formality of your wedding ceremony.
Different ceremony venues can accommodate different numbers of people. You’ll want to make sure whatever venue you choose can fit at least the number of people you plan to invite to the ceremony.
 Most weddings have a reception either immediately afterwards or later on in the same day. Reception sites can be expensive, so you’ll want to be cost effective when making your selection.When you find a ceremony venue, you may also want to hold your reception there. This will make sure your guests don’t have to travel between the ceremony and the reception.
Reception sites offer a variety of amenities to guests. Choose a reception site that balances costs with the types of decorations and food you want at the reception.
 Some vendors you may need to find include your photographer, DJ, and caterer. You may not need all of these vendors and can even do a few of them yourself.Once you choose a reception venue, they may have preferred vendors. These vendors should offer a discount for you at that venue.
If you want to save money, you may be able to find friends to help out. Try making your own music playlist or having a friend take pictures. Additionally, you may be able to make your own food, such as in a potluck, to make the reception less expensive.
 For many vendors, you’ll need to pay a portion of the cost up front. The remainder will need to be paid after the wedding date.Shop around when you’re finding wedding vendors. You want to find vendors that have good prices and that you also feel comfortable with.
Have money prepared to pay your vendors a deposit. This will guarantee that they are available and booked for your wedding date.
 Your days will get busier as you get closer to your wedding day. Check in with your vendors to see if they need anything additional from you.


If possible, arrange for your vendors to tour your venue. They will know how and where to set up their materials the day of the wedding.
Ask them if they have any additional questions or problems. You don't want to deal with any surprises the day of the wedding.
 This will free you up to enjoy everything that is going on the day of the wedding. Your friend or family member should be able to field any questions or concerns.


Give your friend or family member the final checks for the vendors. They should be able to complete all payments without your help on the day of the wedding.
Tip the wedding vendors. While some vendors may include gratuity, it's standard to tip 15-20% on top of the bill.