 Before getting on the plane, explain to older children about ear popping. If children have an expectation that something will occur, it won’t shock them as much when it occurs.;
, If your child has severely blocked Eustachian tubes or is very congested, your doctor might recommend delaying the flight.


If your child is congested and you can’t delay the flight, it is still safe for your child to fly. Monitor their condition and give them extra fluids and age-appropriate medicine (such as infant pain reliever or children’s ibuprofen) to make them as comfortable as possible.
 Be sure to check with your child’s doctor before administering ibuprofen. Follow the dosage instructions on the box.


Children younger than six months shouldn’t take ibuprofen without consulting a doctor, but they should be safe to take infant ibuprofen-free pain medicine.
Older babies and toddlers can take the recommended dosage based on their age and weight on the package., Drinking water also loosens nasal mucus, which is one of the reasons ear tubes get clogged and painful.


Have your child start drinking water or juice before getting on the airplane so his tubes are clear before takeoff.
 Having something that will help to distract your child may keep her from crying as much.


For younger children, bring your child’s favorite toy, but make sure that it does not make noise that will disturb other passengers.
For older children, bring a tablet on which your child can watch a movie or play games. Bring headphones so that the noise from the tablet does not bother people sitting around you.
 Ear popping is caused by the change in pressure between what we are used to on the ground and the different pressure in the air. It is most common during takeoff and landing. The Eustachian tube in the ear tries to regulate pressure between the eardrums, but because children have smaller Eustachian tubes, their risk of ear popping and pain are slightly higher.Strain on the ear tubes can cause pain, but it typically only lasts a few minutes. However, children with colds or ear infections may have clogged ear tubes, which makes it difficult to regulate pressure and can make the entire flight quite painful.
 Having something in your mouth increases swallowing and alleviates ear pain from pressure changes. For younger babies, have them suck on a pacifier or drink a bottle during takeoff and landing. Older children can drink water or eat chewy snacks like fruit snacks or gummy candy.The chewing and sucking is what really helps alleviate ear pressure, so give your kids something that will take them a while to chew.
 Sleeping causes people to swallow less, which allows pain to build. When you child is awake they can be distracted by other activities to help them swallow and remain calm.
 This method works best for older children. Encourage them to yawn during takeoff and landing. Stretching the jaw helps remove inner-ear pressure., This is done by closing the mouth while pinching the nose closed. Then, your child should try to gently blow through her nostrils; this should help to equalize the air pressure in her ears., Most children will pull at their ears if they are experiencing painful ear pressure.
 This also helps lessen ear discomfort and clogging since it made out of silicone rubber and has a filter that helps equalize changes in air pressure.


Make sure that you check the package for product details, as there earplugs specifically designed for children, and others that are designed for adults.
 If your child, especially a baby or toddler, is crying and distressed because of ear pain, talk to them in a calm voice, sing a song, or play with a toy to distract them from the pain.If nothing else, remember that crying is actually an effective way to balance inner and outer ear pressure and will alleviate some of the pain.

