 If you know someone who has stronger credit than you do, they may be able to help you get a credit card. That person could use an existing credit card and add you to the account as an authorized user. This would give you automatic access to a credit account, and your bad credit report is not likely to hurt your friend..


If you sign on as an authorized user, you must make sure that you pay your bills on time. If you are late with payments, any delinquencies will hurt your friend’s good credit, and may result in having you removed from the account.
Parents are the most common people to grant authorized user arrangements for their children. Parents who have good credit can get a credit card, or use one that already exists, and add the child to the account as an authorized user.
 Before signing on as an authorized user, you should find out from the bank how your payments as an authorized user will be credited to your own credit report. If the lender says that your payments do not benefit your own credit history, then the deal is of little use. You may want to look for another lender in that case.
 The primary card holder might ask the card issuer to establish a separate credit limit for you as an authorized user. This can be kept separate from the primary user’s credit limit. You should consider what you believe you will need and how much you can be sure that you will pay on time., Credit reporting agencies see you as an equal credit holder, even though you may just get started as an authorized user on someone else’s account. To vendors and the credit reporting agencies, you are another co-equal borrower. The primary card holder is counting on you to make your payments on time. You need to manage the account and the payments carefully, to help rebuild your credit., This kind of deal is usually supposed to be temporary, until you can rebuild your credit and get a card on your own. Before you sign on as an authorized user, you should check with the lender to make sure that you will be able to terminate the relationship at some future time.