 Whenever you can get multiple uses out of an object, you're greatly diminishing the wasteful manufacture of new products. While recycling is better for the planet than trash, the best thing to do is not to throw things out at all. Instead, try to find ways to reuse things around the house. Wikihow has a large list of ideas to get you started:


How to reuse Styrofoam
How to reuse balloons
How to reuse paint rollers
How to reuse old DVDs and CDs

How to reuse old newspapers and How to reuse paper

How to reuse old school supplies
How to reuse old candles
How to reuse junk materials
How to compost

, Clothes should only be thrown out as a last resort, when they can no longer be used or worn by anyone. Turn old shirts into cleaning rags, cut up nice sweaters and pillowcases for a quilt, and hand down clothes that don't fit you to younger relatives. Clothing is one of the most frequently, and unnecessarily, wasted products on the planet.


Clothes you have no use for should be donated to the Salvation Army, Goodwill, and local charity drives.
Unsure where to bring your clothes? Check out the non-profit Wear Don't Recycle for ideas on reuse and donation centers near you., Don't just toss the takeout package into the recycling when done -- use it to pack up lunch for the next day at work. If a snack bag had nothing but some pretzels in it, give it a quick rinse and use it the next day as well. These tips not only save the planet, they help you to save money.
 Instead of buying a water bottle every day, bring your own and fill it up. Bring your own travel mug to the coffee shop instead of taking a new Styrofoam cup each day. Use washable dish towels, cloth napkins, and rags instead of paper products. Whenever possible, make an effort to not even create the trash in the first place.
 Help the recycling industry to flourish by preferring the products that come out of it. Some commonly recycled products you can purchase include:


Recycled paper. Select the brands with the highest post-consumer waste (PCW) content, which refers to how much reused pulp has been used to make the paper.
Insulation. There are various types of recycled insulation on the market.
Clothing. Some brands specialize in turning PET bottles into new outdoor jackets, and second-hand stores have great clothes for great prices.
Pens and pencils.
Countertops. Look for great designs that include broken glass pieces––these can look absolutely stunning!

