 Music can make boring and repetitive tasks seen a little less dull. Aside from making the task a bit more fun, researchers have shown that listening to music while you work can actually help you work more efficiently, helping you get the job done faster. This is because music blocks out other distractions and helps put you in a positive mood, something that’s ideal for productivity. If you aren’t a huge music fan, try listening to a podcast. There are all kinds of podcasts out there that cater to pretty much any interest you could possibly have, whether you want to learn about history, design, science, or just need to laugh a little. You can search for them on the iTunes store or just find them online through a search engine.
 Having something to look forward to at the end will make the chore go by much more quickly. Pick it out yourself so you know it’s something that will make you happy. Resist the temptation to leave the job half-finished and only indulge once you’ve completed the chore entirely.


If you don’t already receive one, consider asking your parents for an allowance in exchange for doing chores. Knowing that you’ll receive money once you complete them will make you dread chores much less. Chose a modest amount and agree that you’ll only receive it if you do all your chores.
 If you regularly find yourself feeling bored to death while you’re doing chores, you may need to take a few more breaks. Do the chore for about half an hour then take a five-minute break. Make sure you’re focused while you work, but do whatever you want on while you’re resting. Just make sure you quickly get back to work once it’s over. Repeat this process until you’ve finished the chore.
 There’s always something that needs to be done around the house. If there’s a chore that bores you to death to do, make yourself busy by doing something else. Your parents will appreciate your contribution towards maintaining the house and probably won’t make you do whatever they originally wanted you to.


Not all chores are created equal. Taking the dog to the park is nice, but it’s not really the same as taking out the trash. Cleaning the living room instead of the kitchen is a little more equal. Make sure whatever you do instead of the chore you hate actually helps out the household and isn’t just something fun and vaguely useful.

