 Though it can be tempting, avoid making your significant other the topic of all of your conversations. Though of course it is natural to want to discuss your relationship with your friends, avoid oversharing or focusing your dynamic around that. They will likely get burnt out from hearing about your relationship all the time. Take this time to discuss other topics and to enjoy each other’s company.Talk about work, books, movies, hobbies, news, or your family.;
, Avoid making your life totally centered around your relationship. Don’t allow drama or negativity in your relationship to affect your other responsibilities or friendships. Learn to compartmentalize by removing yourself mentally from thinking about the relationship all the time, and by remembering that you are more than just someone in a relationship.Continue to go to work on time and complete all of your assignments despite what is happening in your relationship.
Also, make sure to follow through on dates with close friends and family.
 Though you certainly will want to maintain your relationship and keep it healthy, don’t pass up important assignments or promotions just to keep your relationship in its current state. Any healthy relationship can withstand a little distance or time apart.Make choices about your career and schooling for you, not for your partner. You should always keep them updated, however.
If you are married or have children, you will need to include your partner in the decision making process.
 You might have a tendency to put your significant other on a pedestal, but in doing so, you establish unrealistic and impossible expectations of them. You will also end up hurting yourself, because you will feel upset when they don’t meet your standards or when they fail you in some way.Don’t expect perfection and recognize that everyone has flaws. Otherwise, your partner might fall from grace just for being human.
Know yourself well enough to know what flaws you can tolerate and what you cannot.
 When you love your partner, you might feel tempted to drop everything to be with them. However, maintain your previous commitments and don’t flake out on plans just because your partner invites you to do something. Maintaining your sense of self outside of the relationship is vital and healthy., You might find that you have a tendency to never be single and to always be attached to someone. Though this can seem exciting, you truly miss out on exploring your independence and don’t give yourself any space to heal or improve yourself. After a breakup, give yourself at least a few weeks to recuperate, reassess your life and to move on from your former partner.