 It's important to be properly equipped before partaking in any type of exercise. Some important things to remember before you start are:

Water- It's important to stay hydrated throughout your work and especially while working out. Consider adding lemon to your water. Adding lemon to your water cleanses your system and flushes out the toxins in your body. It also gives your immune system a boost.






Athletic Shoes- Appropriate work out shoes are important in preventing foot and ankle damage. Comfortable shoes also makes your workout more comfortable and fun







, Even though it looks like you aren't doing much, this exercise is very helpful in improving posture and balance.


First, stand with your feet together and your arms at your sides
Press your weight evenly across the balls and arches of your feet
Make sure you are taking deep breaths and focusing on the present.
Hold this position for 10 to 30 seconds;
, This is a yoga exercise focused on stretching your upper back muscles.


Start of by kneeling then reaching your right arm to the ceiling
Then bend your right elbow, allowing your hand to fall between your shoulder blades
Take a deep breath
Then take your left hand to your right elbow and allow the weight of the hand to deepen the shoulder opening
Be careful not to force it, just stay relaxed and you should feel some tension.
Don't put any pressure on your neck.
Take a deep breath, and hold this position for 10 to 30 seconds

, A good relaxing position that really relaxes the body and promotes good back posture.


While still in the kneeling position, drop your butt toward your heels as you begin to stretch the rest of your body down and then forward.
You are now in the fully stretched position.
Continue this pose by resting your arms by your sides or along the floor in a relaxed position. Make sure your stomach is resting comfortable on top of your thighs, and your forehead on the mat.
Take deep breaths and hold this position for 10 to 30 seconds

, This simple yoga exercises takes a twist on your typical forward bend and stimulates your back muscles further enhancing the posture.


Start by standing up straight with your hands on your hips
Then take a nice breath-Inhale then exhale
Then bend forward from the hip joints and not from the waist-This is like all forward bends, the emphasis is on lengthening the front torso as you move more fully into the position
If possible, with your knees straight bring your hands in front of you or to the floor they can also be placed by your feet, you can wrap your hands around the back of your ankles while taking deep relaxing breaths.
Instead you can also cross your forearms and hold your elbows and take a deep relaxing breath.
Then press your heels into the floor and lift yourself slightly by standing on your toes.
Take deep breaths and hold this position for 10 to 30 seconds

,


Lie face down with your body fully extended on the yoga mat
Then bend your elbows and place your hands flat on the ground but make sure they are even with your chest
Gently press down on the floor and raise your head and upper body while keeping your pelvis flat on the floor
Take a deep breath and hold for 10 to 30 seconds
You can repeat this step for 4-5 times slowly as much as you want.



Start by laying flat on your back with both legs straight
Then lift one leg and bring it toward your chest until you feel some tension
Stay in this position for 10 to 30 seconds while taking deep breaths
Then slowly release this step and repeat this step on the opposite leg

,


Start by laying flat on your back on a bed or other elevated structure
Hang one leg off of the surface without flexing
Hold for 10-20 seconds while taking deep breaths
Then slowly release this step and repeat this step on the opposite leg

,


Start by laying flat on your back and then interlock fingers of both hands under the hamstring of one leg.
Keeping this leg as straight as possibly, slowly lift the leg until tension is felt
You shouldn't feel any discomfort, only tension
Hold for 10-20 seconds while taking deep breaths
Then slowly release this step and repeat this step on the opposite leg

,


Stretch your legs-pulling your legs up behind you to stretch your hamstring
Stretch your arms-crossing your arm across your body and stretching
Stretch your core-Get on your hands and knees, then arch your back like a cat slowly and then bowing it out like the letter C again do this nice and slowly
Do these stretches slowly and hold for 10 to 20 seconds while taking deep breaths

,


Consider doing something you like after your workout: light candles, or watch your favorite movie
Stay relaxed and happy that you are going to improve your posture and stay healthy by exercising!

