 This displays the menus or menu tabs you need to access Excel's trendline features.


In Excel 2003, this displays the Chart menu.
In Excel 2007 and 2010, this displays the Design, Layout, and Format tabs.
 This is necessary only if you have more than one data series on your chart.


You can select the data series by clicking its line in the chart. Excel 2007 and 2010 also let you select the series from the dropdown list at the top of the Current Selection section of the Layout menu ribbon.
If you don't select a series, Excel will prompt you for the series once you choose to apply a trendline to your chart.



In Excel 2003, select Add Trendline from the Chart menu. This displays the Add Trendline dialog.
In Excel 2007 and 2010, click the Trendline dropdown button in the Analysis group of the Layout menu ribbon.
 What type of trendline you want depends on how you want to analyze your data. See "Choosing the Right Trendline" for a discussion of the trendline types.


In Excel 2003's Add Trendline dialog box, click the Type tab of the Add Trendline dialog and select the trendline tab from the Trend/Regression type list.
In Excel 2007 and 2010, select the type of trendline from the Trendline button dropdown list. If you don't see the type of trendline you want, click More Trendline Options to select it from the Trendline Options section of the Format Trendline dialog.
 You can project a trend forward, backward, or both.


In Excel 2003, click the Options tab of the Add Trendline dialog and enter a number in the Forward field of the Forecast section to project a trend forward. (To project a trend backward, enter a number in the Backward field.)
In Excel 2007 and 2010, select More Trendline Options from the Trendline button dropdown list to display the Format Trendline dialog and enter a number in the Forward field of the Forecast section to project a trend forward.
 The R-squared value indicates how closely your trendline follows your data; the closer its value is to 1, the closer it follows your data. To display this value, check the "Display R-squared value on chart" box.


You can move the R-squared value to another location on the chart by clicking on it to display a set of sizing handles. Move your cursor until it changes to a 4-headed arrow, then hold down your left mouse button and drag the value to a new location.
You may wish to try several of the trendline types discussed below to find which trendline best fits your data.

