 The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) runs federal programs and helps building owners offer apartments at a reduced rent. To search for a low-rent apartment, visit this website and search by state.


HUD also runs a voucher program through local public housing agencies called Section 8. With a Section 8 voucher, you can find your own housing and then use the voucher to partially subsidize the cost of rent.You should visit this web portal and click on your state.
Section 8 eligibility depends on income and family size. Generally, a family may not have an income that exceeds 50% of the median income for the county or metropolitan area where the recipient chooses to live., On the HUD webpage is a list of states (here). Click on your state and find any state agencies that provide rental or mortgage payment assistance.


Cities may also offer programs. Chicago, for example, offers an emergency rental assistance program for those who are suffering financial hardship because of job loss, fire, or illness., Many private charities offer assistance with rent. You can search for them on the web, or look in your Yellow Pages to see if an office is nearby.


Salvation Army. The Salvation Army offers money paid to landlords, utility bill assistance, food, clothing, emergency housing, spiritual counseling, and many other services. They are also a good "place to start” whenever a need for help arises. Their toll free contact number is 1-800-728-7825.
United Way. They offer many of the same types of assistance programs that are listed above. They also have a national network of community assistance and other emergency services agencies. You can call their help number at 2-1-1.Check if there is any local assistance as well. In a browser, type your town and “housing assistance.” Or visit your county courthouse clerk’s office and look at the community board. They are a great resource for providing you information on local and statewide assistance programs of all types.

