 There are a wide variety of ammunition options available for the shotgun, and bird shot--made of small pellets poured into a plastic wadding--is most commonly used for shooting clay pigeons on the target range, or small birds like doves.


You can also choose between high-base (also called high-brass) or low-base (also low-brass). High-base (compared to low-base) does not necessarily mean more powder. This is the type of shot you would use against small living creatures such as dove or varmint, where low-base you can use against clays.
 This type uses large pellets (up to 0.38-inches) seated into plastic wadding. The most common type of Buckshot is 00 (pronounced "double-aught"). 000-buck (triple-aught) is even larger pellets, 0-buck (single-aught) is smaller, the next set of smaller pellets would be #1 buck, then #2 and so on.
 There are three shell sizes. 2-3/4-inch (standard), 3-inch (magnum), and 3-1/2-inch (super-magnum). Most common shotguns support up to 3-inch (shotguns can always shoot smaller shells, but not necessarily larger), but some shoot the 3-1/2-inch which contain much more powder than standard loads and can carry more pellets.
 Slugs are essentially what most think of when they think of a bullet. It is a large piece of lead propelled by powder .Slug power is determined in the same way as Buckshot, with standard, magnum, and super-magnum loadings. With magnum and super-magnum you also have the option of getting a heavier (heavier than 1oz.) slug.


There are two common types of slugs. The "rifled" slug is used in shotguns that have a smooth-bore barrel and the sabot slug is used for shotguns with a rifled barrel. Sabot slugs are generally more accurate and higher velocity than rifled slugs, but they require a rifled barrel to be fired accurately, which is less common.
 When you're shopping for ammunition, keep an eye out for the size of the shot listed on the box and get something appropriate for your needs. Just as a 12-gauge is larger than a 20-gauge, #6-shot uses larger pellets than #8-shot.


For shooting clay, a higher shot number (#7-1/2 to #9 shot) is usually preferred as the dense spread of the pellets is more important than the weight of individual pellets. The larger, heavier pellets (#4-#6 shot) is usually reserved for birds and rabbits, because fur and feathers are harder to penetrate than the ceramic of the artificial targets.

