 Generally speaking this will mean that the cane grip will reach your armpit when the tip is resting on the floor.;
, Generally a right-handed person should use their left hand.
 Note that all canes consist of 3 main parts; the grip, the tip, and the cane. Hold the grip firmly but loosely in your hand. If it has a flat surface, (like a golf club grip) lay your index finger on the flat surface.
 Let your wrist settle to somewhere between your belly button and waist, slightly to one side, and gently swing the cane from side to side. The tip should always stay in contact with the ground, swinging approximately the width of your shoulders.
 When you walk, alternate the swing with your steps. As you step with the right foot, your cane should go to the left, and vice versa. If you find that your cane is swinging in the wrong direction, let the cane stay in that general direction and fix it with your next few steps. Your head should be held high and you shoulders kept relaxed. This will allow you to use any remaining vision and whatever hearing you have to aid your mobility.
 When going down stairs, let the cane tip fall onto the next step and don't swing it in case other people are trying to go down the stairs too. When going up the stairs, the cane will hit the first step when you are on the ground level. Grab the cane so it's relatively vertical, and let the cane hit each step as you ascend. Once you reach the top, go back to swinging. When going down the stairs, let the cane tip fall onto the next step and then step down to it. For a smoother descent push the cane forward along the step and allow the cane drop two steps below, so that it is always a step ahead of you.


Keep the cane from swinging to allow other people to use the stairs.
When pushing the cane forward doesn't result in it dropping you know you've reached the end of that set of stairs. To avoid a nasty fall, remember that after the cane has reached the bottom of the stairs, you still have another step to take!

, Make sure you are confident in your cane mobility skills before going out alone.

