 You can find many songs online that sing all fifty states in alphabetical order. This video uses a rhyming song, which might be easier to learn. Try this song instead if you just want a song without a video, or if you like the tune more. Listen to the song several times and try to sing along.;
, Find a list of states online, or print out a copy. Look away from the list and try to sing the song yourself. Whenever you get stuck, look back at the list and find the name of the next state. Look away again and try to sing the next part of the song.


Listen to the song again if you get completely stuck.
 If the songs aren't helping, try a phrase that helps your memory instead. Here's a phrase that lists the first letter of each state: US PVC WOK MACHINING DATA 7M5N FAILS WW I TV WORK CON. Look at the full list of states in this order. Repeat this phrase to yourself many times, then try to write down the states in this order.


In this phrase, "7M5N" means "list 7 states starting with M and 5 states starting with N".
PVC is a kind of plastic, and WWI is short for "World War One." (If you know what the words mean, you're more likely to remember the phrase.)
These are called "mnemonic devices" (pronounced "neh-mawn-ick"), meaning "memory helpers."

, Hand the list of states to a family member or friend. Sing the song or recite the state names while the other person looks at the list. Ask the other person to stop you if you miss a state.
 An online quiz will teach you to spell all fifty states to, since you have to type the name in correctly for it to count. Try naming as many as you can in ten minutes. Once you can do that, try it in five minutes.
 Once you can name most of the states, use this trick to remember the names you keep getting stuck at. Find a phrase you know that sounds like part of the state name. For instance, "Swing-and-a-Miss-issippi" or "I-ow-a- dollar to my brother" ("I owe a dollar"). Chant these phrases, or include the whole phrase in your song or spoken list of states to help you remember them.

