 The federal United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) runs an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service called “Animal Care.” They run a website with an online complaint form you can use.You can report suspected abuse of any animal covered by the Animal Welfare Act or the Horse Protection Act. The Animal Welfare Act covers all animals displayed publicly, which includes those shown in zoos and circuses.;
, The form will ask for the following information. You should gather it ahead of time so that you can complete the form in one sitting:the date of the incident
the location of the incident
the types of animals abused
how the animals behaved
what condition the animals were in
the condition of the facility
the actions of the people with the animals
the name of the USDA licensee or registrant (if known)
the licensee or registration number (if known)

, Although you can report anonymously, you should consider giving your name.USDA cannot contact you to follow up if you report anonymously. You should consider giving your name if you have documented evidence USDA could use in a prosecution.
 If you want to report animal cruelty or abuse in a circus or zoo outside the United States, then you should find your government agency that investigates allegations of abuse. To find the agency, you can search “report animal abuse” and “your country” in your favorite search engine.


In Canada, you should contact your province’s Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). There should be a hotline you can call.In Australia, you can also contact your territory’s RSPCA.If you can’t find the agency you are supposed to report to, then you might want to contact People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which has chapters around the world.They can listen to your complaint and then reach out to the appropriate government office.
 As soon as possible, you should take some time to write out what you remember of the incident. Make sure that your narrative contains relevant identifying information, such as the following:the name of the person committing the abuse
a physical description of the abuser, if you don’t know their name
any conversation that you had with the abuser

, If other people saw the abuse or cruelty, then you should take down their contact information. Animal Care might need to contact them. Gather the following information:name
address
telephone number
email (if available)

, Ideally, you can capture the abuse on video or, at a minimum, take pictures of the conditions of the animals.Many smart phones now have the ability to take pictures or record short digital videos.


After taking digital pictures or video, be sure to download and save them to your hard drive. You don’t want to accidentally erase the evidence.
 You might be a veterinarian who was called in to treat an animal. You could suspect that the injury was caused by abuse. If so, hold onto copies of all reports that verify the animal’s injuries.