 Many Civil War buffs become participants in re-enactment groups. If this interests you, search on the internet for re-enactment groups near you. There are dozens of re-enactment groups across the country.For more information about the hobby, check out the Camp Chase Gazette, the magazine of Civil War re-enactors.Look under "Civil War Directory" to find re-enactment groups in your state.
Note that if you want to join a cavalry group, it would be helpful to have some experience with horses. If you don't, consider the infantry instead.
Note that some people choose to play the role of a Civil War era civilian, rather than a soldier. If this is more interesting to you, it may also be an option., In most states, you'll find that there are re-enactors representing both Union and Confederate military units. Choose the side you want to represent and join a group. Don't feel like you can't choose a northern group just because you live in the south, or vice versa!


Some people choose based on their own family history. If you have ancestors who fought for one side or the other, you might choose that side and feel a greater personal connection.
Be sure to join a group before you buy your uniform and equipment. You want to be sure the equipment you have matches the rest of your unit. Historical accuracy is very important to re-enactors., Once you've joined a group, it's time to buy your clothes, equipment, and weapons. In most cases, your group will be able to direct you to a merchant that sells the right gear for you.There are also many companies that sell Civil War accoutrements on the internet. Most re-enactments also include vendors selling Civil War gear, so you could also buy your uniform at an event.
Note that everything you bring to re-enactment should be historically accurate. Re-enactors call an item that doesn't match the period "farby." Farby items are, to say the least, frowned upon at re-enactments., Once you're equipped and signed up, you can start attending groups and portraying a Civil War soldier for the public. Your group will typically participate in these events with numerous other units in the area.


Be aware that there is a lot more to these events than battle scenes. Typically, you'll be camping out with your unit, sleeping on a cot or bedroll in a drafty canvas tent, sometimes for several days.Be sure that's something you can commit to before joining a re-enactor group.

