 The heart stitch is pretty easy to do. However, you will need to have some special items before you get started. You will need:Two colors of yarn. You will need a yarn for the hearts and a yarn for the background. You can use any colors you like, just make sure that the hearts will be visible against the backdrop of the other yarn.
Crochet hook. Make sure the hook size is appropriate for the type of yarn you are using.
Scissors;
, To start the foundation row, you need to make a chain first. You can make the chain as long or as short as you want, but the chain needs to be a multiple of six plus one additional chain. For example, you could make a chain of 12 plus one for a total of 13 chain stiches, or you could make a chain of 60 plus one for a total of 61 stitches.To make the first chain, yarn over your hook twice and then pull the first loop through the second loop. Then, loop the yarn over the hook once and pull through to continue the chain.Make sure that you use the background yarn color to make this chain and to create your foundation row.
 For the first row, start by making a chain of three and then double crochet into the plus one stitch of your original chain. The chain of three is just used as a turning chain to provide slack.To double crochet, yarn over the hook, then push the hook through the hook and loop the yarn over again. Pull through the first stitch, and then yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the next two stitches, then yarn over again. Pull through the remaining two stitches to complete your first double crochet., For the next row, start by making a chain of one for the turning chain. Then, single crochet to the end of the row.To single crochet, insert the hook into the stitch and loop the yarn over. Pull this yarn through the first stitch on the hook to create a new loop. Then, loop the yarn over again and pull through both loops to complete a single crochet stitch., The foundation row (except for the starting chain) will need to be repeated after you finish each of the heart rows. This will provide some space between your hearts and help them to stand out more., After you finish the foundation row, you will need to switch over to your other yarn color to create the hearts. Cut your background yarn a few inches away from the hook while keeping the loop on the hook. Then, tie the heart yarn color to the end of the background yarn as close to the hook as you can.You will need to repeat this process every time you switch from one yarn color to another.
To work in the end of the yarn, you and lay it across the area where you will be crocheting next and just crochet around it to anchor it to the stitches. Or, if you prefer, you can also cut the end near the knot. Just make sure that the knot is very secure if you decide to cut the end.
 Your first stitch will form a half of a heart because it will be on the end of the fabric. Do three double crochet stitches into the first stitch. All three stitches should be in the same stitch., Next, you will need to chain three stitches to provide some slack. Then, skip the next five stitches in the row. This area will be empty for now, but you will fill it in in the next row., Double crochet three times into the sixth stitch from the beginning of the row. Work all three double crochet stitches into the same stitch. This will make the first half of your first full heart., To create the second half of the heart, chain two and then double crochet three more times into the same space as the previous three double crochet stitches.When you are done, you will have a total of six stitches in the same space and the shape will start to resemble a heart. However, don’t worry if it does not look exactly like a heart yet because you have another row to finish the heart.
 Keep working following the same pattern of chaining three, skipping five, and double crocheting into the same stitch to make more hearts in your row. When you get to the end of the row, double crochet three times into the last stitch as you did with the first stitch. This will create half of a heart., To fill in the gap left in between your hearts and continue the work, you will need to switch back over to the background yarn color. Tie it to the end of the heart yarn close to the hook like you did with the first changeover., Start the new row by single crocheting into the top of the first double crochet stitch in your row. This is the half-heart that you created., Chain two to provide some slack to move down to the base of your first heart. You will be crocheting into the foundation row to fill in the gaps between your hearts. Do a single crochet into the first stitch of the five stitches in between the hearts. Continue to single crochet into all five stitches.You will need to pull the final loop of each single crochet stitch up so that it extends to the top of the hearts.
Make sure to crochet around the chain of three that extends between each of the hearts as well so that these will be hidden.
 Next, chain two stitches and then single crochet into the middle of the heart. This will help to create the characteristic dip in the center of the heart shape.Follow this single crochet stitch with another chain of two and then continue to work in the same pattern as you did for the first space between hearts. Continue to the end of the row to fill in all of the gaps.

