 Wash, peel and core 4 large Granny Smith apples. Use a sharp knife to carefully dice the apples into small pieces. Place the diced apples into a mixing bowl along with 4 tablespoons of brown sugar, 4 tablespoons of white sugar, 2 tablespoons of flour, and 2 teaspoons of cinnamon.If you want the apple pieces even smaller, consider grating the apples using a box or cheese grater.;
, For a spiced pumpkin pie mixture, combine traditional pumpkin pie ingredients in a medium mixing bowl. Use a whisk to stir together:1 1/2 cups (425 g) of pumpkin puree
1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar
3 tablespoons of melted butter
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon of vanilla
1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon of ginger
1/4 teaspoon of ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon of salt

, If you'd like a rich chocolate filling with a pecan crunch, combine 1/2 cup (150 g) of dark corn syrup, 1/2 cup (100 g) of packed brown sugar, 1 tablespoon of melted butter, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, and 2 beaten eggs in a medium mixing bowl. Stir in 2/3 cup (100 g) of chopped pecans and 2/3 cup (115 g) of miniature semisweet chocolate chips.While you could use regular-sized chocolate chips, mini chocolate chips are easier to handle when you're assembling the pie pops.
 If you're using frozen pie dough, thaw it according to the manufacturer's directions. The dough should be easy to handle. Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and lay the pastry down. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough to 1/4-inch (6 mm) thick. Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C).You can roll the dough into any shape since you'll be cutting it out. For example, you can roll the dough into a rectangle, if it's easier.
 Use 2 to 3-inch (5 to 7.5-cm) cookie cutters to cut out the rolled pie dough. Form the scraps together so you can re-roll and cut more shapes with the dough. Lay parchment paper on two baking sheets and place half of the cutouts on the sheets.You can use any shape of cookie cutter that you like. Keep in mind that detailed shapes (like frilled stars) may be difficult to seal which could cause the filling to leak out.
 Place one lollipop stick on each cutout on your baking sheets. You should have 24 cutouts and 24 lollipop sticks. Ensure that the stick is halfway across the cutout and press down just a little. Depending on which filling you use, place 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of filling in the center of the cutouts.Don't spread the filling across the entire cutout or it will be difficult to seal the pastry lid.
 Use the 24 remaining pastry cutouts on your work surface as lids for the mini pie pops. If you'd like to make a decorative window, just use a miniature cookie cutter to cut the center out of each lid. Discard the tiny pastry shape and set the cutout lid over a filled cutout on your baking sheet. Gently press around the edges to seal the lids.You can use an extra lollipop stick or the tines of a fork to press into the edges. This will make a decorative border along the edges.
 Separate one egg so you have the egg white in a small dish. You can discard the yolk or save it for another recipe. Dip a pastry brush into the egg white and brush it over each mini pie pop. Sprinkle the tops with a little demerara or coarse sugar.You can also use colored or decorative sugars for a bright touch.
 Put the mini pie pops in the preheated oven and bake them for 10 to 14 minutes. They should turn golden and crisp around the edges. Don't worry if the filling oozes out a little. This might just make them stick to the parchment a little.Let the pops cool completely before you handle or serve them. The filling will be very hot, so use caution.

