 A larger Ziploc-styled bag will work, but make sure the necessities can all fit inside the bag when closed. You'll get to realizing what you need later.
 Write on the bag using a Sharpie or other marker or stick a labeled sticker on. Place all of your diapering kit contents in it and close. Keep the diapering kit with you and dispose of the kit when used. If you use a sticker to label the bag, stick it on the front to keep labeling consistent and easy to check who this kit is for at a glance.,, Don't worry about packing cloth diapers. With a diapering kit, focus on periods when you could be out on a very quick run with your child and need to gather a new diaper quickly and don't have much time to deal with the process.

Pick a brand. In the United States, your primary brands are centered over Pampers, Huggies and Luvs, but with many store brands out there that are selling, there's a wide variety of diapers you can use to choose from. For those in other countries, this list may differ considerably. Remember to pick a diaper in your child's size.
Decide on the type of diaper you will put in the diapering kit. Most often, parents will pack regular disposable diapers in their kit. However, at certain times, you may want to invest in a few nighttime or bedwetting diapers or even swim diapers - but this must be up to you and what your child might end up doing when you grab the diapering kit.
 Although any brand generally works, don't bring along a large package of wipes - you might need a few, but not a whole lot. You can pick the brand you usually use. Remember that with their being so many choices of baby wipes of major companies (Pampers and Huggies) as well as some supermarket chain store brands available, you'll have a few choices to make when packing your diapering kit.

Keep the wipes in a separate Ziploc bag that you can keep in this main Ziploc bag. Place the baby wipes in a tiny plastic bag or wrap so that they don't dry out, or cause the wetness to penetrate into the diaper and cause the diaper to get very mildly wet before it's even used.



 



, See if you can find the smallest tube possible so as not to waste too much if it won't get used during a potential run with your child. Although you'll need to think in terms of quantity of need, you also need to think "time allotted between emergency uses" with these diaper rash cream tubes., Sometimes, diaper pads are sold with diaper-bags and sometimes parents don't routinely use this pad in lieu of their own choice of pad. The more disposable the pad is, the better choice of pad it should be for the kit. Changing pads must be disposable, if the pad is included in the kit when being disposed of. These disposable changing pads can be bought from the local grocery or baby store nearest you.

You can dispose of it with everything else after the diaper change and you won't have to worry about more cleaning supplies to clean the changing pad off after the diaper change.
 Although nursing supply stores always carry these, it doesn't have to be bought from there, and in fact some grocery stores (and most supermarket chains) stock these for several bucks. These gloves are used when there is no sink or cleansing location near and wearing gloves can keep your mind off touching the baby's dirty diaper contents.

Wear gloves during the diaper change or wipe your hands off with a hand wipe before and after the diaper change.
 Although most supermarket chains use plastic bags, you can reuse one and stash one in the kit for use during and after a diaper-change during the emergency run. Other choices may include sandwich size disposable bag with a spray of air freshener in it, but your choice may depend on the speed and ability to grab trash bags for use prior to the run.

Buy a bag from your local store and spray or lay some air freshener in it. After changing the diaper, place the dirty diaper, baby wipes, hand wipe or gloves, and changing pad in the disposable bag and close the bag.

