 Most people use social media platforms, such as Facebook, to stay in touch with people. Although this can be an amazing tool, it can also lead to social media jealousy. For instance, you may follow multiple people who you went to high school or even grade school with, but haven’t actually seen in years. It is more likely that you will feel jealous looking at posts by former friends and acquaintances than actual friends.Only follow true friends on social media because this will give real life context to some of their posts, reducing instances of jealousy.
If someone becomes upset that you do not want to be friends on social media, then you'll know you made the right choice. You don't have to explain your choices to anyone. Focus on what's best for you.
You are more likely to be happy for the achievements of a close friend than a one-time acquaintance.
 Different social media platforms are used for different purposes. For instance, Facebook is typically used as a way to stay connected with friends. Alternatively, Instagram and Twitter can be used as a way to follow existing friends and make new connections. Regardless of the platform, you should go through the list of people you follow and delete or unfollow anyone who makes you feel worse about yourself, or any brands or companies that make you envious of their products and consequently inadequate.Never feel guilty or ashamed for unfollowing or deleting someone, even if that person is well-meaning, such as friend who shares a lot of "inspiration" posts. You are making choices that will help you simplify and feel better, and that has nothing to do with them as a person.
For instance, many companies, brands, and designers have Instagram accounts and will advertise their merchandise by posting professional photographs. These types of posts can cause you to be envious of material goods and make you feel as though your own possessions are not “good enough” or “cool enough.”

, Another way to avoid social media jealousy is to follow people that inspire you, rather than people who you feel competitive with. For instance, you may want to follow creative people that work in a completely different field than you. This way you may not compare your life to theirs, because you lead different lives, but you can find inspiration through their creativity and work ethic.