 Off duty models look chic from head to toe, so let's start with the head: Hair should be clean and carefree. No high-maintenance styles, or super-polished looks. Try parting your hair down the middle and letting it dry naturally. Or, pull half away from your face and let some strands frame your face. If your hair is unmanageable, add a frizz serum or cream to help tame it. If it's raining, humid, or you didn't have time to wash it, a high, messy bun is a great option.;
, Models always have beautiful, clear skin... and you can too! Start with an exfoliating cleanser three times a week. In between, use an acne controlling cleanser. Apply a light moisturizer or BB cream (or tinted moisturizer) for daytime, (preferably with an SPF) and a thick, rich night cream right before bed. If your skin is oily, try applying an oil control cream to your T-zone, and only apply moisturizers under your eyes and wherever else needed. If you break out, get an acne cream or gel to help soothe pimples, and refrain from wearing heavy makeup.
 Models spend a lot of time in front of cameras and on runways, covered in makeup. Usually an off-duty model sports a natural look, to let the skin breathe. Try dabbing a bit of concealer under the eyes, a coat or two of mascara, and some lip balm. If you need or want more, experiment with soft eyeliners, bronzers, and blushes.
 It's a fact- most models are thin. If you want to look like one, try to get in the best shape you can be in. This does NOT mean stop eating or turning to bulimia or anorexia. This means eating well (fruits, vegetables, whole grains, etc.) and exercising. See the tips sections for snack ideas and exercises you can do right in your own home. For your skin, exfoliate in the shower three times a week and use a normal body wash in between. Slather on a nice, thick moisturizer right before bed. You will wake up with supple, soft skin! Another note: models ALWAYS protect their skin from the sun!

, Models spend a great deal of time wearing uncomfortable, possibly ill-fitting clothes. When they have some down time, they usually turn to basic, well-fitting staples. Think tank tops, camisoles, V-necks, off-the-shoulder tees and hoodies, skinny jeans, Capris, not-too-tight shorts, and flats. Chances are, you already have most of these in your closet! Tie a look of staples together with a boyfriend style cardigan, trench coat, or loose sweatshirt. Nothing too tight, high maintenance, or ill-fitting!

, Off duty models are rarely seen wearing huge, plastic, costume accessories. Pick a few signature pieces: a gemstone ring, pendant, and a few bangles are all you need. If you're wearing all solids and want to funk it up, add some cool, chunky jewelry... everything is okay in moderation - just don't overdo it.
 Off duty models stand out even wearing the most basic of clothing. If you are slouching or slumping, you will look like you're trying to hide. Stand tall, put your shoulders back, and hold your head high! It WILL make a difference! Walk down the hallways of school or your workplace like it's a runway... work it!

, The trick to looking awesome is LOVING yourself! Look in the mirror and write down 5-10 things you like. Do you like your hair color? Is it thick and lush? Do you have beautifully colored eyes? Do you like your eye shape? High cheekbones? Clear skin? A strong nose? Soft skin? A nice figure? Pick out what makes you unique, embrace it, and learn to love it!

