 When ordering at a local restaurant, it’s smart to order appetizers and small plates, rather than entrees. Chefs rotate their small plates more frequently, and can take greater liberties than with entrees, which are often consistent and lack local flavor.You’ll also be able to eat more local dishes if you order small plates. Look for oysters or lobster in coastal areas, and plan to eat small plates built around other local specialties and ingredients.
 Although eating out can be a great experience and a fun way to learn about a new culture, as you can imagine, locals do not eat at restaurants for every meal. You can learn more about the way in which a regional cuisine is made—especially if you’re traveling internationally—by taking a cooking class.Taking a cooking class will allow you to better appreciate the flavors of the local food and gain insight into the way(s) in which dishes are made. Also, if you’re traveling for an extended period of time, you’ll be able to cook your own meals and replicate the local cuisine while traveling.
 Table manners and eating customs differ from place to place, especially if you’re traveling outside of your home country. To avoid looking like a confused tourist, put in some research so you can match local dining manners.If you are traveling abroad and you have friends, family member, or acquaintances who have traveled and eaten in the area, ask them if there are any typical American table manners that would be offensive in the area.
There may also be local dining customs that you could find through a quick online search.
 If you’re traveling in a country or region that speaks a language different from your own, it will be valuable to have learned some food-related terms in the language. If you’re eating at the type of authentic restaurant favored by locals, the management and staff may not speak much English, and you’ll need to order in the local language.Keep a travel notebook, and jot down pronunciation for phrases like, “I’m hungry,” “Where can I find a restaurant?” and “What kind of food do you serve?”
Also brush up on culinary terms in the language, so you can navigate a non-English menu. Start with simple terms like “grilled,” “raw,” “fried,” “steamed,” and increase the complexity of your vocabulary from there.

