 Libraries are great resources for community information. Ask if there are any Spanish Language groups that meet at the library that you might be able to participate in. Libraries have many resources besides books, community groups are often a big part of the work that libraries do.


In many cities libraries are hosting events specially tailored for people interested in learning a foreign language, if your library hosts Spanish lessons the instructor will be an excellent resource for finding practice opportunities.Your library may even host an Intercambio de Idiomas, or language exchange, which provides opportunities to practice your Spanish with native speakers. Ask a librarian to help you find these kinds of events and opportunities.Public librarians are great sources of community information. If your library doesn’t offer language exchanges, a librarian might be able to help you locate one nearby.
 In addition to being a place of worship, Churches often serve as important centers of the community.


In many communities, local churches offer Spanish language services. These churches will be mostly likely to have large groups of Spanish-speaking parishioners. Often, you can tell just by looking at the sermon schedule if a church serves a large Spanish-speaking population.
If you are a member of a church, ask around, see if there are any volunteer opportunities that involve Spanish-speaking church members or the Spanish speaking community. Offer to help in exchange for some language practice.
Post a notice on the Church message board asking if there are any Spanish speakers in the area, who would be willing to talk.
 As with any culture, restaurants and grocery stores are central to many Spanish-speaking communities, try visiting the ones near you.


Find one near you and see if Spanish is spoken there. In addition to being an excellent place to practice your new language skills, these businesses will be excellent places to learn about Latino culture.
Remember that food and beverages often use a specific vocabulary. Make sure you have a good grasp of what you are ordering and don’t be afraid to ask question or explain that Spanish isn’t your first language.Depending on the business you choose you may be addressed in Spanish or in English, if you are addressed in English explain that you are a new Spanish speaker and politely ask if you can order in Spanish. If you are addressed in Spanish than diviertete!

