 Not everyone can have the best sense of humor; everyone has different talents. Determine what you are good at and what brings out your personality. Consider what others have mentioned you are good at as well as things you enjoy doing.


Begin by identifying what you are passionate about.If you have difficulty determining what you are passionate about, think about your most joyful activities as a child, or what you were doing the last time you lost track of time.Turn a desire into a talent. If there is something you have always wanted to do, then do it. You may have a hidden talent that you haven't even discovered yet., Once you discover your talent, focus on expanding and practicing it. Whatever your talent is, it is just as good as a sense of humor. Have pride in it. Work on becoming even better at whatever it is by practicing or using the talent regularly.For example, if you have a talent for building items, make sure you are creating items regularly. If you have a talent for programming, experiment with programming games and apps.
 If struggling with a sense of humor has made you feel disconnected from others, or socially out of place, showcasing the talents you do have is a great way to connect again. Sharing with others will help increase your self-confidence; and remind you that there is so much more to people than a sense of humor. With social media being as easily accessible as it is, you have multiple ways to show off your talents even if you are anxious about any kind of performance in front of others.


If you are artistic, show off your work. Post an album of your artwork to Facebook or Instagram.
If you are a good musician, upload videos of yourself playing on YouTube and send it to family and friends.
If you are good at sports, share game results with your social media community or ask someone to take pictures of you playing so you can post them later.
 There may be times where you have to stand up for who you are to critics. Someone may ask you about not laughing at a joke, or otherwise confront you about your sense of humor. Try the following tips to help you handle it.


Remain calm. It can be easy to get angry or upset when someone comments on your personality, but getting angry won't help. Try and stay calm.Recognize their criticism may have more to do with them than you. The person may be feeling self conscious because you didn't laugh at her joke.Quiet your inner critic.If the person criticizes you, she may hit on sensitive topics or things you are already worried about. Try not to let her stir up your inner critic.
Respond honestly, but kindly. "I'm sorry. I heard it. I just didn't think it was funny."

