 Always get a good 15 minute stretch in, and make sure it covers all aspects of the body:


Arms, Quads, Calves, Groin Muscles, Back, Neck, Ankles, Wrists

, Usually a good Sensei will also have you do somewhat of a workout before you begin to train. One possible approach includes:


Regular Crunches - 10
Orie Crunches - 10
Full Body Crunches - 10
Cat Pushups - 5
Regular Pushups - 5
Triangle Pushups - 5
Knuckle/Fingertip Pushups - 5
Burpees - 5
Squats - 5
Lunges - 5 (each leg)
Burpees - 5
Plank/6-Inches - 1 minute

, Each style you train in will have their own set of blocks. No matter what style you train in though, in any good style, all of your blocks should pass through the center of the body. Here are a few of some basic blocks from Shotokan Karate:


High Block - take either arm and bring it across your body, and up so it is right in front of the top of your head.

Key points: Palm facing towards your opponent; arm tilted up at a 45 degree angle; are covers the whole head. This block is used if someone is trying to strike you on top of your head with their bear hand.


Forward Block - Take either one of your arms (which ever side your opponent is striking to, that will be the hand that you block with) and take it across your body so that it touches your opposite shoulder. From there, you're going to bring it back to its proper side (as the arm goes back to its correct side, your hips should move with it. That gives the block much more power).

Key points: Arm should not go past your shoulder; palm facing towards your opponent; hand should be as high as your head. This block is used to defend a round punch coming to the side of the head.


Cross Block - Take either arm and bring it up to your ear, and across your face.

Key points: Hand should be as high as your head; arm tilted out at a 45 degree angle; palm facing towards you; arm should go fully across the face; just like on the Forward Block, use your hips. This block is used to defend a strike coming straight into the face


Circle Down Block - Take either arm and bring it to your opposite shoulder, from there, let it fall.

Key points: Arm should stop just past the thigh; palm facing towards you; arm slightly bend; just like on the Forward Block, use your hips. This is used to defend a punch coming into the stomach.
 Stances are the very basis of your basics. Without a good stance, you can't do anything else. Stances are based on one of two ways: (1) that you are on a sandy beach (2) you are in the rocky mountains. No matter what stance you're in, your knees should always be bent!


If the stance is based off of being on a sandy beach (originated from Okinawa) then the stance is usually going to be very deep, with the feet far apart.
If a stance is based off of being on rocky mountains (from Japan) then the feet are going to be closer together with a higher stance.
 When you punch, always use your hips. Most people like to believe that you get power in your punches from your muscles, but truth is that 70% of the power from your punch comes from your hips. Some people like to punch with a horizontal fist, others with a vertical fist, but the best approach is to tilt your fist at a 45 degree angle, and tilt it down just a bit. The reason why you tilt it at a 45 it because it makes the wrist much more stable, and you tilt it down so that you are hitting with your first two knuckles (unit knuckles). Those are the only knuckles that have bones connecting to the arm bone.
 There are two types:


Snap kicks either hit with the instep of the foot to the blade of the foot, and they used just to lighten up your opponent.
Thrust kicks hit with the heel, and they are used to push your opponent back or may even be to end a fight. Every kick that you throw should have a chamber and a re-chamber. Why? Well, because say that you have two opponents, one in front of you and one behind you. You snap kick the opponent in front of you in the groin, re-chamber, then side thrust kick the opponent on your side (should take about 2 seconds). If you were not to re-chamber then it would've taken 4 or 5 seconds. That may not seem like much, but on the street, that's precious time.

