 This will remove any loose debris, dirt, pet hair, lint, and other items from the carpet. This step is critical to getting the best results possible from your steam cleaning efforts. Move all furniture in the room off of the carpet or rug so you can thoroughly vacuum every bit of the area to be cleaned.
Use your vacuum's hose and tool attachments to clean the baseboard areas and corners of the room, which can be hard to reach using a standard upright vacuum.
Replace your vacuum's filter(s) and empty the canister (for bagless) or change out the bag (for bag style) before vacuuming. This will ensure that your vacuum's suction power is as high as possible for best pre-cleaning results.
Go over the same areas twice of more to pick up anything that was missed on the first pass.
Do not attempt to steam clean a carpet without vacuuming first. If you don't have a vacuum, rent one or borrow one from a friend.;
, Pour a small amount of the cleaner you plan to use into a small bucket of hot water and allow the two to mix. Rub a bit of the solution into a test patch into a small area of your carpet (no more than 8 square inches). Let the solution sit on the carpet for about 10 or 15 minutes and then check on it. If the carpet appears to be at all discolored, dilute the solution a bit more then run a second test.Ideally, you should use a spare scrap of your carpet or a spot that is normally out of sight (such as the corner of a closet) to do the test. If your solution discolors or burns the test patch, you don't want it to be somewhere obvious.
If your carpet reacts severely to the cleaning solution, consider using a milder cleaner. Some carpets might not do well against certain types of cleaners, and you don't want to risk destroying yours.
 For this step, follow the instructions on the steamer and the bottle of cleaner (if you're using a store-bought one). Fill the tank on the steam cleaning machine with hot water to the maximum fill line. Mix in the appropriate amount of cleaner for the volume of water you are using, as stated on the cleaner bottle (for example, one fl. oz. per half gallon of water).


Some steamer machines may not have a water tank and instead will include a hose you can attach to your kitchen or bath tap. If you are using this kind of steamer, make sure you turn on the hot water on the faucet.
Be sure to add the cleaner and water to the correct tank on the machine. It can be easy to mistake the dirty water reservoir for the clean water tank if you aren't paying attention.
Follow all safety guidelines on the cleaner bottle and wash your hands immediately if you get any on your skin.
You can also create a homemade cleaning solution that may be gentler on your carpet and safer for pets and small children than the typical chemical mixtures you can buy in most home supply stores. Some people use laundry detergent or dish soap (highly diluted), or more natural ingredients such as citrus-based organic cleaners., Make sure the machine is plugged into an outlet that will keep the power cord out of the way, then turn it on and begin! Most steam cleaners are shaped like upright vacuums and have a have a trigger or handle that can be depressed and held down to release the hot cleaning solution onto the carpet as you roll the machine forward. To suck up the solution, release the trigger and slowly roll the machine backwards over the area you just covered.


Start in a far corner of the room so you can work your way back toward the doorway. This way, you won't have to step on carpet you've already cleaned.
Go over areas with stubborn dirt or stains more than once for optimal steam cleaning results.
Keep an eye on your clean water tank so you know when it's time to refill the machine. You may also notice the machine sputtering a bit while trying to dispense solution when it's running out.
 You should not step on the carpet while it's wet if at all possible. This could soak the pad underneath the carpet and promote mold growth. Dirt and debris will easily cling to wet carpet fibers, so this is another reason to stay off while it's drying.


If it is not raining or too cold outside, open a window in the room to increase air flow. This should help the carpet dry faster.
If you have a small heater with a fan in it, you might be able to speed the drying process by placing it on a chair or table and pointing it into the room you have just cleaned. For safety reasons, do not leave heaters unattended.

