 A classic MasterLock has 64,000 possible combinations, but with a few simple tricks and a web-based algorithm you can crack the code in fewer than 8 guesses.
 Start with the triangle pointing down to 0 on the dial. It does not matter which way you turn to get there.
 Pull on the U-lock as if you had put in the right combination and wanted to open the lock.
 As you turn the dial, you'll reach a point where the dial gets stuck. It will only move between two close points, either between two numbers (like 10 and 11) or between two half numbers (like 2.5 and 3.5). Write down the number in between the grooves as your first sticking point. For example, if you are stuck between 2.5 and 3.5, right down 3 as your first sticking point.


If this number is a half number, like 1.5 (sticking point is between 1 and 2), ignore it. Release the lock to turn the dial and repeat this step until you find the next sticking point.
This number will be under 11.
 Repeat the previous step, holding the lock as if you were opening it and turning the dial until it sticks. Record the number in between the sticking points -- if you are stuck between 4.5 and 5.5, your second sticking point is 5.


Like before, ignore half-sticking points (2.5, 9.5) and continue until you have a whole number.
This number will also be below 11.
 Put about half as much pressure as before on the top of the lock as before. You are completely trying to pry it open, but you are putting some pressure on it as if you were opening the U on top of the lock.
 You will be able to turn past this number, but you'll feel the dial slow down as it passes this point. Record this number as the resistance point.


You can turn the dial past this resistance point multiple times, all counter-clockwise, to make sure you feel resistance in the same place each time., While you can do some basic math to figure out the exact location by hand, online hackers have posted a free algorithm to determine the 8 potential combinations for your lock online. This calculator will give you two potential sticking points to test out.
 The online algorithm will provide the first digit for you and offer two potential third digits at the bottom. Turn to the first one to test it out. If one of the third digits is "15," go to 15 on the dial.
 With the dial on the potential digit, pull hard on the lock. Note how much resistance the lock gives.
 Do the same thing with the second potential digit. Compare this with the resistance from the first number -- one of them should be much easier to pull on then the other.
 You can check them multiple times, but one number will provide noticeably less resistance when you pull on the lock. Click on this digit in the algorithm online.


You should see the box labeled "second digit" fill up with 8 possible numbers.
 Now that you have your 8 possible combinations, the only thing to do is try them all out. The first and last number will all be the same, but try out every one of the possible middle digits to get the lock open.