 For most online businesses, written privacy policies aren't required by law, but it's still good business practice to have one and follow it. Your privacy policy explains to your customers what personal information you collect from them and how you use it.You may be required by federal law to have a privacy policy for your customers in some situations, such as if you collect information from or about children.
However, even if the law doesn't require you to have a privacy policy, it's still a good idea to create one, make it available to your customers, and follow it scrupulously.
You can search online for simple and free privacy policy generators that you can use to help craft your own policy.
Generally, you should include information about how you use cookies on your website, such as to store your user's preferences or maintain information on items they've placed in their shopping carts.
State that any information collected will only be used to complete the customer's transaction, and will not be used for other purposes without the customer's consent.
Provide contact information so customers can file a complaint with the appropriate person in your company if they suspect the privacy policy has been violated or have any questions about how their data is collected and used.
If you use a third-party company for your shopping carts, check their policies to ensure your policy accurately reflects how they collect and use information.;
, To adequately protect your online customers, you need to know exactly what information they provide is being kept on your systems and where that information is located.Keep in mind that you can't protect information if you don't know where it is. All sensitive information should be saved and backed up to the same area.
Customer information shouldn't be saved in multiple locations, such as on an employee's computer and on your server. It should be saved in one place and accessed solely from that location.
 Many customers find it convenient to create customer profiles and save their addresses and payment information so they don't have to retype it every time.However, avoid offering your customers this ability if you can't safeguard the information in those profiles.
Keep in mind that when a customer creates a profile, all of that information is potentially available to identity thieves. The bad thing about a customer profile is that it may contain all the information needed to steal their identity all together in the same place.
 The more of your customer's personal information you retain in your own system, the more that information is potentially exposed to hackers, leaving your customers vulnerable to identity theft.You can limit your customers' exposure by not storing any more information than is absolutely necessary.
For example, if you're simply running an online retail store or similar, you should never request any part of your customers' Social Security or driver's license numbers. This information isn't needed to complete a sale and is highly sensitive personal information.
 Using a server shared by other companies may seem like a good way to save money, but the more people have access to the server where information is stored, the more potential access points there are to your customers' information.If you lease server space, rather than operating your own servers, you give up the ability to secure those servers and monitor access to them.
You may be able to contract with a company that provides top-notch security for the servers they lease. If you aren't able to maintain your own servers, make security a priority when shopping for server space.
Make sure you understand how the information in the servers is accessed and how the server traffic is monitored for unauthorized access.
If you're maintaining your own servers, you may want to contract with a security monitoring service. Many internet service providers also will provide security for your servers for an additional charge.
 The strongest method for avoiding unnecessary exposure of your customers' personal information is to upgrade your e-commerce website so that you can activate the more secure SSL encryption technology.When a website is encrypted, it goes to "https" rather than "http."
Generally, you have a choice of whether to only encrypt your checkout process, or to encrypt your entire online store.
You typically want to opt to encrypt the entire store if you give your customers the ability to create their own profiles and log in to access their shopping preferences.
If you're not providing customers the profile option, you may choose only to have the checkout system encrypted.
Some services that help you set up an online store provide you the encryption option. If you're using one of these e-commerce services, typically all you have to do is check the option to activate SSL certificates on your website.
 A strong firewall prevents hackers from accessing your system, and can be enabled as part of the network configuration on most computers.If you have wireless internet at your business, you typically can configure the firewall in your router. This secures your network and means that it doesn't remain open to anyone who happens to walk by and find the signal.
Your router's configuration software will walk you through the steps of setting up your firewall and the rules that it will follow. For example, you can instruct it not to allow in any internet traffic that wasn't specifically requested by a computer on the network.
Once your network is secured, employees will need a password to access your wireless network.
 Antivirus software adds an extra layer of protection beyond your firewall. If someone does breach your firewall, the antivirus software can identify and destroy malware and other viruses that may be loaded onto your network and used to steal customer data.You can subscribe to antivirus protection through some companies that offer antivirus "software as a service." The biggest benefit to this is that you never have to worry about upgrading to the latest version – upgrades typically are included and downloaded automatically when you have a subscription.
The best way to ensure your security systems stay up to date is to check the box in the software's settings to enable automatic downloads of updates.
If you're able to schedule automatic downloads, consider having them run in the middle of the night when people aren't likely to be working.
 Any employees you have who must access private customer data as part of their jobs should have regular, up-to-date training on how to avoid potential security risks.Keep in mind that all your antivirus protection and other security safeguards are only as strong as the people working within your system on a daily basis.
Some data security and antivirus companies offer training programs that provide information on how to work safely on the internet.
Have written policies for computer and internet usage at work that your employees must follow, and enforce them.
You also can train your employees to recognize and promptly delete any malicious emails or phishing attempts that may have made it through your email's spam filters.
 One of the easiest way for hackers to get into your system and steal customer data is to crack an employee's password. Use complex passwords and change them regularly to eliminate this method of access.Generally, all of your passwords should be at least 16 characters long. Use a mix of numbers, symbols, and upper- and lowercase letters to make the passwords difficult to guess.
Avoid using names or other identity information either as a username or a password.
For example, using the first initial and last name of each employee as a username is easy to guess. If your employees' email addresses are set up similarly, a hacker can easily guess the username and initiate the process of changing the password without having to guess it.
You might want to consider using a password generator, available online. Many of these services also will evaluate the strength of any password you create.
Consider adding a two-step verification process, or enabling this process for essential accounts with other service providers. This process means even if someone knows the password to your account, they must also enter a code sent to your phone to access the account.
Two-step verification is essential if you have passwords saved to computers.
Whenever an employee leaves your company, you should immediately change any passwords to which that person had access and deactivate any passwords or log-in profiles that were unique to them.
 Users can unwittingly introduce malware by connecting a device to your network that doesn't have up-to-date antivirus protection. To prevent this from happening, check any device before it's introduced, and consider forbidding employees from connecting their personal devices to the network.If there are any devices you regularly use to access your business network, such as your personal laptop or other mobile device, have the same security settings on those devices as you do on business computers.
Enable encryption on any devices that might be used to access sensitive customer information.
If you allow employees to work from home, make sure any computers or devices they'll be using to access the system are as secure as the computers in the office. Provide your work-from-home employees with a checklist of tasks to complete to ensure their computers are secure.
 A VPN provides enhanced security for your network, while encryption protects the data that you transmit or store, rendering it useless even if it does get into the wrong hands.Using a VPN is especially important if you have employees working remotely, because logging into a VPN is just as secure as a physical, hard-wired network.
A VPN also allows you to maintain a secure network while using public WiFi or other internet networks that may not be appropriately secure for accessing or transmitting sensitive customer data.
There are several different networking protocols from which you can choose to set up your VPN. Consult a computer networking expert to find out which protocol would work best for your business.
 No matter how many employees you have, no one should have access to your customers' personal information unless they absolutely need it to do their job. The fewer people that have access to this information, the more secure the information is.Create a written records management policy and make sure each of your employees knows and understands it.
If certain employees have no need for private customer information as part of their job duties, they should not be given access to that information.
When you set up network profiles for each employee, you will have the option of giving them access to various parts of the network. Avoid creating multiple "admin" accounts – give employees the absolute minimum of access they need to do their jobs.
 Under the federal Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act (FACTA) Disposal Rule, any information collected to complete a credit transaction must be completely and permanently destroyed.While the FACTA rule originally was implemented to address the disposal of paper records and documents, it also applies to any electronic information collected.
Simply clicking the delete button does not entirely erase a file on your system, and will not comply with the FACTA disposal rules.
You can purchase file eraser software that completely and permanently erases sensitive files, or you can download a free file eraser program such as Free Eraser or File Shredder.
 The PCI Security Standards Council maintains and promotes the Payment Card Industry Security Standards, which provide minimum technical requirements for any business that accepts debit or credit cards as methods of payment.Small businesses typically will be classified as Level 3 or Level 4 merchants for the purposes of PCI compliance.
Level 4 merchants process fewer than 20,000 Visa e-commerce transactions per year, while Level 3 merchants process between 20,000 and one million such transactions.
If your business is on one of these levels, you must download and complete the appropriate self-assessment questionnaire and complete a vulnerability scan.
To download questionnaires and find information about approved scanning vendors, visit the PCI website at pcisecuritystandards.org.

