 If you have a vacuum with an upholstery attachment, this is ideal for vacuuming a sofa. You should vacuum your sofa at least once a week when you're doing your regular chores. This will keep the sofa free of dirt and debris that can cause damage over time. This will also help control air quality in the room where you keep your sofa. If dirt and debris settle onto a sofa, they can affect the integrity of the surrounding air.


Vacuum the surface of the sofa. You should also vacuum in any nooks and crannies. If you can remove the cushions, remove them and vacuum underneath.
You should also vacuum the floor surrounding the sofa and under the sofa. Push the sofa forward or backward at least once a week and vacuum underneath.;
, If something spills on your sofa, or if you notice a stain, you should start addressing the situation by looking at the manufacturer's label. This will tell you how to properly clean your sofa based on its material.Some sofa's may not come with a manufacturer's label. In these cases, do a spot test with a furniture cleaning solution, a homemade solution of your choosing. If the solution does not damage the furniture, you can treat the stain using the solution.
 If something spills on your leather sofa, clean it up right away before the stain has a chance to set. In addition to this, once a day, check the sofa for any stains. It's possible the sofa got dirty during the day without you noticing.As soon as something spills on the sofa, wipe away whatever spilled with a paper towel or a dry soft cloth. Use blotting motions to remove the liquid. If you catch a spill quick enough, you can remove it before it leaves a mark on your sofa.
If you don't get everything out with a dry cloth, use a water-based cleaner to rub out the remaining stain. However, do not attempt to treat a grease or oil stain yourself. These can be tricky to remove, and typically require professional cleaning services.
 This is especially important if you have pets. A couple times a week, roll a lint roller over your sofa. This will remove any loose hairs or debris stuck to the sofa, giving it a cleaner feel and appearance.This can be especially helpful if you have a white sofa, as stray hairs tend to show up easier on white or light colored furniture.
 If you have a leather sofa, it will need to be cleaned regularly. In addition to regularly vacuuming and lint rolling, you need to wipe down a leather sofa with a cleaning solution.Many people make their own cleaning solution for leather furniture by mixing equal parts water and white vinegar. However, you can also buy a commercial leather cleaner at a hardware or department store. Whichever cleaner you use, test it on a small portion of your leather sofa before applying to the whole surface.
Coat a soft cloth in the solution until it's damp, but not dripping wet. Wipe down the full surface of the sofa. When you are done, gently dry the surface with a dry rag.
 Conditioning leather furniture gives it a sleek shine after cleaning. Mix one part white vinegar with two parts linseed or flaxseed oil. Then, use a dry cloth to apply this mixture across your sofa. Use circular motions when applying to give your sofa a nice shine.Let the solution sit on your sofa overnight.
The next morning, buff the solution with a dry rag to restore shine to your sofa.

