 Place the cornmeal, salt, and water in a medium mixing bowl. Stir the ingredients together until evenly combined.


Consider mixing the cornmeal and salt together before adding the water. Doing so is not strictly necessary but can ensure an even distribution of salt throughout the batter.
The resulting dough should be the consistency of thick oatmeal. It should have some form to it, but it will also be too sticky and fluid to touch with your hands. If it doesn't seem thin enough, add more boiling water 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time until it does.
 Pour 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of vegetable oil into a large cast iron skillet. Set the skillet on your stove over medium-high heat.


Other cooking oils, like peanut oil or bacon fat, can also work. Similarly, any large, heavy-bottomed skillet can be used if you don't have one made of cast iron.
The temperature of the oil should reach 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) before you add the dough. Test the temperature with a cooking thermometer. Alternatively, sprinkle the surface of the oil with a little water; if the oil immediately sizzles and the water turns to vapor, it's probably ready to use.
 Using a flatware teaspoon, drop spoonfuls of the prepared dough into the hot oil, pressing down gently on the center of each dollop after dropping it in.Tap on the center of the patty with the back of the spoon as soon as the dough hits the oil. Try to flatten it out as much as possible without separating the dough into different pieces.
 Fry the patties until both sides have browned, turning once when the edges brown.


Since these patties are so thin, they should only take 3 to 4 minutes to cook. Watch them closely to prevent them from burning.
The finished patties will be crisp and full of holes/indentation, giving them a "lacy" appearance.
 Remove the finished patties from the hot oil using a slotted spatula, then transfer them to a large plate lined with paper towels. Drain for several minutes.


Keep the cornbread pieces in a single layer, if possible. If you stack them on top of each other, the oil from top layer will drip down and soak into the pieces lying at the bottom.
 Enjoy the cornbread while it's still hot. You can eat it plain or serve it with salt and butter.

