 If you've already built up experience working in a doctor's office or hospital, use this to your advantage. Make sure you understand a wide variety of terms and classifications; if not, now's the time to brush up.


If you don't have medical terminology experience, consider getting a part-time job in a local medical office.
Or, if you don't have experience but you have a friend who's a home transcriptionist, ask him or her to show you the ropes. Sit in on a typical day and find out how the job is paced, what's expected, how doctors are invoiced, and so on.;
, Most of the large agencies that hire at-home medical transcriptionists simply will not hire a person who has not had a course and/or real-time medical transcription experience at a hospital or doctor's office. Therefore, if you have the freedom to work outside the home for a couple of years it may well be worth looking for medical transcription experience outside of the home before attempting to start your home-based transcription business.


You can get into transcribing locally without training or real-time experience, but it will probably pay significantly less.
 Visit offices and let them know you're picking up new clients. Leave your business card or a neatly printed slip with your contact information on it.


If you know anyone who works in the medical field, ask him or her to pass your name along if someone's looking for a transcriptionist.
Go the extra mile to make your visit memorable. Instead of simply walking into a doctor's office and demanding time, leave a nicely written note and a small token, such as a small office plant or a specialty treat, such as toffee.
 Present your prior medical terminology experience or training in a way that makes it easy for a potential client or employer to see that you have medical familiarity. A "Skills" section at the top of your resume that clearly lists medical terminology, typing speed, and any transcription experience is vital.
 This is your opportunity to shine and it is the most important stage of the hire process. If you are provided with any instructions for the audition make certain you follow them exactly. Proofread your transcript several times and double check every medical term online or with a good medical dictionary.

