 Dogs will work for rewards, so make sure you figure out what your terrier loves as you begin training. Small bits of food and treats your dog likes work best for most cases. You should break up your dog's favorite treats into tiny, bite-sized portions. When your dog does a command correctly, reward it immediately.However, some dogs may not be interested in food. While this is rare, you can find other ways to reward your terrier. For example, pet and praise your dog when it behaves or let it play with a favorite toy for a minute.;
, Correcting your dog is important to training, but Manchester Terriers do not respond to harsh methods like yelling and scolding. Manchester Instead, stick to something gentle but firm. If your dog misbehaves, say "No" in a stern voice or simply ignore the behavior. This is more effective than loud scolding, yelling, or using isolation as punishment. Remember to never, ever hit or harm your dog in any way. This is not only cruel and inhuman, but is animal abuse and is illegal., This is especially important when training a puppy. For the most part, dogs do not respond well to lengthy training sessions. Training sessions should be no more than five to ten minutes. Your puppy will eventually learn commands with consistent, brief training sessions.Always end training sessions on a good note, even if this means occasionally running over the ten minute mark by a few minutes. Wait to end the session until your dog has at least partially completed a command.
 Opt for a quiet, distraction-free area. This is best to get your dog's full attention during training. Noise and commotion can sabotage a training session.For example, do not train your dog in the TV room or near a window. Instead, train your dog in the basement where it's quiet and free of distractions.
 Dogs live in the present. If your dog performs a trick properly, do not delay its reward. Immediately give your dog a treat or praise. At the same time, correct your dog promptly as well. Say "No" right away when you catch your dog misbehaving.