 The longer the hair of your Maltese, the more time you will spend on grooming. A puppy cut is the shortest cut and requires the least amount of maintenance. Long and medium length hair is more prone to knots and tangles.








Puppy cuts are also best if your dog has a more cottony texture as opposed to a silky texture.
Use dog clippers or scissors to cut the hair.
If you do not want to cut your dog's hair yourself, take it to a professional groomer for a cut.
The frequency of hair cutting will depend on how fast your dog's hair grows.
 Tear stain removers are specially formulated cleansers that will remove the stains from white fur. Always read the instructions on the bottle before using. Typically, you will wet the area, apply the stain remover using a wet cloth, and then rinse the area with clean water.









The most popular brands of tear stain removers include Angle Eyes, Eye Envy, Betta Bridges, and Tropiclean.The frequency of use may vary depending on if you are treating existing stains or preventing stains.
You can always ask your veterinarian to recommend a product for you to use.
 Some Maltese will stain more than others. If you are concerned about your dog's tear staining, see a veterinarian to make sure that everything is fine.There may be other reasons that your dog is having a big problem with tear staining. Once you know the cause of the tear staining, you can use the right solution.


Excessive tear production, blocked tear ducts, other eye diseases, diet, and ear infections can cause your dog to have more tear stains.If your Maltese is a teething puppy, you may also notice more tear stains.
 Maltese have a lot of hair around their ears. Excessive amounts of hair can cause ear problems for your dog. Sprinkle some ear powder on the ear canal and all of the ear hair. Hold the ear flap up with one hand, and use your fingers to pluck hair out of the ear canal.The ear powder will keep your dog from feeling pain when you pluck.
If you are not comfortable doing this, take your dog to a professional groomer.
Ear powder can be purchased from your local pet store.
 Your dog may not be to fond of grooming at first. However, you need to get your dog used to the grooming process. Get all of your supplies together before you start a grooming session. This will make the session as short and efficient as possible.If your dog does not like being touched in a certain spot, touch the spot for a few seconds to help your dog get used to it.
Reward your dog when it is well behaved during grooming.
You can also start with short grooming sessions and build your way up to longer sessions.

