 Disposable diapers use chemical compounds known as super absorbent polymers (SAPs) to soak up liquids. Due to the salt content in urine, they have a harder time soaking it up than water. You should use nine grams of table salt to each liter of water to simulate your baby’s urine and get accurate results., Knowing the dry weight of the diaper will make it easier to determine how much liquid the diaper absorbed. Use a scale to gain as accurate of a measurement as possible. Write your measurement down for later reference.Keep a journal or spreadsheet with the dry weights of all diapers. Include a column for wet weights, which will be measured later, and for the difference between dry weight and wet weight.
 You want to expose the absorbent core of the diaper as effectively as possible. Avoid the urge to press down or apply pressure to the diaper. Set a timer for ten minutes, and when the ten minutes is up remove the diaper from the saline solution.Use a timer to ensure that the diapers are all exposed to the liquid for the same amount of time. This eliminates the possibility of one diaper absorbing more just because of extra time to absorb liquid.
 Using clothes pins, hang the diaper from its corners. This will allow excess liquid that was not absorbed to drip off the diaper. If you do not have clothespins, you can just hold the diaper up with your hands for two minutes.Weighing diapers with excess liquid on them will make it look like the diaper absorbed more than it actually did.
 This will give you a final weight. The difference between the dry weight and the wet weight will tell you how much liquid you absorbed. Be sure that excess liquid was allowed to run off the diaper for the most accurate results., Set up an equation to determine the amount of liquid that was absorbed. Subtract the dry (initial weight) from the wet (final weight). Since the weight of the actual diaper materials does not change, the difference in these two weights is the weight of liquid absorbed.For example, if your dry weight was 100 g and your wet weight was 250 g, you would simply subtract. 250g−100g=150g{\displaystyle 250g-100g=150g}


