 You can use any type of melt-and-pour soap base, including: goat's milk, shea butter, and glycerin. Avoid using regular soap for this as it's already been processed and won't melt very well.


Melt-and-pour soap base is designed to melt easily, but it still needs to be cut or grated into smaller pieces.
You can buy melt-and-pour soap bases at arts and crafts stores. You can also buy them online.
The soap is important for this scrub. It's what allows the scrub to retain its cube shape.;
, Coconut oil is extra nourishing and has a nice fragrance, but you can use any other type of food-grade oil, such as: almond, avocado, grapeseed, hempseed, jojoba, or even olive oil.To make your sugar scrub even more nourishing, replace 1 tablespoon of your oil with vitamin E oil., If you don't own a microwave, you can assemble a double boiler, and heat the soap and oil in that., You can use any color or fragrance you like, but fragrances that work best in scrubs include: grapefruit, lavender, lemon, mint, or vanilla. You can find essential oils in health food shops or online. You can find soap dye in arts and crafts stores and in online soap-making supply shops.


Avoid adding dyes if you used brown sugar. Soap making dye is translucent, so the original brown color will still show through.
 If you have sensitive skin, you might want to use brown sugar instead. It is softer than regular sugar and thus very gentle.Keep stirring until everything is evenly mixed together. Your scrub will look a little like wet sand.
 You can use any type of small mold, such as: mini cupcake pan, ice cube tray, or a silicon mold (for baking or for ice). You want the mold to be small.Each cube will only last one use, so if you make them too big, you will waste a lot of scrub.
 As the melt-and-pour soap base hardens, the cubes will turn solid and retain their shape. You can leave the molds on the counter or in the fridge. You can also leave them in the freezer if you are in a hurry. Here's how much time each place will take to set:Counter: 4 hours
Fridge: 1 hour
Freezer: 30 minutes

, If you'd like, you can place a sheet of wax paper between each layer of cubes. The air-tight container is a must—it will keep the cubes from drying out.
 Dampen your skin and take a cube out. Break it up in your hand and massage the scrub over your arms and legs. You can also use them on your hands and feet!If the cubes are too big, don't worry. Just cut them in half or into fourths!