 Demonstrate active listening when your child is talking to you by letting them finish their thoughts and asking them questions to engage them further. This will demonstrate to your child that paying attention to others when they speak is an important aspect of interpersonal communication.Sit down or kneel to your child's eye level so you can make eye contact when they speak to you.
Remove distractions that make it difficult to hear your child by turning off the radio or television, or by moving into a quiet room away from others.
Display signs of verbal and nonverbal listening as your child speaks; such as nodding your head or saying short, verbal expressions that prove you are listening.
 This will help your child understand that they must listen to others in addition to being listened to for means of effective interpersonal communication. When you are addressing an important matter with your child, ask them to pay attention and listen closely.Ask your child to repeat what you said back to you in their own words, and show them encouragement when they do so by thanking them.
If you have to repeat something because your child was not listening, let them know, “It is important to listen the first time you are told something. I will not repeat this again.”

, Teach your child not to interrupt others when they speak. A good display of interpersonal communication is allowing others to speak fully and express their opinions without being disrupted.If you catch your child interrupting someone, let them know, “It’s another person’s turn to speak right now. You should always let someone finish speaking before you start.”
Demonstrate the courtesy of not interrupting your child when they speak to you by allowing them to speak in entirety about a particular matter.
 This will help teach your child to listen when they are being spoken to, while at the same time providing them with a fun experience. Find stories your child will find engaging in order to keep them listening closely.Practice both listening and speaking by having your child read certain characters in the book. Let them listen while you read and pay attention so that they know when their turn is coming. Then, let them lead the conversation as they read for their character.
 Mix playdates and practice listening by having your child play games that encourage them to listen. Games such as musical chairs help encourage your child to listen carefully while they are having fun.Telephone is another game that encourages careful listening. Pick a phrase, and whisper it to your child. Then, have your child whisper the phrase to a friend. Continue the process down a line of friends until you reach the last one, and have the last person say what they heard.

