 Your bag should be light, big enough to carry what you need and cute. Try not to get a bag that looks flashy/expensive because it might be stolen. If you're going on a long-haul flight, try to carry a backpack, because if you have a handbag/purse, everything will seem heavier.;
, Some items that are almost always handy are:


iPod/iPhone. Try to download some new podcasts (these are free on the Internet), or download some new songs from iTunes or a CD.
Books/ Magazines. If you like books, bring something you like to read, such as your favorite novel. If you want magazines, bring a bunch that have all your favorite gossip, tips and other things you like.
Earphones. These are vital. Try to bring 2 pairs, in case one of yours stops working. (This occasionally happens and the plane earphones are not good at all)
Portable DVD/Game player. If your plane has Auto-Video on demand, then you will not need the DVD player. Having a Game player is always handy though, just make sure you charge it.
A journal. If you already started one, bring it along. If not, then it's the perfect time to start one on the plane! That way you'll have a record of your trip.
 You do not want to be stuck on an 18-hour flight in your tight mini skirt or your graduation suit (it's possible). Try something cute and comfortable, the best of both worlds. Try loose jeans, (Not skinny jeans!) a tank top/ T-Shirt, and a light jacket, since air planes can get cold. If you are going on a long/ overnight flight, you may want to think about bringing an extra pair of comfortable clothes such as loose sweat pants and an extra T-shirt. Unless your night-clothes are appropriate/ warm enough for the plane, these things are your best bet.
, Do not wear long/dangling earrings. Try studs or better yet, none at all Necklaces and bracelets will get in the way, and belts can be uncomfortable, especially with the seat belt. Try to keep it to just 1 watch (with the time of the place your going to) and studs, if you have your ears pierced.
 Other things you may want include sleeping pills (herbal or medicated) and a small pillow. You might also want to bring a small blanket. 

, If you do bring one, leave it in your bag.
 Airplane food might be gross to you, and sometimes they won't give you a free meal. Try those cute little cereal boxes, snack mixes (Chex-mix, cheese-it mix, Cheerios-mix.) If you are on a diet, or want something healthier, try granola mix, some of your favorite, non-sugary cereal in a plastic baggie. Also, if you want, you could order a special meal from the airlines, such as low sodium, vegetarian, or diabetic. They are usually served first and taste better.
 If by some weird reason, you're with other people and let's say your suitcase is too full, you may have another small suitcase to drag along with you. Try to keep that one quite light and easy to pull around. You don't want start breaking sweat when you leave the airplane.
