 Become familiar with the test subjects and format of the test before your exam date. You do not want to be surprised by anything when you take the test. The test structure will vary depending on what grade you are in.If you are in 3rd grade, your test will include reading and mathematics.
If you are in 4th grade, your test will include reading, mathematics, and writing.
If you are in 5th grade, your test will include reading, mathematics, writing, and science.
If you are in 6th grade, your test will include reading, mathematics, writing, and science.
If you are in 7th grade, your test will include reading, mathematics, and writing.
If you are in 8th grade, your test will include reading, mathematics, science, and social studies.
If you are in high school, you will have end-of-course (EOC) assessments for English I, English II, Algebra I, biology and U.S history.
 Your teacher will give you practice questions at school, but you should also do some practice questions on your own. Visit the Texas Education Agency website and click on the "Student Testing and Accountability" section. Once you are in that section go to "Testing," "State of Texas Assessments of Academic Readiness (STAAR)," and then click on "STAAR Released Test Questions." Find the questions that correspond to your grade level.You can see the practice questions and the answers. Try to answer the questions without looking at the answers.
Commit to studying for a designated amount of time.For example, you may spend an hour on Tuesdays and Saturdays doing STAAR practice questions.
 Having a regular study schedule is more effective than cramming for your test. You need to spend enough time studying for your STAAR without neglecting your other school work.You may study only once a week or every other week in the beginning of the school year and then increase your study time as the test approaches. You may be studying 3 or 4 times a week as your test date gets closer.


An appropriate study schedule varies by each student. If you took the STAAR test last year, pay attention to the areas that you struggled in and devote more study time to those.
If you did not take the STAAR test last year, spend more time in the general subject areas that you struggle in. For example, you may spend more time studying mathematics than reading.
 Your teacher will prepare you for your STAAR test during the school year. Your curriculum will include the things that you need to know. It is important that you pay attention in class, take notes, and do your homework. Your teacher may do more intense STAAR prep in the weeks leading up to your test. This is a time that you really need to focus.


If you do not understand a concept or have a question, get help from your teacher as soon as you can. If you wait until it is time for your test, it may be too late.
Try to be a good student throughout the school year, not just a few weeks before the test. This will increase your chances of passing the STAAR.
 A tutor that is experienced with standardized test taking can help you prepare for the test. A tutor can help assess your skills and teach you standardized test taking techniques. Your tutor can also develop a study plan based on your skills and how soon you need to take your exam.


Some private tutoring organizations such as 'Mathnasium' (math learning center) and Sylvan Learning offer STAAR specific training.You can also ask your teacher or school counselor about any prep programs in your area.

