 Taking detailed notes on the weather in your area and about which plants do well in your own garden will give you valuable data to analyze over time. There are likely elements unique to your own yard or garden area that will affect when and what you can plant. A shade tree, for example, may allow you to plant tomatoes during the hot summer months when others' tomato plants are wilting.;
, Instead of starting your seeds all at once, consider starting them in waves 1 week apart. This allows you to consistently have plants at different stages of growth. This method is particularly effective for plants and herbs that have a fast growth/harvest cycle, such as lettuce or dill.


You can also try planting shorter cool-weather crops, such as lettuce, next to taller hot-weather crops, such as corn. The taller crops will provide shade for the lower ones, which will lower the temperature around them and lengthen the growing season.
 Research the ideal growing conditions for the plants you want to raise, and plan accordingly. Many gardeners plant cool-weather crops such as spinach in the spring, hot-weather crops such as tomatoes in the summer, and more cool-weather crops in the fall. Some plants are more frost-resistant than others and can be raised in areas where frost comes early.
 Planting in soil above the ground helps control weeds and provides better drainage. It also allows the soil to warm up and remain warm in the spring and fall. Raised beds can also be covered during heavy rains to prevent over-saturation, which can weaken or kill plants., This will help soil stay warm during cooler temperatures. Mulching also helps prevent moisture from evaporating during hot or dry spells.
 Plants that are watered a little bit each day will grow shallow roots, because they'll need them to reach the moisture. Watering less often but for a longer period of time encourages deeper root growth. Plants with deeper roots will last longer and be better equipped to handle seasonal changes.
 Planting early in the season or keeping plants inside later can expose your plants to frost. Watch the weather forecast, and make sure you have a plan for when frost is predicted.


Gather sheets or other large, light strips of fabric, and have them ready to cover plants overnight if necessary. Plastic sheeting can also be used, but take care to remove it immediately when temperatures warm up so the plants don't overheat.
Build or buy a cold frame (a box with a glass or clear plastic cover), and use it to cover your plants during cold snaps. Cold frames can be reused for years and can be propped open to allow for ventilation on warmer days. Some commercial garden supply companies sell cold frames that fit perfectly over raised garden beds.
 Although they require a significant investment, greenhouses can provide a climate-controlled environment that allows you to grow plants year-round.
 You can get a head start on your gardening by planting seeds inside, so that they're ready to plant when your soil warms up. Most seeds should be started 6 to 8 weeks before your last expected frost date; check the seed package for the appropriate lead time for your specific seed type.

