 The best way to reduce asthma triggers is to find out what your triggers are. Don't purposely put yourself at risk of an asthma attack if you think that something may trigger it. Instead, think back to times when your asthma started to flare up. Is there any relationship between all of the events? Maybe your asthma mainly occurred in a specific part of the day, or a specific environment. Some asthma triggers include smoke, allergies or change in temperature.;
, Now you know what triggers your asthma, you can start to make changes that will help you reduce your asthma triggers. For example, if your asthma is triggered by smoke you could do your best to avoid smoking areas by taking a different route. Or if your asthma is triggered by allergies, before going out you could take some medicine to help your allergies.
 If you want your asthma to improve, then you obviously need to take your medication. However not everyone remembers, so one tip to remember to take your medication would be to put it somewhere where you go everyday. For example, maybe you could put it near your mirror or in the bathroom., This may seem very odd, but a recent study shows that the caffeine in coffee reduces respiratory muscle fatigue, which can help with wheezing and shortness of breath for up to 4 hours!, Again this does seem very strange, but sometimes certain toothpaste ingredients can trigger asthma. It is quite hard to tell whether your toothpaste is making your asthma worse, but it doesn't hurt to try and see whether it makes a difference!

, Almost everyone has been told that exercise helps asthma, which is partly true. Exercise does help you to become fitter and be able to control your breathing easier, but what people with asthma don't know is that in some cases exercise can actually make asthma worse, as it is also a trigger for asthma. However if you are wanting to exercise and you have asthma, the best thing to do is start of slowly and build yourself up, as this will help you to be able to control your breathing.

