 No matter how careful you are, things happen.;
, You won't have to necessarily use it, but if you get the kind that breaks down, you may find it very convenient and worth the hassle of bringing it

For instance, if your animals don't react as expected during your trip and you need to keep them separate.
You could use it to protect your food while camping, even!

, You are not going to have room. Have a few items, so that your pet feels comfortable, but not a lot. Keep it simple., Don't decide to move and be on the road in a few days. Let them be part of the process. This will help them to realize that something is happening and won't completely blindside them., You don't have to put their name on it, but put a phone number or other contact information on it. Just because they have a chip, doesn't mean someone will think, or know, to check it out. Also, the part of the country that you are in, may not have ready access to a chip reader., Even when you are in your hotel room. If they escape, you will REALLY appreciate the extra handholds.

Be aware that if they do get loose, the leash hanging from their neck can become a danger to them. However, that leash may be what keeps them from actually getting loose.
 Keep that in mind.
 If they are high energy, be prepared. If they have a small bladder, be prepared to stop frequently., Yes, that means you need to stop, but you would have to stop anyway. Do not limit the water, trying to lessen the stops. Animals are much smaller and can die of dehydration quicker.
 If you are going to be driving for 4 days, then bring enough food for a week and four days. This is so that you don't have to replace their food in a rushed emergency situation. It can cause some intestinal distress if their food is changed improperly., Use Ziploc bags (or whichever method works best for you) and portion out the dry portion of their meals, and then add whatever else you feed your pets.
 Don't rely on what you can find at the side of the road. There is no telling what organisms are in that water. A gallon a day is a good measurement, for multiple animals.Obviously, your mileage may vary (YMMV)).

You want to have the water because the quality of the water will vary from state to state and you don't want to have a nasty reaction (diarrhea) during a big move.
 Don't bring too much. You don't need it and you want to keep down to the basics for a move.