 There are a number of good products out there that will keep your computer secure. Make sure your computer always has an up-to-date security system. If it gives you the option to update automatically, take it.Don't buy new software because of a pop-up or other advertisement claiming to have found viruses or malware on your computer. This is just another scam to allow hackers access to your computer.
 The traditional advice is to make your password a combination of upper and lower case letters, numbers, and symbols. Keep your passwords in a secure place, and only enter them on secure websites.Another way you can create a strong password is to take the first letter of each word, plus numbers and symbols, in two simple sentences. For example, the phrase "My first pet was a dog named Fido. Got him in 1993." would become the password "MfpwadnF.Ghi1993." It is long, and has a mixture of upper and lower case letters, numbers, and symbols. Since it doesn't read as any word that would appear in a dictionary, it is harder for someone else to figure out. Plus, since it can refer to a sentence only you know, it should be easier for you to remember., Never provide personal or financial information through email or unsecure websites. Legitimate businesses will not ask for your personal information over email or text.Many of these emails will seem legitimate, or threaten to take action against you if you do not respond. Don't panic, and don't respond to these messages.
 The Federal Trade Commission's (FTC) ComplaintAssist website, https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#crnt&panel1-1, allows you to report phishing or other spamming schemes. You can also forward phishing emails to the company being impersonated, and to the Anti-Phishing Working Group at reportphishing@antiphishing.org., Most cyber crime is designed to steal your identity to order to steal money. Keep an eye out for any unusual purchases. If you notice something out of the ordinary, contact your bank or credit union as soon as possible.