 The most basic of flannel fashions is also the most classic. Rather than getting bogged down with details, wear a plain flannel with your favorite pair of pants. Stick with the flannel’s ‘woodsy’ vibe by wearing lined fur boots or a scarf with your top.
 Flannels are the absolute perfect layering accessory. If you have any loose-fitting tops that match the color scheme of your flannel, try putting them on over the top. Roll up the sleeves of the flannel and make sure its collar is adjusted to finish the look.
 That 90’s era we know so well wasn’t, and isn’t, limited to just the men-folk. Show your love for music and fashion eras of the past by leaving your flannel unbuttoned over the top of a band t-shirt. Stick to dark colors for a more classic look, or brighten it a bit to look more sophisticated.
 Layers are a girls best friend; they hide unsightly bits while adding detail and drawing positive attention to your outfit. Rather than simply adding a single shirt under or over your flannel, go for gold and take it a step further. Throw on one or two cardigans over the top, and put a scarf on top. All those layers will keep you warm in the chillier months, while keeping your outfit vibrant and intriguing., That’s right, flannel can be fancy if you’re so inclined to allow it to be. Wear your favorite flannel with a dress or skirt for a night out. Keeping it simple with a plain skirt or dress will make your outfit a bit more casual, whereas a patterned or detailed dress or skirt can be paired for a fancier outing.
 You don’t have to confess to liking country music or to having baled hay before, but you can certainly use the country for inspiration in wearing your flannel. Wear a plain tank top or camisole under your flannel with you favorite pair of jeans (high waisted or regular). Then, leave your flannel unbuttoned and tie the ends together in a knot in the front. You’ll be ready for a square-dance in no time!, Flannel, sophisticated? Why yes! Grab a high waisted pair of pants or jeans, and tuck your flannel into them all the way around. Then, thread a thin patent leather belt in a pop of color through the belt loops. Button your flannel up all the way to the top, and finish it off with a bold, chunky necklace placed under the collar.
 Flannel can be a great pattern all on its own, but if you’re feeling adventurous try mixing it with another completely different pattern. Florals, polka-dots, and other small geographic prints can make a great combo when paired with a bold flannel. Make sure that the colors are cohesive though; keep one bright and the other dark or light to avoid creating an overwhelming look.
 Flannel, above all else, is an incredibly useful piece of clothing for heading outdoors in the cold autumn and winter months. Wear your flannel shirt with a quilted vest or thick jacket to stay warm as you trek across mountains or head towards snow. Or even if you just don’t want to face mother nature’s wrath on the walk to your car.

