 Everyone knows the basic rules of hygiene. The first step to looking good is being clean.


Bathe. This is an obvious one. Shower or bathe twice a day.
Brush, floss, and use mouth wash. Your smile is one of the first things people notice about you, so keep it white!
Use deodorant before you leave the house.
 If you have problems with acne, make sure you wash your face twice a day (once when you wake up, and once before you go to bed). Of course, everyone's skin is different, but for some, what works the best is to use an oil-free cleanser, (helps with oil) an exfoliating scrub, (helps with black heads) and an oil-free moisturizer that won't clog your pores (helps with dry skin).
 Pluck, shave, wax, or do a hair-removal treatment to your upper lip, legs, pubic area, and underarms. However, don't do any of this if you don't feel the need to.
, For a great everyday look, read How to Apply Makeup for a Natural Look.


Use concealer. Skip out on the full face foundation. Get a concealer that matches your skin tone as close as possible. Use this to cover up small imperfections such as pimples, discoloration, white/black heads, and dark circles.
Use eyeliner. Eyeliner is great! It defines your eyes, and makes them pop! Try to stick to a brown eyeliner. Black is dramatic, but brown gives you a more subtle, natural look.
Use mascara. Mascara make your eyes look awesome, but be careful, it can also become very smudgy or clumpy, and completely ruin the look. Use a clear mascara, as it clumps less, and doesn't smudge noticeably. Try an eyelash-curler beforehand to make your eyelashes more curly (so mascara is less-likely to "clump") and stand out more.
Care for your lips. Don't wear lipstick, as it would make you look older than you are. Instead, try lip gloss, petroleum jelly, lip butter, lip shimmer, etc. If you use lip gloss, put on chapstick with it, so that your lips do not become chapped.
 We all have something that grabs other people's attention, whether it's a proof that you will have a great figure, maybe you own great legs, maybe you tan easily, or perhaps you're just one of a few that looks good in all colors.


Try clothing stores such as Abercrombie, Hollister, Forever 21, Charlotte Russe, Delias, Aeropostale, Dillards, Target, or Kohls. However, if none of these are your style, you don't have to wear them! In fact, it's totally cool to just wear team jerseys with jeans.
It's no secret that the way a girl wears her clothes can get her far in the girl world, so make sure your clothes fit and flatter you.
Wear colors that look good on you.
For shoes, skip heels and Crocs. Instead, try ballet flats, canvas shoes, T-strap sandals, or Uggs. Make sure your shoes are easy to walk in and comfortable.






Don't feel as if you have to go to brand name stores to look pretty, as you can find plenty of really nice clothes for much cheaper. Try second-hand or vintage stores like Plato's Closet or BlueTique. They're much more affordable. You could get a brand new pair of Hollister jeans for $20, or you could get a used pair for around $10.
Be humble. Don't wear skimpy clothing to be cool. In reality, it will just make people think badly about you. Instead, try wearing a fitted top along with loose bottoms, or a loose top with more fitted bottoms.
Also, never stuff your bra, or choose a bra that is too big for you just to be "hot". People will see right through it. Wear one that fits you properly.
 Eat right, exercise, and drink lots of water every day. If you care for yourself correctly, you will look fresher in return. Your body will thank you! Within a period of time, you'll notice a big difference in your skin, health, and complexion.


Get your beauty sleep! Most teens should get at least nine or ten hours of sleep. You have to be awake at every moment of the day, because you never know what great things during the day await you.
If you're trying to exercise to become thinner, try running, dancing to fast music that you love, using an elliptical, using a treadmill, or even taking a bike ride.
If you want to look more muscular and strong, and not "skinny", consider trying knee push-ups, sit-ups, wall sits, wall push-ups, or lifting weights or your own backpack. Focus mainly on your biceps and triceps.

