 Though cleaning your skin feels nice, washing your face more than twice a day can make it too dry, which can irritate your face or cause it to overproduce natural oils. This can contribute to acne.Additionally, using too heavy of a touch when washing your face can damage your skin.Use a gentle, non-invasive touch to massage your skin while cleansing.


You may require a more specific regimen for your skin type or history with acne. Ask your dermatologist or doctor about how often you should be cleansing your face.
 Your face encounters enough pollution, dirt, and chemicals from the air; it doesn't need contact with other pollutants. Everyday sweat, oil, and bacteria from your hands or clothing can get on your face, where it can block pores. Avoid touching your face in order to keep it clean., Even though it may be tempting, squeezing at blemishes can cause scarring.Pimples are inflammations that do go away on their own over time. Popping them may force bacteria deeper into the inflamed pore, which may result in longer-lasting pimples or scars.If a blemish remains longer than a week, and if it is a real problem, a dermatologist can safely lance it for you, which will avoid further inflammation or scars.
 Cleaning your skin removes normal dirt and dust from the environment, but your pores can also be clogged by what you put on your skin deliberately. Remove makeup before you retire for the night, as well as heavy sunscreens. Makeup removers are special cleansers that are formulated to remove heavy or stubborn makeup.


A gentle and effective cleansing at night can remove the need for a morning cleanse--your face will have been on a clean pillow all night, so there will be no need to wash it again.
 You can find over-the-counter products that contain retinol, or you can ask for a prescription strength product from your doctor. Retinol will help speed up cell turnover and prevent clogged pores.

Popular retinol-containing creams include Retin A and Differen gel.
 If washing with a cleanser that contains benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid is not working for you, try an exfoliating cleansing brush. You can find different kinds of face brushes to use for cleansing, including some that spin. These brushes will clear away dead skin cells to allow your products to better penetrate the skin and clear out your pores., Many products that you already have in your kitchen can help you clean your pores. Baking soda, coconut oil, lemons, avocado, and honey are all great examples.You can even make your own facial products by combining ingredients. For example, you could combine coconut oil, baking soda, and honey for a decadent exfoliating face mask., Noncomedogenic products are those that avoid ingredients that may make acne worse. They are generally labeled as such on the front or back of packaging. Such products are generally oil-free, or do not contain ingredients that contribute to oil build-up.


Your skin type may require products formulated for dry skin, oily skin, sensitive skin, or inflamed skin. Your dermatologist is the best person to ask for advice on medicated or non-medicated products for your skin type.
 While they can be pricey, facials are one of the best ways to deep clean your skin and may be able to provide you with the results you're looking for. If you feel like your situation is extreme, a chemical peel will help remove dead skin cells and stimulate new ones to grow, which reduces the appearance of pores.Talk to your esthetician, the skincare expert who will do your facial or chemical peel, about what you need to do before and after your appointment because you will likely need to stay out of the sun and avoid using makeup or other products for a period of time afterwards.

