 As you lie in bed, draw your attention to your inhales and your exhales. Breathe in through your nose, and feel the air entering your body. Don’t worry about relaxation while you breathe in.Try visualizing your body relaxing as you breathe out. Notice anywhere you feel yourself holding tension.
Breathe in again, and only pay attention to your breath. You don’t have to worry about relaxing during inhalations.
As you exhale, feel yourself relaxing again. If you’ve found tension in any part of your body, intentionally allow that area to relax.
Repeat the process for as long as you need to.;
, As you lie in bed, imagine the outline of your body. Slowly trace your body’s outline in your head. Feel the way your body feels against the bed. Feel the way your head feels against the pillow. Then move your attention down your body, one body part at a time.Move your attention down one arm, all the way to your hand, finishing at the end of your fingers. Then repeat the same attention, moving down your other arm.
Notice anyplace in your body that feels active, and try to relax any tightness that you’re holding there.
Don’t worry about falling asleep before you finish this exercise.
 Sipping a hot cup of herbal tea can be a good way to unwind, both for its relaxing herbal properties and the routine of enjoying a warm beverage. An hour or so before bedtime, bring fresh cold water to a rolling boil. Pour the hot water over your herbal tea bag, and allow it to steep for 5-10 minutes.Passionflower and chamomile teas have relaxation properties.
Valerian root tea helps the symptoms of anxiety. You may still have worried thoughts, but the valerian tea may help calm the physical symptoms of anxiety such as tense muscles or rapid breathing.
Be careful to avoid any caffeine before bedtime, which could interfere with your rest. If your tea is clearly labeled as “herbal” it’s unlikely to contain caffeine.
 Deep breathing slows the heart rate and calms your body as you lay in bed. Start by breathing in through your nose, drawing your complete attention to the feeling of the air as it enters your nostrils. Keep paying attention as your breath enters your lungs.When your breath has found the very base of your lungs, pause. Notice the pause, and then start to release your breath.
Release your breath slowly, paying close attention to the air as it leaves your body.
You can choose to mentally count each breath, starting at 1 and ending at 10. When you reach 10, start again (if you’re still awake!)

, Your body will come to expect the routine of relaxing in bed at the same time every night. If you get up at the same time, this will help you be sleepy at bedtime. If you sleep later, you’re unlikely to be tired in the evening.If you’re struggling with insomnia, stay awake later so that you’re more likely to go to sleep when you go to bed.
You can understand this if you think about the way you’re probably hungry at about the same time every day. You’ve trained your body to expect meals in the morning, noon-ish, and again in the evening. Sleep can work in the same way

, A warm bath raises your core body temperature, which aids sleep. A bath helps your muscles relax. Your body will expect to go to sleep.Add bubbles or bath oils if they help you relax.
Showers tend to wake you up. If you’re working on unwinding before bed, take baths at night and showers in the morning.
 Keeping your lights low will help trigger the release of melatonin, a body chemical associated with sleep. When you’re in brighter room light, your body will suppress the production of melatonin to keep you awake and alert.One reason that candlelight is relaxing is because of the dim light.
To unwind, turn down your lights. Turn off unnecessary lights, and try to use traditional incandescent bulbs rather than fluorescent or LED bulbs.
 Scrolling through social media sites only keeps your body alert. In addition, exposure to the light from a screen affects your body’s ability to produce melatonin, a hormone associated with sleep.Computers, tablets, and phones all produce more blue light than other colors.
Evening and nighttime exposure to blue lights have strong association with the development of cancer, heart disease, obesity, and diabetes.
Using dim red lights for night lights will help your body stay calm. Red light has the least ability to interfere with your body’s production of melatonin, a hormone associated with sleep.

