;
, Look at pictures of her. What is she wearing? Do you have anything similar? Or something in the same style? Buy things that are pink, sparkly, sequined, fashionable and girly. Buy lots of glitzy jewelry and accessories to match your outfits, too. No orange. In the words of Sharpay "If you Own any Orange, Get rid of it."

, If not, don't worry. You can dye your hair blonde if you want, but if you would like to keep your natural hair color or are simply not allowed to dye your hair, don't worry. Try to copy some of her hairstyles, which include Ponytails, having it down and wavy, down and curly, sometimes even a cute hair-band, head-band or cute hair accessory in it.
 Lip gloss, blush, maybe even some glitter and mascara.
 She is dramatic, girly, fun, confident, flirtatious, knows her worth and her superiority, a little bossy but in a cute way, fuss with your hair too. She knows what she wants and exactly how to get it. Though she does have her insecurities and does not know how to react when someone is better than her. If there is someone better than you at performing, you have every right to be furious, upset and perplexed. You must also have a love for the color pink, and aspire to be a singer/actress. You must love the spotlight and want it on you at all times. You must also know how to manipulate people, and pull off a successful scheme. But have a few witty comebacks for the losers, too. She always chases her dreams.
 Try to be president or co-President of the drama club, enter and try to WIN all talent shows. Try to get the lead or at least a big part in every play you audition for, and audition for every play and musical that reaches your diamond studded ears.
 Think "I want it all" and "I want fabulous!" and "Everything's got to be perfect for me!" expect perfection and no less, and expect perfection in yourself, though you are already beautiful.
 But try to get some of the things Sharpay has in her locker,like mirrors and try to get some other girly and glamorous things in your locker, too. If you don't have a locker and have to carry around a school bag, get a shoulder bag, NOT a rucksack and make it pink, girlie or sequined.
 and don't forget your cute school bag or handbag!

, Try giving orders sweetly, but get angry if they are not obeyed.
 In the unlikely scenario that you come across someone with the potential to upstage you, get them out of the way, distract them, do ANYTHING! Oh and practice for HOURS EVERY night! Take Singing/Acting/Dancing lessons if you can, join your local theatre group, anything!

,, Come TOP but do it with STYLE! Come top in everything but don't be a nerd, do it fabulously and subtly hint your superiority.
, She really likes salads and pastas, anything fancy you can think of, such as caviar or crème brulee. At free period, she drinks a non-fat no-foam soy latte with one packet of organic sweetener. You can go to Starbucks and ask the barista to make it, or you can make one at home! Sharpay is most likely to drink vitamin water or smart water.
 Also consider asking your sibling(s) or mum/dad to give you a massage.

