 How does each part of the story make you feel? Think about the who, what, where, when, how, and why of what happened:


What: What happened, exactly? State it plainly: "I was involved in an armed convenience store robbery, and I was arrested and served time."
Who: Who else was involved in the criminal incident? Who were you at the time? How were you different from how you are today? For instance: "It was me and my boyfriend at the time, and we were 20 years old."
Where: Say where you were and how that place made you feel. "We were at a convenience store that we hadn't been to before. It felt like the end of the earth — like nobody would even care what we did there."
When: When did it happen? "It happened in the summer of '99. It was right after my sister started college, August 30th."
How: Explain how it went down. If there are parts you don't remember, just explain that you don't remember them. What did the criminal report say, and what do you remember differently? Describe what you did and how you were caught.
Why: Why did it happen? Think about the plain facts. Without making excuses, think about the reasons that you committed a crime (or looked as if you were committing a crime, if you were innocent). You might say "My boyfriend and I both had really bad drinking problems, which I didn't understand at the time. We wanted to get some money, and he made it sound easy, and harmless, and I let him convince me because I was out of money.";
, Think about the circumstances under which you committed (or were accused of committing) the crimes. Explain any events that led up to the incident: a history of abuse, a lost job, a breakup, an addiction, untreated mental illness, financial pressure, a bad judgment call, or just a lot of bad luck. Then, and even more importantly, explain what you've done since then.If you served time, describe what it was like and how it changed your feelings.
If you did something you feel really guilty about — if you hurt someone, for instance — think about your feelings of guilt, and how they have affected you.
Say what you have done to contribute positively to the world since it happened.
Describe what you have learned from having a criminal record.
Explain what changes you have made that allow you to stay out of trouble. This might include moving to a neighborhood with a lower police presence, getting a job, going to rehab, getting psychological help, or getting out of an abusive living environment.
 Think about why you want to tell them and why you haven't told them until now. Is it because you were afraid they wouldn't respect you? Because you were afraid of losing them? Because you were still working out how you felt, and didn't want to talk about it until you were clear?Talk about what you have learned and why it felt important to be honest about it now.


Apologize for withholding the truth. Practice saying that you believe they have a right to know, because they matter to you.
 Get some of your nerves out by thinking about the possible consequences of telling your loved one. Figure out what you are worried about, but instead of leaping to the worst case scenario, slow down and imagine step by step what could go wrong. Think: what could go wrong? If that went wrong, then what would go wrong?Keep doing this until you get to a conclusion.
Think about how you might respond to some of these things going wrong.Think about positive responses and best case scenarios as well. Go step by step.
Write out your worries if writing helps you think.
 Practice telling the story from beginning to end. Rehearsal is important because the way you phrase things during the encounter will be impossible to take back. You don't want to blurt out, "It wasn't a big deal and it's not like you're an angel!" when you're really trying to say, "I understand why you're upset, and I hope you can forgive me for withholding this information." You can speak in the mirror, or just run it through in your head. Don't write a script, however — you can't assume how they will react, so you need to be open.Write a letter. You can write a letter just to practice telling the story, or you can write a letter as a way of telling your loved one about your record.
Talk it over with someone who already knows. They can help you practice what to say and calm your anxiety somewhat.
 Communicate in a way that shows you have something serious to say. You might choose to write a letter and hand it to your loved one, explaining that you didn't want to risk leaving anything out. Call if you are best at talking on the phone. Meet in person if you can — it's a way of showing that the relationship matters and you aren't afraid to fight for it., Meet in a private place where you can focus on one another. Someone's home, a park, or a backyard might all be good places.
 Telling sooner rather than later is important, as you don't want your loved one to feel that you have been lying to them. Choose to tell them in a moment when they will have time to digest the information, such as a Friday evening when they have the weekend off. Telling them when they are in a hurry may make them feel manipulated.


Remember, you may wish you had done it earlier, but you won't wish you'd waited longer.Make sure your listener is in the right mood. Telling them when they are already mad at you for something else might strain your relationship. Try telling them when they are in the mood to be generous and pleased with you.
 Say you have something serious to communicate, and explain that you are sorry for not telling them earlier. You might say "I have something to tell you, and I should have told you earlier. I was afraid you would cut off ties with me if you knew. But I want you to know, because I want you to know me."After you have told the story, apologize again. And again!
Avoid the word "but" when you are apologizing. It makes it sound like you are making excuses for yourself.
 Make sure to communicate what you want to achieve by giving them this information. Say, "I want you to know, because you're important to me. I want us to be on the same page and have all the same information. I hope you choose to stay in my life, but I won't blame you if this changes things between us.", Express remorse. If you feel bad, show your feelings. If you just feel bad for not telling them, show that. If you aren't someone who cries or shows pain easily, explain that, but use your words to let your loved one know how much pain you are in.
 Be prepared for a bad reaction. When you deliver bad news, and when you tell someone you have been withholding information, they may get upset. Be prepared for yelling, crying, sarcasm, accusations, stony silence, or offense. Prepare to stay calm and not fall into these traps — they are part of how your listener deals with how bad they feel, but they can get you into unnecessary fights.Don't get distracted from your goal.
Address each issue calmly. Take deep breaths to stay calm.
Allow them to react. Don't counter everything they say — instead, listen. You can say "I hear you," and even repeat some of what they are saying back.
For instance, if they say, "I feel like I've always told you everything, and you just have been lying to my face," you can say, "You feel like I haven't repaid your honesty with my own honesty.", Your loved one may have a lot of questions for you, and they may bring up unpleasant memories. Respect them by answering any questions you can. If something is very painful to talk about, mention this.

