
Did you come to the Savior because you had sinned and needed forgiveness?
Did you"repent" (say sorry and decide to turn away from your sin) and put your faith in Jesus?
Are you convinced that He suffered and died on the Cross and that He rose again three days later?
Have you been born again of the water and of the Spirit?(John3:3-5)
Are you willing to do the will of God as revealed through the scriptures (Matt. vii.21-27, James ii.18-20)?;
, In Romans 12:2 the Believer is told to do something with his mind.
Faith - In a world where we are continually disappointed, we can totally rely on, trust in, and count on His promises. They are sure, certain, indisputable, true, trustworthy, reliable, faithful, unfailing, dependable, steadfast, and an anchor for the soul. In other words, you can truly believe them, and because of that, you can throw yourself blindfolded and without reserve, into His mighty hands. He will never, ever, let you down, if you put your trust in him.
Evangelism - We should share our faith with others whenever we can. The Bible says that there are two times we should do this -- "in season and out of season" (2 Timothy 4:2). i.e. at all times. Jesus did not send out the disciples for about a year and a half to do evangelistic work, so don't feel bad if you find this difficult at first. Even Paul in Galatians 1 said that he retreated for 3 years before he started to teach. Paul also said in Galatians 2:1 that he worked in the early church 14 years before being sent as a missionary to Europe. Learning to witness will take time and you will get better and better as you study Gods word and practice witnessing. In John 4 Jesus says that one sows and another reaps. Sharing the word is sowing, and motivating others to pray with your and accept Christ is reaping.
Prayer - As far as God is concerned, if you belong to Jesus, you are a VIP. You can boldly come before the throne of Grace (Hebrews 4:16). You have access to the king, because you are the son or daughter of the king.
Pray in the Spirit regularly to build up your faith (Jude 20)
Spiritual Warfare - The way to overcome and his demons is to make sure you are outfitted with the spiritual armor of God listed in Ephesians 6:10-20. Become intimately familiar with it. Sleep in it. Never take it off. Bind the two-edged sword to your hand so that you never lose its grip. Jesus resisted the Devil with the Word of God.
Fellowship - Don't become a "spiritual butterfly." Send your roots down. If you are moving from church to church, how will your pastor know what type of food you are digesting? The Bible says that your shepherd will have to give an account to Him that has entrusted you to him (Hebrews 13:17), so make yourself known to your pastor. Pray for him regularly. Pray also for his wife, his family, and the elders.
Give Thanks - We have so much to be thankful for. God has given us "exceeding great and precious promises" that are "more to be desired than gold." Do yourself a big favor -- believe those promises, thank God continually for them, and "let your joy be full." II Cor 1:20 says that all the Old Testament promises also belong to you.
Water Baptism - The Bible Says , "Repent and be baptised, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. . ." (Acts 2:38). There is therefore no question as to whether or not you should be baptized.
Giving to God - It was once said that the wallet is the "last frontier"-- that it’s the last thing that comes to God in surrender. But it should be the first, along with our surrendered heart. Jesus spoke much about money. He said that we cannot serve God and mammon (see Matthew 6:24). The word "mammon" was the common Aramaic word for riches and it signifies "that which is to be trusted." In other words, either money is our source of joy, our sense of security, the supplier of our needs -- or God is.
Troubleshooting - Finally, the way to prevent sporting injury and pain, is to keep yourself fit. Exercise. The Apostle Paul kept fit through exercise. He said, "Herein do I exercise myself, to always have a conscience void of offense toward God, and toward men" (Acts 24:16). Do the same. Listen to the voice of conscience. It's your friend, not your enemy. Remember the words of Solomon: "Fear God and keep His commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil" (Ecclesiastes 12:13-14).
Better Covenant and Better Promises - Hebrews 8:6 says that you have a better covenant established upon better promises. YOU must get stronger in the Word of God to be strong. I John 2:27 says that the anointing that you have within you will teach you. God will teach you as you read His Word.
Learn how to follow your Conscience - Paul said that he always followed his conscience in Acts 23:1. Paul also said that Christians can expect to be led by the spirit of God in Romans 8:14. He goes on to say that the *Holy Spirit witnesses with our spirit in Romans 8:16. In Acts 16:6-7 Paul had a warning experience in his conscience. This I call the "Red Light" experience. Paul also perceived that the voyage would be with much damage in Acts 27:10. When God is silent and I do not have any witness in my conscience, I call this the "Yellow Light" experience and this means "Wait", it is not God's will or it is not God's timing. The "Green Light" experience is when I am witnessing or praying and I feel God's presence or I feel peace inside or I feel joy inside. This is God telling my conscience, "Yes" this is His will.

