 To check the status of your deportation or removal proceeding, you should call the Department of Justice toll-free at 1-800-898-7180. Make sure to call from a “touch tone” phone and not a rotary phone, as the system only works with touch tone phones.You can also call 240-314-1500 if the toll-free number is busy.
Information is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
You will have to select whether to hear instructions in either English or Spanish. To select English, touch “1.” For Spanish instructions, touch “2.”;
, This is also called your “A number.” It should begin with an “A” and be an eight- or nine-digit number. If your number has only eight digits, then you will be asked to include a “0” before the other nine digits.After entering the information, touch “1” to confirm that you have entered it correctly., Based on your Alien Registration Number, the automated operator will read back your name to you. If the name is correct, then press “1” to confirm your identity.However, if the name is incorrect, then you probably entered your Alien Registration Number incorrectly. You should press “2” in order to re-enter your A-Number.
 You can get a variety of information by calling the 800 number. For example, you will be asked to select one from the menu of items:Date, time, and location of your next hearing.
Information about case processing.
Information about any decision made by an Immigration Judge in your case. If you are checking whether your case is closed, then select this option.
Information about appealing your case, such as the due date for an appeal.
Filing information.
 The system is only as good as the people entering the information into the databases. Accordingly, some information might be entered wrong or not entered at all. For example, the recording might state that your case is still pending even if a decision has been made. In that situation, the Immigration Judge’s clerk might not have entered the update into the system promptly.You can call back at a later date to check whether your case has been closed. If the phone system continues to report inaccurate information, then reach out to your attorney. Your attorney can contact the immigration court and get an update.

