 Reducing your calorie intake is essential for losing weight, and knowing how many calories to have each day will help you plan your fast-food meals. On average, a woman needs about 1,500 calories each day to lose 1 pound each week. The average man should consume about 2,000 calories each day to lose weight at the same rate. Your age, height, current weight, and activity level also play a factor.Talk to your doctor or a nutritionist about establishing the ideal daily calorie intake for you.;
, The Food and Drug Administration requires that fast-food chains make the nutritional content of the food accessible to its customers.Before arriving at a fast-food restaurant, plan your meal ahead of time by checking the nutritional value listed online. Many fast-food and popular restaurant chains, from Tex-Mex eateries to coffee shops, allow you to explore the nutritional content on their website. Knowing what to order ahead of time will help you stick to a healthy meal option and reign in calories.
 If you don’t have a chance to review the nutritional information before you go to a fast-food restaurant, you can still make informed choices. You will often see a calorie count listed next to a food item on a board or menu at a fast-food restaurant. Be sure to carefully review the calorie count of each meal, and select a meal that fits in with your calorie goals and that you won’t feel guilty about eating.
 The food items listed on the kid’s menu can be a great option when you’re dieting. The portions are smaller, so they contain fewer calories than items on the main menu. Plus, you can often select a piece of fruit as a side option., Be aware that the meal’s calorie count on the board does not include the calorie count for sodas. The average cup of soda can contain around 300 calories and 19 grams (0.67 oz) of sugar, which isn’t helpful for maintaining your diet.Water is always a safe, calorie-free, and refreshing choice. Also, your body needs water to survive and function properly.


While diet soda has zero calories, the artificial sugars in the beverage can make you crave more real sugars, causing you to over indulge in other sweetened treats.Lemonade and fruity drinks typically carry just as many calories and sugar as soda.
 Many meals at fast-food chains offer an order of fries as a side. While fries are certainly delicious, that can pack a calorie count that can range from 300 to even 900 calories!They don’t have much nutritional value either. They are mostly just fat and calories. Ask if you can replace the order of fries with a side salad, a piece or fruit, or opt to skip the side altogether.
 Condiments like mayonnaise, tartar sauce, sour cream, barbecue sauce, and salad dressings can be deceivingly high in calories and sugars. Mayonnaise, for example, has about 180 calories for every 2 tablespoons or 30 milliliters (1  fl oz).Those calories can add up quickly. Ask to receive the condiments or salad dressing in a small container on the side so you can control the amount you use.


Opt to use mustard or hot sauce to enhance the flavor. At about 20 calories for 2 tablespoons, mustard is a tasty, low-calorie condiment that packs a lot of flavor. Hot sauce can also kick up the flavor. There are only 3 calories for 2 tablespoons, and all you really need is a little dash!, When ordering food from a fast-food restaurant, avoid ordering food that is breaded or fried. Opt for a grilled fish sandwich instead of the crispy option, or forego deep-fried drumsticks and order grilled instead. Fried foods soak up a lot of fat and are high in calories. Grilled food has a lower calorie count, making it easier to maintain your weight loss goals., When dining at your favorite Tex-Mex restaurant, compare the calories between the burritos and the burrito bowls. A tortilla wrap can contain around 300 calories, so opting for a bowl rather than the tortilla can help you keep your calories in check. Reduce the calories even more by skipping the calorie-dense sour cream and shredded cheese., Next time you are craving a hamburger or a sub sandwich, customize your order and cut back on calories by ditching the bread. Consider ordering your sandwich wrapped in lettuce instead. Ordering a hamburger without the bun can cut out about 150 calories.Ditching a hoagie at a sandwich shop can save around 280 calories.


If you don’t want to completely cut-out the bread, ask to have the bread hollowed out to reduce the calories., Enjoying a diet rich in vegetables and lean proteins can help you lose weight, increase your energy levels, and maintain muscle mass.When ordering fast food, consider enjoying a salad with grilled chicken with a light dressing on the side.


Be mindful of salads that contain creamy dressings, shredded cheese, bacon, and other calorie-dense condiments. These additions can turn a healthy, lean salad into a calorie-dense meal., If you really enjoy a burrito with sour cream or love splurging on a chocolate milkshake, ask a friend to split it with you. Sharing the meal will help you control your portions and your calorie intake. Plus, you’ll satisfy your fast-food cravings without derailing your diet.
 Allowing yourself to splurge on your favorite fast-food treats once a week may help you stay on track and boost your commitment to your diet on non-cheat days.Select a day where you allow yourself to enjoy your favorite foods without feeling guilty.


Perhaps on Fridays after a long week at work you’ll allow yourself to stop at your favorite drive-thru, or on Sunday you’ll visit your favorite coffee chain. Think of it as a special treat or reward for all your hard work during the week.
 It is recommended that you get 150 minutes of aerobic exercise each week, or about 30 minutes of exercise for 5 days each week. Increase activities like walking, swimming, or dancing to help you boost your heart rate and burn more calories on days you plan to eat fast food. The more calories you burn, the faster you will reach your weight-loss goals, and the more calories you can use to enjoy a fast-food meal.


Activities that use larger muscle groups, like your legs and back, will help you burn more calories by increasing your heart rate., On days you plan to have a fast-food meal, prepare by slashing calories from other meals. Swap heavy cream for skim milk in your morning coffee, or eat a lunch that is full of steamed vegetables and whole grains. These small changes can help you enjoy a fast-food meal while still staying within your daily calorie limit.
 Increase the amount of fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins in your diet to help you with your weight-loss goals.Enjoying these healthy options at most meals will allow you to conserve more calories that you can later use to enjoy the occasional fast-food treat.
 While you’re on a diet or a weight-loss program, plan to prepare the majority of your meals at home. When you prepare meals at home, you will be able to account for your calorie, carbohydrate, and fat intake more easily than if you ordered a meal at a restaurant. Cooking at home frequently may also help you to consume fewer calories when you do visit a fast-food chain.