 A study schedule can help you better organize your time and your priorities for the class. You can do this by looking at the course syllabus and blocking off time each week for each assignment, reading, and prep for any exams. Do this for the entire term so you can look ahead and know exactly how much time have allotted to prepare for the class and study.Be detailed in your study schedule and avoid vague planning. For example, rather than note on your study schedule, “two hours for assignments”, you should note, “two hours for the census assignment due 11/13”. This will ensure you know exactly what assignment you will be working on and the due date for the assignment, allowing you to better manage your time.
You should also prioritize important assignments and get them done first. If you know the census assignment is due the following week it is assigned, for example, make sure you have time set in your study schedule to do it the week before or the weekend before it is due. You should consider any assignments due for your other classes and factor them in based on priority. This may mean doing an assignment for another class first, based on the earliest due date. Once the assignment is completed, you can move on to the next assignment that is due, even if it is for another class.
 This method can be used to help you get straight A’s in a class. It can also be used to get good grades in other classes and improve your overall GPA.Start by capturing all your obligations as a college student. This includes academic obligations, such as test dates and assignment due dates, as well as administrative obligations, such as application deadlines and expectations from extracurricular activities. Make a list of these obligations, making sure you cover all of them. This will allow you to have a foundation from which to then control, plan, and execute.
Control your schedule by blocking out every hour of the day. You should note which hours will be dedicated to work and what exactly you will be working on during these hours. Stick to the schedule and make sure all of your school work is accounted for in the schedule.
Plan out your studying by focusing on specific assignments. Note specific actions you are going to take, such as “work on the book review due 11/5” or “prep for the mid-term exam on 11/21”.
Evolve your study tactics by embracing any shifts or changes you need to make to your study habits. Re-evaluate and tweak your study habits as necessary, keeping only tactics that work for you and your brain. If something is not working, try a new tactic. Ask yourself, “What worked when I studied for that exam and did well? What could I do better to get a better grade on the next exam?”

, All-night studying is often a bad tactic as it can lead to feeling burned out and exhausted on the day of an exam or in class. Studies have shown that you retain more information by studying in shorter chunks of time than you do pulling an all-nighter. Cramming for an exam may be a study habit you need to break in order to ace the exam and ace the class.Having a well planned out study schedule can help you avoid all-nighters. Make sure your study schedule allows you to prepare for an upcoming exam in chunks, focusing on one to two chapters of the assigned textbook at a time or one to two key concepts from the class at a time. You may go back and review the material you studied during the previous study session to ensure it is fresh in your brain before you move on to other chapters or concepts.
 Research shows that if you review material one to two hours before bed you have a higher likelihood of retaining it. Set aside time in your schedule to review your class notes or read several chapters of the assigned text. You may want to highlight or underline key concepts and ideas so you can return to them later in your study schedule., The company you keep can also help you ace a class. Surround yourself with study pals who tend to do well in their classes and get straight A’s. You can then learn study tactics from them and improve your existing study habits.You may want to consider setting up a study group with one to three peers who do well in their classes. You can then schedule weekly meet ups with the study group to go over specific chapters and/or concepts. It may also be useful to try to set up study meet ups closer to an upcoming exam so you can all prepare for the exam together.
Another option is to hire a tutor, especially if you are struggling with the course material. You should ask friends or peers in your study group for recommendations on a tutor for the class. Start with bi weekly tutoring sessions and then increase or decrease the tutoring sessions as your grades improve.

