 A lot of counties don't put information about the deed itself online, and this is even true of counties that put tax assessor's records online. The most important information the deed itself will show (that the tax assessor's records won't) is who held the deed before the current owner and what kind of deed they had. Unless a person is making sure that a title is clear, this information is of limited use to the general public.The government entity that keeps these records is usually called the "county recorder" or "county register of deeds." However, "recorder of deeds," "deeds registrar," and "deeds registry" are also common. If you find one of these, there's a good chance your records are online. Again, don't hesitate to call and ask if this information is online. If you are unable to find a website for the relevant county recorder, try using one of these private land record indexes:

http://www.realmarketing.com/county_recorders/county_recorders.htm
https://www.courthousedirect.com/
http://publicrecords.onlinesearches.com/Land-Records-and-Deeds.htm
https://uslandrecords.com/



, Remember, you can find this in the tax assessor's record, sometimes referred to as the parcel number or the recording number. Many county recorders do not make the primary record of deeds by address, because things like street names can change quickly and unpredictably. When this type of deed information is online at all, it is usually searchable by book/page number, by property ID number, or by sellers' and buyers' names. Property ID is usually the most reliable and easiest way to search, because it is less prone to problems like misspellings of names and streets. , Whether you use a county records website or a private record search site, there is often a fee for searching--especially if you want to search by address. Some land record or Deed search sites may charge a one time account fee and others may charge per search or per record. These fees range in cost from a few dollars for governmental websites to ten and twenty dollars per search for some of the private websites., Once you have located a land record database and created an account, fill in as much information as possible, including the address of the property, owner’s name, or Property ID and run a search. If you get too many results, try narrowing your search by adding more information. If you get too few results, try broadening the search using wildcards or by providing less information.

