 Measure out a 3-inch (7.6-cm) square on a sheet of standard printer paper and cut it out.


Use a ruler to make sure that each side is straight and equal in length.
Another option is to use a standard square sticky note.
 Start at one corner and roll the paper square into itself, forming a small cone.


Apply even pressure as you roll the paper to form a tight cone.
You may need to apply a small strip of tape to the outer edge of the cone so that it holds its shape as you continue to work.
 Cover the entire outer side of the cone with a single layer of tape. Start at the tip and work your way up.


You can use standard office tape or duct tape.
Covering the cone in tape makes it more durable. This action also gives the cone more weight, which will give the dart more weight. The additional weight can help the dart fly better.
 Use scissors to cut a small round hole at the very tip of the cone.


The hole only needs to be large enough to allow a nail to just barely slip through. If the hole is too large, however, the nail can wobble around or fall out.
 Side the nail through the paper cone, pushing the pointed end through from the inside of the cone. Slide the cone down the length of the nail, leaving roughly 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of space in between the head of the nail and the inner tip of the cone.


Use a 11.5 gauge nail that is 2.5 inches (6.35 cm) long. It also needs to have a round head.
If the opening in the cone is too small, make it a little bigger. Do not allow the nail to tear through it.
If the nail can fall out of the cone on its own, however, the hole is too wide and you should start over.
 Apply a small dot of super glue just below the head of the nail. Slide the cone down the remaining section of nail, into the glue and on top of the nail head.


Pull carefully yet firmly to make sure that the glue adheres to the cone.
Allow the glue to dry before you continue.
 Apply a thin dot of super glue to the cone side of the nail, then slide a total of six perler beads onto the nail and into the glue.


The perler beads add weight to the dart. This weight can make the darts more stable, which improves their ability to fly.
These beads should be fitted next to the cone and along the middle of the nail so that they remain visible.
Alternate back and forth between applying glue and slipping beads on.
If you have difficulty getting the beads on using your fingers, you may need to slide them on using pliers.
 Allow the glue to dry completely. Once it dries, the dart is ready to throw.

