 Before starting the virus removal process, make sure that all of your important data is backed up. This will ensure that nothing of value is lost if the computer has to be completely reformatted, and you can get back up and running with minimal time invested.


See this guide for detailed instructions on how to back up all of your important data.;
, Oftentimes a slow computer will give the impression that it is infected with a virus, when it may be an issue with memory, storage, adware, or a number of other factors. Failing hardware, especially hard drives, can significantly slow down your computer and corrupt files.



This guide contains a variety of tips to help speed up a slow computer.
 You should already have an antivirus program installed, but if you don't there are a variety of both free and commercial products are available. Most paid programs have a trial period that will allow you to scan and remove viruses, so don't worry about cost and download the program that sounds the best to you. Popular options include Kaspersky, BitDefender, Avira, and Trend Micro. You should only have one of these installed at a time.


You will also need a few anti-malware programs. While lots of adware is technically legitimate, lots of it is shady as well. These programs may pick up things that your antivirus passes over. Popular options include Malwarebytes Anti-Malware and Hitman pro. Like antivirus programs, you should not have too many anti malware programs as they may slow down your PC, but unlike antivirus programs it is an option.
If your virus infection is preventing you from successfully downloading files, you will need to download them on another computer and transfer them via USB drive.
 In order for a virus to do anything, it needs to be run. Most viruses run themselves by attaching to startup services that load when Windows loads. Safe Mode only loads the most essential files for Windows to run, which should stop almost all viruses from starting. This will allow you to identify and remove them., Run a full system scan with your antivirus program. Quarantine anything that doesn't look right after the scan is complete (most antivirus programs have a quarantine function). After you are finished running the virus scan, run each of your additional anti-malware scans. Each program is capable of removing any infections it is able to find., After the scans have all completed, reboot normally and test your computer's performance. Run your web browser and any other programs that you originally had issues with. If your infection is gone, you're done! If problems persist, read on to the next section.

