 Think again! There are literally hundreds of programs out there, and they all favor different kinds of borrowers. Find and compare the best loan programs out there. Did you know there are things only a loan officer can explain to you about the hundreds of loan programs available to you? Did you know that a loan officer can be paid a commission based on how much you pay in fees? Many factors can make the rate you're receiving on a mortgage more attractive. Be sure you know what they are before you sign the lender's fee sheet.;
, Do you know your credit score? To find out, let a loan officer pull your credit record. You may be thinking that you want to shop around and that lots of different pulls to your credit will lower your score, but you can rest easy. Any credit pull performed by a mortgage loan officer within 30 days of the first pull will not negatively affect your score. The credit reporting agencies understand that you would like to shop around, and you won't be penalized under these conditions.
 You will likely find that loan officers working for companies with access to the greatest number of lenders can give you the loan with the best rate.
 A loan officer working for a company more dedicated to mortgages with a greater number of contacts to different lenders will have the most options available, making it more likely that he will have a program just right for you.
 Either the loan officer or a financial counselor can also guide you as to how to improve your credit score if you know that it is standing between you and a better rate.
 If so, your interest rate is likely to be higher. Before you sign for a 100% financing loan, carefully consider your options. Can you settle instead for a home in a lower price range? Could a friend or family member give you the money to make a five- or ten-percent down payment? Either of these options could save you a lot of money over the term of your loan as you pay less interest. Lenders know that 100% financing is a hot commodity, and they will charge you a higher rate for it.
 If you follow these guidelines, the lowest rate you can receive on your mortgage loan will be printed on the documents at the closing table.

