 Some muscle knots hurt without pressure, so they're easy to identify. Others don't hurt until you apply pressure. Using your fingers, gently probe your muscles looking for pressure points. You may feel a knot or bump in the muscle. Many people have muscle knots in the top half of their backs, so that is a good place to begin., These experts are trained in muscle therapy and know the best techniques for relieving knotted muscles. Their approach will be to apply compression to the muscle and the area surrounding it. They understand how this process affects the surrounding tissues and the rest of your body., Professional massages can be expensive, especially if you need to visit one regularly. An alternative is to learn massage techniques you can use on yourself. Squeeze the muscles gently, and rub them in a circular motion. Do this action all over your body, even on muscles you do not think have knots to make your whole body feel better.


A variety of massage tools and pain relief creams are available to assist with your personal massage regime. One method is to roll a tennis ball around the area while applying light pressure until you feel slight pain in the muscle knot. Using pressure, hold the ball in place for 30 seconds. Follow this procedure with other knotted muscles.
 Temperature therapy relaxes the affected area.A heating pad or cold compress can alleviate some of the pain that is associated with muscle knots.
Use a cooling spray in coordination with stretching. , A warm bath helps you and your knotted muscles to relax. For added healing, stir Epsom salts into the water. A hot shower can help but isn't as effective. Stand so the water stream is focused on the muscles that are bothering you. You can also try a hot tub.
 Stretching keeps muscles flexible. Consider beginning tai chi or yoga, which combines relaxation with stretching.
 Exercise affects muscles similarly to the way massage therapy does. Exercising regularly stretches the muscles and maintains their flexibility, working out tension.Aerobic exercises are often good for relieving muscles pain, especially ones that work your shoulders, like swimming.Bikram yoga (hot yoga) offers the benefits of a hot bath with the added bonus of flexibility exercises. Make sure to follow warnings. That is, hydrate before starting and remember to stay hydrated. Avoid eating a large meal for 3 hours before the class; stick to light, easily digested foods that are good sources of electrolytes, such as bananas. During the class, if you feel cramping followed by lightheadedness, dizziness, nausea, or weakness, leave the room at once and seek treatment for heat stroke. Most Bikram classes are 1.5 hours long. Speak with the instructor before your first class. If you are not accustomed to high temperatures, your goal for your first may be to stay in the studio for the full time rather than completing the exercises with the rest of the class.
 Hypnosis can help your muscles relax and can also assist with pain., With a physical therapist, you'll learn exercises that will help you strengthen and stretch your muscles. He or she can also help you adjust your lifestyle to prevent muscle knots.