 Chapter outlining, also called flashlight outlining, is useful if you have a sense of how you are going to break up your novel. You may decide to use chapters to break up the content in your novel. Or you may use sections, such as Part 1, Part 2, and Part 3. Using chapters or sections can be a good way to make the content more reader friendly and allow you to structure your novel in a clear way.You may decide to use chapters if you are using different character voices in your novel, for example, and each chapter will be use a different character voice.
You may decide to use sections or parts to break up the novel if, for example, there are different time periods in your story or if there are different periods of a your main character's life you are exploring.
 Sit down and create a table with one column for chapter or section headings. You can also write each chapter heading or section heading on index cards or sheets of paper.You may title the chapters using "Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3..." etc. Or you may use specific titles for each chapter, such as the name of each character voice that is narrating the chapter, such as "Chapter 1: Susanne, Chapter 2: Susanne's daughter, Chapter 3: Susanne...".
If you are using sections for the novel, you may put headings for each section in the table in one column. For example, you may have the "Part 1, Part 2, Part 3..." or you may use specific titles for each part, such as "Part 1: Birth, Part 2: Life, Part 3: Death...".
 Once you have created the table with the chapter or section headings, fill in basic details on the events that occur in the chapter or section. Use character names and describe the basic action in each chapter. You may also note the purpose of each character or section with the larger novel.For example, you may write:

"Chapter 1: Susanne tells us about her life in the jungle. She mentions her lost daughter and her isolation as well as her lack of supplies for survival."
"Chapter 2: Susanne's daughter, Maia, tells us about her life in the city. She discusses her mother briefly with her boyfriend, Tom, and goes to her job at a factory on the outskirts of the city."


If you are using sections, you may write:

"Part 1: An exploration of the life of a woman, Susanne, who lives in the jungle. She faces challenges like hunger, isolation, and the threat of wild animals."
"Part 2: An exploration of the life of Susanne's daughter, Maia, who lives in the city. She faces challenges like poor pay, long hours at her factory job, and a longing for the mother she never knew."



