 Social eating is a major cause of weight gain for many college students. You may go to the cafeteria when you're not hungry to spend time with friends. You might also find yourself eating out as a social event. Try to make healthy choices when eating socially to help curb weight gain.


If you end up in the cafeteria after eating, try to avoid eating a second meal altogether. Instead, have a cup of coffee or a piece of fruit while chatting with your friends. They'll understand that you already ate and will simply enjoy your company.Make wise choices when eating out. Avoid foods high in processed carbs, like white breads or pastas. Order something light, like a salad, when eating at a restaurant. Try sharing an entree or appetizer with a friend if you're craving a treat. This will cut the amount of calories you consume in half., Try to be conscious of why you're eating. Emotional eating is a major cause of weight gain for college students. You may eat due to stress or boredom, for example. If you find yourself stopping for a snack on the way home from class, pause and ask yourself, "Am I eating because I'm hungry or because I'm stressed?" If the answer is the latter, try doing something else to de-stress. Go for a long walk or watch a movie you enjoy. This is a healthier option than eating due to emotional stress.
 Pizza is a treat frequently consumed by college freshmen. Oftentimes, you'll end up ordering pizza during a late night study party or stopping at a pizza place on your way home. A good way to cut back on how much pizza you consume is to order a salad first. Get a large salad and eat all of it. That way, you'll be fuller when you reach for the pizza. Instead of eating two or three slices, you may feel compelled to stop at one., Oftentimes, dehydration is mistaken for hunger. Drinking water before and during meals can help fill you up faster, lessening the likelihood of overeating. Make a conscious effort to consume more water throughout the day. Carry a reusable water bottle with you to class each day. Go for water over soda or juice when choosing beverage options in the cafeteria., A lot of convenience foods, popular with college students, are stocked with unhealthy ingredients. Foods high in processed carbs and trans fats can easily translate to weight gain. Avoid foods of this nature if you want to keep off the freshman 15.


Some fats, like those found in fruits like avocados, are healthy and necessary for your body to function and should be consumed in moderation. Processed foods, on the other hand, are often high in trans fats. These fats can cause weight gain and increase your risk for cardiovascular problems. A good way to cut out trans fats is to avoid processed foods, which are popular for college students. Ditch the frozen dinners. If you're looking for a quick meal, fix a healthy sandwich or salad rather than popping a plate of pizza puffs in the microwave.Processed carbs are often found in food made from white flour. White rice, white bread, and white pasta are all processed carbs. A lot of popular restaurants on college campuses may offer foods heavy in processed carbs. Look for opportunities to switch to whole grain or whole wheat products when possible. See if you can get brown rice with your Chinese take-out. Ask your favorite campus pizza place if they offer whole wheat crusts.

