 To use heat to help open the coconut, it’s important to ensure that your oven is warm enough. Set the temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat., Put the drained coconut on a baking sheet, and set it in the oven. Allow the coconut to bake for approximately 10 minutes or until you see a crack develop in the shell.If the coconut hasn't cracked after 10 minutes, continue to bake it until you notice that the shell is starting to split. Check the coconut every few minutes, though, to ensure that you don't heat it longer than necessary.
If you’re in a hurry, you can also microwave the coconut. Place it on a microwave-safe plate, and heat it on medium-high power for three minutes., When the coconut has started to crack, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Allow it to cool for two to three minutes. Next, wrap the coconut in a small kitchen towel or rag., With the coconut still wrapped in the towel, set it inside a large plastic garbage bag. Twist the bag closed, and whack the coconut against a hard surface several times until you feel it break into pieces.The harder the surface that you hit the coconut against, the easier it will be to break. A concrete surface works especially well.
 When the coconut is broken into pieces, remove it from the garbage bag and unwrap the towel. Take each piece, and wedge a knife between the shell and the white meat of the coconut to carefully separate the two.You don’t necessarily have to use a sharp knife to separate the coconut meat and shell. It’s best to start with a butter knife and only move onto a sharp knife if you’re having trouble.
Steady the pieces of coconut as you’re separating the coconut shell and meat by bracing it against your table or counter.
 After you’ve separated the coconut, there may still be some light brown fiber covering the white meat. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the fiber as you would the skin from a potato or other vegetable. Once you’ve removed the fiber from the meat, you’re ready to eat or cook with your coconut.If you don’t have a vegetable peeler, you can use a sharp knife to carefully peel away the fiber from the meat.

