 That way, if you lose it, it has a chance of finding its way back.


If this is a notebook for work, tape or glue a business card to the front cover, either inside or outside, as you prefer.;
, Make your notebooks easy to tell apart from one another. Differentiate them by color, style of writing, size, color of font and in any way it's easy for you.
 Choose information that you want to have at hand. Possibilities include important phone numbers, account names, names and contact information of coworkers or classmates, and any information having to do with the subject of the notebook and medical abnormalities. For a class, include the name of the class, the time and room.


Don't write your passwords, locker combinations, etc. in your notebook, nor account numbers that could compromise privacy or security if they are lost.
, For a basic notebook, packing tape might work perfectly well.
 This will both protect the cover and obscure any ugly decorations.
 Alternatively, use tape flags or colored paper clips to mark pages. If the pages go in order, you could also clip off a small corner of each page as you use it so that you can find your current place.
 You can either add a corner pocket or a full pocket, and you can size it for scratch paper, note cards, business cards, or items you receive. Use ordinary paper or thin card such as a cut-up file folder. Secure it with tape or a glue stick.
 Stick tape to itself and wrap it around your favorite pen or pencil. Then, tape it into the back cover. Other possibilities are to use a short piece of elastic and stitch it to the cover or to tie a short length of string through the spiral binding or a hole in the cover.
 This can be sturdy tape or, if you're handy with needle and thread, a fabric strap. Attach it to both covers opposite the spine so that the notebook doesn't flop open or drop its contents when you carry it.
 Five or ten at a time will come in handy without creating an overly lumpy writing surface.
 Were you using the paper company's logo, anyway? Affix your own card or insignia, or get out the markers, rubber stamps, stickers, glue stick, and collage materials of your choice and start adding some color.

