 It is helpful to have a solid foundation of "Sit", "Stay", and "Come", before moving onto tricks, but it is not absolutely necessary. If you have a young puppy or just want to have fun, then don't be afraid to try some tricks., To teach your dog to yawn, carry a clicker and treats with you at all times. Watch your dog like a hawk and when he yawns of his own accord, immediately click when he is in mid yawn. Then, let him finish yawning and reward him. Try to catch your dog yawning as often as you can and mark and reward the behavior. After a few times, start to label the behavior as "Yawn.” Soon your dog will understand the connection and will begin to yawn on command., A more complex trick that you can teach your dog is spinning in a circle. Training your dog to do this trick requires using a bit of wet food to get him to perform the desired action. Then you will need to reward the action and pair it with the command "spin." First smear a bit of tasty dog food on the tip of his tail. When he reaches around to lick his tail, click to mark the correct action of turning to one side.
Continue to reward him for reaching around to his tail and mark/reward the behavior. After a few times, begin to name the behavior as “spin.”
As you continue to train this behavior, your dog should start turning to continue to be rewarded. After a while, the turning will evolve into a full spin.
 Training your dog to do a high five is simple. Wait for your dog to lift a paw, then click the clicker to mark the behavior. Then give him a reward. If your dog seldom lifts his paw, then you can gently lift his paw and click to show him that this is a good thing to do., Knock on the door or do another similar action that might trigger your dog to bark. Then, click the clicker to mark the barking and reward him as well. After a few times of repeating the action, start saying "speak" along with the clicker, so that he knows what he's expected to do.The Speak command goes hand-in-hand with "quiet." Once you have trained your dog to bark on command, you can also teach him to be silent. To do this ask him to speak, then click and reward him. While he is eating the treat and being silent, click to mark the quiet, and then give him another reward. Then, start to label the action as "quiet.” By teaching “speak” and “quiet” together, you can control when your dog barks and when he is silent.

