 Turning off this service will trade search speed for general computer performance. If you don’t use the search function often, then you probably will not need it enabled.


Click Start, then type “services.msc”. Click the “services” program in the search list. This opens the Services window.
Scroll down to Windows Search, right-click on it, and select Properties. In the “Startup type” drop-down menu, select Disabled. Click Apply to save the changes. Click Stop to terminate the current service, and it will not start again the next time Windows boots.
 The Aero theme is what gives Windows its unique visual flair. On lower-end machines, it can take up a significant amount of valuable system resources.


Right-click on the desktop and choose Personalize.
Choose any of the "Basic and High Contrast Themes". This will strip the Windows UI down to the bare bones, potentially giving your system a significant performance boost.



Click the Start orb.
Click "Control Panel".
Click "Appearance and Personalization".
Click Personalization.
Click Window Color and Appearance.
Uncheck "Enable transparency".
Click "Save changes".
 This utility will delete junk files on your hard disk. For some users, this may lead to increased performance.


Click Start > All Programs > Accessories > System Tools > Disk Cleanup. The utility will need to calculate what files are junk, and this process can take several minutes.
After the utility is finished loading, select which files you wish to remove. Disk Cleanup provides a description for each file type that you select.
 As files are moved around, installed, and deleted, they leave behind fragments that can slow down your computer’s ability to access your hard drive. Defragging is typically set to run on a schedule by default, but you can run it manually too.


Go to Start > All Programs > Accessories > System Tools > Disk Defragment.
Click "Defragment disk".
Note: It is not recommended to defrag SSD's.
 Formatting and reinstalling Windows can restore your computer to some of its original performance, and is not as complicated as it sounds. Check out our guide on Reinstalling Windows 7 for an in-depth guide.

