 The news can be shocking and a lot to take in at once, so first give yourself at least a few hours to process your new reality. Then spend the rest of the day doing your best to relax, unwind, and look after yourself both physically and emotionally.
 By this point, you will hopefully have somewhat of a clearer mind and better picture of what to start doing going forward. Some tasks you can take care of today include the following:


Applying for unemployment benefits (if eligible)
Reevaluating your budget and finances while there is no steady income
Thoroughly polishing your professional resume/CV

,

Scour online job boards like Indeed, CareerBuilder, Monster.com, etc. for leads you can filter by a variety of preferences.
Try old-school job searching methods like browsing the Help Wanted section of your local newspaper, or even take the initiative of researching companies you might want to work for, and find out if they are hiring.
Reach out to your network. Many jobs come from people knowing people, especially in your field. This is a good time to call, text, e-mail, or schedule face time with people who may be able to guide you.
Find resources for job hunters. If your area offers career counselors, this may be an excellent time to get help. Places such as unemployment offices, schools (and possibly your alma mater), and even community colleges can help guide your process in a way that a web site may not be so effective.
 Most people tend to do their best with having a schedule of some sort to make sure important things get done. Otherwise, they tend to be put off. Sure, you have flexibility to do fun things more or less when you want to--and on occasion this is fine--but this can become a temptation to slide into a slothful, wasteful existence. Setting up a regimen will help keep you from blowing off job-hunting, and invest your time well in things you did not have time for while working, like volunteering, exercise, hobbies, or spending time with family.

Keep up the job search. Although some people recommend spending as much time looking for a job as your would at a job, this may or may not be practical. In reality, there is often a lot of down-time even when you are diligent. People will take time getting back to you. It will take time even to simply hear back from a prospective employer about an opportunity.

Try to aim for a certain number of applications each week--this will help you keep focused.
Each day (or most days) check job websites that are likely to yield results, and also a peek at websites that are not as likely, but worth checking every week or so.
 This includes exercise, sleep, eating, and mental health.

Have a bedtime and wake-up time. Good sleep is important for good health, and easier to schedule if unemployed. It is tempting to stay up late because you can, but this can lead to obesity, depression, and make it harder to re-enter the work world once you do get hired. It is understandable to enjoy a little flexibility in sleep schedules, but in reality having it scheduled tends to make people healthier.
Plan meals. When unemployed, the temptation is to skip meals, eat poor-quality food, and eat at odd times. Again, eating more or less at regular times, and scheduling time to cook real food with real nutrition will usually be healthier and often less expensive. Even better, invite friends to dinner occasionally so you get to socialize.
Get exercise. One benefit of unemployment is often time to exercise, but if it is not planned in the schedule, it may not happen. This could be really using your gym membership, but could also be as simple as playing "Pokemon Go", gardening, taking walks around the block, or doing Tai Chi in the park.
Plan mental health time. Being unemployed can be a very stressful, anxious time despite having lots of "down time". Planning some time to take care of yourself mentally can help--and you deserve it. This will vary from person to person, but can mean time put aside for:

Hobbies: Painting, cooking, hiking, prayer, yoga, online games.
Volunteering: Helping at the local food shelf, help out at the church, library, or school, edit on Wikihow, and more.
Time with friends and family: Visit your father, take your child to the beach more, have coffee with that high school friend, offer to give your sister a night out with her husband to watch your niece and nephew, have friends over for dinner.
Projects and Learning: Now may be time to fix that lawnmower, repaint the bathroom, sew that quilt, develop that app, learn to play guitar, write that one-act play, learn Spanish, or get your GED.
Take one day off at least once every two weeks during unemployment. You will benefit from the opportunity to recharge by doing something completely unrelated to the job search, like going on a trip with a friend or just hanging around the house.



