 Your doctor should be able to recommend a diet more specific to your needs, as there is no single perfect diet for people with high blood sugar or diabetes. However, if you have high blood sugar, it is usually a good idea to lower the amount of meat, dairy, white bread, white rice, potatoes, and sugary foods you consume., These foods, and other foods high in fiber and moderate in fat, are recommended for people with high blood sugar. Whole grains may not be appropriate for every person with high blood sugar, so consult your doctor before making them a major part of your diet.Fresh apples, dried apricots, or peaches canned in juice or water are good choices. Avoid canned or frozen fruits that have added sugar.At least 3 cups (700mL) of raw vegetables or 1.5 cups (350mL) cooked vegetables every day are recommended. Try artichokes, cucumbers, or salad greens. Fresh vegetables are better than frozen or canned ones, which sometimes have added sodium.Oatmeal and barley are especially good whole grain options for most people with high blood sugar.Note that eating too many carbohydrates can increase your blood sugarand cause obesity.
 If you are not certain whether a food is harmful, ask a doctor or look up the food on a glycemic index, which gives a rough idea of its effect on blood sugar (but not its overall healthiness)."High glycemic" foods with a Glycemic Index rating of 70 or above should be avoided if you have high blood sugar. Replace these with "low glycemic" foods (GI rating 55 or below), such as the foods recommended above.Foods with a rating between 55 and 70 have a "medium" rating, and can be eaten in low to moderate amounts depending on your needs.
 If you use these substances daily or imbibe them in large quantities, you could be seriously affecting your body's ability to produce insulin, which breaks down sugar in your bloodstream.If you are trying to quit smoking, realize that products containing nicotine may cause similar effects. Nicotine patches or gum may be used as a temporary replacement, but should not be treated as a long term solution if you are concerned about high blood sugar., Newspaper headlines often make claims about managing blood sugar or other health issues with common foods, but these are not always backed up by high-quality medical studies. Studies of coffee have produced contradictory results, so its overall effect on blood sugar is unclear.One study of cinnamon found possible benefits, but only a small group of similar people were tested. All of them were people over 40, with type 2 diabetes, who were not using insulin therapy or taking medications for health conditions other than diabetes.Even if a claim seems reasonable to you, realize that one food item is never a replacement for exercise, other dietary changes, or medical treatments.
 While the following steps describe actions that are generally helpful for people with high blood sugar and associated health problems, they will not be as effective as specific recommendations tailored to your health problems and characteristics.


Visit your doctor or doctor-recommended nutritionist regularly to check on progress and keep an eye out for possible health problems that result from high blood sugar.
 While exercise reduces blood sugar in the long run, it can actually increase your blood sugar in the short term by encouraging your body to produce glucose (sugar) to fuel your muscles.If you have diabetes or other health issues that require testing your own blood sugar, it's important to check your blood sugar levels before you begin exercising and about every 30 minutes during exercise.A doctor or drugstore may be able to provide you with a blood glucose meter or testing strip for testing your blood sugar.
 If you are diabetic, it's important to adapt your exercise routine to the results of a blood sugar test, as mentioned above. Decide whether exercising is safe at this time using these instructions, or the instructions your doctor provides for your specific case:If you blood sugar is lower than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L), raise your blood sugar before exercising. A small snack containing carbohydrates should accomplish this, such as fruit or crackers. If you do not eat any carbohydrates and exercise anyway, you risk experiencing shakiness and anxiety, falling unconscious, or even entering a coma.If the test result is between 100 and 250 mg/dL (5.6–13.9 mmol/L), no action is required unless your doctor instructed you otherwise. Continue to exercise.
 If you are diabetic, and especially if you have type 1 diabetes, you should not exercise when blood sugar is high without first testing for ketones.These are substances that cause serious health problems if they build up, and exercising might increase their levels. Test your urine for ketones using as ketosis test strip from a drugstore, following the instructions carefully. Do not exercise if ketones are present, and test regularly if ketone levels are moderate or high.Seek medical attention immediately if you have very high ketone levels or if the ketone levels don't drop after 30–60 minutes.


If your blood sugar is higher than 300 mg/dL (16.7 mmol/L), do not exercise. Wait for 30–60 minutes without eating, and test again to see if your blood sugar has dropped to a level that is safe for exercising. Let a doctor or nurse know if you experience this high level of blood sugar frequently or for several hours at a time.
 Exercise helps convert glucose into energy, makes your body's cells more sensitive to insulin, and reduces excess fat, which is associated with high blood sugar.The more active you are, the less likely you are to have problems with high blood sugar.


Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise a day, for at least 5 days a week. In total, you should exercise 150 minutes or more each week.Try to find an exercise that you enjoy; this way you will be more likely to stick with it in the long run. Fast walking, swimming laps, or bicycling are common choices.
 If you have diabetes or are at risk for diabetes, keep an eye out for signs that the exercise may be causing health problems. If you feel faint, have chest pain, suddenly feel short of breath, or notice blisters or pain in your feet, stop and call your doctor., Check with your doctor to determine how often you should do this. Depending on your treatment plan, your doctor will advice you to check your levels either every day or multiple times per week.If you do not have access to medical treatment, you may still be able to find a blood sugar glucose meter or testing strip at a drugstore.
 Even if you follow a strict diet and reduce your consumption of sugar, your blood sugar levels may change unpredictably, especially if you have diabetes.Blood sugar levels tend to rise in the hour or two following a meal.Blood sugar levels decrease in the long run through physical exercise, which transfers glucose from your blood to your cells.Female menstrual cycles cause fluctuations in both hormones and blood sugar levels.Almost all medications have an influence on blood sugar levels.Be sure to check with your doctor before beginning any new medication.
 Chronic stress can release hormones that prevent insulin from working properly.Eliminate stressful aspects of your life if possible, for instance by avoiding arguments or reducing your workload. Combat stress through relaxing exercises such as meditation or yoga.
 Some people can manage blood sugar through diet and exercise alone, while others need to be prescribed diabetes medications or insulin therapy.Many doctors advise their diabetes patients to use medication, diet, and exercise to control blood sugar.Insulin injections may also be used to help manage blood glucose levels throughout the day.These can be self-administered at home.

