 Wedding invitations are typically broken up into three different parts: the save-the-date, the wedding invitation, and the RSVP card. Decide if you want all of these to be included in your invitation-making process, and how similar or different you would like each part to appear.


The save-the-date typically includes an announcement of engagement and marriage, the names of the couple, and the date and (optional) time of the wedding. You don’t have to include the location or any other details.
The wedding invitation should be sent out at least six weeks before the wedding date. These should include all of the information for the wedding including the names of the couple, the location, date, and time. Feel free to include more than just the basic information on your invitation.
The RSVP card is a smaller card that is sent with the invitation. This is an optional, but helpful, inclusion to your invitation. It comes with an envelope and gives the recipient of the invitation the ability to tell you if they are coming, the number of guests, and their preferred dish for the dinner. The recipient will mail this back to you, so you know how many people your wedding needs to be prepared for.
 Before you can make your invitations, you need to know how many you will have to create. To do this, make a guest list organized by family or household. Include the full name, address, and optionally their email and phone number.


It is easiest to organize all this information into a spreadsheet on your computer. This way, you can quickly pull up the information and make any necessary changes.
As guests RSVP, highlight or mark their names on the guest list. This will help you to keep track of who all is going, and who you have not heard from.
Pay attention to anyone on your guest list who may have special invitation needs. If they live in a rural or remote area, you may need to send them an invitation online as well through the mail. If they speak another language, have a special translated version of your invitation made.
 Once you’ve decided what parts of the invitation you want to make, make a sample (or a few) for each part. Choose the exact wording you want to appear on your invitation, including the order of different sets of information and spacing on the invitation.


Decide if you want to use formal or informal wording. Classic formal introductions include “request your presence at their wedding ceremony on...” or “The family humbly invites you to the wedding of on...”If you want a more informal wedding invitation, try an introduction like “happily invites you to their wedding on...” or simply “You’re invited!” with the included location and date/time.
Although this is just the sample text, make sure that you proofread to avoid any spelling or grammatical errors in the invitations.
Don’t feel limited to making one version of the information that will be on your invitation, but make several versions testing different styles of writing.
Feel free to include directions on the wedding invitation, especially if the location is remote or unknown to most of the guests., Designing your invitations should ideally be done after you have taken steps in planning your actual wedding. For the best looking invitations, choose colors that match the rest of your wedding décor.


Limit your invitation colors to 3 at most. This will keep the invitation from looking overwhelming or busy.
Use at least one neutral or base color. Typically white or cream is used for this, but any light color can be the base. Then, you can use 1-2 additional bright or rich colors to compliment it.
Make sure that you use a contrasting color for the background/text so that it is easy to read everything on your invitation.
Keep the same colors for the invitation, save the date, and RSVP card. You want all the sections of your invitation to flow, not to clash with each other.
Choose what parts of your invitation will be in each color. This includes the background, the text, and any additional design elements you add.
 Before you start adding text and images to your invitation, you must first choose a background. If your invitation text is formal, consider having a classic neutral background. Informal text can match well with quirky, fun background patterns or images.


If you want to have a solid color background, decide on the color scheme. Will you have a single color, or use an ombre effect to fade two or more colors together?
Consider using a pattern or image as the background. Although you have to slightly amend the area where the text will be placed, using a patterned background is an easy way to add interest to your invitation.
Remember that you can use paper that already has a background image printed on it. This way, you are only responsible for creating the text and placement for your invite, and choosing a patterned paper that you want.
You can give the illusion of a background image by using textured (rather than patterned) paper.
 If you want to include pictures or images for your invitation, brainstorm a couple options. If you don’t feel confident with your skills in this area, consider asking an artistic/creative close friend or family member for their help and input.


If you want to have an image, design it yourself or use a free stock photo. Images to consider are a frame or border around the text, small design-related drawings or clipart, or an engagement photo of the couple.
If you use an image, decide if it will be on a solid piece of cardstock with the text printed on vellum that is attached over the top, or if you will include all images and text on the same piece of paper.
Avoid adding too many things to your invitation. If you have a textured background, don’t use too many images or borders. Don’t use more than two images or pictures for an invitation, and make sure the text is the focus of the invite.
 Equally important as the images and colors used on your invitation is the font style of your text. Font is important for attributing a certain mood to your invitation.


For a formal invitation, go with a classic cursive of serif font. This will give the classy, sophisticated look you are going for.
If you use informal text and design, consider using a handwritten font or sans-serif font. You are not limited to these though, and can certainly use a formal style of font for the invite.
Limit your font choices to two at most. It is not unusual to have a wedding invitation with multiple fonts, but using more than two can become overwhelming to the eye.
 Invitations these days can be incredibly detailed and have many additional pieces and stylistic elements outside of the invitation itself. Consider embossing, adding ribbons or bows, using confetti, or adding glitter to your invitations.
 There are hundreds of different envelope styles on the market, many specifically designed for wedding invitations. This part of the process may not be able to be hand-made, except for the most adventurous brides. Find envelopes in the right size, shape, and color online to match your invitations.
 With everything decided on - text, color scheme, background, and possible images - you can now create a mock-up of you invitation. Create a rough draft of your invite with ideal text/image placement.


Make several versions of a single invitation style by moving around text, increasing/decreasing the size of objects, and trying different borders.
Don’t feel like you must stick with a certain style or format. Try many different styles to find which you like best; you may be surprised by what you like and don’t like.
Be sure to think about the size you need to make your invitations in. This may change the formatting slightly.
 Once you have considered all text placement and design styles, put together a final invitation. Make sure that there are no basic text mistakes and that you know the exact sizing for your cards., Although you may have already decided on a type of paper to use if it is adding a patterned background or texture, you should choose on a type of paper for you invitations after designing them.


Visit local craft or print shops to see different styles of available paper. Pay attention to price, and consider the change in cost if you buy in bulk.
Avoid glossy photo paper for your invitations, as this style gets damaged easily. Instead, try using matte photo paper or cardstock.
Make sure that your paper can be cut to size or ordered in the correct size for your invitations.
If you are considering layering pieces of paper for your invitations, make sure to choose the paper for each individual layer. You will likely need equal numbers of each piece.
 You can print your invitations at home or through a print shop. Often, if you design the invitations yourself you will have saved enough money to get a good print job done at a local shop.


If you print at home, make sure your printer is compatible with the paper you intend on using and that you have plenty of ink. Gather a reliable ink or toner, preferably the printer’s original cartridges to give you the best quality possible.
Call multiple print shops in your area to get estimates on prices. For simply printing and cutting your invitations to size, you may have only a very small fee to pay.
Make sure that you print your invitations in the accurate size, so that you don’t waste a lot of time and money re-printing your invites because of a sizing mistake.
 Once you have gotten all of your invites printed and cut to size, put them together! If there are multiple layers to each invited, secure them with glue or brads. Place the RSVP card or additional directions inside the the invitation, and then the entire invitation into the envelope.


Remember that the envelope can be closed with a sticker or wax seal rather than just lick-and-sealed.
Use your best, clear handwriting to address the envelopes or print stickers in a font matching your invitations.
 With all of them completely assembled and addressed, finish the process by inviting your friends and family to celebrate your big day. Be sure to send your invitations at least six weeks before your wedding.

