 Pay attention whilst you listen to the song. Identify the number of different parts and if any of them repeat. This makes up song structure. If a song goes: opening, verse, chorus, verse, and ends on the chorus, then you basically have three different parts to learn.


The song structure is important because some songs can actually just have one riff or chord progression played throughout. Other songs have non chorus based structure.
Listen to your chosen song all the way through without pausing it. Are there parts to the song that sound harder to learn than others? Or, if you're learning with technology, are there certain parts you might find hard to create? If any of these answers is yes, consider starting off with an easier and shorter song.;
, Some genres are much harder to learn than others. For example, Dubstep is harder to learn than RnB because you have to use certain technology and effects to create it.


If you're a pianist, consider learning Pop and Classical songs first.
If you are in a band or would like to be in a band, consider learning Rock, Metal, Country or Folk.
If you are into the charts, or would like to be a DJ, consider learning Hip Hop, Urban RnB, DnB, Dubstep and Electronica.
 Always try to use headphones or shut yourself in an empty room. And don't ask everyone what song your playing.
 Always try to use headphones or shut yourself in an empty room.
 Note down in your head any memorable melodies and bass lines. Or, if it's a technology genre, note down any effects or uses of technologies.
 If the song has lyrics, consider listening to instrumentals of your chosen song. It will be much easier to hear the specific instruments. Always note down what you can hear. Do you notice any patterns? Are there any pauses or breaks?

, Listen for any changes to these. In some music this is bound to be frequent so always take your time when trying to learn. Don't rush and don't give up.
 This requires figuring out the bassline. This is helpful because you can easily see what key the song is in. Once that's done, you can apply some theory to help get the right chords. Since songs use scales (mostly major), each successive chord on the 7 intervals of the scale will use the notes of the scale used in that specific key. In other words, in the key of E, your notes will be E, F#, G#, A, B, C#,and D#, and those are the notes you have to use to apply the 1-3-5 chord form onto each interval of the scale. That would mean your chords used on the 1 to 7 intervals would be E, F# minor, G#minor, A, B, C#minor, and D# diminished (a minor chord with a flattened fifth). Of course, musicians often substitute other chord variations like suspended chords (substitute the 3rd. for the 2nd. or 4th.) or dominant seventh chords (a major chord with a flattened 7th.), but knowing how to figure out chords with theory is very helpful.
 Don't pay any attention to the notes or chords (even though you have already learned them). Figure out the rhythm by tapping your foot to the beat or tapping your fingers on something to get the rhythm.
 Note down any effects used on the melody, such as reverb, EQ and delay. In dance music, this is frequent.
 If you have already figured out everything else, then you know what key the song is in and should be able to get the lead work pretty easily. Moreover, if the song does not have any solo parts, you can just add them using some simple scales. Try to play the solo part using pentatonic scales first. Be sure your solo is based on the main melody of the song. Then add some more improvements with slide, bend and vibration techniques.
 If it's of the technology, genre then look for tutorials on how to create certain parts and effects that you can't do with your chosen instrument.

