 One of the biggest changes you’ll face during puberty is the start of your period. It can seem very overwhelming and uncomfortable to talk about, but the more you know about it, the more prepared you’ll be.


Check the library for books on the topic, ask your school nurse if she can give you any information, or talk to your doctor about what to expect or to address any questions you have.
In addition, talk to you mother, an older sibling, or family member about what their experiences were when they first got their period.;
, You’ll probably feel better about getting your period if you’re ready for it. It can be nerve racking worrying about where you’ll be and what you’ll be doing when it comes. Make an emergency period kit you can carry with you so you’ll be prepared when you get your first period or for any unexpected bleeding.


Include sanitary pads, tampons, menstrual cups, a clean pair of underwear, and pain reliever., Finding the right method to absorb the blood during your period takes some time and experimentation. Pads and tampons come in a variety of absorbencies. The absorbency you need will depend how heavy your flow is, which can vary throughout the several days you are on your period. Consider the following when you’re deciding which method to try first:


Pads are the easiest method to use when you first get your period. These are rectangular pieces of absorbent material that attach to the inside of your underwear with a strip of adhesive. If your period is heavy, you will probably want a thick, super absorbent pad with wings (pieces of cloth that fold over the sides of your underwear to prevent leaking). On lighter days you may be able to wear a thin panty liner. You should change your pad every three to four hours.
Tampons are a little more difficult to use than pads. Tampons are made of absorbent material that is compressed into a tubular shape that is inserted into the vagina to absorb the blood. Many tampons come in a plastic applicator, which can make inserting them easier. They also come in different absorbencies, like super, regular, or light. To use a tampon, relax your body and follow the directions on the box. You will remove it by pulling gently on the string that hangs outside your body. You should change your tampon every four to six hours.
A menstrual cup is a small rubber or silicone cup you insert into your vagina to catch the blood before it leaves your body. You should remove and empty the cup several times a day. To do so, follow the instructions on the package., Every girl’s period is different so what works to relieve period cramps for your friend might not work as well for you. Talk to your mom and other adult females about what tips and tricks they have for relieving period pain and experiment with these until you find one that works for you.


Some women use heating pads or hot water bottles to ease pain.
Pain relievers with ibuprofen might also help. If you’re experiencing a great deal of pain, you can also talk to your doctor about a prescription pain reliever that might give you more relief.