 If you’re a homeowner in a suburban area with no reason to be concerned with the threat of wind erosion or passing herds of deer, consider growing a beautiful sweep of forsythia or enkianthus around your home. Not only do these plants make good natural fences, they’re also pleasant to look at. Their foliage is dotted with delicate, colorful blossoms, which will add aesthetic charm to any yard or garden.Some other flowering plants commonly used as natural barriers include rose bushes, lilac and hydrangea.Flowering shrubs attract insects that in turn help pollinate them and prolong their lives.
 Depending on the species of flowering plant you’ve chosen to serve as a living fence, you’ll need to have some system of guiding and supporting the plants as they grow. Set out a line of tall wooden stakes or a low arch reinforced with heavy-gauge wire. Use flexible plant wire to attach the stalks of the plants to the vertical supports.Your supports should be wide enough to house a row of developing seedlings.
If your fence is to be especially long or follow an intricate path, you may need to build multiple support structures.
 Sow the seeds of your flowering plants just in front of the vertical supports you installed, roughly 2-3 feet apart. The support structure will act as the backbone for your fence, ensuring that it grows tall and straight and acting as a barrier or its own while the plants are still young.


A dedicated reinforcement structure can help ensure that flowering plants grow taller than they otherwise might if left unsupported.
Retie the plant's stems as needed to shape its growth as it spreads out.
 Your living fence should receive plenty of water while it’s in its initial stages of development. Make rounds with a watering can once a day around midday, or twice a day in hotter months or dry climates. Controlling the amount of moisture your plants receive will accelerate their growth and help them flourish.Shower the soil around the roots of flowering shrubs and leafy hedges every few days. Trees and large, woody shrubs will only need to be watered once or twice a week.
Avoiding overwatering your living fence. If your plants stop growing suddenly or appear wilted or colorless, reduce the amount or frequency of waterings., As your living fence matures, it will begin to grow around the support structure, and its branches and foliage will spread. Trim excess growth at its peak to control its spread and establish a clear boundary around your property. Shape your fence to whatever height, width and direction your needs or preferences dictate.For agricultural purposes, the fence should be tall enough to provide privacy and confine large livestock like goats, cows and horses, with closely tangled branches that will keep out scavenging animals.
The cuttings from most plants can be replanted and used to grow more natural fencing.