 Cut 2 in x 1 in (5 cm x 2.5 cm) rectangles out of thick paper or cardboard. Draw a line down the center of the rectangle. Write one letter in each space. Make several dominoes.Play with letter dominoes just like you play with standard dominoes.
Have your child say the name of the letter they match to a new domino.
 Divide some pieces of paper into nine equal squares. Draw or paste a simple picture in each square. These are the bingo cards. Write letters on smaller pieces of paper and put them in a cup. These are the tokens. Take a token from the cup and say the letter on it. Your child will find a picture on their bingo card that starts with that letter. They can cover the picture with a marker.


On the bingo cards use very simple pictures that represent one word, for example a bird, umbrella, or tree.
Label the pictures so all players can agree what the picture is. This will also help your child recognize words.
The words in the pictures should all start with a different letter of the alphabet.
Make markers from small pieces of paper or take them from another game you have.
 Fold and glue a piece of paper into a cube. Write a letter of the alphabet on each face of the cube. Make a few dice and write different letters on each. Ask your child to roll the dice. They will say the name of a letter they see on the dice and then find a picture starting with that letter on an alphabet bingo card. They can cover the picture with a marker.


To make one big die using all 26 letters in the English alphabet, write six letters on two of the faces and four letters on the other four faces.
The player can choose which letters on the die to match to a picture on a bingo card.
For more advanced play, the player tries to match the first letter on the die to a picture on the bingo cards. For example, if the die face shows “DGZK,” the player first tries to find a picture that starts with “D.” If all pictures starting with “D” are covered, the player tries to find a picture beginning with “G.” If necessary this continues through “Z” or “K.”

