 Focus on becoming more aware. Genetics play a large part in determining the capabilities of our senses and many factors can distract or diminish their ability.While improving our senses is considered very difficult, you can improve your skill by isolating them.;
, Let go of inhibitions to become more susceptible to the sensations your body experiences.


Confidence doesn't come overnight. Build yourself up each day by remembering to stay positive and optimistic.
 Your vision has been your primary sense throughout your life and is responsible for about 80% of the information your brain receives. Without the ability to rely on our vision, we become more aware of what the rest of our senses are experiencing. Give your other sense the opportunity to interpret your environment., Notice every sound and try to judge the distance it's traveling to reach you. Isolate individual sounds like a bird singing. Try following two individual sounds separately.Listen to music with headphones. For a bigger challenge, listen with two sets of headphones and a different song in each ear. Try to follow each song separately.
Listen to music you love. Ask yourself why you love it.
 While your sense of taste and smell are controlled by separate receptor organs, the two senses are entwined and responsible for how your brain perceives taste.Let your eyes close during each bite. Chew slowly and focus on the taste, texture, and smell.
Seek out aromas that you enjoy. Bake some cookies or light a scented candle.
Add different herbs and spices to your meals and try to single them out by their taste.
 Your skin is your largest organ and is responsible for giving you important information about your environment. Your skin keeps you updated on different temperatures, textures, pressure, vibrations, and more. Seek out activities that target your sense of touch.Enjoy your favorite fabric and pay attention to the texture.
Relax in a warm bath or shower.
Get a massage.
 You won't have time to indulge in your senses if you are rushing around trying to get to work. Give yourself an extra fifteen minutes in the morning to savor that cup of coffee.
 You have probably brought some of your favorite things home with you already. Now, you just need to give yourself a chance to really enjoy that new sound system or scented candle by using it! As you become more attuned to your senses, you will naturally create time to pursue them.
 The simple presence of your phone is distracting enough.Texting or checking emails can give you tunnel vision and block out your senses. If you find yourself reaching for your phone, look around you instead. Notice the color of the bartender’s eyes, or the texture of the chair you are sitting on. Listen to the sounds in your environment. Become aware of as many things around you as possible.
 Let go of mental stress and take some personal time away from thoughts of work or your social life. Pamper your body with a massage or a long soothing bath. Enjoy your favorite scented lotions and wrap up in your favorite fabric. Treat your body to a special day of rest and relaxation.Letting go of stress will allow you to enjoy your senses more.
 Trying new things is a great way to awaken your senses. Give yourself the opportunity to expand on the things that your senses enjoy.Listen to different types music. Attend a live concert. Visit an art museum and pretend you can take a painting home with you. Which one would it be?
Spend time in the great outdoors. Visit a new city or a national park. Go on a camping trip. Take a vacation dedicated to your senses.
Try a new restaurant, go wine tasting, or visit a local farmers market and bring home ingredients for a home cooked meal. Savor each bite. Pure enjoyment and gratitude is the key.
 Remember, being sensuous doesn't have to mean being sexual. Physical contact has the power to create a stronger bond between you and your partner, friend, or child.Our sense of touch is the first one we acquire and we pick up a lot of emotional queues through touch.


Embrace your friends. Physical contact with your friends can build trust and enhance lasting relationships.Touch your partner. When you kiss them, linger. Hold their hand when you walk together and caress their fingers. Let yourself enjoy the contact. You may be surprised at the bond it builds between you.
Ruffle your hands through your childs hair. Hug them when you see them. Physical contact with children has been shown to increase their developmental abilities., Look into someones eyes when you see them and hold the contact. Simple eye contact has the power to stimulate love and affection.Keep your eyes warm. Smile. You may be surprised at how many people will smile back.
 Often we are moving too quickly to “stop and smell the roses." Indulging in your senses can be a great therapy to reduce stress.You will become more sensuous as you notice more things about the world around you.


Slowing down doesn't have to mean spending more time. Use the time you have to focus on the physical aspects of your environment rather than the intellectual ones.
Savor the taste of your coffee or notice the new outfit your friend is wearing. Run your hand down your partners face and let yourself simply enjoy being in their company without any obligations.

