 Let your frozen baby spinach thaw out in the refrigerator or out in the kitchen in room temperature in advance of cooking it.


Place the frozen spinach into your refrigerator a day or two in advance, or into a room temperature environment if you can only thaw a couple hours in advance.
Keep frozen spinach in its original packaging or in a sealed bag or container to prevent mess from excess liquid during thawing.
Use a microwave to defrost the spinach last-minute if you could not thaw it in advance. Don’t microwave it long enough to cook the spinach, only to defrost it., Remove the excess moisture created from thawing the frozen baby spinach, if desired, by squeezing or pressing the spinach lightly.


You only need to remove extra liquid if you are intending to later add the spinach to a bread, souffle, dip, or another similar recipe for which excess liquid could create a problem or different outcome.Try placing thawed spinach into a cloth towel or a few paper towels and squeezing or patting it dry. Or, try using a potato ricer tool to press the liquid from the spinach.You may decide not to drain spinach for recipes that won’t be harmed by extra liquid, or could even benefit from it by adding extra moisture while cooking.
 Cook your baby spinach in a skillet by adding the thawed spinach to a nonstick pan and heating evenly.


You can heat oil or butter over medium heat in the skillet before adding spinach, or simply use the natural water content of the spinach to protect it from sticking to the pan.
Add your thawed baby spinach to the pan and gently stir or turn it with a spatula or tongs to heat the spinach evenly.
You can cover the pan with a lid or simply continue to stir the spinach until it appears wilted and is heated through., Place your thawed baby spinach into a pot and cover it with water. Place the pot over high heat to bring the water to a boil.


Leave the spinach in the boiling water for three to five minutes before removing the pot from heat and pouring the contents into a colander to drain.
Use a steamer basket if you have one by filling it with spinach and placing it in your pot over a small amount of water. Boil the water for three to five minutes to steam the spinach and avoid the draining step., Put your thawed baby spinach into a microwave-safe bowl and cook on high for 30 seconds to two minutes.This method works well if you do not have the time or materials to cook your baby spinach by another method.
You may want to avoid draining the excess liquid from thawing, or add in some water, before microwaving in order to preserve moisture. You can also cover the bowl with a lid to keep steam inside.

