 Hermione has a scientific mind. She thinks logically rather than simply through magic which is important in deducing problems. She never accepts things without solid fact or evidence which is why she has difficulty engaging in divination.
 If people say things with incorrect grammar or have gotten an answer wrong, always correct them. You can do this nicely by saying, "(Their name), Albert Einstein didn't create the light bulb, Thomas Edison did, just thought I would like to correct your resources so you don't get confused." Don't overdo it though, people may start to think you're annoying. If you see something misspelled or incorrect on a test or in a book, go tell your teacher. If your teacher said something wrong, go up to her\him and tell them what they said wrong. Always give them more information on that subject, and speak in a strong voice that shows you know it by heart. Always start this by saying 'did you know'. Your teachers will be impressed. Hermione is always happy to punch mean students, too. If somebody is mean to you, pretend to punch them in your imagination. Keep in mind, if you really punch somebody, you could get in BIG trouble.
 If you think the school lunches are detrimental to the student body's health, speak out about it and try to incorporate fresher, greener foods into the mix. You can do this by going in the lunch line and saying, "You know, I would like to have a word with you after lunch, if you you have the time" and see what they say. Or if you are interested in helping with genocide, start a club. Hermione started S. P. E. W. to promote elf rights. Don't be afraid to speak up. Always think of someway you can make your school or a place a better place.
 Hermione's academic record does have benefits. She is able to score a top position in the ministry of magic, doing something she likes and that she is respected for. She also does something that benefits the lives of others. A good education has positive impacts for others.
 Without discipline Hermione would not be able to completed work, stay focused and take notes in class. Discipline is the key to learning.

