 The serial number should correspond to the series. The serial number appears in the upper left and lower right corners. If the serial number doesn’t correspond to the series, then you are dealing with a counterfeit.


If the bill is series 2009, then the serial number should begin with J.
If the bill is series 2009A, then the serial number should begin with L., The new $100 uses raised printing on Ben Franklin’s shoulder. Run your fingers over the spot. You should be able to feel texture., There is a large copper-colored inkwell to the left of the bill’s serial number. Inside the inkwell is a bell, which should change color from copper to green as you look at the bill from different angles.The numeral 100 beside the inkwell should also change color, just as it does on some older $100 bills.
 An embedded thread runs just to the left of Franklin’s portrait. The letters “USA” and the number 100 alternate along the strip, which is visible from both sides of the note.


If you hold the bill up to UV light, then the strip should glow pink.You can also purchase a counterfeit detector which shines UV light, which might be helpful if your business handles a lot of bills. A popular option is the AccuBanker D63 Compact. It costs about $50., Just to the right of Franklin’s portrait is a blue security ribbon. This ribbon is 3-D. Move the bill back and forth and check that you see the number 100 and tiny bells move from side-to-side as you move the bill.This ribbon is woven into the paper, not pasted on. Accordingly, if the blue ribbon is peeling off the bill, then you have a fake.
 Hold the bill to the light and look for a faint image of Benjamin Franklin in the white oval on the right-hand side. You can see the watermark portrait on either side of the bill., Check around Franklin’s jacket collar. You should see the words “The United States of America” in small type.You should also see “USA 100” around the white space that contains the portrait.The words “100 USA” should also appear around the quill pen to the right of Franklin.

