 Don't ever call a dog to you when you're about to do something it might not like.It's very important that your call is always associated with positive experiences. That way, he'll always come when called instead of avoiding you or running off.


“Come” is a potentially life saving command, and you can ruin the puppy’s response to the command with one bad association.
Without chasing him down, pick up the puppy and take him calmly to the bathing area.
Talk happily and calmly to him the whole time. This isn't a race, so don't put pressure on yourself or the puppy.
 Once in the bathroom, close the door so that your puppy will be unable to escape. This may stress him out, so take some time to cuddle and play in the closed bathroom to relax him before the bath.
 Once he's calm and happy, lift the puppy up and place him gently in the water, hind legs first. Make sure his head stays above the water. The water should only reach about halfway up his body, so se your cup to gently and slowly pour water over the dry parts.


If you have a hand-held shower or faucet head, you can use that. Don't use it if it scares the puppy, though.
Talk soothingly, and give praise and treats.
 Pour a little bit of shampoo into a cupped hand and work it into the wet fur with your fingers. A little shampoo goes a long way, so don't overdo it. If you use too much shampoo, you'll be stuck rinsing your puppy's fur forever!


Don’t neglect the puppy’s tail, which also needs shampooing.
 If seems like he's going to try to leap out of the water, keep a soothing hand on his back. Make sure not to manhandle him, but to guide him into the best position. Talk to him soothingly the whole time, and always move slowly. Jerky, sudden movements might cause a scared reaction that could lead to injury in a slippery tub.


Praise and cuddle him to show him that being restrained isn’t a terrible thing., Once you've soaped up the puppy's body and worked the shampoo into the coat, it's time to rinse it out. Use the shower or faucet nozzle if it doesn't scare the puppy. If it does, use your cup or jug to pour the bath water over him. Either way, always avoid getting water on the head and ears, as it could cause an ear infection or frighten him.


Drain and replace soapy water if necessary. Bear in mind your puppy might get cold and start shivering, which you don't want.
It's important that all soap be removed from the coat because residue can cause itchiness.Take your time and be thorough.
 If you do wet the head, you don't want to just dump water over it, as it could frighten him or cause ear infection. Instead, consider one of the following methods:


Using your cup, gently pour warm water over the puppy's head from behind the skull and avoiding the face. Tip his nose up so the water runs down and over the body, away from his nose and eyes.
If this is too much for your puppy, use a very wet washcloth (no soap) to clean the face.
Another method for getting the face wet is to cover the ear holes with his ear flaps. Gently guide his nose down to the floor and pour water to flow over the back of the head. Your hand will cover the eyes while holding the earflaps down.
Be careful about protecting the ears with cotton balls. Remember to remove them after the bath, and don't use them at all if they distract the puppy and make him shake his head a lot.
 When you've thoroughly rinsed all the soap from the puppy's coat, it's time to dry him off. Remove him from the tub and wrap him in towel, leaving the his head exposed. After a gentle initial rubdown, leave the towel on him and put him on the ground. Let him shake to his heart's content — the towel will contain much of the water and cut down on mess. You may want to even give him a command while he does this so he knows it's ok to shake water off of himself.


Make a big fuss over what a good boy he is, and give lots of praise.
Towel dry his body as best you can. Be very gentle with his head and face.
Set aside an ugly old towel that you'll only use on the dog.
 Never use it on a high heat setting, as it's very easy to burn your puppy's skin. If you must use a hairdryer, set it to an "air" setting without heat.


This unusual sound and feeling might frighten the puppy. Introduce him to is slowly well before his first bath, like you did with the tub and water.
Use play, praise, and treats to make it fun.
Avoid directing air toward his eyes, as they'll dry out.
 Until he's completely dry, don't let him go anywhere he could get cold. You also don't want him getting his wet dog smell all over the house, so keep him out of bedrooms, kitchens, or anyplace else you don't want him to make a mess. There's a good chance he'll run around and shake water everywhere after a bath, but this is to be expected. It's easiest to embrace this as part of puppy life.
 If this all seems too much for you and your puppy, consider contacting a professional groomer. Ask about their process for bathing puppies for the first time. You may take him to a professional for his first bathing, but ask to observe and get tips.


If your puppy hasn't finished his vaccination series, you'll need to take special precautions before taking him to a groomer.
The puppy should be the only customer first thing in the morning to protect other dogs. The groomers will have to disinfect the tub, cage, and grooming table after he's gone.

