 Before you start your straw set, make sure you have everything you need. Both methods will require the same items: drinking straws, bobby pins, scissors, and a water spray bottle. You will also need a wide tooth comb and a few hair clips for sectioning.


Cut the bendable top off of each straw you plan to use. If your straws are already straight throughout with no articulated ends, you can use them as-is. When using straight straws, scissors are no longer required.
If your hair takes a long time to dry, you will also need a silk headscarf to sleep in.;
, Your hair doesn't need to be clean when styling it, but if you do wash beforehand you will need to let your hair dry first. Avoid using a blow dryer to prevent heat damage.


This hair roller method can prevent hair from drying completely. If your hair type retains moisture and you are styling ringlet curls, try to get your hair as dry as possible before you style.This isn't as important for the poofy look, however, since you will be removing the straws before your hair dries completely.If you have natural textured hair, drying it completely before styling isn't necessary. You can start your straw set while your hair is damp or wet if you choose., Apply a leave-in conditioner, wrapping lotion, and castor oil to your hair. This step is important if you have type 4 hair that tends to dry out. Your curls will come out much bouncier and last longer.


Skip this step if you don't have Afro-textured hair.
 Run a wide tooth comb through your hair to work out any tangles. Tangles will ruin the sleek look of ringlet curls but will not detract from the messy 1980s style. However, incorporating tangled hair into either method can result in knots that are even harder to remove.
 Splitting up your hair into smaller sections will make it easier to work with. Comb your hair out and away from your scalp and clip each section in place. Leave the first section you plan on styling loose.


How many parts you will section your hair into will be determined by hair length and thickness as well as the amount you feel comfortable working with at a time. Three sections are generally enough for hair rolling.

