;
, Open the scissors and place them slightly off parallel (facing in toward the bottle) against one of the ridges of the crown. Cut through one of the small ridges and continue in a circle until the cap can be removed.
 It's like a lighter, but much easier and much quicker.
 It's not as easy as you'd think, but it's a knack which converts swear by. Flat-sided lighters work best.


Grip the bottle firmly, holding the neck in a thumbs-up manner, with your thumb on the cap. Your fingers should be wrapped around the neck of the bottle; the top finger should leave a lighter's width from the cap.






Insert the lighter bottom between your top finger and the bottom of the cap, aiming above the centre of the bone between your knuckle and first finger joint, such that the lighter is perpendicular to the finger bone.






Tighten your grip of the bottle and wrap that lighter lever around your finger. If you're holding the bottle right, the cap will pop off. Try it a few times to get the grip right, and it won't hurt.
 The key is leverage and not impeding (ie touching) the cap in any way except for the lever. Use the largest knuckle of the index finger as the fulcrum for your lever (google "fulcrum" and think of the Bic lighter as the lever, see below). This method can easily, forcefully, and loudly launch the bottle cap more than 10 feet (3.0 m) in the air, depending on the bottle. I've gotten some good, loud, launches with Samuel Adams but most any pry off beer cap will do. Do NOT agitate the bottle -- it is NOT necessary. Due to the possible forceful ejection of the cap, be aware of your eyes and face -- a bottle cap to the eye could cause permanent damage! The old style full-size Bic lighter, which is somewhat oval shaped, works well due to its dimensions and its tendency to grip the underside of the cap with limited slippage.
 These are useful because they have a handy recessed coin return. Stick the cap in there and push down firmly. Use only strong metal installations

, It may be a hunt to find something effective:

Belt buckles work if they are the right shape. A spatula will work if you use the side






A common fork is a quick and easy method. Using one of the fork's teeth as a lever, push the grooves of the crown up and away from the cap, one at a time.






Children's ice skates may also work. The best skates for this purpose are the expensive ones with hollow sections in the blade. Unfortunately most people don't have those sort.






Car seat belt latches are the right shape for opening bottles. This is not recommended. If an alcoholic beverage is spilled in the car, it could lead to some very interesting questions if you are pulled over.






Metal nail clippers can be used to crimp off the lid. Open the clipper end as wide as possible, wedge one edge under the cap, and pry upwards. You should hear the compressed air being released. Go around the cap until it falls off.
Use the door handle that is located on the side of the door that is not open, apply pressure at an angle and voila its open for you!






A peeler, such as one you would use for a potato works alright. Hold the neck, hold the peeler upside down, an upward curve, unlike when you peel a potato. Get the curve under each edge, and pry each one off one by one. It should spin, but not come off. Then take the peeler, still upside-down, put it under one of the edges, and keep pushing, should pop right off.






Take two bottles, it is possible to open one of them - simply use the side of the cap as the lighter, described above, but be careful; if you don't use the side of the cap you might ending up opening the top one.





A paint can opener, the metal ones with the ring on the end work really well. Just put the nub at the top of the inside of the ring under the cap like a regular bottle opener.
The side of a regular radiator is usually rather efficient and spilling your beloved beverage is not too much of a problem. Just place the sticking-out part of the cap on the sharp edge of the radiator and pull down quickly and sharply.
Hotel hangers (the kind you can't steal), simply place the bottle under the bar, insert the cap into the hanger (where its connected to bar) and pop like a normal bottle opener.
A rubber jar opener - simply squeeze tightly over the cap, twist and pull.

A hammer works great. Turn it upside down, pry the forked end under the cap edges, and work your way around the cap. EASY and safe if you're comfortable using a hammer.






You can actually open a bottle using a piece of computer paper (thicker the better). Fold the paper in half as many times as you can, then hold the bottle in a similar manner as you would if attempting to open the bottle with a lighter. Tightly wedge the corner of the folded paper under the cap edge, and using as much force as you can, pry open the cap. It may take a few attempts, rotating the bottle each time to loosen the cap edges around the bottle. This method will certainly impress your audience, though it is one of the more challenging ways to open a bottle. Watch your hands, it is very easy to nick one of your knuckles holding the paper on the crown edge.







