 You already know that fruits and vegetables contain antioxidants, fiber, vitamins and minerals. All these are essential elements for the correct functioning of your body. It is also well-known that you should consume an abundance of fruits and vegetables. Furthermore, fruits and vegetables are naturally low in sodium (or more commonly known as table salt).


Excessive consumption of salt impedes the correct functioning of the kidneys and can cause kidney stones.
A good trick when you are preparing food is to replace half the salt that you would usually use with other spices.;
, Fast food and highly processed foods contain high concentrations of salt and “bad” saturated oils and trans fats that you should avoid.


Choose fresh foods or if you can’t get them, frozen products.
Oily fish, olive oil, dried fruits, and avocados are excellent sources of healthy fats, which are necessary to line and protect our vital organs.
 Serve yourself small portions of food and eat slowly. When the foods you eat have a high level of nutritional value, a moderate portion will satisfy you. You will feel more active the rest of the day and keep your weight under control.


Being overweight is associated with illnesses like diabetes and hypertension, which are risk factors for various renal and cardiovascular diseases.
The kidneys function better if you maintain an appropriate weight for your physique and age.
 Make your legs your main form of transportation. Walking is a very effective and natural exercise for people. Physical activity delays the aging process and keeps your organs healthy, which is vital to the kidneys. Try the following things:


In your building, at work, or even in the malls, always take the stairs, never elevators.
Walk to work. If you can’t, park your car on the far side of the parking lot and walk to the entrance.
 The best way to maintain good health is to practice sports. Swimming, cycling, mountain biking, dance, and rowing are only a few examples. Besides helping to strengthen the muscles in your whole body, these exercises will help you maintain a healthy weight and reduce the risk of chronic diseases.
 If you decide to do a form of regular exercise, make sure to choose an activity that you enjoy. Otherwise, your resolution will be destined for failure.


Join a football team in your neighborhood, learn to skate, take dance classes, play outside with your children or friends or have active sex.
All these activities improve your general health and produce endorphins, the hormones associated with well-being and happiness.
Staying sitting or standing for many hours can be very damaging to your kidneys. This situation becomes even worse when you don’t drink enough water during these long periods of time.
 Get in the habit of taking a bottle of water wherever you go and take small sips throughout the day. Take advantage of times you can refill the water bottle like at work or at the gym. Adequate hydration helps facilitate the work of the kidneys.
 Beverages filled with sugar can make you gain weight and feel dehydrated, two things that you want to avoid for the health of your kidneys.


Also avoid drinks with artificial flavorings, especially coffee (with cream, artificial flavors, marshmallows, etc.).
It is recommended to drink a minimum of 8 glasses of water a day.
 Some beverages are natural diuretics that contribute to better functioning kidneys.


Pineapple juice, apple juice, and the juice of various berries, especially cranberries are recommended for people who suffer from chronic renal diseases and other related illnesses.
Green tea and tea infusions such as Hibiscus and Chamomile also help the health of your kidneys.

