 In order to vote in the state of Arizona, you must meet a few basic qualifications. You may register to vote if the following is true:You are a US Citizen.
You are a resident of Arizona and the county listed on your registration.
You will be 18 years of age or older on the day of the next General Election.
If you have been convicted of a felony, you must wait until your rights have been restored before voting.;
, In order to register online, you'll need to have Arizona Driver License and/or an Arizona non-operating Identification Card issued by the Motor Vehicle Division (MVD) on or after October 1, 1996. If you don't have either type of ID, you'll need to register by mail or in person., Visit http://servicearizona.com/voterRegistration, where you will be guided through the process of registering online. The site will take you through the following steps:


Verify eligibility to register
Enter personal information, including your name, address and Social Security number (SSN), and ID number
Enter change of address information, if necessary
Enter voter registration information
Confirm that the information is true; this will count as your digital signature

, Once you have completed all sections you will receive your confirmation number. Use this confirmation number to return to the Secretary of State website and ensure you voter registration application has been processed.
 Once your registration has been processed by your County Recorder, you're registered to vote. On election day, go to the correct polling place (you can find it at https://voter.azsos.gov/VoterView/PollingPlaceSearch.do) to cast your vote. Your name should be on the voter roll. Remember to bring proof of identity, such as your driver's license, tribal enrollment card, or another government-issued form of identification so you'll be allowed to vote., You'll receive a card in the mail verifying that you are registered to vote in the state of Arizona. You don't have to bring this card with you to cast your vote, but keep it for your records.

