 Whether you think you deserve it or not, accept the fact and deal with it later. Do not assume or insist you are right and that the teacher/person who gave you the detention is wrong. It may be the other way around.;
, If it's a break time, lunchtime, after school and whether it's in a classroom, a hall or in a different building. Make sure you know who it's with - a special detention supervisor, a teacher or even the watchful eye of the principal or headmaster/headmistress - make sure you know.
 Some schools have a rubbish collection scheme going on or may make you clean under desks (especially if you were caught chewing gum in some schools) during detention time, and may expect you to take part. In that case, don't wear fancy clothes or shoes, and expect to get dirty.
 If you catch a bus, make sure you know whether there is another bus, or whether you will have to walk home. Ask if your parents can pick you up, or if you will have to take a taxi. If there is no available transport you will have to ask your parents or guardians to write or telephone the school as to changing the time, i.e. if an after-school detention for an hour can be changed to two half an hour lunchtime detentions. You should be the one to check that, and you should do it before the day of the detention. Be reasonable and accept that if you live close by and go home by walking, you are unlikely to be allowed to change an after-school detention to a lunchtime one.
 Just because you think you don't deserve it, you can't turn up late. Arriving on time presents a positive image, and can make people less predisposed to handing you a new detention. Using the bathroom before going to detention is often a good idea because you may not be allowed to use the bathroom during detention.
 If you wear a school uniform, wear it properly, i.e. with the tie done up properly, shirt tucked in e.t.c, with no extra additions like funky belts or badges. If you have to wear them, keep them in your bag, and put them on after the detention. If you don't have to wear school uniform, still wear decent clothes, and wear them properly. Hitch up the trousers, pull down the skirts to a reasonable length and just grin and bear it. As soon as you step off the school premises, you can put your clothes back to how you like them.
 If you got the detention for being late to a class, ARRIVE ON TIME TO THE DETENTION. If you got the detention for carrying an mp3 player or wearing incorrect uniform, don't wear them or hide the device/buttons/badges/belts. It's an hour maximum of your time. Surely taking your belt off for that amount of time will not kill you. If it does, you may want to see someone about it. Do not chew gum. It is a prime time way for teachers to give you a new detention.
 where to sit. Don't argue or ignore them. It is not in your best interests to do so.
 "I must arrive on time to all my lessons." Others will just expect you to sit down and read or do homework in the allocated time as long as you do not communicate with others in anyway.
 Do not loudly proclaim innocence or how unfair the detention is. It is a sure fire way of getting another one.

