 Herbs such as kava-kava, valerian, passionflower can act as relaxing agents, relieving the tension of tension headaches within hours.Chamomile, mint or rosemary, while not proven to help headaches, can help you relax and feel less anxious.


Note that rosemary can raise the blood pressure in some individuals.
 Kava-kava has pain-relieving properties, reduces anxiety and improves sleep.It is important to choose an extract done with water and not alcohol. This may reduce the potential of liver damage, which is a risk of kava-kava. Follow the manufacturer’s directions, but in general, take about 75 mg of kava-kava.The main side effect reported with kava is drowsiness.


People diagnosed with kidney disease, Parkinson’s disease, liver disease, blood diseases or taking alprazolam or levodopa should not use kava-kava.
 This remedy has been used for centuries and works by increasing the calming neurotransmitters in your brain.In general, take 150-300mg of valerian.Valerian should not be taken if you are allergic to it or have been diagnosed with liver problems. Side effects such as upset stomach, headaches and drowsiness have been reported.


Valerian should not be taken with many other medications, so check with a knowledgeable healthcare professional first if you are taking any other medications.
 Passionflower has not been very extensively studied, but has a long history of use. It also appears to increase increase calming neurotransmitters in the brain.This can reduce tension and anxiety and may directly reduce pain.In general, take 100-150mg of passionflower.Passionflower has no known side effects, drug interactions or contraindications.
 You can use tea leaves, or purchase a tincture, which is an extract of these herbs, from a nutritional or health food store. Drink 1 or 2 cups at the first sign of a headache.


You can add about 150mg of hops as well. Hops is known in botanical medicine as a tonic and sedative, working to strengthen your whole system and helping you relax., If you have a Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) practitioner near you, ask for Hepataplex (long dan xie gan tang containing beets, milk thistle, parsley, dandelion, boldo, greater celandine and other minor ingredients). This is a traditional combination of Chinese herbs that has been shown to be very effective in relieving tension headaches by reducing inflammation and strengthening the liver and kidneys which are important for overall health. Take 2 pills three times a day as needed (with or without meals)., Place essential oils such as chamomile, mint, rosemary, lemon balm, or lavender into a diffuser at the first sign of a headache. These can help you relax and feel less anxious. Note that lemon balm should not be used by anyone with thyroid problems.

