 Get chicken, turkey or guinea fowl for the outermost portion. Add whichever game birds you desire, or are in season. Notify your butcher ahead of time, to verify availability and to have them prepared for you.Do not wash the meat, or you’ll risk spreading bacteria.Ask your butcher to spatchcock the birds, unless you want to do it on your own. “Spatchcock” means to split poultry down the middle to flatten it.Examples of game birds you may want to use are duck, quail, partridge, pigeon, and pheasant.
Ideally, the sizes of the birds would be graduated, so that they can fit inside each other. However, you will be slicing them, so if they are not graduated you can set aside excess meat for another purpose.;
, Place it breast side down. Take out the meatless bony portion. Spread the bird open down the middle. Open each bird and then flip it over, pressing down to flatten it.Begin at the tail end. Use sharp kitchen scissors to make a lengthwise cut near the backbone. Turn the bird 180 degrees, then cut lengthwise along the other side of the backbone.
 Bone out the legs of the largest bird. Then cut the breasts of each bird into three parts lengthwise, and slice the legs into strips.To bone out each leg: place the leg and thigh on a work surface. Use the tip of a sharp knife to slowly and carefully slice down to the bone. Loosen the meat by cutting around the bone. Separate the meat from the bone and tendons., Rub rosemary or thyme onto the poultry, along with a bit of lemon or orange zest. Make your favorite stuffing recipe, and set the stuffing aside.


If you don’t have your own preferred stuffing recipe: Combine 10.6 oz (300g) of sausage meat, 3.5 oz (100 grams) of chopped nuts (such as pistachios), 3.5 oz (100 grams) of semi-dried cranberries, and a teaspoon (4g) of crushed juniper berries.You can use two different, complementary stuffing recipes, if desired.
 Place about twenty slices of air-dried ham or bacon in layers on plastic wrap that is 24 inches by 12 inches (60cm x 30cm). The ham should create a rectangle that is smaller than the plastic wrap.Interlace the layers of ham like a basket weave.
 Place the largest bird in the center of the layers of ham. Spread half of your stuffing mixture thinly across it. Add each bird, largest to smallest. Spread the remaining stuffing on top.


Use strips of chicken to cover any exposed ham as you go.
 Hold one side of the plastic wrap to roll all of the meat and stuffing together. Optionally, you can use a strong, clean needle and butcher’s twine to stitch your creation together (the roast only, not the cling wrap). Press the plastic wrap closed securely and refrigerate the roast overnight.Stitch extra carefully if you’re using chicken, since its skin is weaker than duck skin.
 Keep the plastic wrap on and completely sealed. Cook the roast at 167°F (75°C) for two and a half hours. Then take off the plastic wrap.Instead of a water bath, you can remove the plastic wrap and wrap the roast in foil. Roast it at 320°F (160°C) for two hours before transferring it to the roasting tray and resuming cooking.
 Cook the roast in a roasting tray at 356°F (180°C) for one to one and a half hours. The roast is done when you insert a sharp knife and the juices are clear.Use an oven thermometer if needed, to verify the temperature of the oven.
 Take it out of the oven and let it sit for at least twenty minutes. Then transfer it carefully to a serving dish.
 Carve the roast into thick slices with a large fork and chef’s knife. If you used butcher’s twine, make sure that you don’t serve that portion., You can brush it with butter or oil, or baste it in gravy. Season it with salt and black pepper, to taste.


Cornbread stuffing goes well with a five bird roast.
 Some side dishes that compliment a multiple bird roast are potatoes, parsnips, chestnuts, carrots, roasted apple wedges, and braised red cabbage. Complimentary sauces include cranberry sauce and bread sauce.


Any side dish that is commonly served around the holidays should compliment your roast at the dinner table.
 Choose an aromatic white wine such as pinot gris. You can serve a pink wine alone, or a sparkling pink wine mixed with red wine. Try a rosé or a dry cranberry wine.If you’re mixing red wine into another wine, or want to have red wine as option, try Grenache.

