 If your first reaction is to get angry or frustrated, hold off doing so until you have more evidence that such a reaction is warranted. If you’re in the middle of a conversation, for instance, and your partner says something that tees you off, wait until you have more information when the exchange is complete before deciding how to react and feel.For instance, suppose your partner says, “I am not just mad that you were late. I am upset about the fact that you seem to often be late and have not corrected this behavior despite the multiple conversations we’ve had about the subject. This suggests to me that you do not value my time.” You might need time to mull it over. Think about the prior conversations you had over the topic. Ask yourself, “Is my partner correct? Have I been thoughtless and/or insensitive to their needs?”
Do not stop reflecting on what your partner said after the misunderstanding has passed. To avoid future misunderstandings, incorporate your new information and improved understanding about how your partner feels and what their expectations are into your decision-making process.
For instance, if your partner expresses frustration over you being late to lunch, do not be late to other appointments involving them such as, movie dates, dinner dates, or planned workout sessions at your local gym. Ask yourself if you need to mark your appointments in your phone so that you can get alerts and reminders.
 One sources of misunderstandings is concentrating on only one fact or set of facts without looking at the entirety of your partner or the entirety of what they said. To avoid this tendency, step back and look at your partner’s entire statement, or entirety of the conversation.For instance, if your partner says, “I dislike your friends,” you might misunderstand them and think they mean that they don’t like you. To prevent yourself from reaching this conclusion, look for facts outside of your conclusion that cast doubt on it, such as the fact that your partner loves and cares for you, and the fact that you and your friends are not the same in every way.
Try to calmly follow up on statements without becoming defensive. If, for example, your partner says they do not like your friends, you might ask them who they dislike and way. Reflect back what you hear your partner say.
 Seeing things from your partner’s point of view can help you avoid misunderstandings with your partner. To see things from another point of view, use your imagination.Consider what they might be feeling or thinking based on your knowledge of their life history and personal experiences.For instance, if your partner did not grow up in a household where meals were frequently made at home, this information might help you understand why they expect you to make dinner.
If your partner was mugged while walking home from work, you might be able to reflect on this situation to better understand why they expect you to pick them up from work after dark.
In other words, what you see as demands upon your time, your partner probably sees as opportunities for you to help them and take the lead. You should see these opportunities in a similar way, or at least understand how your partner sees things. If you are ever uncomfortable with certain responsibilities, discuss your concerns with your partner to avoid similar misunderstandings.

