  This includes the airline, your flight's gate, the departure time, estimated arrival time (sometimes you won't hear this until you get on the flight) and your seat number.  Write this down on a card and stick it in a zipper pocket of a jacket or purse.  It's also a good idea to make a note of it on your phone, or write it on a slip of paper and place it inside your phone case.;
,  Since you're traveling alone, you don't want to be weighed down with 50+ pounds of luggage.  Pack a small suitcase or medium-sized bag with:


entertainment for the flight, such as books, colored pencils, a sketchpad or journal, headphones, etc.
any medication you might need, such as ibuprofen for headaches or a stomachache relief tablet
clothes and other important things (contacts, spare glasses, hearing aids, toothbrush) in case your luggage gets lost, delayed, or stolen
snacks (even if there will be a meal served)
gum, lollipops and hard candy or mints to suck on and relieve pressure and ear popping

, If you are blind, deaf, mute, in a wheelchair, etc., make sure a flight attendant on the plane is able to help you in case you need anything or would be able to assist you in the case of an evacuation.


If you are blind or physically limited in any way, make sure you can get to the lavatory easily.  If you can't, alert a flight attendant.  Some planes have flight-attendant alert cords to pull if you can't reach the alert button.
  Be sure you can receive a call, place a call, or turn the phone on and off.  This is important for communicating with your parents and the person picking you up at the end of the flight.
  Your bag may be the same as someone else's, but you will be able to tell yours from theirs if yours has a colorful ribbon tied around the handle, or a strip of polka-dot duct tape across the front.
  Put your name on the tag of your sweater and inside your shoes.  This may prevent you from losing them and from people walking off with them.
  Keep your ticket, cell phone, your passport, and any cash you're bringing in the purse.  Don't let it leave your side until you reach your destination.
  Don't wear anything that will be removed for security but takes a long time to be put back on.


Girls, do not wear anything form-fitting.  You will be alone, and the airport is a very dangerous place for young girls.  Wear clothing that fits properly but does not show off any part of your body.
  Be sure that your suitcase(s) is/are fixed with labels and left with airport employees.
  If you were dropped off at the airport and are fending for yourself, make it look like you know where you are going and are determined to get there, even if you're not quite sure where to go.  Make a point of asking for help if you get lost.
 When you reach security, remove your shoes and sweater before you get to the line.  If possible, load all of your belongings into a bin and carry the bin to the line, to help you move through faster.


When you leave security, ensure that you have everything.
  If you realize you forgot something, like gum, you can buy it at one of the convenience stores.  This might be a good time to buy breakfast or lunch if you haven't already and it isn't being served on the flight, or go to the bathroom.
  Bring them into the bathroom stall with you and keep them right beside you in line for coffee or a magazine.
  Pay attention to what the flight attendant is saying.  You don't want to miss your category.
 If someone on the flight is making you uncomfortable, don't hesitate to call a flight attendant.  You are, after all, an unaccompanied minor.
  In case of an emergency, you need to know what to do.
  Get a drink and a snack when the cart comes around.  If a meal is being served, eat it.  You don't want to be hungry or thirsty. That being said, listen to your body. If the food is gross and you get nauseous easily, pass on the meal and go for some pretzels and ginger ale instead.
  Breathe deeply and try to sleep.  Distract yourself with books and other things to do.  Eat some pretzels.  Drink some soda.
  Dispose of any garbage.  Make sure nothing is left behind.  Tie your shoes and put on your sweater even if you're feeling warm: you don't want to lose it.
  If items up above shifted during the flight, you'll be safe from falling objects.
  Inform them that you are off the plane and you will be at the baggage carousel.
  Before taking up a spot beside a carousel, make sure it has the luggage from your flight, otherwise you'll be standing there for a long time.
 When you have your luggage, call the person meeting you again and ask them where they want to meet up with you.  Make your way there, or stay at the baggage claim and wait for them if they tell you to do so.


Don't leave with anyone that you don't recognize.
 While you are walking to meet them or waiting, call your parents and inform them that you landed safely and have all your luggage, and that you love them.  Parents really appreciate that last bit.

