 Magneton can be any level when it evolves. It is not possible to evolve Magneton in Blue, Red, Yellow, Ruby, Sapphire, Emerald, HeartGold, or SoulSilver.

You can evolve a Magnemite into a Magneton by raising it to level 30, or you can catch Magnetons at various locations in your game.
Magneton will need to be level 99 or lower. Level 100 Pokémon cannot evolve, since evolving happens during the level up process and 100 is the max.
If you're playing HeartGold or SoulSilver, you can get a Magnezone by trading to Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum, evolving it in that game, and then trading it back. See the next section for details.;
, Magneton only evolves in specific locations depending on the game you are playing:Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - Visit Mt. Coronet. This mountain is located in the center of the Sinnoh region, and can be accessed from Snowpoint City, Hearthome City, Eterna City, Celestic Town, and Oreburgh City.

Black, White, Black 2, White 2 - Visit Chargestone Cave. You can enter the cave from Route 6 or Mistralton City. In Black and White, you'll need to beat the Driftveil Gym first.

X, Y - Visit Kalos Route 13. This can be found in the northern area of the map, connecting Coumarine City and Lumiose City.

Omega Ruby, Alpha Sapphire - Visit New Mauville. This location is underneath Mauville City, and can be accessed by Surfing from Route 110 underneath the bridge.
 Once you're in the right spot, Magneton will evolve when it levels up. You can level up by fighting wild Pokémon and trainers, or by using a Rare Candy., The only way to get a Magnezone in HeartGold and SoulSilver is to trade it to Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum, evolve it, then trade it back to HeartGold or SoulSilver.Both systems will need to be physically nearby in order to trade. Internet trades are no longer possible in these games., Each player will need to have the Pokedex and at least two Pokémon., You can start the trade from any Pokémon Center in the game., This is the trading area., Once you're both in a Pokémon Center, you can begin trading.:

Talk to the person in the center of the room on the second floor. When you agree, you'll be taken to the trading room. Both players need to do this.
Enable DS Wireless Communication when prompted. Both players will be prompted for this. DS Wireless Communication needs to be enabled in order to connect for the trade.
Talk to the other player and select "Trade." This will begin the trade process.
 Trade this to the person playing Diamond, Pearl, or Platinum., Coronet. The player will need to take the Magneton to Mt. Coronet and then level it up to evolve it. This can be done by battling or by using a Rare Candy. The Magneton will evolve into a Magnezone., Follow the same trading process above to trade the Pokémon back. The HeartGold/SoulSilver player now has a Magnezone when it would normally not be possible.