 Measure around your waist first. Divide that number by 3.14. Divide the answer again by 2. Record that number as your "waist radius"., Chiffon and organza make great choices here. You can also use a light silk fabric as well, but avoid anything too heavy, like satin. If you want something with more coverage, use two layers of fabric. Stack them together and fold them both at the same time.


You will be adding the tulle later one. This is just for the base of the skirt.
Something light in color, such as white or ivory, would work best.
 Tie a pen to a piece of string. Pin the string to the middle of the folded part of the fabric. Make sure that the string is the same length as your waist radius, then use the string as a compass to draw an arch on the fabric., Decide how long you want the skirt to be. Add that number to your waist radius. Adjust the length of the string to match this new length. Use the string and pen like a compass to draw a second arch on your fabric. You'll have something that looks like half of a doughnut., Keep the fabric folded as you cut it. Be sure to add the 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) to both the hem and the waist. After you cut the pattern out, cut along the left folded edge; leave the other folded edge intact., Unfold your fabric so that you get a full circle, then turn it so that the wrong side is facing up. Fold the outer edge of the skirt in ½-inch (1.27-centimeter), then press it flat with an iron. Fold it by another ½-inch (1.27-centimeter), and press it flat once more. Topstitch it using a matching thread color, ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) from the inside, folded edge.


If you are using two layers of fabric, baste them together first.
Make sure that you are using a heat setting suitable for the type of fabric you are working with.
Make your sewing more durable by backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
 You don't have to do this, but it will make the hem of your skirt stiffer and give it a ruffled effect. Use a matching thread color and remember to backstitch.


Make sure that you are sewing the horsehair band to the wrong side of the fabric.
Horsehair bands come in different colors. Use one that closely matches your fabric.
 Make sure that the right side is facing up, and the wrong, hemmed side, is facing down.
 Get lots of fake flowers in a variety of sizes: large, medium, and small. Gently pull the flowers off of the stems, then discard the stems. If you can't pull the flowers off, you will need to cut them off, just below the base, with some sturdy wire cutters.


Choose flowers that are relatively flat, such as daisies. Certain types of roses and dahlias may also work.
Choose a color scheme. Try something with only warm tones, or something with only cool tones.
 Start with the largest flowers first, then fill the gaps in with your medium and small flowers. Try to place most of the largest flowers towards the bottom of the skirt, and the smaller ones towards the middle. Avoid going too high up the skirt.Try adding some large, statement/fancy flowers. Don't get carried away, however!
Don't arrange your flowers in a straight horizontal or vertical line. Try to arrange them in a more organic pattern.
You can use as many or as few flowers as you want. The more flowers you use, the fuller your skirt will be!

, Once you are happy with the arrangement. pick up the flowers one by one, and glue them to the fabric using hot glue. If you don't have any hot glue, you can use fabric glue instead, but it will take longer to dry.
 If you went with a very full design, pick the skirt up and bend it here and there. If you notice any gaps between your clumps of flowers, fill them in with smaller flowers, petals, or leaves. This way, when you wear the skirt, you won't get any gaps showing between the flowers when the skirt moves., Measure the length of your skirt first, from waist to hem, and add a couple of inches/centimeters. This will be the height of your tulle. Next, measure along the hem of your skirt, from side-to-side, then add a couple of inches/centimeters. This will be the width of your tulle.
 Fold the tulle in half first, then use your measurements to cut out a rectangle. The folded part of the tulle will make the bottom of your skirt. It should match the length of the hem.Use fine, tulle netting. Avoid the stiff tulle with large holes meant for hat-making.
 Unfold the tulle fabric first. Sew a straight line along the top edge of the tulle using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Sew another line just below that using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Your stitching is now ready for gathering.


Repeat this step for the bottom edge of the tulle.
Use the longest stitch length you can. Do not backstitch.
 Go back to the top edge of your tulle. Find the bobbin threads from the two lines you sewed. Gently tug on them at the same time to gather the tulle. Keep gathering until the tulle is the same length as the waist of your skirt.Repeat this step for the bottom edge of the tulle.
You may have to gather from the other side of the tulle as well. Only pull on the bobbin threads, however.
 Turn your skirt so that the front is facing you. Pin the top, gathered edge of the tulle to the waist of your skirt. Flip your skirt over so that the back is facing you. Pin the bottom, gathered edge of the tulle to the waist of the skirt as well. The tulle will fold around the hem of the skirt, sandwiching the skirt inside it.You want the tulle layer to be the same length as the skirt. If the tulle is too long, pull it past the waist of the skirt.
Gently fluff out the bottom edge of the tulle so that it's the same length as your skirt's hem.
 Start by sewing along the waist of the skirt, removing the pins as you go. Next, go to the left side edge of your skirt. Shift the tulle so that it matches up with the chiffon, then pin it in place. Baste the layers into place, removing the pins as you go, then repeat for the right side.


Do not fold and sew the skirt in half just yet. You are simply sewing the layers together to make things easier later on.
 Measure the waist of your skirt first. Cut ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) wide bias tape according to that measurement. The bias tape can be the same color as your skirt, or a contrasting one.If you can't find a matching color, try making your own bias tape.
If you choose a contrasting one, try matching it to one of the flowers.
 Open up the bias tape, and slide it over the top edge of your skirt. Pin it in place, so that the waist part of your skirt is sandwiched inside of it. Sew along the both edge of the bias tape using a ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance and a matching thread color.


Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
Be sure to remove the pins as you sew.
 Fold the skirt in half, so that the side edges match up. Make sure that the wrong side is facing out. Sew along the side edge using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance. Stop when you are 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) from the waist., This will give you a cleaner finish. Be sure to pin everything in place. Do not iron the tulle, or it will melt.
 Place an invisible zipper over the slit. Make sure that the top of the zipper matches up with the waistband of the skirt. Check the slit from the inside of the skirt, and make sure that the zipper is not visible.Even though invisible zippers won't be visible in the end, try to use a color that matches your skirt.
Don't worry if the bottom of the zipper extends below the slit.
Iron the zipper flat first. This will help it lay better., Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing. When you reach bottom of the slit, backstitch a few times across the zipper. This will help keep everything in place. , Use a sharp pair of scissors to trim off any loose threads. Cut off the excess zipper above the waistband. Turn the skirt inside out, and give it a shake to fluff everything out.

