 If you have curly hair, and go too short, you could end up with hair that has too much poof or looks misshapen. The key to managing curly hair can simply be the right cut. That doesn't mean you shouldn't ever try a short cut. It means you should do it with caution. Get a trim every 6 to 8 weeks. This keeps your cut's shape and will make your curls look their best.
Here's why short cuts are risky. The problem is that short hair will increase frizz. So find a great stylist if you try it. Television actress Keri Russell learned this fact the hard way. When she lopped off her curls, controversy followed and ratings dropped. ;
, You should be equally cautious with bangs as length. Bangs will also make frizz worse. They're usually not recommended for people with very curly hair.As with any rule though, an extremely experienced stylist could help you break the rules. , Brushing curly hair can be a disaster for it. If you introduce a brush to curly hair, especially when it's wet, get prepared for damage and frizz. It's best to choose a wide-toothed comb.


Comb your hair while it's still wet with conditioner in it to reduce damage. Don't comb dry hair (although brushing dry hair is the worst yet). Run your fingers through wet hair with your head upside down so the curls fall into a natural shape. Sometimes your fingers make a better comb. , Ask your stylist to give you a few layers with your cut. This can make curly hair look less boxy. In fact, some stylists believe that getting proper layers is the most important factor as to whether curly hair will look good.


Layers should start at your chin, and then your stylist should layer them downward. Uneven layering works best with curls. You should have more layers with longer hair. Avoid layering that makes your hair look like a triangle with the curls too weighted at the bottom. One-length cuts without layers can look heavy and be harder to manage with curls. , They don't work well with curly hair because they harm the hair cuticle. There are a few sites that say they can be done, but they are dangerous without a very experienced stylist.Razor cuts actually increase curl in the hair. So they would work better for people who don't already have tight curls. If your curls are more wavy than they are tight, you are a better candidate for this kind of cut., If your stylist cuts your curly hair when it's wet, it can be hard to predict what it will really look like. Ask the stylist to cut your hair while dry so you can really tell how the curls will fall. This matters for straight hair too, but it's even more important with curls. Dry cuts will enable the stylist to cut your hair with more precision. They will be seeing the curls as you will be wearing them. , What looks good on a celebrity with curly hair might not look good on you. It all depends on which style works best with your face shape. So figure out what's uniquely good for you.


A short bob doesn't work well with heart or round-shaped faces, especially with curls. To figure out your face shape best, stand facing a mirror, and pull your hair back. Then, outline your face on the mirror with an eyeliner pencil. Now you can better assess your face shape. , Play around with braids, high buns, and hair that is half up and half down. It's not true that curly hair must only be worn loose and flowing, although that can look good too.


Wearing your hair up can look particularly romantic and attractive with curls. Make sure to pull a few strands down to frame your face. 