 To make the straightening process easier, wash and conditioner your hair before you attempt to run a flat iron through it. This will give you freshly washed hair that you can wear down for several days, as well as creating smoother hair to straighten. Try to choose an anti-frizz or smoothing shampoo and conditioner.When you apply conditioner to your hair, start at the ends of your hair and apply up to the middle of your hair -- you want to avoid applying conditioner to your roots. Then, take a wide tooth comb and run it through your hair to detangle it. This will make the combing process easier when you get out of the shower because curly hair can tangle easily. Then, allow the conditioner to sit in your hair for a few minutes before you rinse it out.
When your are in the shower, use luke warm water to wash your hair. Hot water can damage the cuticles in your hair and will result in dry or frizzy hair. When you have washed all of the soap and conditioner out of your hair, give it a quick rinse with cold water. This will add shine to your hair and help flatten it out.;
, Leave in conditioner can help moisturize your hair as well as provide strength and shine to your hair. After you have stepped out of the shower, apply a dollop of leave in conditioner to your hair, avoiding your roots. This will also help protect your hair from drying out since you will be using heat styling tools on it., In order to make the blow drying task easier, use a microfiber cloth or old t-shirt to remove excess water from your hair. Gently squeeze the water through your hair with the cloth until your hair is not sopping wet. Avoid rubbing your hair with the cloth as this can create frizziness, and try not to scrunch it either as this will shape your curls., Use a wide tooth comb and start at the ends of your hair, working your way up to the roots. Avoid using a brush as this can often snag hair, making it more prone to breakage.


If you combed your hair while in the shower, this process should be a lot easier. If your hair is still very tangled, consider spraying a detangler through your hair before you comb through it.
 You are about to use several heat styling tools, so you need to protect your hair to keep it from becoming damaged. You can use a serum, spray, or gel. Choosing one that is anti frizz and specifically designed for flat ironing hair will give you the best protection. Apply evenly all throughout your hair for the best protection.If you are looking for a natural product you can use argon oil -- this is especially good for thick or course hair. Try to avoid using products with silicone as these can weigh your hair down, making it look flat (if that is the look you are going for that is fine, but if you want some volume then avoid these products)., This step is probably going to take a while, because you want to make sure you hair is completely dry before you straighten it. Using a round bristle brush, pull it through your hair as you dry it. Point the blow dryer towards the brush, but keep it about six inches away from your brush so you don't apply too much heat. Do this until your hair is completely dry.To best protect your hair, don't use the highest heat setting on your blow dryer. In fact, consider alternating between the cool and warm settings on your blow dryer to prevent over heating your hair. Cool air on your hair can help add shine to it, so it's worth the time it takes.
Make sure you point the nozzle down when you are blow drying your hair. Avoid sticking it underneath your hair and pointing it upwards as this can create frizziness in your hair., Depending on the thickness and length of your hair, you'll need to section your hair off into three or four sections. Start by separating the bottom layer of your hair from the top layer. Once you have your bottom layer, twist up your top layer and clip it to the top of your head with a clip.The thickness of the sections is up to you, but you'll only want to put one inch sections of hair through your straightener, so keep that in mind as you are separating your hair.
As you finish a section of your hair, let another layer of your hair down and twist the rest back up. Continue to separate sections like this until you have let down all of your hair.
 Some people have difficulty straightening their hair simply because they are using the wrong type of flat iron. Ceramic straighteners are great for fine to normal hair types as they will help soften the hair. For curly hair, gold or titanium plates on the straightener are really your best option. Titanium helps produce both flat and sheen for curly hair.Titanium straighteners are also great for someone who straightens their hair often. This type of straightener withstands ultra high heat and corrosion, so it will last a long time.Use a straightener that is at most an inch and a half. Bigger straighteners are good for styling, but they will make the straightening process difficult.
When it comes to flat irons, don't be afraid to spend a little more to invest in a great iron. A good iron can last you for years, so try to avoid spending $15 on a flat iron. Also, never use a flat iron with plastic plates or plain metal. These don't distribute heat well and will take you extra time to straighten your hair.
 Now that you've sectioned off your hair, you can begin to straighten one inch pieces. Start at the front of your hair and move your way along your hair until you reach the other side of your head. To straighten your hair, take a one inch piece and hold it taut. Then, run the flat iron through your hair, starting from your roots and moving towards the end of your hair. Do this until you have straightened all of your hair.When straightening your hair, try to only run the straightener through a strand of hair once. This is why tension is key, because the tighter you pull your hair, the faster it will straighten.
If your hair is sizzling while you are straightening it, this could mean that you haven't completely dried it. Take the blow dryer and completely dry your hair before you straighten it again.
If you are able, use a lower heat setting on your flat iron. The highest settings are really designed for salon professionals, and can damage your hair if you don't properly protect it. Aim to stay between 300 and 350 degrees.Sometimes it is helpful to chase your flat iron after a comb. Take a comb and start at the roots of your hair. Gently run the comb down your hair and as you do so, follow the comb with your straightener. This can just help keep your hair flat and tangle free as you straighten it., Once you have straightened all of your hair, you can make any styling finishes your hair needs. If you want your ends to curl under, take your straightener and run it through the ends of your hair, gently curving it under so that your ends curl under. You can also straighten your bangs, or flip your ends outwards --- whatever you want to do to create the style you want.
 To hold your hair in place and create a shine, spritz or apply serum throughout your hair. This will help tame the frizziness and fly aways as well as give your hair an extra silkiness. You can also spray your hair with a light hairspray at the roots to keep it from frizzing up throughout the day., After you have gone through all of that trouble to straighten your hair, you probably want to maintain it as long as possible. To keep from damaging your hair, try to avoid completely re-straightening it every day. Go about three days and then repeat the process over again for straight hair. To maintain straight hair you can follow these steps:Use dry shampoo when it starts getting oily. If you want to wear your hair straight for a few days without having to wash it and repeat the process, apply dry shampoo to your roots when they start to look oily. You can also use baby powder to remove any oil or shine.
Avoid getting your hair wet. Because curly hair will easily kink back up if exposed to water, try to avoid humidity or water. When taking a shower, pin your hair up with clips and then wrap it in a towel or shower cap to keep excess humidity out.
Touch it up every so often. If you are wearing your hair straight for a few days, it's likely going to frizz up a little bit and it may begin to shape back into curls. To prevent this from happening, run a straightener through your hair every day or so, focusing on the problem areas. You don't need to completely straighten all of your hair or pin it up in sections -- just straighten the top layer or any pieces that are starting to curl.
Continue to apply serum to your hair. Serum can help smooth hair and will prevent extra frizziness. Every day after you straighten your hair, or when you wake up, apply serum to your hair. Then, spritz your roots with a light hairspray to prevent fly aways.
Pin your hair back on the last day. If your hair is looking really oily, you can use the last day as an opportunity to wear it in a cute undo. You can also just wear a headband or pin back your front pieces as those are probably the ones that have acquired the most moisture and oils throughout the day.
