 Since your Great Dane is considered a large or giant breed of dog, you need to feed him food specifically designed for this. This will ensure the he gets the proper ratio of nutrients for him to grow properly and maintain a strong skeletal system for his large body.


If you aren't sure what food to get your Great Dane, ask your vet or the breeder you got him from. They will be able to help you decide. A good rule of thumb is if the first two ingredients are meat (not meat by-products), then it’s probably a good food.;
, To help your Great Dane avoid a life-threatening condition known as bloat and otherwise keep him healthy, you should give him the best high-quality food you can get. Look on the label of any food you are considering for the list of ingredients. The concentration of protein should not be more than 23 to 25%, especially when your Great Dane is a puppy. This can cause growth problems because he won't be able to metabolize too much of it.Meat should be one of the first two ingredients. It should also have vegetables in it as well.
Meat by-product is okay really far down on the list, but it shouldn't be in the first five ingredients., You should never feed your Great Dane large meals. He needs small meals throughout the day instead of large meals, since these can cause bloat. This means you need to look at the recommended daily amount on the back of the dog food bag and then split that up into three to four meals a day.


You should also not change his food abruptly, because this can also cause intestinal issues., There are certain foods that you should never feed your Great Dane. These can cause health issues and even kill him. These foods include:Chocolate
Avocados
Grapes or raisins
Alcohol
Fatty meat scraps
Various nuts
Onions, garlic and chives
Cooked bones or chicken bones
Yeast dough
Xylitol, a substance found in sugar free foods

, If you want to use human food as a treat for your Great Dane, there are a few you can feed him. These include:Small chunks of cooked sweet potatoes
Frozen peas or blueberries in small amounts
Baby carrots

, In order to stay healthy, your Great Dane will need access to water. Since he is so big, he will need a lot of water throughout the day. Make sure you check his water bowl often.


Remember to limit his water drinking after he eats, which will help avoid bloat.
 A good brushing every week or two will help keep your Great Dane's short coat soft and healthy.This will also help cut down on shedding and encourage skin circulation. Use this time to check for fleas and ticks. If you find them, you should use topical treatments to fight against them.


You can also use this time to look for bumps, lumps, skin irritations, or scratches. Keep a check on these and take him to the vet if you notice any issues or if they get worse., When you are brushing your Great Dane, you can also check his nails. He may not need a lot of trimming since he is so large. His size and his level of activity will keep then worn down, but he may have one or two that might get too long. If this happens, you will need to trim them.


Buy dog nail clippers from the pet store. When looking at the nail, make sure you look on the back side of the nail for a triangle shaped area, which is the quick of the nail that houses blood vessels and nerves. Cutting this will hurt your dog and may cause infection.
If you aren't sure how to do this, ask your vet or a vet technician to show you how to do it at home or take him to have them cut., To ensure your Great Dane doesn't have teeth issues, you need to brush his teeth regularly, which is about once a week. You need to get him used to you brushing his teeth, so let him lick some dog toothpaste off your finger first, then wipe some along his gums. The next day, rub some toothpaste into his gums with your finger so he gets used to the feeling. The next day, you can try a toothbrush on just the outer side of his teeth. The inside takes care of itself.You may have to use your fingers a few times before he will allow the brush.
Never use human toothpaste because fluoride is poisonous to dogs.
You can also use dental formulated treats to help remove plaque.
 In order for your Great Dane to be friendly and happy, he needs to meet other animals and people. This means you need to take him to communal places, such as dog parks, rides in the car, neighborhood walks, pet stores, or obedience classes.


Your Great Dane craves human companionship, so make sure he has plenty of interaction with you and your family., Your Great Dane needs to be exercised every day. This will help keep him healthy and happy, but make sure the exercise isn't too strenuous. You should not use your Great Dane as a running partner or do other really intense exercise because it can cause injury to his skeletal system. He can run and play, but not for long periods of time.


You should not do any harsh running or strenuous play for long periods of time when he is younger than 18 months. At this point, his body is still growing, which means too much strenuous exercise can put too much strain on his growing bones and cause malformations.
Make sure to wait at least an hour after he eats to for exercise. This will help prevent bloat., Although your Great Dane is large, he is fine living inside with you and your family. He will be happy being near you curled up on a bed every day, as long as you exercise him enough. His bed should be cushy enough to keep him from rubbing against the floor, which can cause joint damage.


Keeping your Great Dane inside will also allow you to provide him with enough love and affection, which is essential for this breed. He will act out if he doesn't receive enough love and affection.
Your Great Dane can live outside, but you have to make sure you spend enough time with him outside or he will act out., When your Great Dane is six weeks old, he needs to have a checkup to have an overall examination. If you get your dog from a breeder, the breeder should have already taken the pup for a checkup. The vet should look at the:Heart and lungs
Eyes and ears
Mouth, where the vet will look to ensure no opening in the palate
Belly and groin, where the vet will check for hernias
Skin, to check for mites, fleas, and ticks

, When your Great Dane is a puppy, he should be dewormed. This should start at the six week checkup, but he needs two to three additional deworming treatments. These should be two weeks apart, which will help kill any additional worms., During his first checkup, your Great Dane will also need to have a vaccination for distemper. This should be followed three to four weeks after this by a booster for the vaccine. These may fall under the responsibility of the breeder if you adopt your Great Dane at eight weeks, but you should make sure he has this vaccine when you get him.Your Great Dane will also need a Lyme disease vaccine at nine weeks old, with a booster when he is 12 weeks old.
He will also need a rabies vaccination at 12 weeks old.
 Once your Great Dane is eight weeks old, he needs to be started on heartworm prevention medication. This will prevent him from getting heartworm, which can cause serious health problems and even death. Once you start this medication, it should be given to him once a month.
 Between the ages of six to 10 months, you need to neuter your Great Dane (or spay if female). This will help prevent unwanted puppies, help prevent some infections or cancers, and cut down on aggressive behavior.If you plan to breed your Great Dane, don't have him neutered.
 After the early series of vaccines, boosters, and deworming, your Great Dane will need to go to the vet for a yearly checkup starting at one year old. When he turns five, it is best if you take him for two checkups a year to ensure he doesn't have any medical issues., The number one killer of Great Danes is bloat and gastric torsion. This is a life-threatening disease that affects his gastrointestinal system. You can combat bloat by:Feeding small, frequent meals of high-quality dog food
Avoiding all exercise for at least an hour after eating; this includes walking and rambunctious playing
Limiting water intake after eating to a small amount
Feeding him from a bowl at floor-level, since elevated bowls may cause bloat
Investing in a slow-feeder dish that will force him to eat slower, especially if he gulps up his food

, Because of your Great Dane's size, his average lifespan will be about eight years. He is also susceptible to some diseases and conditions, such as Wobbler syndrome, also called cervical spondylomyelopathy (CSM). This condition is a malformation of the neck vertebrae of the spine that causes drunken or wobbly gait and spinal compression, which may cause paralysis.


Your Great Dane may be born with this condition, which will present young, or it may form with age or because of trauma., Other than bloat and Wobbler syndrome, your Great Dane may be susceptible to a few other diseases and conditions. These include:Cancer
Heart disease
Hypothyroidism
Cataracts

