 If you want to fake a barbell facial piercing, your best bet is to buy an actual barbell piercing. You can get these piercings at a tattoo shop where they also do piercings, or at a jewelry store such as Claire’s.


Barbell piercings usually come with rounded silver studs. But, you can choose from different colors and shapes.
Decide whether you want a straight or curved barbell. This may be dependent on where you want to place the fake piercing on your face.
 Barbell piercings are usually used for eyebrow, bridge, and septum piercings on the face. The middle bar pierces through the skin and the two studs or “bells” at either end are visible outside of the skin. Sometimes the actual bar can be visible as well, depending on whether it is straight or curved.


Bridge barbell piercings are located at the top of your nose, between your eyes.
Eyebrow barbell piercings can be both vertical and horizontal.
 With an actual barbell piercing, the bar would be going through your skin. Since this is a fake piercing, you need to cut the barbell into three parts.


Use diagonal cutting pliers to cut the barbell. Do not just cut it in half. You want to be able to make an illusion that the barbell is going through your skin.
Cut the barbell closer to each end stud, instead of right down the middle. This will leave you with three parts.

The middle piece is the part of the barbell that would have been in your skin.
The two end pieces are what you are gluing to your skin to make your fake barbell piercing.
 Apply a small amount of eyelash glue to the ends of of both pieces of barbell. Eyelash glue is the best adhesive for fake facial piercings because it is already made for the skin, so it will last the longest and not be harmful. Choose an eyelash glue with a small applicator.
Let the glue set on the ends for 20-30 seconds before applying to the skin.
 Tweezers are the most effective when handling these two barbell pieces. You will be able to hold them steady and not get any glue on unwanted areas of your face. Place your two barbell pieces where you want your piercing.

