 A role model that you know can help you to mature and grow as a person. They can give guidance and advice and offer real-world examples of how to achieve your best.;
, These are the things you do not like or want to change about yourself and are important in determining how you wish to change.
 Do you want to live in a certain way? Achieve something in particular? Become a certain kind of person? Make a list of the things you want to achieve, both as a person and in your life.
 As you start to consider how you can choose a role model, try to develop faith in yourself as a person. The goal of choosing a role model is to motivate you to become a better person. You must have confidence in yourself and your abilities to become whoever you wish to be.
 If you want to be an inspirational person, think about the people who inspire you. Do a little brainstorming. Why do you admire them so much? What is the message they send through their actions?


Great role models may exist all around you. These people may have a more profound impact on you and might even be able to mentor you, making them great potential choices as your role model.
 A good role model would be someone who knows who they are. You don't want someone who seems perfect but doesn't have a sense of purpose. You want someone who won't pretend to be someone they are not.
 Your role model should be someone who thinks it is all right to be unique, even if that means accepting some ridicule. They should always make you feel positive and good about being yourself.


The purpose of having a role model is to encourage and inspire you to improve yourself. If your choice of role model does not make you feel this way then it is best to choose another.
 This person should be kind and can communicate well with people. People are easy to understand and emulate when they communicate well.
 It is better to choose a role model who exhibits reliable competence and who has gained their position through dedication and hard work. Often the flashy people who have succeeded spectacularly are those who took big risks and got lucky, rather than those who are the most skilled. It is better to choose a role model who works hard and consistently for their success.Choosing a top performing role model can actually discourage and demotivate you because it is hard to emulate their spectacular performance unless you also get lucky., We are all tempted to choose a certain role model because we see something of ourselves in them. These role models will only hold you back because you are not really changing any characteristics of yourself, you are simply perfecting characteristics that are already there. Choose a role model because you see something in them that you are ‘’not’’ but definitely need to be.


Emulating a role model who is not like you will not feel comfortable or natural but it will stretch you and motivate you to levels of yourself you thought you never knew.
Choose a role model you would not normally consider emulating.
For example if you are bold and spontaneous choose someone who is steady and known for thorough analysis., It is important to learn about both the successes and failures of your role model. Sometimes learning about the failures of your role model can actually encourage and motivate you more than learning about their successes. By learning about their failures you realize that they, like you, are only human and will make mistakes. The important thing is to learn from them and keep working to improve yourself.


For example, even famous scientists such as Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein struggled and failed many times in their lives but they kept working hard to achieve and eventually they were successful. By learning about their struggles you can motivate yourself to keep working hard even when nothing seems to be working., A role model should be someone that you admire in all aspects of their life and leads a healthy lifestyle.


Look for qualities such as passion and the ability to inspire, a clear set of values, a commitment to community, selflessness and acceptance of others and the ability to overcome obstacles.
 Everyone makes mistakes, including those you have chosen as your role models. Your role models are simply there as a guide for you and not someone to imitate exactly. Do not follow them blindly.
 While it is good to emulate a role model, it is also important to retain your individuality. Do not lose yourself in the attempt to follow the example of your role model. Adopt the characteristics you would like most to improve about yourself while keeping the rest of you as you are.


Be yourself and feel confident in what you do. Don't copy what others are doing, stand out. If people copy it just proves that they're insecure and not original unlike you!

