 Most colleges will accept the ACT or the SAT. Always check the college’s requirements to see if they have a preference. If they have a preference, go with that test. If the school does not have a preference, choose the test that you will do the best on.Some Ivy League schools like for students to take both the ACT and SAT. However, if you cannot afford to take both or need to focus on one, only choose one.
 The essay is optional on both the ACT and SAT. Some schools require students to take the essay portion. Other schools may say the essay is recommended or optional.Some schools may require an essay for one test, but do not require an essay for the other test. Always check before you sign up to take the test.
For example, a school may require an ACT essay, but does not require an SAT essay. If you struggle with essays, you may consider only taking the SAT so you can avoid having to write an essay.
 Some schools will require or recommend that you take an SAT subject test. These tests take one hour to complete and focus on specific subjects such as languages, history, English, mathematics, and science. These tests are a supplement to your regular SAT score.


Even if SAT subject tests are not required, you may want to take a few. They can set you apart from another applicant. If you and another applicant are equal in all areas, but you have taken and done well on a subject test; you may increase your chances of getting in.Take tests in the subjects that you are good at. This will let your college know more about your skills and areas that you may excel in.
Even if you take the ACT, a school may require that you have SAT subject tests., Each college has an admissions office that can walk you through the application process. They can answer any questions you have about the tests you should take, how they select students, and all of the deadlines and requirements.Visit the school's website to find the contact information for the admissions office. You can call or email the office to speak with someone.
If you are able to go to the school in person, you can set up an appointment to meet with an admissions officer.

