 Before you make any assumptions about the state of your bodily hormones or the conditions of your bones, visit your primary-care physician to be tested for low testosterone. Testosterone is tested via a blood sample taken early in the morning, when testosterone levels are at their highest. Your doctor will likely want to test your blood again a few days after the initial test, to make sure that the first indicated testosterone level was not an anomaly.Low testosterone can be signaled by any of the following conditions: loss of bone density (which can be signaled by frequent fractures), low sex drive, anemia, depression, weight gain, and frequent fatigue.
 If you have low testosterone and are concerned about developing osteoporosis or have concerns about the strength and health of your bones, schedule an appointment to speak with your doctor. The doctor may recommend that you visit a specialist: most likely a urologist or an endocrinologist.Express to your primary-care physician and to the specialists you visit that you’re concerned about your bone health and the potential future threat of osteoporosis.
Before beginning testosterone treatment, your doctor and endocrinologist will likely need to run tests to make sure that you do have low testosterone and are not suffering from another medical concern that weakens bones.
 Testosterone treatment—also known as testosterone replacement—is a means of increasing the testosterone levels within men who have low levels of the hormone. If your doctor and relevant specialists decide that your testosterone levels will not increase naturally, and that your bone health will consequently decrease, you can begin the testosterone treatment process.Male testosterone levels naturally drop as men age, and only become a medical concern if the low hormone levels cause a decrease in quality of life, including bone health.
While testosterone alone affects bone health and strengthens bones, part of its benefit to bones also comes through the conversion of testosterone into estrogen, which preserves bone density.
 Based on your and your doctor’s preference and the amount of testosterone you’ll need to be treated with, treatment can take a variety of forms. Testosterone treatment is commonly administered via patches or gels (applied directly to your skin), injections, or pills and tablets which are taken orally.Seek your doctor’s recommendation when considering treatment options. Your doctor may have worked with patients who experience bone stress due to low testosterone before, and can provide recommendations about which type of treatment works best.

