 Open a web browser on your computer and visit the YouTube website. From there, you can click the “Sign In” button on the upper right-hand corner of the web page and enter your Google account username and password.


If you don’t have an account yet, you can create one by clicking the “Create Account” link below the Email and Password text field.
Note that you can only go live using the web browser version of YouTube.;
, Click your account profile icon on the top right-hand corner of the page and select “Creator Studio” from the pop-up menu.
 On the Creator Studio page, click “Channel” from the left menu panel and select “Status and Features.” This will open up the Features section on the main view panel of the web page.
, YouTube needs to know you’re real and not just a spam program. To start verifying your identity, click the drop-down list on the Account Verification page and select your country.


After selecting your country, you can choose to either receive your verification code via text message or call by selecting the radio button of your choice.
Enter your phone number on the text box that will appear, and click the “Submit” button on the right-hand side of the page to proceed.
Once you receive your verification code, type the 6-digit combination on the allocated text field and hit “Submit.” You’ll be then prompted that your identity has been verified. Click on “Continue” to proceed.
 The following page will show you YouTube’s agreement on using the Live Event feature. Read the notice and click the “I Agree” button once you’re ready.
 Click the “Create live event” button on the next web page and enter some basic details about your live stream such as:


Title (the name you’d like to give to your event)
Start and end time of your live streaming
Tags (that you’d like to use on your video so it will appear on people’s search results)
The viewers of your live stream (you can set your live event as “Public,” “Unlisted,” or “Private”)

, This will start your live streaming. A Google Hangouts window will open showing your live stream, which people on YouTube can watch as it plays.

