 Notice if you are continuing to build commitment and loyalty by working together. Relationships take continual work and support, even if you know each other well and have been together for a long time.In a more mature stage of love, you will:Rely on each other.
Fulfill or follow through on promises made.
Feel comfortable with the roles and responsibilities you’ve established with each other.
Feel comfortable going to your partner when you’re struggling.
 Once you’ve been committed for awhile and some of the romance has faded, it can be difficult to know if you’re still in a healthy relationship. Examine if you’re feeling bored or frustrated with your routines with your partner. If so, you may be experiencing stagnancy.Schedule time for something fun.
Do something active together.
Be open to new activities.
Try something you each enjoyed as kids.
Avoid activities that are too competitive.
 At the committed stage, partners usually know each other very well, and can anticipate what the other may need during hard times or on a daily basis. Knowing and caring for your partner's needs before she asks is a great way to care for her daily.

For instance, if you know your partner has had a stressful day, take it upon yourself to have dinner ready when she gets home from work and do the clean up, too. Or if she's been going through a rough time, encourage her to have a girl's night with her friends — let her know she shouldn't feel guilty for not including you, and to go out and enjoy herself.
If you aren't sure what your partner's wants and needs are, then you need to have a discussion. Sit down and ask her what she wants and needs from the relationship, and don't interrupt her or get defensive. Then take your turn.


If you have children and/or jobs, it can be difficult to maintain a healthy, stable, loving relationship in the face of other tasks and roles. Notice if you’re multi-tasking more, making more time for the kids or work, and spending less one-on-one time with your partner. If so, you may be experiencing stagnancy and need to remember to:Express appreciation to your partner. You might say, “Thank you for making me coffee this morning. You make it so much better than I do and it saves me time. I love that you do that for me.”
Express affection. Know what your partner likes and surprise him with it. It could be a hug, a simple “I love you,” a card, or flowers.
Listen to your partner. Take 20 minutes every day with each other to listen to what happened in your lives. Don’t try to fix anything or judge, just listen and decompress together.
 If you continue to treat your partner as valuable, even if you disagree with her opinions, you're in the commitment phase. You'll be able to once again accept your partner for who she is, faults and all. You'll learn to manage or let go of your expectations of your partner at this stage. If you can't, or if you notice increased conflict or disrespect in your relationship, seek counseling.Violence is not healthy or acceptable at any relationship stage. Seek help from a counselor or domestic violence shelter if your partner become violent or verbally abusive.

