 Werewolves are drawn to the woods, to nature, and to being in the great outdoors. If you want to act like a werewolf, it’s a good idea to spend a considerable amount of time in the great outdoors, preferably at night. Get familiar with plants, animal tracks, and other essential survival skills.


Learn when the next full moon will occur on the lunar cycle and plan to be outside to stargaze in a werewolf habitat. Make sure you get permission before you leave the house in the middle of the night.
Get a guidebook of local plant life in your region and start learning to identify the local flora. Since werewolves spend so much time in the woods, it's a good idea to learn more about your surroundings.;
, Wolves are outdoor creatures, more comfortable and alert the closer to the ground they are. Act as if there’s just something uncomfortable about sleeping on your soft bed and create a little sleeping den in your bedroom on the floor.


Since really sleeping on the floor is kind of uncomfortable, line up some sleeping bags, blankets, and pillows to create a little mat on the ground, then build up pillow walls around the outside, like a fort. You could even get an inflatable camping sleep mat, if you want to invest.
When it’s time to go to bed, walk in three circles to burrow out a comfortable space in the blankets, then settle in by curling up into a ball.
 Start spending lots of time with your dog relatives will help you learn about their behavior to better mimic it, but it will also help you develop a strong emotional bond with dogs. If other people see dogs coming up to you familiarly, you’ll quickly get a reputation as a dog-person.


If you don’t have a family dog, the Humane Society is always open to volunteers who want to give shelter dogs walks, baths, and feedings. It can be a great way of bonding with animals who need a little bit of love.
Try to hang around big, wolf-like dogs. Siberian shepherds, German shepherds, and huskies are all good pets to observe to own your werewolf impression.
 Define your territory and mark it clearly. Whether it be your room, your yard, or your neighborhood, a good werewolf stakes some claim to a territory. Patrol your territory regularly and question anyone who comes in without being invited. Keep watch over what's yours.


Make a sign for your room, with a full moon and picture of a wolf howling, clearly labeled "Stay out." Post "Beware of Werewolf" signs on the door.
It's also a good idea to protect the people you care about. Your family and your close friends should be able to count on you at a moment's notice. Come through when they most need help. A werewolf should be reliable.
 Prowling the edges of the woods, howling at the moon: a werewolf is connected to dark, lunar energy. That doesn't mean a werewolf is "bad," but that werewolves are connected to the unconscious feminine side of the psyche, as opposed to the conscious, thinking, controlling part. A werewolf should feel more and think less. Let your emotions guide your choices and your decisions. Go with your instincts, your gut reactions, and trust yourself. Be an animal.