 National and state environmental organizations are on the front-lines protecting our public lands from pollution. These organizations lobby government officials to protect our environment by banning dangerous activities or by prosecuting polluters. There are many organizations you can join. Some of the more prominent are:


Earthjustice. Earth justice is a nonprofit legal organization that brings environmental lawsuits and also tries to advance legislative policies that would benefit the environment.Sierra Club. This is the largest grassroots environmental organization in the United States.Sierra Club is currently working to move the nation away from fossil fuels, which are major pollutants.
Natural Resources Defense Council. This is a non-profit advocacy group which brings environmental lawsuits and works to pass environmentally-friendly legislation., You can typically join any environmental organization by completing an online form. You will be asked for basic personal information. For example, to join Earthjustice, you should provide the following:full name
address
email address

, If the environmental organization is a non-profit, then your contribution is usually tax-deductible. You can typically pay online using a credit or debit card and possibly PayPal.You may be able to sign up for an email list without paying a fee. For example, Earthjustice allows you to get email action alerts without becoming a paying member.These alerts are a good way to stay on top of critical environmental issues.
 Once you join an environmental organization, they typically send you action alerts when important bills are before your state legislature or before Congress. You are encouraged to contact your representatives and advocate that they support or reject specific bills.


Make your voice heard. Call your representatives or send an email.Often, the environmental organization will send you an email template you can use.
 You also should work to raise consciousness in your community about threats caused by industrial pollution. You can write or email letters to your local newspaper, and also publish blog posts on national websites like Huffington Post or independent media websites.

