 Before you get started, have a plan for your bouquet that suits how you intend to use it. If you're making bouquets for an event, make sure they match the event's mood, and the expected season or color scheme for holiday celebrations.


Also know where the bouquet will be placed, so you know which perspective people will see it from. A banquet centerpiece needs to be beautiful from all angles. A bouquet standing on a tall column needs to draw attention from below.;
, There are two main approaches to a color scheme. For a blended look, use flower colors next to each other on the color wheel, such as lavender and purple dahlia. For a bolder bouquet, choose complementary colors or flowers with a major contrast, such as dark red Barcelona roses and white baby's breath.


Consider how vivid the colors are as well. A bright, vivid flower will drown out pastels, so it's best not to mix them together.
 Unless you're making a bouquet of very small flowers, aim for a variety of heights and flower sizes. A small bouquet can use one large flower with three smaller ones. Expand this to a similar ratio for a larger bouquet, or divide it into three layers with large, medium, and smaller flowers.
 Working with odd numbers of flowers tends to be more visually appealing. Pick an odd number of flowers for each variety in your bouquet.
 This can help you get an idea for what you want to achieve before you start cutting flowers and discover you change your mind. If you need more guidance, the instructions below include additional advice on putting together a pleasing bouquet.
 Clip these off before assembling the bouquet. If the flower stem has thorns, strip them off with a knife.
 Some species of flower will get air bubbles in the stem if cut above water, which prevents them from drawing up nutrients. Cut your stems underwater and at an angle, using a clean knife. Remember to cut your stems at different heights, giving longer stems to the flowers that will be at the peak of the bouquet.
 Generally, a mixed flower bouquet has a pyramidal shape. Place one large flower at the top, then space them out evenly in two or three layers below. Fill in the gaps between with your other flowers in the same way, so the mix of flowers are distributed throughout the bouquet.


Make the overall shape symmetrical, and avoid glaring imbalances of color.
 These are usually sprays of small flowers, such as baby's breath, but you can use small ferns, ivy, hosta foliage, or any other small plant. Use these if you'd like to add a little green throughout your bouquet and soften the presentation. If you like, leave a few sprays hanging down over the edge of the bouquet.


For more dramatic effect, you can add large, protruding ferns or other foliage at the back of the bouquet.
As a rule of thumb, have about 30% of your arrangement by leaves or greenery. This includes the leaves of the main flowers.
 Floral foil or florist tape is the easiest way to do this. If you like, add a decorative ribbon as well.
 The arrangement should take up about ⅔ the space in the vase. To help the flowers last longer, pour a little colorless soda into the water, or use flower food sold at florists for this purpose.


The choice of vase can complement the arrangement. You could use ginger jars for a high society function, or antique milk bottles to decorate a rustic home.
 Change the water every couple days to keep it fresh. If a flower starts to droop, trim the stem again under the water surface to give them a fresh opening to drink from.

