 Often, the first step to healing is realizing that there is a problem. If you have suffered a loss or are going through a major life change, you may be dealing with some form of anxiety or depression. Many people let mental health issues go untreated, because they feel they are not "real" problems. But healing yourself emotionally can be just as important as healing an obvious injury, such as a broken leg.Take an emotional inventory. Keep a journal that tracks your thoughts and emotions. Do you see patterns? Finding the reason for discomfort is a good place to start healing.
If your body has gone through a physical trauma or illness, your mental health can suffer, too. Recognize that in order to heal your body, you need to help your mind heal.
Talk about your feelings. It can be very therapeutic to express yourself. Ask a trusted friend if she has time to talk.;
, There are several steps you can take to help yourself mentally heal. If you know the reason that you are not emotionally well, you can change your situation. If you are healing from a physical illness, for example, contact your doctor to make a more concrete treatment plan. This will help you feel less anxious.If you need to heal from a traumatic emotional situation, try to establish some order in your life. If you are suffering the loss of a loved one, for instance, try finding a support group to help you deal with your grief.
Perhaps you need to heal from a rough patch in your career. Stabilize your situation by actively accelerating your search for a new job.
Get a support system. Surround yourself with family and friends who are supportive. Explain that you need their companionship, and ask them to spend a little extra time with you.
 Feeling anxious is one of the greatest roadblocks to mental healing. Anxiety can lead to horrible uncertainty, depression, and insomnia. You can do several things to keep your anxiety levels in check, such as deep breathing exercises.When you are feeling stressed, take a few minutes to focus entirely on your breath. Take deep breaths in and slowly release them. Your heart rate and your anxiety will decrease.
Learn to meditate. Meditation has been shown to have profound positive impacts on mental health. To begin, find a quiet place where you can sit comfortably and clear your mind. You can download guided meditations on your smartphone, or take classes.
Focus on the positive. There actually is power in positive thinking. Make a list of the good things in your life. Make it a point to reflect on those things for a few minutes each day.
 When you are mentally healing, self-care is the most important thing you can do for yourself. Self-care means taking time to think about your own needs and ensuring that you are given yourself everything you need. Self-care is not selfish, it is essential.Self-care can mean setting boundaries. If you have been around negative people, remove yourself from that social circle.
Give yourself boundaries so that you get adequate rest. For example, don't check your work e-mail late in the evening. Let your mind recharge.
Make sure to set aside time for yourself each day. Do something that makes you feel good, such as watching your favorite show or taking a bubble bath.

