 When an image is in the public domain, it is not protected by copyright law. Because no one owns the copyright, they can’t stop you from using the image on your website. There are many image depositories on the web that offer public domain images. However, keep the following in mind:


An image might be “royalty free” but not in the public domain. Instead, the owner could put use restrictions, such as limitations on how often the image can be reproduced.
Many depositories that host public domain images also host copyrighted images.You should be careful as you look through the images and not assume that all images in the depository are free to use.
An image does not need a copyright notice attached to it to be under copyright protection.Ever since 1989, photographers do not have to put copyright images on their pictures in order to secure their copyright.
 An open content license, such as a Creative Commons license, allows you to use a work without explicit permission. You can find images in the following places:Flickr. Users can share images on Flickr under a Creative Commons license. However, be sure to check that the poster actually selected Creative Commons license.
Open Photo. This website as a selection of stock photos., You want to make sure that you have permission to use the images on your website. For example, you might find clip art or other images and believe that you have permission to distribute them online. Be sure to read the terms and conditions of the “clickwrap” agreement.Clickwrap agreements often pop up before you click a purchase or download button. You should print off any agreement and keep it for your records.
 Some images of recognizable people might be in the public domain. However, you should be careful before using those images in a commercial manner. If the person is still living and recognizable, you might be violating their right to publicity.The right to publicity is separate from copyright. Essentially, everyone has a right to prohibit others from exploiting their likeness for commercial purposes.
 It’s always possible that a depository claims an image is in the public domain when the image is copyrighted. If someone reaches out to you claiming they are the copyright owner, you shouldn’t just blow them off. Instead, you should remove the image and then investigate if you want to continue to use the image.

