 When you don't drink enough water, you become dehydrated. Dehydration dries out your skin, including your lips. Drink your eight glasses of water a day to help your lips., Dry air can dry out your skin, while moist air can help you skin stay moisturized. Dry air is especially a problem in the winter, so set up one in your bedroom to keep your skin and lips moisturized., Some people have luck using a cucumber to help rehydrate their lips. Simply cut up a cucumber. Use the slices to hydrate your lips by holding them on for 5 to to 10 minutes. , When your lips are chapped, you end up with minor cracks, and aloe vera can help heal those. In addition, it can help soothe the pain of chapped lips. You can apply pure aloe vera gel a couple of times a day to your lips., Your lips usually have a natural protection to keep them moist, but sometimes weather and food break down that protection. A treatment with ceramides encourages that barrier to rebuild itself, refreshing your chapped lips., If your lips are in really bad shape and other solutions aren't working, you can try a hydrocortisone cream a few times a day. While you should not use this option for the long term, you can use it for up to a week to restore your lips, giving your lips a chance to get healthy again.A good time to apply this cream is at night, when you aren't eating or drinking anything.Overusing hydrocortisone or other corticosteroid creams can also cause perioral dermatitis, a rash that occurs on your face around your lips., When you first wake up in the morning, apply a moisturizer to help jump-start the moisturizing process for the day., It's probably automatic for you to run your tongue over your lips when they feel dry. However, doing so only makes the situation worse because your saliva ends up drying out your lips., When picking out a lip balm, avoid ones that have artificial dyes and flavors. Natural oils, like shea butter and coconut oil, work best for moisturizing your lips., The acid in the fruit can contribute to your chapped lips, so try to avoid it when your lips are especially bad., Like citrus, the spice in spicy foods can also irritate your lips, especially if they also include acids, like hot wings do. Take a break from these foods if you're having trouble with your lips., These types of exfoliants actually dry out lips more, worsening the problem., If you have chronic dry lips, one of your medications could be to blame. For instance, high blood pressure medications can cause dry lips. While you shouldn't stop taking a medication altogether because of chapped lips, your doctor may be able to switch you to a different medication that doesn't cause you problems., Some toothpastes, especially those with artificial ingredients, can irritate your lips. That irritation can create chapped lips over time., Scarves don't just protect your neck and chest, they can also provide protection for your lips if you move it up over your mouth. Wind is a killer for chapped lips, so stopping the wind helps prevent the problem., Use a natural lip balm often, especially in the winter. Lip balms not only moisturize, they also protect your lips against the elements.Don't over-apply lip balm. This can cause a condition called perioral dermatitis, a facial rash that occurs around your lips.Limit yourself to once or twice a day.
 You likely use a cleanser to wash your face, designed to exfoliate or remove oils. Those actions can harm your lips instead of helping them, so protect your lips by applying lip balm first. The oil in the balm will help repel the effects of the cleanser., Use a sunscreen on your lips, or choose a lip balm with at least an SPF 15 sunscreen in it. It protects your lips from getting sunburned, which can contribute to chapped lips.