 Place parentheses with the proper citation inside after directly after quoted material. APA style uses the author-date message.

Example:
Smith (2013) states that citing quotes can be challenging.
This means that if you write the name of an author you are quoting, you must follow that name with the year of publication in parentheses.
 Publications include books, newspapers, journal articles, magazines, etc.
The author remarks on the "difficulty of citing quotes," (Smith, 2002, p. 32) but does not go into depth.or
Smith (2002) mentions the "difficulty of citing quotes" (p. 32) but does not go into depth.
The author’s last name, the year of publication, and the page number (preceded by a ‘p.’) should appear in parenthesis after the quote. If you state the author’s name in your sentence, the name must be followed by the year of publication in parenthesis and the quote must be followed by the page number. Follow the same procedures if the book has multiple authors., This should include the authors' last names, the year of publication, and the page number.



These scholars agree that "quotes are useful" (Hu, Koller, and Shier, 2013, p. 75).or
Hu, Koller, and Shier agree that "quotes are useful" (p. 75).
 Instead of using an author’s name for the in-text citation, use the title of the publication followed by the date.In a study, it was determined that “the sky is in fact blue” (“Obvious Observations,” 2013).
 If possible, cite a web page like any other document, using the author-date style.
Another study showed that “clouds are white” (“More Obvious Observations,” n.d., para. 7).
If there is no author name or date available, use a shortened version of the web page title in your parentheses, along with n.d (which stands for “no date”). If a web page does not have page numbers, signal which paragraph your quote is from by writing ‘para.’ (which stands for paragraph) followed by the paragraph’s number., Personal communications like e-mail and interviews are not considered recoverable data, so they are not recorded in your References list at the end of the work.
The message affirmed that “the sky is in fact blue” (John Smith, email, August 23, 2013).
Include all of the following in a parenthetical citation, placed as close after the quote as possible: Your source's name, form of communication, date of the communication.
 This is where you list all of the sources you have quoted in your paper. List your references in alphabetical order. Keep in mind that all lines after the first line of each entry should be indented one half-inch from the left margin.Book with one or more authors:
Lastname, First Initials (year published). Title of Book. Location: Publisher.

Book with no author:Title of Book. (Year). Location: Publisher.

Web page:
Lastname, First Initials (date of publication). Title of document. URL.
If there is no date, write n.d. If there is no author, start with "Title. (date)."