 Buying books isn’t your only option. A library card will save you a lot of money. Libraries are great for helping your child find books they are interested in that also have educational value.


Even if a book is not available at your local library, you can probably get it through an interlibrary loan program.
As a homeschooling parent, the library is your friend. In addition to books, take advantage of their other resources like documentaries, learning software, and periodicals to build a strong, low-cost curriculum for your child.
You can rent books through a library for free, or through a book rental service like Chegg.com. Book rental services are useful for helping you get hold of especially hard-to-find titles with low resale value.
 Many of these sites are free, though some have a small cost.


Try Duolingo to learn a foreign language.
Khan Academy offers free videos on many topics, and is well-known for producing quality lessons on scientific and mathematical subjects.
Try running a word string like “full lecture” or “homeschooling video” through YouTube (with replaced with the topic you want to teach) to locate high-quality videos taught by subject experts to supplement your child’s curriculum.
Look for educational websites that offer printouts.While ink cartridges do cost money, you’ll save more money by printing a few pages each day than by investing in textbooks.
 Amazon.com, eBay, and other sites offer secondhand books at a fraction of their cover price. You could also check out book sales at your local library, which are usually scheduled once every three or four months.


Contact your library for more information about their books sales. You might also contact local churches about books sales, and check thrift stores.
Many libraries offer the opportunity to purchase used books year-round in a small library store.
Freecycle can help you locate books for free. Check their site at https://www.freecycle.org/ and search for a group near you.
Amazon also offers hundreds of free e-books.
You could also look into trading books with others – including audiobooks and textbooks -- on Paperback Swap.

