 If you truly have something about which you feel sorry, do not ignore the emotion. Instead, allow yourself time to reflect and feel sorry. Set aside a period of time each day where you allow yourself to simply feel sorry and cope with your emotions.If you feel yourself being overcome by sorrow outside of this period, try to remind yourself that you will have time to properly cope with your emotion.
Outside of your designated grief time, work on your thankfulness. Try to find the positive in time not specifically set aside for your sorrow.
 Talking to a trustworthy friend or family member may help you to process your feelings. Try calling up someone who will be supportive and a good listener. Share honestly about how you have been feeling and listen to what your loved one has to say about it.

You can start by saying something like, “Lately I have been feeling really sorry about _____ and it has been having a negative effect on me.”

, Making amends for the thing you are feeling sorry about may help to make you feel better and make it easier to forgive yourself as well. Try asking the person what you could do to make it up to them, or consider the situation and what might be an appropriate response.

For example, if you broke a treasured trinket that belonged to one of your office mates, then you might make amends by purchasing them a new one.
 When you feel overcome by sorrow, try meditation to clear your head. If you are new to meditation, pick one thing completely unrelated to your sorrow on which you can focus. Close your eyes, relax your body, and focus on that one thing to move your mind away from the sorrow.You could focus your attention on a mantra such as, “I can positively handle any negative emotions that come my way,” or on a mental image that makes you happy or thankful, like that of a close friend or special pet.
You may opt to meditate when you are feeling especially down or sorrowful, or you may choose to make meditation part of your daily life to help keep sorrow away.
 When things get rough, it is important not only to allow yourself time to recognize your sorrow, but also to find something positive to help you move forward. Take a look at your situation and look for one positive aspect, even if it is small.For example, if you receive bad marks on an exam or a poor performance review at work, you can assure yourself that you have the benefit of friends or family to help comfort you.

