 Leave your betta’s current container alone for now. Use a water conditioner (available at pet supply stores) to remove chlorine and other harmful substances from the fresh water.


Follow all directions provided with the water conditioner, and use the exact amount required for your tank or bowl size.;
, Putting your betta immediately into water that is a different temperature can harm it.Let the container of fresh, treated water sit at room temperature for an hour so that it will be safe and comfortable for your fish.


Alternatively, you can mix hot and cold water from your tap until it is the same temperature as the water in your betta’s current container.If you follow this method, use an aquarium thermometer to make sure that the water in both tanks is the same temperature, and add water conditioner to the new water as instructed.
 To do a partial water change, you will take some of the water from your betta’s container and replace it with some of the fresh, treated water. Using a clean scoop or something similar, remove 25 to 50 percent of the water in your betta’s current container.Leave your betta in the container as you remove the water.


To be precise, you can measure the water as you take it out. For instance, if you have a twenty-gallon tank, remove up to ten gallons measured using jugs or other measuring containers.
You can also use a siphon hose to transfer water from your betta’s container to a bucket or sink. Once the water starts flowing, move the hose so it "vacuums" the gravel at the bottom of the tank, picking up fish waste, old food, and other debris.
 Slowly pour fresh, treated water from the container you prepared into your betta’s current container until it reaches the previous water level.If the container is too heavy to lift and pour, use a clean scoop (or similar container) or siphon hose to add the water. It is fine to leave your betta in its container as you add the fresh water, but add the water slowly so that you do not disturb the fish.
 Most experts recommend changing your betta’s water at least once a week.If for some reason your betta’s container becomes especially dirty, however, you may need to change it more frequently.

