 Everything from your casual t-shirts to your button-down blouses should be fitted, nipping in slightly at the waist. Stretchy materials hug your curves and work especially well if you have a flat stomach.;
, Look for belted jackets, trench-style coats, or other fits that draw in toward the waist. Short jackets that stop just above your hips accentuate your curves in a flattering way.
 Wrap tops and dresses pull the fabric in at the skinniest part of your waist, drawing the focus to your waist without adding any extra volume to your bust. Hourglass figures with a short waist or petite figure may not like this style, however, since it often falls out at the wrong part of their waist.
 These materials gently drape over your natural curves, keeping your bust in proportion with your hips. Avoid stiff fabrics, since these may end up making you look boxy.
 Look for V-necks, V-neck halters, sweethearts, and scoop necks. Narrow necklines slim down your bust, keeping it looking balanced, and low necklines draw the eye closer to your narrow waist. Avoid wide necklines like boat necks and squares, since these tend to make you look top heavy.
 Stay away from ruffles, bows, and other dimensional details that add volume. If placed at the bust, these details may make you look top heavy. If placed at the waist, they detract from your waist's natural narrowness.
 Muted patterns may also work, but solid colors flatter your figure best. You can "color block" by having contrasting shades above your waist and below your waist, or you can stick with a single, solid color top or dress to keep your bust evenly balanced with your hips.
 A supportive bra will help you lift and tame your bust, giving your upper half the right proportions.
 Some hourglass figures would rather look thin rather than curvy. If this describes you, slim down your upper half by wearing dark colors, vertical stripes, or vertical pleats.
 A top that stops just short of your waist will accentuate your curves, but if you would rather slim your curves down, look for a top that lengthens your torso by extending just below your hipbone or past your thighs.
 Look for dresses and skirts in full circle or tulip cuts, especially if they have a high waist. These cuts hug your hips and hang off them naturally, which accentuates your curvy lower half without adding bulk.
 A-line and pencil skirts are universally flattering. They work well for hourglass figures because they hug your curves and keep things streamlined.
 Look for materials that stretch or drape. A stiff skirt may make your hips look boxy and excessively wide.
 Think wide-leg and boot-cut styles. The flare keeps the bottom portion of your leg in balance with your wide hips. This also creates a longer, slimmer appearance for your legs.
 Skinny jeans make most hourglass figures look short and stout. If you have naturally long, lean legs, though, you may be able to get away with a tight-fitting skinny jean, especially if you pair it with high heels that add extra length to your leg.
 Avoid low-rise pants, since these may make your hips look wider and your legs look shorter. Mid-rise and high-rise cuts elongate the leg. Styles with wide waist-bands are especially flattering.
 Your trousers should have flat fronts and pockets without flaps or large buttons. You should also avoid decorative embellishments or other decorations at the hip.
 A belt worn around the narrowest part of your waist acts as the focal point of your entire outfit. Skinny belts often work for hourglass figures of all heights, but wide belts may shorten the torso if you have a short waist or petite height.
 Your curvy hips may make your legs look thick and short when you wear flat shoes. Heels elongate the leg, however, creating a slimmer, better proportioned look.
 A bright splash of color at your neck can add personality to your outfit. Look for short necklaces that hug your neck or long necklaces that come down in a "V." Necklaces that hang low and wide over your chest may make it look larger and unbalanced.


Long necklaces with a pendant close to the breast or waistline will draw attention to your waist.
 These will draw the attention of the eye to your waistline as well as the wrist.