 Perhaps one of the most popular Thai dishes is Pad Thai, a stir-fry noodle dish with vegetables and a protein like egg, tofu, or shrimp. You can prepare Pad Thai at home using a wok and a few basic Thai ingredients. You will need:1 cup tamarind juice
½ cup fish sauce
1 cup palm sugar
1 cup water
8 ounces medium rice noodles
4 tablespoons peanut oil or vegetable oil
½ lb. frozen or fresh shrimp or 1/3 lb. boneless pork loin, shoulder or other similar cut
3/4 cup firm tofu, cut into 1 1/2" x 1" x 1/4" pieces
4-5 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3 shallots, thinly sliced
1/4 cup dried shrimp, soaked in warm water
1/4 cup chopped sweet pickled radish or turnip
2-3 teaspoons dried ground Thai chili pepper
2 large eggs, beaten
3 cups bean sprouts
1 cup garlic chives, cut into 1 inch lengths (or scallions)
⅔ cup roasted and crushed peanuts and 1 lime, for garnish;
, For authentic Pad Thai, you will need to first create a Pad Thai sauce using tamarind juice, palm sugar, fish sauce, and water. Combine 1 cup tamarind juice, ½ cup fish sauce, 1 cup palm sugar, and 1 cup water.You will then cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, for 45 minutes until the ingredients form a syrup. Set the sauce aside until you need it for the Pad Thai.
 Start by soaking the rice noodles in cool or lukewarm water for 40 minutes. The noodles should appear limp but be firm to the touch.Once the noodles have softened, drain them and set them aside. You can also prepare the rest of the ingredients while the noodles are soaking.
 If you are using shrimp as your protein in the Pad Thai, you will need to peel and devein the shrimp, leaving the tails on. If you are using pork as your protein, slice it into 1 x ½ x ¼ inch pieces.You can also brine the shrimp so they are moist once they are cooked. Do this by boiling one cup of water and adding ¼ cup salt. Then let the water cool and add 3-7 cups of water. Place the shrimp in the brine and let it refrigerate for 30 minutes. Drain and pat the shrimp dry.
 You should also prepare the other ingredients so they are on hand when you are ready to cook. Slice the tofu into bite sized pieces. Then, mince the garlic and cut up the shallots. You should also chop up the dried shrimp, the scallions, and the lime.Place all of these ingredients in small, separate bowls so they are ready to go.
You should also roast the peanuts at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 3 to 5 minutes. Then, remove them from the oven to cool. You can crush the peanuts in the mortar and pestle.
 You can also use a 12” skillet if you do not have a wok. Once the wok is hot, add 2 teaspoons of cooking oil. Then, add the garlic and stir it quickly in the oil for about 30 seconds.Add the shrimp and cook until they turn pink. If you’re using pork, cook the pork until it is brown. Then, remove the protein from the wok and put it on a plate.
 Put in another 2 tablespoons of oil into the wok and let the wok heat up. Then, add the tofu and stir-fry it until it turns golden brown. This should take about four to five minutes.Once the tofu has been cooked, add the shallots, dried shrimp, sweetened radish, and ground dried chilies.
 You should then add the noodles to the wok. Combine the noodles with the other ingredients, stir-frying them for one to two minutes until the noodles are soft.If you have a large wok, you may be able to fit all the noodles in one batch. If you have a smaller wok, you will need to stir-fry them in two batches. Do this by setting aside half of the tofu-dried shrimp mixture and doing one batch of noodles, followed by the other half of the tofu-dried shrimp mixture and the other batch of noodles.
 Push the noodles and tofu-shrimp mixture to one side of the wok and add a teaspoon of oil. Then, put in the eggs and let them cook until they are just cooked.Use a metal spatula or a knife to divide the eggs into small chunks and toss them with the noodles.
 Finish the dish by pouring 8 tablespoons of the Pad Thai sauce on the noodles and stirring it well to coat. If you find the noodles are too firm, you can sprinkle them with 1-2 tablespoons of water.Once the noodles have been cooked to your preference, put in the bean sprouts and the garlic chives. Then, sprinkle on half of the chopped peanuts as well as the cooked shrimp or pork.
 You can also add on more chopped peanuts and bean sprouts to your liking. Serve the Pad Thai hot on a serving dish., Thai curries are also well known for their complex flavors and textures. Thai curries can be served with jasmine rice or Thai noodles. There are three types of curries in Thai cooking: green curry, red curry, and yellow curry. You can prepare curries with chicken, pork, or fish. You will need the following ingredients:400 grams beef or chicken, substitute for tofu, fish, or shrimp if desired
1 tablespoon cooking oil (corn, safflower or peanut oil, not olive oil)
3 tablespoons curry paste (green, red, or yellow depending on preference)
2 ½ cups coconut milk (about 1 ½ cans)
2 kaffir lime leaves
5-10 small Thai eggplants, quartered
2-3 fresh red spur chilies, sliced diagonally
¼ cup sweet basil leaf
1 ½ tablespoons fish sauce
1 ½ teaspoons palm sugar
Sweet basil leaves and red chili slices for garnish

, Start by slicing the beef or chicken into thin pieces. Try to make the pieces about ⅓” (3 cm) thick.If you are using tofu, slice the tofu into small thin pieces. If you are using shrimp, peel and devein the shrimp.
 Heat the wok over medium heat and put the curry paste in the wok. Let the paste heat up until it is fragrant., Reduce the heat and gradually add 2 ½ cups of coconut milk into the wok. Stir until there is a film of green/yellow/red oil on the surface of the milk., Let the beef or chicken cook for three minutes until it smells fragrant and is cooked through. You can do the same for tofu or shrimp, if you are using them.Raise the heat so the mixture starts to boil. Once it has reached a boil, add the remaining coconut milk and season with palm sugar and fish sauce.
 Let the mixture return to a boil and then add the eggplant. The curry should cook until the eggplants are done. They should appear soft and darker in color.Finish by sprinkling basil leaves and chilies over the curry. Then, turn off the heat.
 Arrange the curry on a serving dish and then garnish it with sweet basil leaves and red chilies. Serve hot., Thai food also has a variety of desserts that are served to finish a meal. You may prepare one of the more popular Thai desserts: Thai Sweet Sticky Rice. This dish uses coconut milk and palm sugar to sweeten the rice. You can serve it with fresh tropical fruit like mango or papaya. You will need the following ingredients:2 cups uncooked long grain rice, soaked in cold water for one hour and drained
1 ¼ cups coconut milk
A pinch of salt
2 tablespoons of sugar
2 large ripe mangoes, peeled and sliced
1 tablespoon split yellow mung beans, toasted (optional)

, Then, combine the rice, coconut milk, salt, sugar, and 1 ¼ cup water in the saucepan. Let the rice mixture come to a boil on the stove.Once it comes to a boil, lower the heat and stir. Simmer, uncovered, for eight to ten minutes until all the liquid has been absorbed.
Remove from the heat and cover. Let it cool, covered, for five minutes.
 If you are using a steamer basket, pour the rice mixture into the steamer. Then, place the steamer over a wok or large pot filled with two to three inches of water. Let the water boil and then cover and steam the rice for 20 minutes. Make sure the rice does not touch the water. You can stir the rice so the steam is evenly distributed in the steamer.You can also cook the rice in a rice cooker. Place two cups of rice and two and a half cups of water in the rice cooker. Let the rice soak for 30 minutes and then toss in 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Turn on the rice cooker and let it cook for 15 to 20 minutes, then let it stand for five minutes.
You can then mold the cooked rice into individual ramekins or small ceramic cups lined with plastic wrap. Let the rice cool to room temperature.
 You can serve the sticky rice right in the ramekins or lift the rice out of the cups onto a plate. Then, top them with mango. Sprinkle with toasted mung beans as a garnish., A wok is a deep wide cooking pot that can be used in Thai cooking to stir-fry, steam, or roast food. Woks come in a variety of sizes, though a medium sized one will often be enough for home cooking. You can find woks online or at Asian grocery stores.Look for a wok made of spun carbon steel as it will conduct heat well and can be seasoned to prevent sticking when you are cooking in it. You should look for a wok with a lid that has a handle, as the lid can get hot and you do not want to burn yourself when you use it.
You should get a spatula or spoon with a long handle made of metal to go with the wok. This will make it easier to toss food around in the wok when you use it.
If you do not have access to a wok or the funds to buy one, you can cook Thai food in a deep, non-stick pan.
 A mortar and pestle is used to grind up Thai spices for sauces, curries, and soups. You will use the mortar and pestle to crush the fibers of Thai roots and herbs as well to release the flavors and juices in the food. You can find mortar and pestles online or at most cooking stores.If you do not want to buy a mortar and pestle, you can use a small food processor or a coffee grinder. Make sure the coffee grinder is only used for Thai spices and herbs as you do not want any other flavors to contaminate the food.
 Many Thai dishes are served over jasmine rice. You should invest in an automatic electric rice cooker so you can cook rice quickly and easily. You can find rice cookers online or at Asian grocery stores.You can always prepare rice on your stovetop at home if you do not want to buy a rice cooker. But you may need to add more time to a recipe so you can cook the rice on the stovetop.
 Many Thai dishes require the use of a traditional steamer. These steamers are often made of bamboo or woven fibers. You can also get steamers made of metal. Look for steamers online or at most cooking stores.The steamers will be round and stackable, making it easier to steam food over a container of boiling water. The steam will then rise through the steamers, cooking the food efficiently and quickly.
 A good chef’s knife is essential to Thai cooking, and any other cooking you do in the kitchen. A chef’s knife should be large enough to chop vegetables, herbs, meat, and fruit. It should have a strong, high quality blade and be comfortable to hold in your hand. Investing in a good chef’s knife will make chopping up Thai ingredients much easier.You may not have the funds to invest in a high quality chef’s knife. You can use a basic knife for chopping and slicing, as long as you make sure it is sharpened before use. Sharpening the knife will make it easier, and safer, to use in the kitchen.
 One of the key elements of Thai cooking is using the right herbs and spices. You can find many traditional Thai herbs and spices at Asian grocery stores, in the Asian grocery aisle of your supermarket, and online. Getting these herbs will ensure the Thai food you prepare is authentic and flavorful. You should stock up on the following herbs:Thai basil: This type of basil is sometimes called “Thai Sweet Basil” and is known as “bai horapha” in Thai. It has smaller, darker leaves than Western sweet basil, with purple stems and flower buds. You will use the leaves in Thai curries and other Thai dishes.
Coriander root and seeds: This root is known as “rahgk pak chee” in Thai and is located at the end of the coriander plant. You will pound the root in the mortar and pestle to add to curry pastes and Thai soups. The coriander seeds, called “mellet pak chee” in Thai, are small and brown. You will use them in Thai curry pastes, sauces, and marinades.
Galangal root: This root, called “hea-uh kah” in Thai, is similar to ginger root, but has a more delicate flavor and texture. You can find it fresh at Thai grocery stores. You can also find it dried in slices, or ground up. You will add this root to Thai soups and curries.
Kaffir lime: The leaves of the Kaffir lime, called “ma-goot” in Thai, are a must have ingredient for Thai soups, curries, and stir-fries. You can also find the leaves dried or frozen, which you can add to Thai dishes.
Cilantro: The cilantro leaves are used as garnishes on Thai dishes and in salads. The leaves and stems can be eaten raw.
Thai chili peppers: These small red chilis are called “asprik kee noo” in Thai and pack a spicy punch. They are added to Thai soups and curries.
 You should also invest in Thai sauces and pastes that you will reach for often when you are cooking Thai dishes. These sauces and pastes can be found at most Asian grocery stores as well as online. You should get the following sauces and pastes:Fish sauce: This is one of the most essential cooking ingredients in Thai cuisine, called “nam pla” in Thai. The use of fish sauce in Thai cooking is comparable to Chinese soy sauce or American table salt. It has a strong smell when uncooked but when added to dishes, it has a subtle flavor.
Tamarind paste: You can buy tamarind paste pre made at Asian grocery stores or online. It is made by soaking tamarind seeds in water and squeezing out the seeds to extract the flavor, or paste.
Curry paste: Though you can make your own Thai curry paste using a mortar and pestle, you can also buy Thai curry paste in stores and online. Using authentic Thai curry paste will make it much quicker and easier to prepare Thai curries.
 Many Thai dishes call for the use of palm oil, coconut milk, and palm sugar. You can find these ingredients at Asian grocery stores or online. Palm oil is used for frying foods in the wok and for flavoring soups. If you do not have access to palm oil, you can use a lighter oil like canola, sunflower or peanut oil.Coconut milk is made by straining and squeezing coconuts for the juice inside. It is often used for Thai curries and soups. You can find coconut milk in cans at the grocery store. Make sure you always stir the can before you use it so the heavy cream on top is mixed into the juice.
Another popular Thai ingredient is palm sugar, which is used to sweeten curries and soups. It is made from the sap of the coconut palm flower.

