 When you’re aware of the changes typical in an aging body, you’ll be more likely to face these changes with resilience. There are steps that you can take to limit the impact of many age-related physical changes, but others just require adaptations.Your eyes may experience difficulty focusing on things that are close to you. This change in your eyes typically takes place between the ages of 40 – 50. Reading glasses can usually help fix this. The good news is that your long-distance vision may improve!You might to notice that you have a hard time hearing people talking in crowded settings, and may not hear high frequencies. Hearing aids used to be clunky appliances, but newer models are hardly visible at all.
Many people start to have problems with bladder control as they age. Fortunately, improvements in the quality of absorbent undergarments mean that you can continue to stay active despite bladder challenges.
Your bones are likely to weaken, and your muscles may lose strength and flexibility. There are still ways to stay active, including yoga, adaptive yoga, swimming, and walking.
Your heart rate and metabolism are likely to slow down, which may lead to heart-related problems. Talk to your doctor about how to best care for your heart health.
 Many people find that their memory functions less efficiently than it did when they were younger. It might take longer to find the right word for something, or to recall where you put your glasses. It might feel harder to learn new things. These are not necessarily signs of impairment, however. Studies have shown that older people may just take longer to complete complex activities, and may even improve in some areas of mental ability.Memory changes can sometimes be symptoms of other health conditions, a side effect of medications, or a result of emotional problems such as stress, anxiety, or depression.
More serious memory problems include Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and dementia, including Alzheimer’s Disease and Vascular Dementia.
If you’re concerned about changes in your memory, talk to your healthcare practitioner.
 One of the most practical ways to address fears is to make plans. If you’re fearful of aging, not thinking about aging is one of the worst things you could do. Instead of hiding from your fears, find out what you can expect and make plans for handling it.


Doing advance care planning and making legal arrangements for your end-of-life care is a practical step to take at any age.If you know what to expect as you age, chances are it will seem a lot less overwhelming.
Making plans includes planning for travel, entertainment, and new hobbies. Recognizing that you’ll have an opportunity to do new things may help you think more positively about aging.
 You’ll want to save money for your retirement, whether through your employer or on your own. If you already have a pension, a 401-K, a Individual Retirement Account (IRA), or another financial plan for retirement, learn how to invest it wisely.Talking to a financial planner can help you make plans that will maximize your benefits.
Getting a sense of your own financial needs during retirement will help you make effective plans.

