 Dig your old violin out of the closet or sit down at the piano and play. If you have already memorized a favorite song, give it a try. It probably won’t sound like it’s supposed to sound, but that’s okay. This is for fun remember.


Review the scales and musical notes if necessary. Start with beginner books if you have some. Since these songs are easier to play, you might feel more at ease and have a sense of accomplishment if you can play at least or two songs fairly decently.
If you are a pretty good musician, but feel that you rarely have a chance to play, then now is your chance. Practice and give your own private concert at the end of the night.
Playing an instrument for fun also can have benefits in your work life. For instance, it increases memory capacity, teaches perseverance and even helps to create better organizational skills., You don’t need to go to a club. Your kitchen or living room floor can serve as the perfect dance floor. Dancing at home gives you the opportunity to practice new moves and experiment with new dance styles without onlookers. Put on your favorite music. Let your hair down and just move.


Choreograph your own dance moves to your favorite song.
Practice dance moves from different decades. Watch a few 70’s or 80’s music videos if you’ve forgotten how to do the dances.
 Dance around with a pretend microphone or dress up in your favorite decade and then dance around.
 If you’re not much of a dancer, or if the music doesn’t give you the urge to jump around -- even in the privacy of your own home -- then lying on the sofa listening to the music is just fine. Have a music day.Work your way through your favorite artists by listening to album after album.
Create a playlist for different moods: chill, sexy, lounge.
Listen to a wide range of different genres of music.
Discover new music on Soundcloud, Mixcloud or YouTube.
 Even if you think that only a few are graced with artistic ability, it’s actually to the contrary; everyone is graced with a hint of artistic ability. When you were a child, you weren’t worrying about how good your drawing was because you were having too much fun creating it. Go back to that and express yourself.Have fun with different mediums. Use acrylic paint, watercolors, pastels or charcoal.
Set up a still life to paint with some of your items from around the house or paint a self-portrait.
 No, your home isn’t summer camp, but that’s not important. There are still plenty of creative projects that you can do around the house that don’t involve gimp or beads -- unless you already have those. If not, use a sharpie to decorate a plain mug, or make a dreamcatcher from string and sticks in the yard.Decorate a box for keepsakes.Paint rocks to use as paperweights, or put them in the garden.
Search Pinterest for more creative ideas.
 You don’t need to be a chef to whip something up in the kitchen. Think of it as a creative project. Look up some recipes online, or try a recipe from one of the cookbooks in your home. If cooking if not your preferred choice, try baking. If you don’t like the stove or the oven, then try your hand at the blender. Make a smoothie or mix some cocktails. You can set up an at home bar lounge/Jamba Juice, but reference a recipe so that your final concoction is enjoyable.