 In the beloved “Where’s Waldo” books by Martin Handford, readers are supposed to look for a cartoon man named Waldo. Knowing what to look for is where you must start.Waldo wears a red-striped shirt and a red-striped hat. Be careful, though, because the illustrator has planted other people with red stripes in an attempt to fool you. There should be a picture of Waldo on the cover of the books.

Create a picture of Waldo in your “mind’s eye” by studying his picture for a few minutes. This helps your brain seek out similar colors and images in the pages.Waldo also has round black glasses, and a walking stick/brown wooden cane with a curved top.Waldo wears brown work boots.Waldo wears blue jeans with pockets. He has short brown hair with longer bangs that are swept to the right. He usually has a smile on his face.;
, One technique that can be effective is to focus on landmarks where Waldo might be hiding out, rather than just wildly looking around.


Look around landmarks like a castle moat or a blimp or other central elements to the scene. Waldo often carries objects with him. This could be a camera, camping gear, a teacup, or any other relevant accessory. Sometimes, looking for these things on the page will lead you right to Waldo!
Handford has said that he didn’t strive to be purely random when choosing where to put Waldo. Instead, he said that he puts “Wally when I come to what I feel is a good place to hide him.”
Most of the Waldo books also contain a postcard from Waldo in the top left-hand corner of the left page when you open a two-page spread. Waldo is never hidden here.
 Various studies have found that there are some places Waldo almost never appears on the page.


Waldo is almost never spotted in the page’s top left-hand corner. He is rarely located on the edges of pages, and he is never found on the bottom of the right page.
Waldo is called different names around the world. He is Ubaldo in Italy, Jonas in Lithuania, Walter in Germany, Wally in the UK and Australia, and Van Lang in Vietnam.Have fun with it! Challenge yourself by scanning the page, and seeing how long it takes you to find Waldo without extra help.