 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile device. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see 117. Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. Do you see some good moves that can get you special candies? How about moves that can quickly get an ingredient to the middle three columns? Better yet, do you have an ingredient already on the middle three columns?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead an exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy., Look for moves that will give you Striped candies. Ideally, you should aim for a vertically Striped candy right under the ingredient. This will make it a lot faster to drop the ingredient to the bottom.
 These can be harder to make, so look for every opportunities to do so. Try to create one in the column where the ingredient is located so that it can help bring it down.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. It’s always useful to have this special candy. It’s extra special if you can combine it with a vertically Striped candy that’s located in the column with the ingredient. This can clear out the column faster, allowing the ingredient to drop.
 If the ingredient on the board isn’t on the right columns yet, take every opportunity to swap it towards the middle. This is your main priority. If you have other combos elsewhere, those can only be distractions and can be a waste of moves.
 There are three arrow marks where the ingredients should fall. These are located on the middle three columns. Once you get an ingredient in the middle columns, focus on clearing the path to get it to the bottom. Vertically Striped candies can be of great use here.
 You are required to bring down two chestnuts and one cherry. You can only have one ingredient at a time on your board. Once one has been cleared, a new one will appear at the top again. Go ahead and try to maneuver it to the middle columns as described above for the next ingredient., At the start of the level, the chocolate is blocked by a row of meringues. Avoid breaking the meringues early in the game so that the chocolate won’t spread. Focus on bringing the ingredients down first. Only break the meringues once the ingredients are near the bottom.
 Once the meringues are broken, the chocolate will spread. Watch out for when this happens so that you can immediately control the chocolate.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over. If you can clear them all out, it will be easier to bring the ingredients down.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move. However, you need to balance your moves among the three ingredients you need to bring down. You cannot waste a lot of moves just for one ingredient, unless it’s the last one.