 Navigating the world of tampon buying can be a little tricky, but once you know a bit more about what to buy, you won't feel so intimidated. Some common brands for tampons include Kotex and Playtex, and most companies that make pads also make tampons, so you can go with the company that makes your pads to feel comfortable. Basically, there are three things to keep in mind: paper or plastic, absorbency, and whether or not the tampon has an applicator. Here's what you need to know:


Paper or plastic. Some tampons have a cardboard applicator (paper), while others have a plastic applicator. The paper applicator has the benefit of mostly being flushable, but you may not want to take your chances if you have an unreliable plumbing system. Some people say that plastic is also a bit easier to use. You can try both and decide what you like best.
Applicator or no applicator. Most tampons are sold with applicators, while others are not. When you're starting off, it's much easier to use tampons with applicators so you have more control over the process. The tampons without applicators require you to push the tampon up in your vagina with your fingers, which can be a bit more of a challenge. The upside of these tampons is that they are super small, so you can even keep them in your pocket, if necessary.
Absorbency. The most common types of tampons are either "regular" or "super absorbent". It's generally recommended that you start with regular tampons to get the hang of using them before you move on to the super ones. They are a bit bigger, though they aren't necessarily harder to use. You can also use regular tampons first, when your flow isn't as heavy, and then switch to more absorbent tampons, depending on your flow, or vice versa. Many packs of tampons come with some regular, and some super absorbency tampons, so you can mix and match.;
, Though this isn't mandatory, inserting the tampon when you've just begun your period and your flow is still light will make it a bit harder for it to easily glide into your vagina. If your flow is heavier, the walls of your vagina will be more moist and will allow the tampon to glide in more easily.


Some people want to know if they can practice using tampons when they aren't on their period. While nothing horrible will happen if you do this, it'll be harder to insert the tampon into the vagina, and you may want to wait until your actual period begins.
Though asking your mom or your Aunt for help may be the last thing on earth you want to do, if you try it on your own and really have a hard time, or if you're just afraid to try it, don't be afraid to ask a trusted female for some help.
 It's important to wash your hands before you insert a tampon so that you keep the tampon and applicator sterile before you insert it inside your body. You don't want to get any bacteria in your vagina and cause an infection.
 Wait until your hands are dry and then carefully tear open the tampon wrapper on its top and throw it away. It's okay to be a little nervous, though there's no reason to be. If you accidentally drop the tampon on the ground, you should throw it away and start with a new one. You don't want to risk getting an infection just because you didn't want to waste a tampon.
 As you get more comfortable with using a tampon, you'll get a better sense of which method works for you. Some women like to sit on the toilet when they insert a tampon. Others like to stand and squat a little. You can also place one leg on the toilet or side of the tub to make your vaginal opening more accessible.


Though it's natural to be nervous, you should try to relax as much as you can. The more relaxed you are, the easier it will be to insert the tampon.
 Hold it in its middle, right at the spot where the smaller, inner tube inserts into the larger, outer tube. The string should be easily visible and should point downwards, away from your body, with the thick part of the tampon pointing up. You can also place your index finger on the base of the tampon and your middle finger and thumb on the provided grips.
 The vagina is between the urethra and the anus. There are three openings, which are the urethra, where the urine comes from, the vagina, which is in the middle, and the anus, in the back. If you can find your urethra easily, then feel an inch or two behind it to find the opening of the vagina. Don't be afraid of getting a little bit of blood on your hands — that's perfectly normal.


Some people recommend that you use your other hand to open your labia, which are the folds of skin around the vaginal opening. This can help you position the tampon in the opening. However, some people are able to insert a tampon without this additional help.
 Now that you've found your vagina, all you have to do is place the tampon just an inch or so into the top of your vagina. You should slowly push the tampon up until your fingers touch the applicator and your body and the outer tube of the tampon is inside your vagina.
 Stop when the thin and thick portions meet and your fingers touch your skin. The applicator is there to help you insert the tampon further up your vagina. You can think of this as pushing the inner tube of the tampon through the outer tube.
 Now that you've inserted the tampon into your vagina, all you have to do is to remove the applicator. To do this, simply use your thumb and your middle finger to gently pull the applicator away from your vagina. The string should be hanging from your vaginal opening.
 You should discard the applicator if it's made of plastic. If it's made of cardboard, check the instructions on the box carefully to make sure you can flush it. If you're not sure, it's better to be safe and to throw it out.
 Though this isn't necessary, many girls like to wear pantyliners along with their tampons just in case their tampons start to leak a bit after absorbing as much menstrual fluid as they can. Though if you use the bathroom regularly and change your tampon as often as need, this isn't likely to happen, wearing a pantyliner may give you an extra sense of security. Plus, you'll barely be able to feel the thinnest pantyliners.
 If you don't feel comfortable with the tampon in, then it's likely that you didn't insert it correctly. You shouldn't be able to feel the tampon in at all if you did insert it properly. If you feel uncomfortable or like it's not all the way in, then you should remove it. You will even be able to tell if you didn't insert it properly because the bottom of the tampon may be visible outside of your vagina. If this is the case, it's time to try again.


When you have the tampon in, you should be able to run, hike, bike, swim, or participate in any physical activity you want to do.
 Though you should remove a tampon every 6 to 8 hours at the longest, you may find that you will need to remove your tampon sooner if you're having a heavy flow. It's important to check on it every hour or two, especially when you're using tampons for the first time. If you find that you wipe yourself and see a lot of blood, or see blood in the toilet, then this is a sign that your tampon can't absorb any more blood and that it's time to take it out. (This can also be a sign that you didn't insert it all the way, which is also a reason to take it out.)

, Though the instructions on your box of tampons may say that you can flush the tampon, if you want to be safe and don't want to have to call the plumber because your tampon clogged up your old-fashioned toilet, then you may want to wrap it up in some toilet paper and throw it out. If you're in a public bathroom, you should see a bin either on the floor of the bathroom stall or on the side door, which you should use for discarding your used tampon.
 Once you remove your tampon, you can go ahead and insert another one. Most people don't sleep in tampons, and you may want to use a pad overnight instead, unless you plan on sleeping for less than 8 hours.


If your tampon string is wet with menstrual fluid, then it's time to change your tampon.
If the tampon still feels difficult to remove and a bit "stuck," then it's because it hasn't absorbed enough menstrual fluid yet. If it's been less than eight hours, then you should try again later. Try using a tampon with a lighter absorbency next time, if there is one.
If you leave your tampon in for longer than 8 hours, you may get Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS), which is a very rare but potentially deadly consequence of leaving in your tampon for too long. If you've left a tampon in for longer than recommended and experience a fever, a rash, or vomiting, get help immediately.
 It's best to use tampons with a lower absorbency than you need. Start with a regular tampon. If you find that you have to change it more often than every four hours, then you should switch to a tampon with higher absorbency. As your period tampers off, you should use tampons with the lightest absorbency. Once your period is almost over, you may find that it's more difficult to insert the tampon. When your period is over, you should stop using tampons.


Use a pantyliner for an extra day if you feel that your period may not be completely over yet.
 The tampon has an extremely strong, durable string that runs through it, which never falls off. The string runs through the entire tampon instead of just being attached to the end, so there is literally no way for it to just detach. You can even try taking a new tampon and tugging on the string as hard as you can for a while — you'll see that it's impossible to just take it off, and therefore not possible that the tampon will get stuck inside of you. This is a common fear that people have, but it is completely unfounded.
 Some people who wear tampons go years before realizing that they can actually pee when they use them. The tampon is inserted into your vaginal opening, and you pee out of your urethral opening. The two are close together, but they are different holes, and therefore, inserting a tampon will not fill your bladder or make it harder for you to pee. Some people think that if they pee, that the tampon will come right out, but this absolutely will not happen., You do not have to be over 16 or over 18 to wear a tampon. It's perfectly safe for girls younger than this to wear tampons, as long as they know how to insert them correctly.
 Some people think that they can only wear tampons after they have had sex, and that using them before that will make them lose their virginity. Well, this is just completely untrue. While using a tampon may occasionally cause a girl to tear or stretch her hymen, nothing will make you "lose your virginity" other than actual sex. Tampons work just as effectively for virgins as for non-virgins., Wearing a tampon will not give you a yeast infection, contrary to what you may have heard. There has been absolutely no scientific proof that this is possible. Some people think this is the case because women tend to get yeast infections around the time of their period, which is also when they use tampons.