 Tea tree oil is a pleasant-smelling essential oil derived from a tree native to Australia. There is clinical evidence that tea tree oil is effective against several skin conditions, including acne. It works as a natural astringent and can stimulate the immune system, making it an asset for your fight against acne.See How to apply for detailed instructions on how to use and apply tea tree oil.
Some people may be allergic to tea tree oil. Before using it on your face, test a drop of tea tree oil elsewhere, like your arm or leg. Wait several hours. If a rash develops, you may be allergic or sensitive to the oil, and should avoid putting it on your face.
Tea tree oil is toxic when consumed. Do not ingest tea tree oil.
 Lemon juice works as a natural disinfectant, which will kill bacteria that cause acne. It can also stimulate circulation to the skin, which will bring essential nutrients from your body to help fight acne. Follow these instructions to treat your acne with lemon juice.Wash your face normally.
Squeeze a large lemon into a bowl until you have about 2 teaspoons. Note that you may need to use a second lemon. Make sure to get the lemon juice by squeezing lemons instead of using store-bought juice- this usually contains preservatives that can irritate your face.
Use a cotton ball or Q-tip to apply the lemon juice to each one of your pimples.
If you do this treatment during the day, leave the juice on for at least 30 minutes, then rinse with cool water. If you are doing it at night, leave it on while you sleep, then wash it off with cool water in the morning.
Make sure you've removed the juice before going into the sun, as this can have a bleaching affect on your skin.
 Although there is conflicting evidence, some consider honey an effective treatment for acne because of its antibacterial properties. Advocates consider Manuka honey, harvested from New Zealand, and raw honey, to be the two best forms of honey for acne treatment. Both are available in health food stores and on the internet.Before applying honey to your acne, dab a small amount around your jawline. Wait about 30 minutes to see if you have an adverse reaction. If so, do not apply honey to your acne.
You may use honey in two ways. Either dab your pimples, or apply the honey to your whole face like a mask.
Wash off the honey with cool water after 30 minutes, though you may leave it on longer if you want.
You could also add about 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon to your honey. This adds to its antibacterial properties and can promote circulation in your face.
 Apple cider vinegar helps to balance your skin's pH, leading to less blemishes and a more even tone. It also kills bacteria and can soften your skin. It is very simple to mix up a toner from apple cider vinegar.Thoroughly clean a glass bottle to store your toner in. Use only hot water and soap. Cleaning with alcohol or bleach could leave chemical residue in the container, which can then get on your face.
Pour 1/2 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1/2 cup of water into the container. Cover the bottle and shake to mix the ingredients well.
Apply the toner to pimples using a cotton ball.
Store the mixture in a cool, dry, dark place.
You could try applying apple cider vinegar to your skin without diluting it, but this is not recommended. The apple cider vinegar is harsh and can cause irritation if not diluted. If this mixture causes any irritation, try diluting with more water.
 This yellow-tinged spice, common in Middle-Eastern cooking, is available wherever spices are found. It is usually considered an effective home remedy for acne. Follow these simple steps to mix your own turmeric paste and treat your acne.Add 1/4 teaspoon of powdered turmeric to 2 teaspoons of coconut oil. Stir the mixture well.
Spread the mixture evenly on your face.
Let the mixture sit 15 minutes. Then rinse with cool water.
Remember that turmeric stains your skin yellow, especially if you leave it on overnight. For advice on how to get rid of turmeric stains, look here.
 Naturally rich in antioxidants and vitamins A and C, tomatoes are another simple acne remedy available at any food store. Tomatoes also tighten the skin's pores and shrink pimples. Application is easy and takes very little time.Slice a small tomato in half.
Rub the opened half over areas of the skin where acne is present. Discard the tomato afterward.
Massage the juice into your skin for a few seconds.
Rinse your face with warm water afterward.
Apply twice a day for best results, using the other half of the tomato for the second application.
 Sea salt can help dry out your pimples and absorb excess oil. Mixed with honey, it can be an effective home remedy for acne.Mix 1 teaspoon of sea salt with 3 teaspoons of hot water.
Stir the mixture until the salt dissolves.
Add 1 teaspoon of honey and stir well.
Apply this mixture to your face when it has sufficiently cooled. If you only want it on your pimples, you can use a Q-tip to apply it as a spot treatment.
Leave the mixture on for 10 minutes. Avoid keeping it on any longer or your skin will get too dry.
Rinse off with cool water.
Apply moisturizer. Sea salt may leave your skin dry, so applying a moisturizer is important to keep your skin healthy.
 Egg whites can help tighten the skin's surface and reduce the size of pores. They also fight discoloration associated with acne.Wash your face using the steps from Part 1, except don't moisturize yet.
Crack 3 eggs and separate the yolks from the whites.
Add one tablespoon lemon juice if desired. This addition can help loosen blackheads and whiteheads.
Whisk the egg whites until they become a foam.
Apply this evenly to your face and leave on for 15 minutes.
Rinse off with warm water and pat your face dry with a towel.
Now moisturize your skin.
 Yogurt helps open up pores, exfoliate the skin, and absorb excess oil.


Take one tablespoon of plain yogurt and apply it evenly across your face.
Leave this on for 15 minutes, then rinse off with cool water.
You can repeat this treatment daily.

