 To make a volcano cake, you will need a few different supplies, including three greased cake pans: one 10-inch, one eight-inch, and one six-inch. Mud cake is one of the best types of cake for this project, because it’s less delicate than a sponge cake, and will hold its shape better. To make the volcano cake, you'll also need:


Oven preheated to 350 F (177 C)
Small saucepan and a medium glass bowl
Large mixing bowl
Whisk
Electric beaters
Rubber spatula or spoon
Three wire cooling racks
Round cookie cutter, about three inches in diameter
Knife
Frosting knife
Plastic shot glass
Tongs
Dry ice and water;
, Fill the bottom of a saucepan with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place the glass bowl on top of the saucepan, making sure the water doesn’t touch. Add the butter and chocolate. Heat the mixture over medium heat.


Whisk the butter and chocolate as they melt, and then whisk vigorously for about 30 seconds until they are completely incorporated., Remove the saucepan from the heat and place the bowl on a heat-proof surface. Add the sugar and cocoa, and whisk the mixture to fully combine all the ingredients.


Make sure there are no lumps in the mixture, and whisk until it’s smooth.
 Add the hot coffee in thirds, whisking in each addition until combined before adding more coffee. When you add the final third of coffee, whisk in the vanilla as well. Finally, add the eggs, beating them in one at a time.


Whisking in the ingredients separately like this will help ensure a smooth and moist cake, because it will help incorporate air into the batter.
 Whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Whisk for about 30 seconds to remove lumps and stir air into the ingredients.Adding air to the mixture will help ensure the cake is light and not too dense.
 Place the electric beaters into the bowl with the dry ingredients. Turn the beaters on low, and slowly pour in the chocolate mixture. After a minute, increase the speed to medium-high and beat for one minute.


After a minute, stop the mixer. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with the rubber spatula, and then beat the batter again for another 30 seconds on medium speed.
 Divide the batter among the three greased cake pans, filling each pan about three-quarters full. Mud cake doesn’t rise as much as regular cake batter, so you can fill the pans a little more. Bake the cakes for 35 to 40 minutes.


You know the cakes are ready when a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, or with a few fudge-covered crumbs attached., Remove the cakes from the oven and let them rest in the cake pans for 10 minutes. Then turn them out onto wire cooling racks, and allow them to cool completely before assembling and frosting the volcano cake.The cakes should be room temperature before you start frosting them, otherwise the frosting will melt off.
 Combine the butter, vanilla, icing sugar, cocoa powder, and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the milk in a medium mixing bowl. Beat everything with electric beaters for three to four minutes, until the frosting is light, creamy, and smooth.If the frosting is too dense and thick, add another tablespoon of milk and beat for another minute. Add the fourth tablespoon if necessary
When ready, the frosting will be light and easily spreadable.
 Take the smallest cake (the six-inch) and position the round cookie cutter in the very center of the cake. Press down as far as you can, and then twist the cookie cutter as you pull upward. This will remove the center of the cake.


The hole in the center of the cake will be used as a reservoir for the lava, and it will also hold the shot glass containing the dry ice.
 Place the large 10-inch cake on a cake plate or serving platter. Use the frosting knife to cover the top with a generous and even layer of buttercream frosting. Place the medium eight-inch cake on top of it, centering it on the larger cake. Spread a layer of frosting on the top of the medium cake.


Finally, place the smallest cake on top of the medium cake, making sure the hole in the middle of the cake is at the center of the volcano.
 Because there's a two-inch difference in the diameter of the cakes, the volcano would be jagged if you frosted it as is. To make the volcano smooth, use a knife to shave the excess off the sides of the cake, making a smooth transition between the layers.When you're done, the cake should look like a smooth cone without the pointed top.
 Piping gel is often used as an edible glue for baking, but in this recipe, it will be used to create the lava for the volcano. In a small saucepan, whisk together the cornstarch and water until there are no lumps. When the mixture is smooth, whisk in the corn syrup. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat, stirring regularly. Boil the gel for two to three minutes, and the mixture will take on the consistency of gel.Remove the pan from the heat and whisk in 10 drops of red gel food coloring. If necessary, whisk in another 10 drops, until the gel is a deep and bright red.
Set the gel aside to cool.
 Use the frosting knife to cover the entire outside of the cake with a generous layer of frosting. Spread the frosting in an even layer, and smooth it down with the knife.


Place the cake in the fridge for about an hour to let the frosting set. This crumb coat will trap any crumbs, and make the final layer of frosting smooth and even., When the crumb coat has had time to set, remove the cake from the fridge. Apply a second layer of frosting to the cake, making sure it’s evenly distributed over the whole cake. Because it’s a volcano cake, you don’t actually have to worry about the frosting being smooth.To give the volcano some definition, use the butt end of a knife to carve some vertical curved lines into the frosting. This will replicate the jagged and uneven lines of rocks.
 Pour the red piping gel into the hole in the center of the top cake. If the reservoir fills up, let the excess run down over the outside of the volcano like lava.If there isn't enough gel to fill the reservoir, use a spoon to drizzle extra lava over the sides.
 Just before serving the cake, use tongs to fill the shot glass half full with dry ice. Place the shot glass into the center of the lava reservoir.Pour in enough hot water to make the dry ice create smoke.For an extra fiery effect, use sparklers instead of candles on the volcano cake.

