 In order to use MercadoLibre's services, you must sign up; if you click on the "Regístrate" (Sign up) button, you will see a simple form that will allow you to activate your account and get a username and password.;
, Once you have signed up, it's important for you to take some time to get used to the page's setup, options, etc., so that you can easily interact with the platform.
 If you want to post on MercadoLibre, you should click on the "Vender" option found in the upper right part of the homepage. This will lead you to a list of options you can use to identify your product.
 First of all, you should choose the type of product that you wish to sell. MercadoLibre offers four options:


Vehículos (Vehicles)
Inmuebles (Real estate)
Servicios (Services)
Productos/otros (Products/other)

, Once you have chosen the type of product, you should define the corresponding category. MercadoLibre offers a complete list of categories that will help you to find a simple way to post your product.


This way, your product will be presented in the best possible way according to the platform's search criteria.
 When you get to this point, you will have the option of uploading photos of the product, as well as adding its complete description, title, and subheading.


The more detailed the information about the product, the easier it will be for the buyer to identify the product.
 You should provide relevant information about your location: state/province, street, number, coverage zone, etc., as well as necessary contact information, such as your phone number, e-mail, and website.


Finally, you should post the price of the product. If you are unsure of the price, you can use the "A convenir" (To be agreed) option that will give you more flexibility when negotiating the final price.
 The final step in order to finish posting on MercadoLibre has to do with the type of publication, which will determine the exposure that your product will have on the platform. There are 5 publication types:


Oro Premium: the highest level of exposure with many advertising advantages. It is not free.
Oro: Less effective version of the prior, but still has great exposure for the product. It is not free.
Plata: In this case, the product gets half the exposure compared to the previous options. It is not free.
Bronce: This type of publication gives the product low exposure. It is free.
Gratuita: The lowest level of exposure, products are found at the end of the list.
 Finally, confirm the process and you will have posted your first product on the MercadoLibre platform.

