 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a picture of a baseball player. Tap on it.
 Tap the cards icon on the rightmost part of the bottom toolbar. You will be brought to the screen with your current inventory of cards.
 You can view your cards sorted differently. There are several sorting options available. Tap on the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. This will bring down the list of sorting options. All the options are under “Sort”.



Sort by Boost—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their Boost levels.

Sort by Team—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their respective real-world baseball teams, e.g., Angels, Brewers, Indians, etc.

Sort by Position—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their baseball positions, e.g., Starting Pitcher, Catcher, Second Base, etc.

Sort by Parallel—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by their rarity in the game app.

Sort by Heat Index—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the heat indexes of the players, e.g., Hot, Warm, Cold.

Sort by Avg Game PTS—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the average game points scored by the players.

Sort by Games—Your cards will be grouped and sorted by the scheduled real-world baseball games the players play.

Sort by Duplicates—Your cards will be grouped and sorted with the most number of duplicates at the top.

Sort by Date Acquired—Your cards will be grouped and sorted based on when you’ve acquired them, with the most recent ones at the top.
 You can further filter the view of your cards by identifying the players’ status. There are several filters available. Tap on the up and down arrows beside the search box on the top right corner. The list of filter options are found below the sorting options. You can filter your cards by tapping on the years they were made, or years your players are active in the game.


For instance, tapping on “Playing Now” will display all the cards of players currently active, while tapping on “2012 Cards” will display all the cards from 2012.

