 Excessive licking among older dogs can also be associated with compulsive behavioral disorders that are triggered by anxiety or conflict. As your dog ages, they may become more disoriented and anxious. Excessive licking may develop as a compulsive behavior associated with stress. Try and determine what is causing this behavior.For example, does your dog lick while you are out of the house? Perhaps this is a result of separation anxiety.
Maybe they stop and lick themselves when you say “come” because they are unsure if they will be scolded or praised.
Try and determine the pattern associated with the compulsive behavior and treat accordingly.
 If you find your dog’s licking is associated with separation, try to create a comforting environment for them when you leave. There are a number of things you can do to reduce your dog’s stress and anxiety while they are left alone. Try these tips:


Give them a treat to occupy their attention when you leave the house.
Provide music and lighting to stimulate them while they are alone.
Give them their favourite toy or an article of clothing that smells like you to comfort them.
 Some older dogs may begin a compulsive behavior, such as licking, out of boredom. Many pet owners will stop playing with and exercising their dog as they get older. They believe that the animal is unable to exert energy and needs to rest. In reality you should continue to stimulate your dog daily. This can help prevent neurological disorders.


Take your dog for a short walk every day.
Engage in gentle play with your dog for at least 10 minutes twice daily.
 If your dog is suffering from anxiety, it is important that you remain patient and calm. Dogs can feel the energy of their human companions. Try to remain calm and be a comforting source for your dog. Here are a few things that you can do to help relax your dog:


Take deep breaths when you are anxious.
Talk in a soft and gentle tone around your dog.
Make deliberate and predictable movements around your aging dog.

