 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (175 C). Get out an 8 x 8-inch (20 x 20-cm) baking pan. Spray the pan with cooking spray and then lay two sheets of parchment paper in the pan so the bottom and all sides are covered with the paper.The paper will make it easier to remove the pie bars. If you don't have a square baking pan, you can use a round springform pan. If you use the springform pan, you won't need to use the parchment paper.
 Place 1 cup (125 grams) of all-purpose flour into a food processor. Add 1/4 teaspoon of salt and 1/4 cup (50 g) of granulated sugar. Put the lid on the processor and pulse the mixture so the ingredients are combined.If you don't have a food processor, you can make the crust in a mixing bowl. You'll just need to manually cut the butter into the dry ingredients.
 Cut 1/2 cup (4 ounces or 115 grams) of unsalted butter into cubes and add them to the food processor. Turn the food processor on so the butter is incorporated with the dry crust ingredients. Run the food processor for about 30 seconds so dough begins to form.If you're making the crust by hand, you'll need to mix the butter in and then knead the mixture into a rough dough.
 Scoop the dough directly into the parchment-lined pan. Use your fingers to press the dough evenly across the bottom and slightly up the sides of the pan. Bake the crust in the preheated oven for 15 minutes. Let the crust cool while you make the filling.The crust will be very pale once it's finished par-baking.
 Put 6 tablespoons (85 grams) of unsalted butter into a small saucepan. Turn the heat to medium. Stir the butter until it melts and then pour it into a large mixing bowl. Let the butter cool., Once the butter is cool, whisk 1/3 cup (66 g) of dark brown sugar and 1/3 cup (66 g) of granulated sugar into the mixing bowl. When the mixture is smooth, whisk in:1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon bourbon (optional)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

, Add 6 tablespoons of all-purpose flour and stir the batter until the flour is just incorporated. Stir in 3/4 cup (4 1/2 ounces or 130 grams) of chocolate chips or chopped chocolate and 3/4 cup (87 g) of toasted and coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans., Scoop the batter into the pie crust and spread it evenly. If you like, sprinkle some flaky sea salt over the top for added richness. Bake the thoroughbred pie bars in the preheated oven for 20 to 25 minutes. Remove the pan to a wire rack so they can cool before you cut them.The bars will be golden brown and firm once they've finished baking.
 Slice the cooled pie bars into 16 pieces and serve them with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream. If you want to serve them warm, keep in mind that you may not be able to cut them into neat slices.Store leftover pie bars in an airtight container. You can chill them for up to 5 days or keep them at room temperature for up to 3 days.

