 Many antianxiety medications are not recommended for use during the first trimester of pregnancy due to their ability to cross the placenta to the fetus, potentially causing birth defects, developmental delays, or drug dependency.


Benzodiazepines (BZDs), tricyclic antidepressants, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and certain other antidepressant or antianxiety medications can cause birth defects or complications when used during pregnancy and should be avoided when possible.;
, Although additional research is necessary, the lowest useful dose of many Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) and many antidepressants can often effectively treat anxiety during pregnancy without considerable increases in the risk of birth defects or postpartum infant complications.



If possible, SSRI use should be reduced or restricted in the third trimester to prevent problems with dependency and low activity levels in the newborn.
If you have a serious psychological condition, most health professionals will recommend continued pharmaceutical treatment despite a potential risk to the baby. Pregnancy outcomes tend to be worse for women with severe conditions who discontinue medication during pregnancy.
 Inform the pharmacist of your pregnancy and ask about the safety of your prescribed antianxiety medication.


Pharmacists often have excellent knowledge about drug contraindications and research for safe prescription drug use.
Ask for information about side effects that could cause problems for the baby (such as changes in blood pressure) or that indicate a need to discontinue use.
Also ask about potential interactions of your antianxiety medication with food, beverages, and other medications to prevent dangerous complications.
 The hormonal changes caused by pregnancy can impact the pharmokinetics of antianxiety medications, altering the way they work in your system.


If the medication causes vision changes, difficulty breathing, dizziness, significant stomach upset, or other worrisome symptoms, consult a health professional immediately and ask about changing medications or dosages.
 If you are concerned about the potential effect of antianxiety medication on your developing baby or if the antianxiety medications that are safe for pregnant women are not helping your symptoms, you may be able to reduce or discontinue the use of medication just for the duration of your pregnancy.


In some cases, pregnant women can reduce the dosage of antianxiety medication without experiencing noticeable increases in anxiety-related symptoms.
Some women may also be able to gradually discontinue the use of antianxiety medication during pregnancy or breastfeeding by scaling back on dosage over time (to prevent withdrawal symptoms).
Always work with a physician to safely discontinue or reduce medication, as some antianxiety medications create dependency.
 Many women can successfully manage anxiety with counseling and talk therapy sessions during pregnancy. Support groups and regular counseling sessions can teach women with certain anxiety disorders strategies for managing symptoms without pharmaceuticals. These may not be able to replace medication therapy for women with severe anxiety disorders.

