 You could an official relationship guru, holding a degree in psychology, theology, medicine, communications, social work, sociology, or some other related discipline. Or, you could be a guru based on a lot of experience in the field, helping others to get along in their everyday lives, at work, at home, on the sports field, or anywhere in between. Whichever way you choose, you will need to be credible, reliable and trusted. It might help to have expert qualifications but sometimes that can scare people away, so it comes down to who you are and how good you are with people.;
, If you're just wanting to dabble in it, then that's fine but if you want to make a bit of income out of being a relationship guru, then you will need to have good qualifications and/or experience for this role. Some of the possibilities among many include:


Invent the role from scratch. Make of it what you can, given the person you are.
Be a relationship psychologist/sociologist/doctor. Use your degree as the stamp of credibility and ability to help others.
Be a spiritual adviser focused on relationships. Perhaps you've had years of experience advising people spiritually, including in relationships.
Be a teacher, facilitator and guide. Use your teaching skills to help guide people to help themselves within a relationship.
 Read all that you can about relationships and relationship advice. Read quality materials in the areas of psychology, sociology, neuropsychology, medicine, self-help and more. Wherever you can find materials that are relevant, be reading and learning from them. Take good notes for future reference.


Learn the basics of conflict resolution and consider getting advanced qualifications in this skill. Nobody should be advising others on relationships without having at least some skill in this area. Conflicts are bound to be at the heart of almost every relational issue. Know how to spot them and help people find ways to deal with them constructively.
Consider developing a good reference library, either in real books or ebooks, so that you have good sources to refer to when you are offering advice, solace and help to people.
 Develop a website or a blog in which you offer advice. This is the perfect place for you to demonstrate your particular brand of wisdom and advice, allowing people to read your work and decide for themselves if you're the relationship guru for their needs.


Be sure to answer comments, so that people know you're interactive and ready to help.
 You may need premises, depending on how you're conducting your business or service as a relationship guru. If so, you could have a home office, a rented space, a hot desk in an incubator for new entrepreneurs, or a boat floating off the waters of Bali. It's up to you to decide where to locate and where you're likely to get the customers or interested persons coming to see you.


Consider offering a hotline contact or an answer-by-email service, or something similar, so that people can reach out to you for advice by phone or online. Some people may feel this is the most comfortable way to connect with you.
 At the end of the day, this is really about carving out a career or vocational niche for yourself. Anyone who truly aspires to being a "guru" also shouldn't go around calling themselves such, for the term guru is one that is earned, not self-anointed.

