 People request business valuations for various purposes and each purpose will demand a different valuation process and result. The need to valuate a business might result from wanting to buy or sell a business, gift and estate tax purposes, stock liquidations and transfers, divorces, stock plans, going public, and obtaining financing.


For example, if you are going through a divorce, the valuation process is often set out in statutes. While you may have to use these statutes for the purpose of valuing a business upon divorce, it may not take account of various factors that might be important if you wanted to buy or sell a business. In addition, one party to the divorce may want a higher valuation in order to get his or her "fair share."
In another example, if you are valuing a business to sell it to a family member, you might not be concerned with obtaining the greatest value possible. Instead, your value will be based on complying with minimum tax requirements.;
, Before a business can be properly valuated, you need to know exactly what is at stake. If the entire business is being sold, the entire business will need to valued. If only a few pieces of real property are going to be sold, those pieces of real property will need to be valued. If you are going to offer stock options to certain employees, the value of the stock will need to be determined.
 After determining why and what you are valuing, scan through the possible valuation methods to help you understand what type of information you will need to gather moving forward. While you do not need to choose your valuation method immediately, having an idea of what you want to do will help you prepare for the process.


For example, if you are using a market-based method, you will need to gather information about comparable businesses in your area.
If you are using income-based methods, you will need to look closely at your past and present financials in order to determine likely future income.
If you are using an asset-based method, you will need to gather information about all of the assets and liabilities the business has on their balance sheet., If you are unsure how to navigate the business valuation process, or if you want professional help to get you the best valuation possible, you can hire valuation consultants, appraisers, business brokers, and lawyers. All of these professionals will help you gather and analyze data, make strategic decisions that can influence value, and actually valuate the business.


Valuation consultants will go through the entire process by your side. They will help you determine the what and why, select an appraiser, interact with the appraiser, gather documents, and analyze those documents.Appraisers will actually valuate the business.
Business brokers will help you sell your business if that is why you want the business valued. Reputable brokers will have connections in your market and can help you sell your business quickly and for a fair price.Lawyers will help you comply with any legal requirements you might run into. For example, if you are valuing your business for estate tax purposes, a lawyer will be able to assess possible tax liabilities based on different valuations.
 After assessing your valuation needs, the appraiser you are working with will ask you for various documents to help them valuate the business. As documents are being requested, keep a list of them and check them off as documents are produced. Due to the shear number of documents needed to create an accurate valuation, your list may stretch pages., The financial information needed will include balance sheets, income statements, tax returns, and interests the business has in other companies. All of these documents should evidence at least the past five fiscal years. Additionally, be prepared to provide accounts payable/receivable, prepaid expenses, inventory lists, existing contracts, stockholder lists, compensation schedules, budgets, and financial projections

.

All of these documents will be especially helpful if you are going to use an income-based method of valuation., Corporate documents help appraisers understand how the business is structured. By obtaining this type of information, appraisers can begin to consider comparables in your industry. For example, if your business is a C corporation with 10,000 shares of stock available publicly, an appraiser will look for other C corporations with similar attributes when valuing your business.


Corporate documents will include articles of incorporation/partnership, bylaws, amendments, corporate minutes, existing buy/sell agreements, options to purchase stock, and rights of first refusal., In addition to gathering already available documents, you might consider creating documents to help assist others in the valuation process. For example, you might draft a short history of your business including whether you have had any offers to buy in the past, what makes your business unique, and where you stand in relation to other businesses in your industry. You might also create a list of competitors, including their size and location. If you have any intellectual property, make a list of relevant patents, inventions, copyrights, and trademarks., Some appraisers and other interested parties might ask to visit your business in person. You should allow this to happen so long as it is feasible. When individuals visit the business they are valuing, they will walk around and observe the operation. They will also conduct interviews with a wide range of personnel including employees and executives., There are countless business and industry factors that will influence the value of your business. If you understand these factors, you can attempt to increase your business's value by emphasizing or de-emphasizing certain factors. The number one factor that influences the value of your business is how much money your business can earn (i.e., how much cash can your business generate). The more earning potential you have, the higher your business's value will be.For example, a highly profitable business with a large future earning potential can use income-based valuation methods to inflate the business's valuation.
 The second most influential factor is your business's asset availability. The more assets you have available, the higher your value could be. However, this is only true if your ratio of assets to liabilities is as high as possible. For example, if an appraiser is using an asset-based valuation method and you have a lot of assets and very few liabilities on your balance sheet, your business's value is going to be high., Some factors that add to the value of a business cannot be liquidated and sold like regular assets. However, these "intangible" assets can add incredible value to your business. Intangible assets are any assets that are not physical in nature, including, but not limited to, goodwill, intellectual property, brand recognition, and an assembled workforce. For example, many companies might not have remained as successful as they are today were it not for their established, recognizable brand name or logo.Consider the value of "Coca-Cola" versus an unknown soda brand. The value of Coca-Cola is going to be exponentially higher in part because Coca-Cola is a known brand with a lot of business prestige.


Intangible assets do not add to the book value of a business. This is because book value, which refers to the dollar amount of a business's net assets held on its balance sheet, only includes directly measurable assets.
Market value is a separate assessment of business value that incorporates different analyses of intangible assets, earnings potential, and other aspects of the market. In practice, it refers to the total value of outstanding stock shares for a publicly-traded company., The value of your business will increase or decrease based on where your business is located, how long it has been in existence, how good your reputation is, and if equipment is new or needs to be replaced.For example, your business's value will be higher if it is located in Los Angeles, California as opposed to Cedar Rapids, Iowa. In addition, your business will be valued higher if you have very little competition.
In another example, assume you own a dental practice you ware having valuated. Your dental practice will be valued higher if all of your dental equipment (e.g., chairs, lights, x-ray machines) is new (as opposed to old).
 Your business's value is unavoidably linked to economic and industry conditions. For example, if the economy is doing well and buyers are looking to purchase businesses, the value of your business will be higher. On the other hand, when interest rates go up and money gets tight, the value of your business will go down.


Certain industries will also rise and fall with the times. For example, when the threat of terrorism and war is high, the value of weapons manufacturers goes up.
 When the time comes, a qualified appraiser will synthesize all of the information you provided and work to valuate your business. If the appraiser uses a market-based method, he or she will find multiple sources of comparable information and make adjustments to create a valuation. For example, an appraiser may utilize public and private sources to research and collect business transaction data. They will analyze the similarities and differences between your business and the comparables and will create a valuation.This method will not work with every business. For example, small, closely held companies cannot usually use market-based valuation methods because it is hard to find true comparables., If your appraiser is using an income based-method, he or she will calculate the probable future income of your business and capitalize that income to create a value. To do this, the appraiser will adjust your revenues and expenses in order to create a normalized income stream. They will then capitalize this normalized income stream (i.e., determine its present value) and come up with the value of your business.


This method works really well for highly profitable businesses with high potential future earnings., When your appraiser utilizes an asset-based method, he or she will adjust each asset and liability on your balance sheet to create a fair market value for each one. Those fair market values are then added together to equal your business's valuation.


This method ignores earnings and should therefore not be used to value income producing businesses (e.g., businesses that sell products or offer services).
This is an appropriate method for businesses that manage income producing assets., Appraisers may combine multiple methods together to create hybrid valuations. In doing so, appraisers can take account of multiple facets of your business in order to create the most accurate valuation possible. For example, one popular hybrid method is the "excess earnings" method. Using this method, your business's earnings over the norm will be calculated and capitalized. This value is then added to the fair market value of your assets to determine an overall value.