 Once your application is approved, you will be qualified to take the Nevada Contractors Board exam. If you pass, you will receive your license.


The exam comes in two parts: a Business and Law portion and a trade exam that covers information for your specific trade.The exam is multiple choice and contains questions related to business management, construction law, and topics related to your specific field.The Construction and Business Law Manual of Nevada is a must read before you take the exam. It covers all the information you will be tested on and can be easily purchased online.To prepare, you can take practice tests online. You might also find a study group in your area. The exam is extensive so give yourself plenty of time to study. You should know the information thoroughly before entering the exam room.
 There are three testing centers in Nevada where you can take the exam.


One site is in Las Vegas, found at 3210 East Tropicana Avenue.
Another site is in Reno, at the Airport Plaza Office Building located at 1755 E Plumb Lane Street, Suite 108.
The last testing site is found in Elko, at 225 Silver Street, Suite 102.Once you identify the testing site closest to you, you can register online or by calling the site during operating hours., Once you've studied and signed up, you can now take the exam.


When you come to the exam site, make sure you bring 2 forms of identification. At least one must be a government issued ID, such as a driver's license or passport, that has your photograph, signature, and a complete physical description. The second must only contain your name and signature.The exam proctor will provide you with scratch paper, a figure booklet, and a set of plans.No notes or personal electronic devices are allowed inside the exam room. Exams have different time limits depending on your specific field. You will be informed of these limits when you sign up for the exam. There is a tutorial that shows you how to use the computer system the exam is taken on. You have up to 15 minutes to read the tutorial., Your exam score appears on the computer screen immediately after you take the exam. If you did not pass, you have certain options.


The computer will provide you with an assessment of your strengths and weaknesses, which you can use to retake the exam in the future.If you fail, you can get the proper forms to apply to retake the exam before leaving the testing site.