 To make champagne cupcakes, you will need one large mixing bowl, one small mixing bowl, a hand mixer, a whisk, a large spoon, a cupcake pan for 12 cupcakes, 12 paper cupcake liners, a cooling rack, and an oven.;
, Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius. Get out your cupcake pan and place one paper liner in each spot in the pan. If you decide you would rather not use the paper cupcake liners, you can spray the inside of each cupcake indentation in the pan with a nonstick baking spray. This will help your cupcakes come out of the pan easily once they have baked., Use a dry measuring cup to measure each dry ingredient. Place the dry ingredients in a medium-sized bowl. Use a whisk to combine them. After you have combined the ingredients with the whisk, set them aside. Mix together:1 2/3 cups flour
1 cup sugar
¼ teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder

, After whisking together the dry ingredients, add the wet ingredients to the same bowl. Then, using a hand mixer, using a hand mixer, mix the wet and dry ingredients together on medium speed just until smooth. Be sure you do not over mix the ingredients. You need to mix the following wet ingredients into the same bowl as the dry ingredients:¾ cup of salted butter
3 cups egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup sour cream
½ cup champagne

, Using a spoon, fill each cupcake liner with batter. Be sure to fill each liner a little over halfway with the batter. This will ensure you have perfectly rounded, evenly baked cupcakes., If your oven has heated to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or 177 degrees Celsius, place the cupcake pan in the center of the oven. Bake the cupcakes for 18 minutes. After 18 minutes has passed, remove the cupcakes from the oven. Place a toothpick into the middle of a cupcake to see if it is done. If your cupcakes are done, the toothpick should be clean. If there is cake or batter stuck to the toothpick, bake the cupcake for 3-5 additional minutes and test again., After you have baked your champagne cupcakes for 18-20 minutes, allow them to cool in the cupcake pan for 1-2 minutes. Then remove the cupcakes from the pan and place on a cooling rack. Allow the cupcakes to cool completely before icing.

