 If possible, invest in high quality shaving supplies. Good supplies will result in a closer shave and fewer nicks and scratches. You'll be saving money on shampoo and conditioner, so make up for it with the following items:


Electric clippers. You'll use clippers to trim your hair to the shortest length possible before shaving with a razor. Good clippers can save you a lot of time, and they make shaving with a razor more effective. Good brands include Andis or Wahl.
A razor. Buy a high quality razor for this purpose; a cheap one could leave you with a lot of nicks if you aren't careful. Some companies make razors designed specifically for shaving heads.
Shaving cream or oil. Lubricating your head well is key to achieving a good shave. You can use a cream or oil meant for shaving faces or legs, or buy a kind specifically for your head. Just make sure it has good moisturizing properties.
Aftershave. Again, use the aftershave meant for the face or legs, or choose one specially designed for shaved heads.;
, There are pros and cons to both approaches. Consider the following when you're planning your head-shaving experience:


A friend can make sure the back of your head and other areas that are hard to see get shaved cleanly.
If you like the shaved look and want to keep it indefinitely, it's not practical to have a friend help out every time. The sooner you start practicing shaving your own head, the better you'll be at achieving a great shave yourself.
 Drape a sheet or tarp over the floor and make sure the drain in your sink is covered. Shaving your head can get messy, especially if you're starting with long hair. Try to set up two or three mirrors in the bathroom, positioned so that you can see all sides of your head as you shave.
 The final step in preparing to shave is getting rid of your long hair so it doesn't get tangled up in your razor. Set your electric clippers to the shortest setting and use them to evenly trim all of the hair on your head to 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm).

