 Ambassadors typically are parents who have had a child born prematurely or with birth defects. Celebrities and community leaders also may serve as ambassadors for the March of Dimes.To become an ambassador, you must first be nominated by your local chapter. The March of Dimes leadership chooses ambassadors from among the nominations.
 November is Prematurity Awareness Month, and November 17 is Prematurity Awareness Day. On this day and all month long, the March of Dimes promotes many different events to raise awareness for prematurity and birth defects.There also are activities that you can coordinate at your school or within your workplace, such as door decorating contests, a purple costume contest, or a baby photo contest.
You also can sell March of Dimes awareness bands at your school or workplace to help raise awareness for the cause.
 The March of Dimes is a nonpolitical organization and engages in only minimum lobbying efforts. However, this doesn't stop you as an individual from contacting your federal, state, or local representatives to advocate for laws to better support and protect premature babies and their families.For example, you can campaign to make sure that maternity coverage is required for all health insurance providers.
 You can set up a booth or table at your school or workplace to help educate about prematurity and health complications that affect babies and mothers. Contact your local chapter to find out what materials and support are available.The "color" for March of Dimes is purple, so outfit your booth or table with plenty of purple fabric and balloons so that it stands out.
Provide information on how to get involved with or donate to your local March of Dimes chapter.
 Each year, the March of Dimes sponsors a number of walks throughout the country that are designed to raise money for the organization as well as promote awareness for the challenges of premature birth and birth defects.Go to https://www.marchforbabies.org to search and find a march near you. The site provides information on how you can register for the walk and get materials to help solicit donations.
You have the option of joining an existing team, creating your own team, or walking as an individual.
 Join or follow the March of Dimes on social media and share their posts or make your own. If you're a strong writer, you also can write blog posts about premature birth, birth defects, or the work or the March of Dimes.You might want to interview a local parent or group of parents who have been helped by the March of Dimes and write up a story about it. See if you can get your story printed in the local newspaper or on a local interest website.

