 Generally, oral agreements are binding contracts. Unfortunately, there is no paper trail, and it can be hard to prove the substance of the agreement. Accordingly, you should avoid oral contracts and any oral side agreements.


Make sure everything is in the contract. If the other side wants to change something, get it in writing.
You should insist on an “entire agreement clause,” also called a “merger” or “integration” clause. The substance of this clause is to state that the contract represents the entire agreement between the parties., These clauses shift responsibility between parties to a contract. Depending on the circumstances, you might want an indemnification clause or you might want to avoid one in the contract. You should analyze the contract with a lawyer.


Often, indemnification clauses are included so that one party to the contract has to protect the other party from third-party lawsuits.For example, if you are an author, your publisher might require that you indemnify them against any lawsuits for defamation or copyright infringement. If someone sues your publisher based on your book, then you have agreed to pay the costs of the lawsuit and any court judgment entered against them.
In this example, a publisher can limit their liability by including the indemnification agreement. However, the writer would want the publisher to indemnify them.
If there is no indemnification clause, then each party is responsible for their own conduct.
 You increase your liability by including warranties in a contract. A warranty is a promise that something is (or will be) true.When the promise turns out to be false, you have breached a warranty. As a seller, you should limit your warranties to limit your liability.


Warranties often work hand-in-hand with indemnification clauses.For example, if a warranty turns out to be false, then you typically agree to compensate the other side for any harm they have suffered. By limiting warranties, you can limit any corresponding indemnification agreement.
Depending on what you sell, the law might create “implied” warranties. These are warranties that exist regardless of what is in any consumer contract. For example, if you sell goods, a warranty exists that the product is fit for the ordinary usage.You can disclaim an implied warranty, but you must do so explicitly and in a conspicuous fashion. For example, you should write “The seller makes no warranties as to the quality of the goods other than provided in this contract.” Put this text in bold and in a large font.
 If you run a business, you might want to include a liability waiver as part of your contracts. This release can help protect you in case a customer is injured by your carelessness (or theirs).Waivers are common for dangerous activities, such as skydiving or parasailing, but maybe used in a variety of situations.


Not all liability waivers are legally enforceable, so consult with a lawyer. Some states won’t let certain businesses waive liability. You should know before including it and thinking you are protected.
Your waiver must be written clearly and easy to understand. Also make sure that it stands out. For example, you could set off the waiver from the rest of the text using white space.
Waivers won’t protect you in all situations. For example, you won’t be protected if you intentionally injure someone or injure someone because of gross negligence. Gross negligence means you were notified of a problem but didn’t correct it., Once you sign a contract, you are bound by the agreement. You don’t get a few days to back out without penalty.Accordingly, you should thoroughly review the contract with an attorney before signing.


You can find a qualified attorney by contacting your local or state bar association. Ask for a referral.
Avoid signing until you agree with everything in the contract. If you disagree with something, raise your disagreement in a letter and negotiate a resolution.
 You might be able to negotiate changes to the contract. For example, you might see an indemnification provision that is slanted against you. With your lawyer, you should try to negotiate better terms.


Sometimes you can’t. For example, if you buy a product online or go to a theme park, there won’t be much of an opportunity to negotiate. Business owners tend to have a “take it or leave it” attitude.
Other contracts are different. Employment contracts, leases, and publishing contracts all create a long-term relationship between you and the other party. There may be room to negotiate a better warranty or indemnification provision.
 If there are blanks, then cross them out or fill them in.Unscrupulous people might fill in the blank spaces after you sign, so make sure none remain when you sign the contract.


Always keep a signed copy of your contract with you., Depending on your circumstances, you can protect yourself by purchasing indemnification insurance. For example, professionals should purchase insurance to protect them from mistakes they might make. Indemnity insurance is common for accountants, lawyers, financial advisors, mortgage brokers, and insurance agents.Indemnity insurance goes by different names, such as “malpractice insurance” or “omissions and errors” coverage.
Talk with an insurance broker or other business owners to discuss how much coverage you will need and the costs.

