 In order to be a successful recruiter you need to care about the professional advancement of people's careers.


You will need to be invested in your candidates and companies in a way that constantly expands your knowledge and work related connections.;
, Because recruiting is a sales job, your success is ultimately in your own hands. It is your responsibility to research and find the right candidates, makes the necessary phone calls, sep up interviews, follow up, etc.


If you are nervous about speaking with strangers, this might not be the right job for you.
 Often when you begin a new assignment, you won't know exactly what you are looking for. You will have to gain an idea of what is needed and then hunt it down.


Expect the unexpected. One of the most exciting things about being a recruiter is the day-to-day variation in the job. You never know what’s going to happen when you walk in the door.
Recruiters start with an open position and then track down the perfect candidate to fill it. Be comfortable using clues to lead you to the correct people.
 Be persuasive. Learn how to listen to others. Recruiting isn’t about filling the open position with just any candidate. It’s about finding the perfect candidate.


In order to make a decision, you will have to know how to ask the right questions and interpret the answers you get.
 When working with an agency, you will be required to set up and conduct interviews. Practice makes perfect and you can expect to face candidates that lie, extend the truth, or are just wrong for the job.


You will also meet skilled candidates with talents that you can use. You will need to keep track of a network of your interviews.
Just because you cannot place someone in a job now, doesn't mean they might not be the perfect candidate for one later.
 Just because you've started at an agency, doesn't mean you will stay there. Nourish personal connections with everyone you can. You may be able to help each other in the future.


By creating a more open, friendly, and communicative relationship with candidates, you can build a positive and professional reputation for your company, making your client an employer of choice.
 Agencies are competitive on so many levels. Once hired, you will be competing with your peers, other companies, and other corporate recruiters. It is not easy and can often be a high stress environment.


Nourish your Hunter’s mentality. Sometimes finding the perfect candidate for the job will be difficult.
Sometimes you will have to search through the incredible abundance of sites, networks, tools, and platforms to find them.
Look at these platforms as tools to assist you in the hunt. Be prepared to hunt relentlessly and keep your eye on the prize.
 Remember, you are working in a sales job. In many cases, you will be expected to return emails, phone calls, and update candidates and clients on the status of an assignment.
 Avoid focusing on a single search and explore the potential value of candidates, even if they don't fit the specific position you are trying to fill.


Keep an eye on the talent market and work to always improve your company’s efficiency.
 Many recruiter positions require a Bachelor's degree. Earning a degree will provide you with the background and foundation you will need to handle sorting through resumes and identifying the right individuals.


This type of degree will also provide you with understanding of some of the challenges you will face as a recruiter.
 Having certification as a Professional in Human Resources can give you an extra edge among competitors you are going up against for a job.


This type of certification demonstrates your level of dedication and seriousness to employers.
According to the HR Certification Institute, 50 percent of recruiters prefer those with HR certification and that business leaders find HR certified professionals to be more self-motivated., As a corporate recruiter, you will spend a lot of your time on the Internet. You will have to be well versed on social networking.


Forbes reported that LinkedIn is a go-to source for recruiters seeking out talent., As a researcher, you will get a taste of what it is like to search for companies and candidates for a consultant or recruiter to pursue.


Working as a researcher, you will develop valuable analytical and organizational skills needed for a job as a recruiter.
 These roles are perfect for fresh college graduates looking for an introduction to the industry.


Searching on social media and job websites, you will be responsible for contacting candidates to discuss job opportunities.
 This type of entry-level job involves working closely with both candidates and clients. You will have a chance to touch every stage of the recruitment process and gain a plethora of valuable skills for a career in recruiting.


Working with a company, you will be selling the service of recruiting to your clients.
This job will give you valuable insight into the negotiating terms and requirements involved in the industry.
You will have a chance to source candidates to job openings and arrange interviews. This is a great way to gain valuable time management skills for the future.
 This entry-level job will introduce you to research techniques and help you develop business relationships. Build your professionalism in client contact, and gain the ability to negotiate and establish a good rapport.
 Companies like Aerotek, Robert Half, and Kforce, hire recruiters frequently. Agency recruiters focus on finding qualified people to fill vacant job positions in various organizations.Use social media and job websites to scope out available positions. Look at websites like Craigslist,Careerbuilder,and Indeed., Uncover what type of candidate they are looking for. Before you interview for a position in recruitment, research interview questions, prepare honest and thoughtful responses, and take it from there.


Give the correct answers. There is usually a mix of situational, behavioral and standard questions, so prepare ahead of time.
Be confident and know your strengths and areas of development.
Discuss why you're interested in the role and the company.
Ask why the position is available, listen to their response and then tailor your experience to help solve the gap.
 Take relationships you made during your entry-level job, internship, or college and reach out for a chance to get your foot in the door. Don't be shy.


If you are targeting a specific company, find some of their employees on LinkedIn and contact them.
Gain as much information as you possibly can about the company, hiring process, and expectations.
 Create a strong social media account. Remember, hiring managers will Google you and read your Facebook page.


Manage your profile professionally and make sure it sells you!
Whether you are a recent college graduate or an experienced professional, getting recommendations on your LinkedIn profile can give you an advantage.
 In recruitment, a lot of your job is based on asking for things. Take initiative and close the deal if you want the job.


At the end of your interview, take the opportunity to ask for the job. Say something like, "Is there anything in my background that would prevent you from moving forward with me?" or "Have I thoroughly answered all of your questions regarding my ability to succeed?"

, During the first three months, you won't be given the full responsibilities of a recruitment consultant.


During your time as a 'junior' recruitment consultant, you will be responsible for increasing business and handling a few developed accounts.
Financial targets are kept low for the first few months.
 After your transitional period, you will become a fully-fledged recruiter responsible for talking to new clients, making placements, and researching your market.


During this time you will be getting regular reviews, additional training, and mentoring by senior consultants.
Your financial targets will start to rise and your earnings should increase at a similar rate.

