 Ideal materials to work with include terracotta and travertine. Avoid working with glazed ones, as they are difficult to seal; if they aren't sealed properly, the ink will come off.
 You should do this even if the tiles look clean. They are often coated with a thin film of dust, which can prevent the ink from adhering properly.


You can also wipe the tiles down with rubbing alcohol instead; it dries a lot faster.
Be sure to wipe the back of the tiles as well.
 Choose a large stamp with subtle, non-distracting pattern, such as wood grain, cheesecloth, or romantic text.It should be the same size, or larger, as your tile. Next, coat the stamp evenly with ink. Consider a color that is similar to the tile, but a shade darker. For example, you could use dark grey for a light grey tile, and dark brown for a terracotta tile. This will keep the background from competing against the main image.


For best results, use a permanent, self-setting ink.If you choose to use a hybrid or heat-set ink, you will need to bake your tiles in the oven.If the stamp is too big for the pad, flip the stamp over, then rub the pad against it., Press the stamp straight down onto the tile using a lot of pressure. Do not rock the stamp, as this may smudge your design. Wait a few seconds, then carefully lift it away. Let the ink dry completely before moving on.If your background stamp was smaller than your tile, move it down to the next section of tile, and stamp another row.
Don't worry if your design did not come out perfectly sharp and clear. This rustic look is part of the overall design.
 Choose a stamp with a pretty image or design that you like, such as a flower, bird, or butterfly. Ink the stamp with a darker color, such as black.


Make sure that you are using the same type of ink as before. Do not mix hybrid and permanent inks.
If you plan on filling your image in, choose an outline image rather than a solid one.
 Make sure that the background image is completely dry. Carefully position your stamp, then press it straight down against the tile. Hold it for about 5 seconds, then carefully pull it away.It is very important that you don't rock the stamp at this point. If you do, you may end up smudging the background off., If you used a translucent image, you might want to color it in. If you used a solid image, you can skip this step and move on. Dip a sponge dauber or pouncer into translucent ink, then pat it against your main image. Be careful not to rub the stamped image.Add more colors to create depth and layers. Allow each layer to dry before adding a second one., If you used hybrid or a heat-setting ink, you will need to heat-set it using a heat gun or oven. Each brand is different, so check the instructions on your ink container. Typically, you should be able to pop your tiles into the oven, and bake them at 250°F (122°C) for 30 minutes.If you are going to bake your tiles, put them onto a foil lined baking sheet. Let them cool completely before moving on.
If you used a permanent, self-setting ink, then you do not need to bake the tiles.
 You can seal your work using a clear, acrylic spray or a special sealer designed for natural tiles.Allow the sealer to dry before applying a second coat.


While you can seal just the design on simpler tiles, you won't be able to do it here; you will have to seal the entire tile in order to protect the background image.
 You will need 4 felt pads, 1 for each corner.You can also use rubber or cork pads. Alternatively, you can use a 4-inch (10.16-centimeter) square out of a thin sheet of cork, then hot glue it to the back of your tile. The felt/rubber/cork backing will help protect your table or counter against scratches from the tiles.

