 When you have MS, you need to make the choice to tell your partner about your condition. You may choose to tell them immediately or wait awhile. This depends on how close you are, how long you have been together, and when you receive your MS diagnosis.For example, if you are married or in a committed relationship with your partner, you may decide to tell them as soon as you receive your MS diagnosis. However, if you have just started dating or entered into a relationship, you may choose to wait awhile to see if your partner is understanding and reliable.
 Support groups may be beneficial to you and your partner. Talking to others who have MS and listening to how they navigate their relationships can be very helpful. Your partner may benefit from going to a support group for partners of those with MS. This can help them find people who understand their position, and allow them to learn how to better interact with you.Ask your doctor or local hospital for any support groups in your area. You may also check the local newspaper or search online.
You and your partner may also find online support groups.
Getting involved in local events for MS, such as fundraisers, may also be a great way to find support. You can find information on events through the National MS Society: http://www.nationalmssociety.org/Get-Involved


, When you have MS, you should encourage your partner to learn about your condition. You can learn about the condition together as a way to build intimacy, or you can learn on your own and come together later to discuss it.As your partner learns about MS, you both can discuss things you can do together to help your MS and manage it.
 If you have MS, you and your partner should come up with a plan to deal with things that may happen in the future. This plan may include a financial, career, or caregiving plan. These plans may never be needed, but they should be developed so you are prepared for anything you may face with your MS in the future.You should figure out what will happen if you are unable to work due to your MS, or how you will pay any medical expenses.
You may want to come up with a plan for any MS relapses. If you are unable to do what you normally do, decide how you and your partner will approach it and deal with it.
Make sure to ask your partner about any concerns they have about the future and discuss their concerns. Your partner may have concerns about how your condition may impact their quality of life later on.
 One thing you may consider is going to a relationship therapist or couples counseling. Dealing with MS can be very difficult on both you and your partner. A therapist can help you work on communication, adjust your relationship goals and expectations, and cope with the change in your lifestyle.A relationship therapist can help you figure out the strengths in your relationship so you can focus on that and build the strengths and work on the weaknesses.
 One of the best ways to successfully navigate your relationship when you have MS is to be flexible and creative. MS presents many unpredictable challenges for you and your partner. Being flexible as you embrace each obstacle or challenge and coming up with creative ways to cope or deal with a problem can keep your relationship together.Much of this flexibility and creative coping comes from communicating with each other. You and your partner should discuss ways to manage or approach obstacles and work together. If you have concerns, you should voice them.
Remember that you and your partner may not be able to do things as they once were. Learning to alter your usual routines and find new ways of approaching things can help eliminate a lot of stress and problems.

