 Aching bones can be more than just an annoyance. Pain in your bones can be a sign of a serious underlying condition, so talk to your doctor right away if you are having bone pain. Potential causes of aching bones include:


Paget’s Disease of the Bone
Solid Tissue Cancer
Sickle Cell Disease
Multiple Myeloma
Osteomalacia (softening of the bones, often caused by a vitamin D deficiency during a time of bone growth)Other cancers such as breast or prostate cancer. Bone pain from cancer may start with a dull or deep ache that may come and go at first, but gradually becomes persistent.LeukemiaFractures (including hairline fractures)
Overuse or overexertion
Arthritis
Obesity
Osteoporosis (bone pain is not common with this condition, but it is possible);
, Your doctor can provide a more specific diagnosis and treatment plan if you let him or her know about the symptoms you have been experiencing. Pay attention to exactly when and how your bones hurt, and be prepared to answer your doctor’s questions, like:Where does it hurt?
When does it hurt? At night? During the day?Does the pain move, or stay in one place?
How long have you been experiencing aching bones?
Have the aches gotten worse?
Have you been experiencing any other symptoms?

, Some examinations and tests can help determine what is causing your aching bones, and how to treat them. These tests may include:Blood draws (such as for a CBC, or “Complete Blood Count”)
X-rays of your bone(s)
A CT or MRI scan
Assessment of your hormone levels
Urine studies
Dexa scan
Calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels

, Your doctor can suggest one or more for you to take. Many over-the-counter options are available, but always use them as directed by the label or your doctor. Common anti-inflammatory medications include:


Acetaminophen
Naproxen
Ibuprofen
Aspirin

, You can ensure you are getting enough vitamin D in a number of ways.


The amount of vitamin D a person needs varies by age, but ranges from 400-800 International Units (IU) per day.Those with osteoporosis or women past menopause will need 800 international units of vitamin D daily
Vitamin D supplements are available at pharmacies, supermarkets, health stores, and many other locations.You can also eat foods high in vitamin D, including: oily fish (salmon, mackerel, sardines), egg yolks, fortified cereals and breads, and many milks and yogurts.Getting adequate exposure to sunlight is important, because your body needs it to help process vitamin D. However, overexposure may be harmful, so talk to your doctor about how much sunlight exposure you should have.
 If you have aching bones, the pain may be linked to a calcium deficiency. In any case, you should ensure that you are getting an adequate amount of calcium in your diet.


The amount of calcium a person needs per day varies widely by age.For example, infants need between 200-260 mg, children 700-1000 mg, and teenagers 1300 mg. Many adults need around 1000 mg a day; however, women over 50 need 1200 mg a day. Postmenopausal women and those with osteoporosis need to take 1200 mg of calcium every day divided in two or three doses.
Calcium supplements are available at pharmacies, supermarkets, health stores, and many other locations.
You can also eat foods high in calcium, including: dairy products (milk, yogurt, cheese), kale, broccoli, fish with soft, edible bones (such as salmon and sardines), and certain fortified foods (including some grains, breads, cereals, pastas, juices, etc.).
 In other cases, an infection may be linked to an underlying cause for which aching bones are also a symptom. If your doctor determines that your bone pain is related to an infection, he or she may prescribe antibiotics to combat it.


Make sure to take the antibiotics exactly as prescribed by your doctor, and for as long as you are told to. You should continue to take the antibiotics as long as you are told to, even if the pain or other symptoms disappear. This helps to ensure that the infection is completely eradicated.
 In some cases, aching bones can be caused by or linked to a deficiency of one or more hormones. Your doctor will run tests to see if this is the case for you. If it is, he or she may prescribe a treatment plan (often hormone injections) to make up for this deficiency, and ultimately ease your aches.


Always carefully follow your doctor’s instructions regarding hormone treatments.
 Heat will increase blood flow to the sore area, soothing it as a result. Cold will provide relief by numbing the sore area, and reducing any swelling. You can choose whichever method feels best to you, or alternate between the two. You can apply heat or cold to the aching area using several methods.


Apply a cold pack (available at pharmacies and many other stores) to the aching area. Make sure to put a towel over your skin to protect it, rather than just setting the cold pack directly on the site of pain.
Apply a homemade ice pack (put some ice cubes in a sealed plastic bag) to the aching area. Make sure to put a towel over your skin to protect it, rather than just setting the ice pack directly on the site of pain.
Wrap warm towels around the aching area.
Put a sock filled with uncooked rice in the microwave for one minute to form a quick and easy heat pack. Make sure to put a towel over your skin to protect it, rather than just setting the rice heat pack directly on the site of pain.
Take a warm bath or shower.
 In some cases, your aching bones may be caused by overuse, overexertion, or poor posture.Physical therapy treatments may help ease your aches, and encourage you to move, sit, and stand properly. Talk to your doctor or physical therapist about developing a program to help you.
, Its effectiveness for treating bone aches is unclear, although some research indicates it may help some causes, such as osteoarthritis.
 The effectiveness of herbal treatments—generally, or to treat aching bones in particular—has not been well-studied in many cases. However, you may investigate one or more herbal treatments instead of or in addition to other methods to relief bone pain (look for them at supermarkets, pharmacies or herbal and health stores).


White willow bark has effects that are similar to aspirin’s.
Some research indicates that turmeric has an anti-inflammatory effect.
Green tea has long been recognized as an antioxidant and now as an anti-inflammatory as well.
Research indicates that a substance in chili peppers known as capsaicin has an anti-inflammatory effect.
Always talk to your doctor about your plans to take any herbal supplement or treatment, since they can have side effects or interfere with other medications you are taking.

