 Imagine something similar to a bed of nails, but with the nails tilted in different directions - this is a pigeon spike. Since it’s not a flat, comfortable surface, pigeons will tend to avoid areas where these spikes are installed. They are best installed in areas where pigeons would attempt to congregate for nesting or sleeping.In addition to the spikes (which come in metal and plastic) there are also pigeon coils, which are coiled pieces of wire (like a slinky) that can be stretched out to allow for different sized spaces between each loop.;
, Bird slopes are slippery, sloped surfaces you install on your roof that a pigeon, or any bird for that matter, can’t grip with their feet. Instead, they slip and slide until they “fall off” (i.e. fly away). Bird slopes are nice in that they can be made to blend in with your roof and won’t look as obvious as bird spikes., Bird nets are nets to deter birds, not catch them.Nylon netting is used for large surface areas like tall buildings or fields of crops. Because the nylon is quite thin, it can be made to look almost invisible on a tall building. Depending on what type of structure it’s covering, you may want to check that the netting is fire and water proof.Bird nets are designed for large spaces and are therefore better suited for commercial or agricultural use, rather than residential.
Pigeons can also be prevented from entering certain locations using wire mesh instead of nylon netting. It is heavier but also comes in different sizes depending on your needs., This “scarecrow” doesn’t have to look like the traditional ones you remember from movies like The Wizard of Oz, but simply needs to take the shape and size of a human. (Another term used somethings is “human effigy”.) They work just like you’d expect, but more modern versions can be made of inflatable material that blows around, creating movement that helps scare the pigeons away., Repellent gel is sticky and when a pigeon lands on/in it, it’s uncomfortable and they fly away. You can also use crushed dried chili peppers instead of gel to get a similar result. Keep in mind, however, that this method, especially the chili peppers, washes away and has to be reapplied.This is more of a short-term, temporary option if you need a quick fix.


Note that some repellent gels (and liquids) are not legal in some countries. Make sure your check your country’s laws before using these types of products., A pigeon predator can take the form of a statue, robot or even the real thing. The best predators for pigeons are peregrine falcons and owls.Some fake predators can be automated to move and make sounds to scare pigeons away.Others are just plastic or wood decoys molded and painted to look like an owl or peregrine falcon, although some are designed to have moveable parts driven by the wind, so no power or batteries are required.Robotic fake predators can be costly and are designed more for commercial than residential use.
As with other “bird” deterrents, the fake predator may also scare away all other birds, including the ones you may want to keep around.
 Scare balloons are designed to be bright, reflective, and scary to a pigeon. They aren’t filled with helium to float, but rather are hung from trees, balconies, decks, etc.Flashing eyes are large flat boards with eyes painted on both sides. The eyes are mounted on a stake that’s put in the ground, and mirrors are placed to reflect up into the eyes as they spin. The combination of eyes, movement and reflective material help scare pigeons away from the area.Flash tape essentially looks like large pieces of tinsel, with an iridescent surface that is sometimes made to look like eyes (like the flashing eyes). It comes in rolls (like tape) and can be cut to various lengths and hung anywhere to blow in the wind.Note that all these devices are not bird-specific and will work on any bird that is not a predator. Therefore these items might also scare away birds you want to attract like swallows, hummingbirds and chickadees.
 When a pigeon’s movements are detected by the motion detector, a sound, sometimes at an ultrasonic frequency, is played. This sound is annoying to the pigeon and they won’t stick around. If the motion detector plays ultrasonic sounds, humans won’t be able to hear them, so it won’t be annoying to you.Note that motion detectors need a certain amount of clear space in front of them, and must be set up at certain heights and intervals to be effective.
Motion detectors can also be designed to spray water (from an attached hose) rather than play a sound.As with other “bird” deterrents, the motion detector may also scare away all other birds, including the ones you may want to keep around.
Ultrasonic devices should NOT be used in an area also occupied by bats., Pigeons are hanging out on your property because they’ve found food and/or water they can easily access. If you remove that food and water, your property won’t look as appealing to the pigeons and they may relocate.This is obviously more difficult to do if you’re in a highly populated urban area where your property is surrounded by the property of others at a close proximity. The food and water might actually be located on someone else’s property, but yours is close enough for them to fly to for resting and nesting. In this case you may want to consider bringing up the problem with your landlord, condo association, community league or city council.

