 Take off the doorknob and any other hardware. For a real antique look, you can replace these with brass. Either way, set them aside so you can work on the door itself.
 Lay the door on a sturdy horizontal surface. Sand with medium-grit, then fine-grit sandpaper to get it ready for painting. If the door has any old finish, sand through it to the bare wood.
 Start with one or two base coats of latex paint. This will only be visible through the final coats of paint. Most people choose an ivory, yellow or orange color to imitate the highlights of mahogany or other expensive woods.









Let the paint dry according to instructions between coats and before moving on to the next step.
Work in a well-ventilated area, over a drop cloth.
 Tape around the edge of the first door panel you'll be working on. Think of each panel as a separate piece of wood, with its own grain pattern. Push the tape down firmly to prevent paint bleeding underneath it.
 Mix one part latex paint, one part latex glaze, and one part water.Use a darker wood shade than you did for the base coat, to create contrast.
 This thin paint/glaze mixture allows you to create the appearance of fine fabric, with the lighter highlights showing through. Brush it lightly over the panel, then drag a wide brush through it to create long, straight lines.









Let dry before you continue. You may paint other areas of the door while you wait, but make sure not to tape over wet paint.
 Wood glaze is the easiest way to achieve a classy antique look. Choose a tinted glaze with a rich wood tone. Mix it with water according to the instructions, then brush it lightly over the door. Immediately wipe off excess with a dry cloth.








Additional applications can be used to highlight crevices and detail work if desired.Create custom tints by mixing latex paint with your glaze.
Let the glaze dry, then paint on a clear satin finish.
 Alternatively, apply a second coat of strié mix with a darker tint. Pull a wood-graining tool over this lightly, rocking it back and forth. This creates a wood grain pattern that reveals the two lighter coats underneath.]









Use the edges of the tool next to the knots to create a different type of wood grain next to the knots.
Sweep a dry brush over any portions of the grain that are too dark.
Vary the direction of the wood grain in different parts of the door for a more natural appearance.
 Once the door is dry, apply a clear finish to protect it.
