 Think about the objects or images that carry meaning for you. Make a list of all of these objects and images. If you are designing a symbol for your product, then try to think about what images best represent your product.


Keep in mind that your symbol does not need to be a literal representation of your product, but it should have a strong connection with your brand. For example, having a shoe as your symbol might be too literal if your product is shoes. Instead, you might represent what the shoes allow wearers to do with your symbol, such as run faster or enjoy the outdoors more.
If you are designing a personal symbol, then focus on images or objects that might represent important aspects of your personality, heritage, or the message that you want to send.For example, if you are Irish you might incorporate the shamrock or some elements of Celtic design into your symbol.;
, Gather some materials for sketching such as paper, pens or pencils, and draw a rough sketch of each of the images or objects you listed. The sketches don't have to be perfect, but remember you want your symbol to send a clear message to people who see it.


As you sketch, try to keep your goals for the symbol in mind. What message do you want to send?

, After you finish your sketches, look over them and think about which one is the most effective. If you are creating a symbol for your business, then the image should be something that is eye catching and easy to recognize. Try to pick the image that you feel has the strongest impact.Try showing your sketches to different people and see which one they prefer. Make sure to ask them why they prefer this image as well. You can use the input to adjust your symbol if needed.
 Simplicity is key in creating an effective symbol. Try not to over design your symbol with lots of embellishments and details. Remove any unnecessary detail or anything visually distracting. Once you have identified any unnecessary or distracting elements, you can either erase them or start over.Some examples of simple yet effective symbols include the Nike swoosh, the Olympic rings, and the Microsoft windows.
 The color of your symbol can also have a strong effect on the way that people perceive the symbol. Familiarizing yourself with basic color theory can help you to come up with a harmonious and visually arresting symbol.


If you are using multiple colors in your symbol design, then make sure that they complement one another. For example, you might chose two polar opposites such as black and white, or two shades of one color, such as light blue and dark blue. Other colors can be jarring if placed beside each other, such as orange and pink.Experts in the psychology of color argue that we have emotional responses to certain colors.Consider this when choosing colors for your symbol. For example, red can signify energy, power, passion, anger, and blood., When you have finished creating your symbol, take a closer look at it and try to determine if there is anything else that might improve it. Some questions you might ask yourself include:


Is it simple and appealing?
Does it communicate your message well?
Do the colors work?
Is there anything (big or small) that you’d like to change about it?

