 Would those new friends really give you time to prove your cool if the first thing they see is greasy hair etc?;
, Get contacts instead of glasses, or if you want to keep glasses, pay more and get some designer ones, or more oval/rectangular, as opposed to round ones. Everyone associates round glasses with Harry Potter, and Harry Potter with nerds. Keep in mind, though, that a handful of women will prefer the "nerd" look.
 Most people get or have had acne at some point, so don't get disheartened if you can't get rid of it. Your best option is to go to a dermatologist.
 Daily showers are important.
 If you can't be bothered gelling or waxing your hair, get it cut short. Look at some of the nerdy/geeky celebrities like Kevin Rose, Alex Albrecht and many others, there's still something cool about them whilst being nerdy, this is something you want to imitate and make your own.
 Stay true to yourself and what you like, but step it up. For example, if you like wearing scruffy clothes, get some ripped Calvin Klein jeans etc.
 Remember Napoleon Dynamite? "Girls like guys with skills"? Its true. If you like computers, get into computer DJ'ing or some kind of music creation. Or if you like manga, try to learn to draw it. Just widen your skills and hobbies so you can find things to relate to other people.
 Watch your mouth around different people. You don't need to change anything at all really, it's just using common sense. At a club, your nerdy friends you're with might want to talk about the latest Graphics Card or new WoW expansion, but when you go over to a girl, she wants to talk about HER! And when that group of friends you want to get in with arrive, make your way over and keep it light, say "hi" and blend in, which leads me to my next point:

, This doesn't mean you have to be bland, just think twice about doing things that aren't acceptable around the people you're with.
, You should never forget that people should love you for who you are, all you're trying to do is give a good first impression, or change the impression people have so you can start afresh.

