;
,,


Throughout this recipe, there are few times where you will be instructed to allow the dough to rise. This is important because it gives the bread a light and fluffy texture. If the dough is not left to rise after each step that states to, the bread will be very dense and hard.
 Let stand for 5 minutes. Strain and discard mahlepi. Let cool. It is important to bring the mahlepi to a simmer this way the flavoring is extracted form the nutty seeds. The seeds can be cracked to let out a stronger flavor.
 The addition of the mastic gum and sugar mixture is optional, though it does give compliment to the orange and lemon zest that will be added later on. The reason why it's important to break down the mastic gum with sugar is because when broken down, mastic gum is very stick. The sugar helps to coat the gum and the utensils used to break it down, so you don't end up with a sticky mess!

, Add orange and lemon zest. Sift in flour, sugar, sugar and mastic gum mixture, and salt

, Knead the dough in a bowl until it is smooth. This should take about 10 minutes. It is the chef's preference to use either their hands, or a wooden spoon for this step. It is important to keep in mind, if kneading the dough with your hands, to not over work the dough. If the dough is over worked, it can result in a dry, dense or hardened finished product.
,


The reason why we butter the bowl and pour the remanding butter on the dough is so that when the dough rises it does not stick to the plastic that is covering it, and to add more flavor as well as a shine to the dough.
 Dive the dough into six equal pieces.
 Tightly braid three pieces of rope together. You can begin braiding wherever you wish, though it might be easier to start from the middle. Repeat with the remaining three pieces of dough. If you choose to add the red died hard boiled eggs, make sure you coil the dough around the egg to hold it in place.
 You want each loaf to rise to approximately twice its size. It is important to have the surface lightly flowered so that it is easier to roll the balls of dough into ropes without them sticking to the surface.
 Beat the remaining egg with one tablespoon of water. Uncover the loaves if they have risen to be twice their original size, and brush them with egg wash and sprinkle them with the sesame seeds or slivered almonds.


The reason why the loaves are egg washed is to give them a nice shine and so that the sesame sees or slivered almonds stick better to the surface of the loaf once cooked.
 They should take about 50-60 minutes to cook them thoroughly.
