 When you first introduce finger foods to your baby, they will likely not have all their teeth in yet. Subsequently, it is important to select foods that are easily mashed between the gums. Look for produce that can be steamed, as well as soft foods such as grain-based cereals, which can melt in their mouth.Small pieces of produce like carrots or whole peas can be steamed to make them soft and easy for your baby to consume. Remember to wait to serve them until the food is cool to the touch, though, as your baby will be eating these items with their hands.
Cubes of fruit are also a healthy, soft option for introducing finger foods to your child.;
, Some soft foods, such as grapes, may be easy enough for your baby to gum, but they are still too large for your baby to safely ingest early on. Opt for foods that can be cut into small pieces, including soft cheeses, pitted fruits that are ripe and peeled, and even things like meat and pasta.The food should be cut up small enough that it doesn’t pose a serious threat to your baby. Try to make food chunks pea-sized or slightly larger.
Whole foods that pose a choking hazard include nuts, raisins, olives, marshmallows, chips, grapes, and hot dogs., Generally, finger foods come into a baby’s diet at around eight to nine months. Though they can grasp and chew more food now, it is still important to select age-appropriate foods. Consulting with your pediatrician may be especially helpful in determining the right diet for your baby.At eight to nine months, your baby should be eating mostly thick mashes of fruits and vegetables, along with some grain and dairy, as well a few protein-rich foods every day.
While scientific studies frequently produce new information on the subject, it is generally popular wisdom to avoid giving your baby whole eggs in their first year to help avoid developing an allergy. Typically, only yolks are thought to be safe for babies early-on., Pre-packaged foods including instant meals, takeout food, canned soups, canned sauces, and snacks like chips and crackers are often high in sodium and sugar. Your baby's kidneys cannot handle high levels of sodium, so try to select fresh foods or preservative-free foods whenever possible.If you do have to rely on packaged food for certain things, look at the sodium content. Babies under 12 months should have less than 1,000 mg of salt a day, while children under three should have no more than 2,000 mg.Find packaged foods that are specifically meant for babies and toddlers, or look for low-sodium packaged goods when you must.
Opt to use herbs and spices to help flavor your baby’s food instead of relying on salt.

