 Kids' nets are not actually good for catching butterflies. They are too short and can hurt the butterfly. A longer net is better, because you catch the butterfly in the netting, not on the hoop.Your net should be at least 2 feet deep.
However, keep in mind, in some areas, you will need a permit to carry a butterfly net. Check with your local laws to see if it applies to you.Your hoop should be wide enough to make it easy for butterflies to fit through, though you don't want it so large that you can't handle it easily. Also, you should be able to see through the netting. The netting should be coarse, so you can move it through the air without much wind resistance.
The handle should be sturdy enough that it doesn't break when you flip the net around.;
, Woods are often good places to find butterflies, but your backyard can be just as good. If you plan to catch butterflies, you might consider planting flowers that local butterflies are attracted to. For instance, marigolds, milkweed, buckwheat, zinnia, and heliotrope are flowers that many butterflies are attracted to., You may have a vision of swooping your net through the air to catch a butterfly in flight. However, the reality is it's much easier to catch one that's stationary. Look for butterflies sitting on flowers, drinking nectar, or roosting.In tropical climates, you'll usually find butterflies roosting underneath leaves or branches, and you'll find them there in temperate climates, too, when it's raining or cloudy.
Otherwise, you'll often find them roosting on the tops of grass or leaves in temperate climates.
Remember that some butterflies will be camouflaged very well to blend in with their surroundings, so you'll need to look closely., If you can, move in from the back of the butterfly, trying to quietly and slowly move in. Once you are in range, flip the net over the butterfly. Do it in one quick motion, so the butterfly doesn't move away before you've caught it., You can catch one in flight; it's just much harder to do. The best way to do it is to first sneak up on the butterfly from behind. Next, do a quick scoop to surround the butterfly with the net. Flick the net so it can't escape., Once you've caught a butterfly, fold the netting over the hoop. That way, the butterfly can't escape through the hoop. This is one reason why you want your netting so long. You can pull it over the hoop and not hurt the butterfly.

