 Making crayons with carnauba wax will yield a smooth, hard crayon. You can add a little beeswax to get a more traditional crayon.Carnauba wax is also known as palm wax and can be purchased online. You will need about 8-10 grams per crayon.In addition to the wax, you will also need a colorant of some kind. You can use earth pigments, chalk, or cosmetics to color your crayons. Earth pigments and cosmetic pigments can be purchased online. If you are using chalk, simply choose your colors and grind the chalk into a fine powder.Make sure you have an old saucepan to melt the wax in. Find a mold for your crayons, such as a silicone ice stick tray. Your mold should make a crayon about .5 inches (1.3 cm) in diameter. If your crayon is too thin, it may break.Get 2-3 disposable cups per color of crayon, and have a few extra set aside. Keep some disposable stirring sticks next to the cups. Make sure you have as many sticks as you do cups.;
, Decide how many colors you plan on making, and measure out 2-3 grams of each pigment. Put the pigment into disposable cups before you melt the wax to make the mixing process easier. Use one pigment per disposable cup. The only limit to the number of colors you can make is the amount of pigment and wax you have. The amount of pigment you use will determine how vibrant the crayon color is.Make sure you measure out all colors of pigment before you start. Carnauba wax will harden quickly once it is removed from the heat, so prepare as much as you can ahead of time., Place all the carnauba wax into a saucepan and melt it over low heat. Once the wax is completely melted, reduce the heat to the lowest possible setting.If you decide to add any beeswax to your crayons, wait until the carnauba is completely melted. Grating the beeswax before adding it will aid in the melting process. For a more traditional crayon, aim for a ratio of 90% carnauba and 10% beeswax., Add a few tablespoons of wax into one of the cups and place the saucepan back onto the heat. Working quickly, stir the wax in the cup to mix the colorant.It does not take long for carnauba wax to harden, so it may help to have two people for this project. Have one person pour the wax, and one person immediately mix the pigment and the wax together.
For a fun addition, try adding a few drops of essential oils to your wax as you mix the pigment in. Find scents that match the colors. For example, use orange oil for an orange crayon, or rose oil in pink or red., As soon as the wax takes on the color of the pigment, begin pouring it into your molds. Silicone ice stick trays work well for a standard crayon shape.Set the molds aside and let the crayons harden for at least 2 hours at room temperature., Work through each color by pouring a few tablespoons of melted wax into the cups one at a time. Quickly mix the wax and the colors together and pour it into your molds.If you have any difficulty with the wax hardening before you can get it set in a mold, flake the wax off and set it aside. Carnauba wax is easy to remelt. Try mixing some of your colored waxes together to create interesting new colors.