 Cabinets in a bathroom may be used for decorative purposes, for storage or to house plumbing or utility features. Decide what, exactly, you want out of your bathroom cabinet design. For example, a typical bathroom cabinet may serve as a place to hang robes, store folded towels and display a perfume collection.;
, Setting a cost limit before you shop can help you narrow down your options and settle on a cabinet that is well-suited for you. The more specific your budget is, the easier it will be to identify which cabinets you have to choose from.
 Also measure door and window openings, as well as existing fixtures.
 Remember that bathroom cabinet units average from 18 inches (45.72 cm) to 48 inches (121.92 cm) wide. You will need ample wall space for the width and height of the cabinet you choose, plus enough space to open any cabinet doors and to allow for easy passage through the bathroom. Follow these instructions to create a to-scale floor plan:


Sketch the bathroom measurements on a piece of graph paper.
Mark the doors, windows and bathroom fixtures on your sketch.
Make to-scale templates for a variety of bathroom cabinet sizes and arrange the templates on the sketch until you are satisfied that you know which cabinet size(s) will fit comfortably into the bathroom.


Closet cabinets are floor-to-ceiling units with doors, and have the appearance of built-in furniture. They may be used as linen closets, or to conceal washer/dryer units or water heaters.






Base cabinets are freestanding cabinets that sit on the floor. These cabinets come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes, and can be placed anywhere in the bathroom.






Wall cabinets are hung on the wall, usually over a bathroom fixture. For example, medicine cabinets are narrow units that are generally placed within reach from the sink area, while open-shelved cabinets may be installed over the toilet area for toilet tissue storage.
 While base cabinets may be set anywhere on the bathroom floor, closet and wall cabinets will require some labor and expertise when it comes to installation, as they must be firmly attached to the wall's studs for safety.
 A bathroom cabinet should fit into its environment, so you will want to choose cabinetry that complements your home's existing furniture and architectural details. Consider the following design elements:

Doors. You may opt for open-shelved cabinets, which have no doors, or for decorative glass or solid doors.






Material. Bathroom cabinets come in a wide array of materials, including wood, plastic, wicker, glass, bamboo, porcelain and laminate.






Accessories. Pay attention to things like drawer pulls, door handles, cabinet tops and mirrors, as these details contribute to the cabinet's aesthetic and style.







