 The tomatoes need to be cored, peeled, and quartered. The chili peppers need to be washed, stemmed, seeded, and chopped.


To peel the tomatoes, dunk them in boiling water for about 30 seconds, them immediately transfer them to a bowl of cold water to stop the cooking process. This process loosens the skins, and you should be able to remove them easily with your fingers or a small knife.
You can use any chili pepper you want based on your desired level of spiciness. For milder options, consider Anaheim or ancho peppers. For a spicier option, mix in a few jalapeno peppers.
Leaving the seeds in the peppers will make the finished product spicier.
Chop the peppers into fine pieces. You can take a shortcut on this by rough-chopping the peppers into large pieces with a knife and chopping them down further using a food processor.;
, Place the tomatoes, peppers, salt, black pepper, cilantro, oregano, and vinegar (or lemon juice) into a large saucepan or stockpot. Mix to combine well.


Tomatoes are mildly acidic, so you'll need to add a stronger acid to the mixture before canning them. Bottled lemon juice, white vinegar, and apple cider vinegar are all good options, but each one will contribute its own flavor. You could also use 1.5 tsp (7.5 ml) of concentrated citric acid, instead.
 Set the saucepan on the stove over medium-high heat. Allow the contents to reach a low boil.


Leave the saucepan uncovered.
Gently stir the contents of the pot as it comes up to a boil. If you do not stir the ingredients often enough, they could stick to the bottom of the pan and burn, which could negatively affect the flavor of the finished product.
 Reduce the heat to medium-low and let the mixture simmer, stirring it occasionally, until it thickens to your desired consistency.Note that this mixture may end up being a little more watery than commercial Ro-Tel, but since the liquid in this recipe has a high acid content, it will help preserve your homemade product for a longer period of time.
Once the mixture is done cooking, cover the pan and remove it from the heat as you finish preparing your jars for canning.
 Sterilize the glass jars, lids, and rings with hot water before or while the homemade Rotel cooks. Fill a hot water canner with enough water to cover the jars.


You should wash the glass jars with hot water and soap. Scrub thoroughly, rinse well, and dry.
Sanitize metal lids and rings by soaking them in hot water for at least 5 minutes.
You need to keep the glass jars hot after you finish cleaning them. Otherwise, they could crack when you expose them to the heat of the Rotel or the heat of your water bath. You can do so by simply letting the jars sit in a sink of hot water.Prepare the canner by filling it three-quarters high with water. Do not begin to heat the water yet, however.
Note that if you do not have an actual water-bath canner, you can use a large stockpot. Just make sure that the stockpot can safely fit all of your jars at once.
 Fill the jars with the tomato-pepper mixture, leaving 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of empty headspace at the top of each jar. Place the lids and rings on each jar when ready.Before placing the lids on your jars, pop any visible bubbles with a thin spatula and wipe the rims clean with a damp paper towel.
Make sure that you use all of the liquid, and try to ladle the liquid into the jars in even proportions.
 Carefully lower the jars into the water of your canner using jar tongs.


If you have to heat the water in your canner using the stove, make sure that the canner is already sitting on your stove before you place the jars in it.
Do not let the jars knock into each other as you lower them in the water or once they're already sitting in the water.
 Once the water starts boiling, start the timer.


Adjust the heat as needed to keep the canner at a soft boil throughout the entire process.
For 1-pint (500-ml) size jars:

Process 35 minutes at altitudes between 0 and 1000 ft (0 and 305 m).
Process 40 minutes at altitudes between 1000 and 3000 ft (305 and 914 m).
Process 45 minutes at altitudes between 3000 and 6000 ft (914 and 1829 m).
Process 50 minutes at altitudes above 6000 ft (1829 m).


For 1-quart (1-L) size jars:

Process 45 minutes at altitudes between 0 and 1000 ft (0 and 305 m).
Process 50 minutes at altitudes between 1000 and 3000 ft (305 and 914 m).
Process 55 minutes at altitudes between 3000 and 6000 ft (914 and 1829 m).
Process 60 minutes at altitudes above 6000 ft (1829 m).
 After you finish processing the jars, carefully remove them from the hot water with jar tongs. Sit them on a wire rack or towel-covered counter and let them cool for 12 to 24 hours before touching them.


You need to be even more cautious about preventing the jars from knocking into each other during this step. The glass is especially sensitive at this point, so it is even more likely to crack than it was when you lowered the jars into the canner.
 Make sure that the button in the center of each lid is flat. Properly sealed jars can be stored in a dark, cool pantry or cupboard for several months to a year.


Store any improperly sealed cans in the refrigerator and use the contents of the jar within one to two weeks.

