 Rose gold is sometimes cheaper than other types of gold because it is an alloy. Gold is mixed with copper to form rose gold, which is what gives it its rosy hue. Copper is usually cheaper than gold, making the metal more affordable overall., If you're looking at rose gold for wedding rings, it's a good option. Rose gold is a harder metal than white or yellow gold because of the copper, which is a strong metal. Therefore, you're less likely to damage it in everyday wear., If you're in love with the idea of having rose gold jewelry at your wedding, be prepared to look around more. While rose gold is becoming more popular and therefore, more widely available, it's still not as easy to find as other types of metal, such as white or yellow gold., Many people choose rose gold because of its soft pink hue. The pink hue gives a romantic feel to the jewelry, perfect for any wedding. As an added bonus, rose gold does well on almost any skin tone, making it a great choice for your wedding party., While you can use rose gold with contemporary-style settings, rose gold does especially well with vintage-style settings. That's because the rosy hue gives the metal a vintage, artistic feel, perfect for older styles of rings and jewelry.One reason rose gold goes well with vintage settings is because it was popular in the 1920s.You could play up that vintage look by wearing a dress that has a vintage feel, such as one that has vintage-style lace or that has a geometric art deco-style design. You could also try wearing a headband reminiscent of the era.
 One nice aspect of rose gold is it mixes well with white gold and yellow gold. Therefore, wedding pieces that incorporate all three can make for stunning statement pieces. Plus, the combination will help the pieces go well with any colors you choose for your wedding., When using rose gold for your wedding jewelry, consider going for a slightly rosier color in your wedding dress. A blush or a champagne shade will go well with rose gold. Even something like a diamond white (a light off-white) will look good with rose gold., Rose gold can go with a variety of colors, including cooler colors like turquoise and purple. However, it will look especially good with warm colors, such as yellow, orange, red, and brown., If you have a very simple gown, you can play around with different necklace styles. You can complement the simplicity of the gown by choosing a more ornate rose gold necklace. The opposite is also true. If your gown is bedazzled or ornate from head to toe, you want to keep your jewelry simpler to avoid looking too busy.Make sure that your rose gold jewelry works with the beading or embellishments of the dress. For instance, if your beading has silver in it, try choosing rose gold pieces that also incorporate silver or white gold.Beading will give your dress a vintage feel, if that's what you want for your wedding.
 It’s important that your rose gold necklace lays beautifully with the neckline, rather than making it look busy or taking attention away from the gown. Necklaces work particularly well with V-neck gowns, where the necklace lays on the exposed skin. With other necklines, it may be a better idea to skip the necklace and choose earrings or a hair accessory instead.If the neckline of your gown is asymmetrical, definitely skip the necklace. Having a necklace will throw off the effect created by the dramatic cut., If you are wearing a big, ornate necklace, skip the big, ornate earrings (and vice versa). If you are dripping in big, rose gold accessories, you will distract from your gown and your own wedding-day glow. If you fall in love with dramatic earrings and a big statement necklace, just pick one. You don’t want to look back at your wedding photos and kick yourself for over-accessorizing.Don't forget to work with your hairstyle. Before choosing your rose gold earrings for the big day, determine how you’re going to wear your hair. Large chandelier earrings will be less dramatic if you’re wearing your hair down than if it's in a sleek up-do. If you have visions of big, full curls worn down around your face, you may want to wear simpler earrings.
 If you are choosing to wear a veil at your wedding, try your favorite rose gold earrings with your veil, as it's important that the two accessories complement each other. For example, an intricate, lace veil might work best with simple earrings, while a small, tulle veil can probably work with bigger, more dramatic earrings. The key is balance., A bracelet is a traditional wedding day choice, and there is a style for every gown. If your gown has an ornate neckline and you’re forgoing a necklace, a dazzling rose gold bracelet can add the sparkle you need. A simple bracelet can add a sweet yet understated touch to a more elaborate dress. Remember, your bracelet will be on display as you hold your bouquet, so pick a piece you love.


Chunky bangles or big cuffs can slide around your arms. Wear your jewelry before your wedding so you know if it’ll be bothersome or distracting. If it is, skip it for your ceremony, and then bring it out for the reception., If you want to add some rose gold shimmer to your look but aren’t a big jewelry person, you can always incorporate a rose gold hairpiece. Check out the options for rose gold crowns, tiaras, hairpins, or barrettes. If you find a piece you love, you can bring it to your wedding day hairstylist and have them work it into your wedding day hairdo. If you’re doing your own hair, practice styling your hair with the hairpiece a few times before the big day.Wearing a 1920s-style headband is a great way to play up the vintage feel of your wedding, if that's what you're going for.
Make sure the hairpiece feels secure. You don’t want anything to come loose while you’re walking down the aisle or dancing at your reception.
If you are wearing a sparkly headband, crown, tiara, or similar, stick with simple earrings., This might not exactly be jewelry, but it is a great option to incorporate rose gold. You can find sashes at many bridal shops or online. Look for a sash with rose gold beading. You can tie a sash around your waist, for instance. It may be just the accessory you need to get the sparkle you want.Beadwork is very 1920s, so if you're going for a vintage look, try incorporating beading into the sash.