 As you peel the skin up toward the neck, you'll have to remove the head before the skin will come off entirely without tearing. Peel the skin back to expose the point at which the neck meets the body, and use your clippers to cut as close as possible to the body and remove the head.
 After you remove the skin from around the torso of the duck, the tail feathers will likely be stuck on, attached to a small ring of fat around the base of the carcass. Use your clippers to cut the feathers off, cutting right through and removing that ring of fat from the rest of the bird.
 There's no meat south of the rib-line of the duck, so the best way to remove the entrails is usually to cut around the base of the breast, underneath the rib, to separate the cavity with the entrails from the good meat. Run your knife up along the bottom of the breast plate, making smooth and shallow cuts. When you get to the other side, grasp the lower portion of the bird and pull firmly to remove the entrails. The intestines should come out in one clean go.


You can remove the heart and liver separately, which might stick up in the body cavity, and remove the gizzard from above. You can eat the liver if you remove the bile duct, which is greenish in color, kind of like an gel-cap pill. The heart is also edible, but somewhat small.
Alternatively, some hunters prefer to remove the gizzard from the top of the duck and remove the rest of the entrails from that cavity. It's a smaller space to work with, however, and farther away from the intestines, which need to be removed with care to avoid spoilage.
 Examine the meat on the bird. There should be a scorched-looking section, where the pellets entered the carcass. This will need to be removed, because it will taste "off." Remove any shot from the meat very carefully, and discard the scorched meat.


To finish off the dressing process, clean the meat and remove any remaining feathers and dirt stuck on. You can run the meet under some cool water, or simply clean it off with a clean towel. The loose feathers can be tenacious.
 Duck meat needs to be kept in a cool, dry place, preferably around 40ʡF (4ʡC). Wrap your meat loosely in butcher paper and store in a cooler, when you're in the field, until you can get it back to the refrigerator. It should be fine for about a week.


If you've got a lot of meat and you want to freeze some immediately, Ziplock freezer bags are the best method. Pack duck meat loosely into meal-sized portions and label them with the date. Frozen duck meat should be good for six months to a year in the proper conditions.

