 When you’re trying to get rid of blackheads, pimples and other imperfections, your best bet is to use long-term preventative solutions like frequent washing and moisturizing. Rough handling can enlarge pores and rupture the tissues beneath the epidermis, causing scarring, bruising or discoloration.Always treat blemishes by washing and moisturizing as your first course of action. Clean, dry skin is your best defense against pimples and blackheads, both of which are caused by the buildup of dead skin, dirt and oil.
Never squeeze or dig at blackheads with your fingernails in an effort to extract them. This can cause permanent damage., Lightly scrub your skin with a gentle soap or acne cleanser and lukewarm water. Focus on problem areas like the nose, cheeks, chin and forehead where blackheads and pimples tend to pop up most often. You should aim to wash your face at least twice a day, or more if you have particularly oily skin.Scrubbing your face with a soft-bristled exfoliating brush will reach down into the pores to clean more thoroughly.Water that’s too hot or cold can be hard on sensitive skin.
 Moisturizers soften the skin and promote elasticity and resilience. This is especially important if you deal with blemishes on a regular basis, as they’ll help repair the damage that’s been done in the past and prevent future breakouts. Lather on a moisturizer after you shower, or before you go to bed at night.Choose a moisturizer that’s suited for your individual skin type and apply it using a delicate circular motion with the pads of your fingers.
When coupled with rigorous washing, moisturizing will enhance your skin’s ability to breathe, making it harder for dirt and oil to become trapped in your pores.
 Salicylic acid is a naturally-occurring compound that can help evict blackheads by loosening their grip on the pore. It also serves to clear away dead skin cells, which are part of the natural residue that collects to form large, stubborn blackheads. Regular treatment with creams and serums that have salicylic acid as a key ingredients will keep your skin healthy, smooth and acne-free.Many popular skincare brands (including Aveeno, Olay and Neutrogena) make acne-fighting cleansers that contain an effective dose of salicylic acid.Aggressive use of salicylic acid can cause dryness, redness or irritation. Use salicylic acid in low concentrations no more than once a day.