 Stir 1 1/2 cups flour (150 g) and 2 cups (500 ml) mineral water or spring water together in a large plastic or earthenware bowl.


If your tap water tastes fine and doesn't have an odor, it should be effective to use, too. Many people believe that chlorinated water is a starter's death warrant, but start experimenting and use your own experience to judge what gives you the best results.
 Do not mash the grapes or otherwise think their juices need to seep into the batter; it's just the fruit that needs to be present.


You may use plums, or any other fruit that has a natural "bloom" of yeast on the skin surface.
 The starter needs to get air but no dust or bugs. Set it on your counter top, preferably in a warm place.


If you put a lid on too tightly, you risk it building up pressure and exploding.
Not too warm. On top of the refrigerator is a nice spot.
 This is called "feeding" the sourdough batter. In a couple days there should be signs of "starting"; namely, bubbling a bit as the yeasts feed on the starch and sugar.


If this doesn't happen within 48 hours, discard the batch and begin again.
 Don't worry if the batter separates; this means the water rises and the flour sinks. This is normal. After 5 or 6 days the starter will develop a good, yet slightly sour, smell. It is yeasty and not unpleasant.


Some schools of thought say that feeding it twice a day is ideal. Experiment to see which method warrants you the best results.
 Do this at least once a day! You'll get a consistency similar to thick drippy pancake batter. After this time, remove and discard the grapes.
 You'll need to feed and stir it every day to keep it healthy. If you begin to get too much batter (say to a gallon), discard the excess.
 It takes four cups starter to make two loaves of bread. Every time you use the starter, replenish it like this:


For each cup starter you remove, stir in 1/2 cup flour and 1/2 cup cool water.
If you don't use the starter every few days, keep it in the fridge and feed it at least once weekly or it will die. If it gets very yellow and doesn't "rise" before baking, discard and start again. Starters have been continued for decades. It is possible (though not always recommended) to freeze your starter and revive it at a later date.

