 Cucumbers are approximately 96.7% water and are readily available during the summer months. Partner this veggie with yogurt or in a soup for some more variety.;
, An iceberg salad is 95.6% water, so partner your salad with nutrient packed vegetables such as spinach or kale for a healthy and thirst-quenching lunch.
 Celery is 95.4% water, but also contains vitamins A, C and K. As an added bonus, the average stick of celery has only six calories--anyone can have their celery and enjoy it too.
 Radishes are 95.3% water and can spice up any dish thanks to their half sweet, half spicy flavor.
 Instead of reaching for a bag of potato chips, try a bowl of grape tomatoes. Partner it with some cheese, basil, and crackers and you have the perfect afternoon snack. Tomatoes are 94.5% water, so they are a great way to keep your thirst quenched.
 Although red and yellow bell peppers contain water and are high in nutrients, green bell peppers have the most at 93.9% water content.
 In addition to having a 92.1% water content, cauliflower contains phytonutrients, which can lower cholesterol and fight cancer.
 Watermelons are known to be filled with water (91.5%) but is also packed with lycopene, which helps you feel full for a longer amount of time and is also considered to be a cancer-fighting antioxidant.
 Spinach is 91.4% water but also contains many important antioxidants. Eat 1 cup of raw spinach and you've already covered 15% of your daily vitamin E intake.
 In addition to having a 91.4% water content, star fruit contains epicatechin, which is also found in red wine, chocolate and green tea and can stave off heart disease.
 Strawberries are 91.0% water, blueberries are 85% water, and raspberries are also 85%. Throw in some leafy greens and you have a great post-workout recovery snack.
 Broccoli has fiber, potassium, vitamin A, and vitamin C, as well as sulforaphane, which boosts the body’s protective enzymes and fights cancer.
 Grapefruit has a 90.5% water content but can also lower bad (LDL) cholesterol by 15.5% and triglycerides by 27%. Grapefruit also stabilizes blood sugar, which curbs cravings and stops overeating.
 Carrots are loaded with water (90.4%), and also go well with dressings and hummus.
 Cantaloupe is 90.2% water and at only 50 calories per melon, you can get up to 100% of your daily vitamin A intake by munching on this water-filled fruit.

