 Different private agencies may be interested in the travel scam, depending on the company and the credentials it claimed.For example, if the company is offering a tour, or claiming to be a travel agency, you might want to file a complaint with the American Society of Travel Agents or the U.S. Tour Operators Association.
Some of these agencies, particularly professional licensing or certification agencies, may be more responsive than others because they have a reputation to uphold.
 The BBB accepts complaints about fraud and scams from any private company operating in the United States.You can start by going to the BBB Scam Tracker at https://www.bbb.org/scamtracker/us/ and clicking the red button labeled "Report a Scam."
You must enter your first and last name and email address to file a complaint with the BBB.
Enter as many details as possible, including the name and location of the company that contacted you and the dates of that contact.
You also have a space to describe the incident in your own words.
 The National Consumers League is a nonprofit consumer advocacy organization that collects complaints and shares them with law enforcement partners nationwide.Go to http://www.fraud.org and click the "Go" arrow in the red box to report fraud. You must include your name, mailing address, and email address.
Enter as much information as you have about the company that contacted you, as well information about the scam. Stick to the facts, but be as detailed as possible.
 Sharing your experience and details about the offer on websites and social media can help others avoid becoming a victim of the scam.Websites such as Complaints.com and RipoffReport.com take reports about scams and fraudulent activity, including travel scams. These websites are frequented by consumers and monitored by consumer protection agencies.
You might also consider posting a warning about the travel scam to friends on social media. If you were targeted, many of your friends and family may have received the same offer.
 If you paid any money to the scam artists, you may have to sue them to recover your losses.


Look up your state or local bar association online. Most of them have searchable directories of their members. Some also have referral services where you can be matched with a local attorney who has experience handling claims similar to yours.
Most consumer rights or consumer protection attorneys will at least provide a free initial consultation, so you can use that to assess your options.

