 Rules and regulations for obtaining a pilot's license vary by states, provinces and countries. Research the federal aviation laws in your area for more information on how to obtain a pilot's license.;
, Before starting your own hot air balloon business, work with another local company to gain experience and an insider's perspective.



Determine the monthly income. Research what other local hot air balloon companies are charging for rides. Use this to decide on an appropriate price point.
Estimate how many rides you will give per month.
Multiply the price charged times the number of rides each month to figure your monthly profit.
Add together the monthly costs including overhead and expenses. Be sure to include all expenses including gas for the chaser van, staff wages and advertising.
Subtract your monthly costs from your monthly income to estimate your monthly profits. Note that these numbers do not include your initial investments in equipment.
 Along with the hot air balloon itself, you will need a basket, ties, inflation fan, gas, chaser van and safety equipment.
 Hire another experienced balloonist to assist with your new business. You will need at least 2 to 4 crew members to assist in assembling and disassembling the hot air balloon and to drive the chaser van.
 Your company will need a name. Do a search of other local hot air balloon ride company names. Try to create a unique but instantly trustworthy company name.
 Hot air ballooning can pose many dangers. Purchasing insurance will help protect your company and customers.
 In order to sell hot air balloon rides you must advertise your company. You can do this on your own through paper and electronic advertisements or hire an advertising agency to market your new company.
 With the threat of possible danger, it is extremely important that you and your passengers know and follow all safety regulations.


Know when it is safe to fly. As a general rule do not fly when the wind is higher than 12 mph (5.4 m/s). The best time to fly is usually within a couple hours of sunset and sunrise. This is when the wind is the most calm.
Develop your own safely regulations. While there are standard flying regulations, you should implement your own procedures based on your experience and balloon. For instance, you may want to implement weight, age and/or height restrictions.
Inform your passengers of the safety procedures. Passengers should not lean over the edge of the basket or jump inside the basket. Passengers should not be near the flame or disrupt the pilot. Passengers should also be braced for the landing.
 As in any business, your customers are the most important aspect. Ask for feedback and research innovative ways to make your customers' ride memorable and enjoyable.

