 This event is usually something your school will hold towards the end of summer, although they may hold it earlier. Not only will it make you more comfortable in your new school environment, and help get you used to a few teachers, but you can also use orientation as a social opportunity. That's right -- instead of hanging out with your mom, you can go out of your way to meet a few new people, and to hang out with your old friends.


Look sharp. Wear your normal clothes, but make sure to put some effort into your appearance and hygiene. You only get to make one first impression.;
, If you're lucky enough to already know a bunch of people going to your high school, then great. Then you can talk to your friends in advance, ask about their schedules, and see who can sit with you at lunch. You can also be bold; make friends with kids at your swim club, at the mall, or from your summer soccer league. You'll feel much more comfortable in school if you do.


If you're the new kid, don't worry. You won't be the only one.
 Another great leg-up in high school is if you know any older kids at the school. If you have an older sibling that you actually like who will look out for you, a neighbor, or even a friend of the family who goes to the high school, this person can be a great help to you, along with being your friend. Upperclassmen can help you figure out the following things:


How to act around certain teachers
Which people to avoid
The low-down on the clubs or sports you're interested in
The game plans for acing certain classes

, This may sound a little dorky, but don't underestimate how much more comfortable you'll feel at your new school if you actually know where you're going on the first day. Not only should you pay attention in orientation, but you should grab a map of the school if you can, so you can begin to figure out the best way to move from class to class. Figuring out how to make those precious 3-4 minutes during passing period count can help you eliminate stress and get to class on time.
 Before the first day of school, you should be prepared with everything you need so you don't have to scramble on the first day. You should have a copy of your schedule if you already have one, all of your books, binders, notebooks, and school supplies, and a change of gym clothes if you have to take gym. Don't be that guy who forgot his gym clothes on the first day or the girl who had to borrow a pencil in every class.
 Some schools have stricter dress codes than others; that is to say, some schools will have teachers that flag you down, send you to the nurse's office, and make you go home if you don't have a change of clothes -- or worse, make you change into your gym clothes. If you have a required uniform, then make sure you wear it appropriately, but if not, look out for the following:


Short shorts. Many schools say your shorts have to be longer than your fingertips. Girls, after you put on your shorts, stand up with your hands at your sides to see if you pass the test.
Displaying your undergarments. Girls, avoid showing your bra straps, and guys, avoid sagging your pants and revealing your boxers. Most schools have a code against this and well, it just ain't classy.
Offensive logos. Don't wear t-shirts with offensive language or offensive references. These could even get you suspended, in the worst cases.

