 Not everyone is eligible to take the Project Management Institute's exam toward PMP certification. The Project Management Institute (PMI) requires project management related-experience and a formal project management training. For breakdown of the requirements, download the PMP Exam Credential Handbook. You will find a description of the PMP certification, who is eligible to apply, and how to go about it in the first 20 pages.
 Filling out the application for the PMP exam can be a project in itself. You'll get some tools and learn some best practices that will help you fill out the application efficiently.You can choose to print the form and submit or you can opt to apply online, which is of course easier. Prepare all necessary information like contact details, educational background, industry you are working on, as well as project management experience hours and contact hours acquired. Application Completeness Review will be sent 5 to 10 days after application has been submitted online and on paper respectively. If confirmed complete, you will be notified to pay the fee and at this point, be prepared for a random audit. If all has been completed then you can schedule your exam.
 Studying for the exam toward PMP certification will be a much less daunting task if you apply your project management skills to it and create a project plan. The essential elements to include in your PMP study plan are assessing your goals, setting your daily study schedule, finding an appropriate study location and informing your stakeholders who are going to be affected with your study schedule.
 Passing the PMP certification exam requires a considerable amount of studying. There are various study materials essential for you to be successful. You have to have the Project Management Book of Knowledge ( PMBOK Guide ) first and foremost.

Other possible sources are PMP Exam prep books, PMP Exam prep workshops, online courses, downloadable prep videocasts, paper-based or electronic flashcards, PMP Exam simulators, and many more free online resources. Take advantage of all possible means to ensure passing your exam.
 The amount of material you need to master to pass the PMP certification exam may seem overwhelming, but it's doable. Establish a systematic approach to studying for the exam, for instance, studying a knowledge area per week and going through all the other resources for the same topic then breaking the topics into smaller pieces. Mastering principles and understanding the concepts behind the PMBOK Guide is one of the key factors to passing the exam because many questions are situational in nature.

Tracking your progress will help you determine your preparedness for the exam. Plus if you scour the web, you will be able to find Free PMP Exam tips to guide you through the exam preparation process.
 Despite all the studying you've done for the PMP® Exam you may be nervous about taking the test. PMP sample questions and PMP Exam Simulators can help test your knowledge and prepare you for the big day. Take as much practice tests as you can. There are free PMP® Exam Simulators you can find online. Monitor your score to keep track of your progress. Practice, practice, practice!
, Don't blow your chances of passing the PMP® Exam and earning PMP certification by failing to prepare for the exam day. Make sure you're ready mentally, physically and logistically to take the exam. Start by knowing the location of your test center and its regulations like what requirements to bring, what you can bring in like pen, paper, calculator, food, drink, and so on; and/or what’s not allowed. Learning all these will help your mind relax so you do not think of the outside factors come exam day rather you focus on the exam at hand.
 Earning professional development units (PDUs) is key to main training your PMP certification after you received your certification. There are ways of staying PMP certified and a ton of information online as to where and how you can earn PDUs. Start earning by searching for Free PDUs. Document your PDUs and report to PMI’s Continuing Credential Requirements System (CCRS).
