 You should start thinking about how many favors you would like to owe them. An average number of coupons should be about five, but you can decide if you'd like more or less depending on their needs and relationship with you. Don't worry about the size, because you can always put them in a book no matter how many you have.;
, Do not do coupons that you know you would never do in a million years, but do something rather that is a boring task they would not want to do and needs to be done. The task should not take more than twenty minutes. Think about your recipient and what kind of everyday tasks they are always moaning about. Here are some ideas to get you started:

Walk the dog or care for the pets. If the person you are giving your book to is a pet-lover, then tell them they can have the afternoon off to shop and you'll wash, walk, feed and play with the dog. There are a lot of variations in the pet category, so get creative! (You could teach them a trick, buy them some treats, or take them to the pet salon.)






Do the dishes, shine the silverware or empty the dishwasher. These dirty and tedious tasks will allow your recipient to put their feet up while you labor away and will really make them quite happy.






Do the laundry, fold the clothes or sort. Tons of laundry being done will give your recipient a peace of mind and no worries about putting away mounds of unfolded wrinkled laundry. As a touch, say you will iron them as well.






Organize. If you are a great organizer, share your skills and tell them you will clean out their desk or organize their bookshelf in their desired fashion, especially if this person has a very cluttered, stressed life.






Do some yard work. Rake the leaves, shovel snow or mow the lawn - these tiring tasks will give your recipient a break to sit back and relax.






Babysit. Have you ever heard your recipient saying they were dying for a night out but couldn't because they could never find a babysitter? Offer to babysit their kids so that they can go out with no worries, and even though you may be plotting to muzzle Dora the Explorer back at home, they will appreciate it more than ever. Make sure you ask for no pay, because this is a FAVOR.






Fill in for someone. If your person made an agreement to show up and volunteer or coordinate something, step in and help yourself and allow them to play hooky for a day. You can say something like, "I'm sorry, Alicia couldn't be here today, but I'm here to help!"







, This is where you can get really creative. Style it, prettify it and make it stand out. You can make one plain one and then photocopy it and write in the main points, or you can make each one unique. It should probably be a rectangle like a coupon is, but you might want to make it a heart. Either way, it should be able to fit all of the details of this task you are fulfilling and should be the least bit creative.
A good size for one coupon, if you are making a rectangle coupon, should be about eight by five inches.






Use card-stock paper for your coupons to make them official and professional looking.






The information on your card should consist of the task name (e.g., walking a dog), what days you can do it (e.g., Mondays or Thursdays), how many uses it is good for (e.g., two times), contact information and address (e.g., to use, call 111-222-3333, or visit 9 Sherry Lane), any details you'd like to include (e.g., eligible for one hour, also includes feeding and bathing, doesn't apply to Pomeranians, etc.) and its date of expiration (e.g., ends exactly one year after receiving).






Leave room for punching holes or stapling.
 If you are very organized and have some time, you can even sort them for things like "Pets" or "Food" or "Fashion" or "Yard Work" or something like that by having a card with the category, and putting the coupons that follow after that.


Put a cover card saying " 'Alicia's Coupon Book' by Xavier...Merry Christmas!" or something along the lines of that if you'd like to.
 Each hold should be at around the same area as the next coupon so you can combine them easily.
,