 Before you attempt to open adoption records, you should identify the information that you want from the records. Some information may be easier to get than other information, depending on the state.


If you want to locate a birth parent, child, or sibling, then you will probably want “identifying information.” This information includes the names and addresses of the parties. For example, you can find out your birth parents’ names, or you may uncover the adoptive parents’ names.
Sometimes, however, you may want to open adoption records but not necessarily for purposes of reuniting with your family. For example, you may want health information about your sibling or biological parents. If so, you can sometimes get this “non-identifying” information much easier.
Other non-identifying information includes:date and place of the adoptee’s birth
age and general physical description of the birth parents such as eye and hair color
race, ethnicity, religion, and medical history of the birth parents
medical description of the child’s birth and of time in the hospital following birth
birth parents’ education level at the time of adoption
the reason for the adoption
the existence of other children born to the birth parents

;
, Some states have begun to open up their adoption records. In these states, you can get a copy of your original birth certificate if you meet the age requirements (usually 18 or 21). In certain states, the birth parent must either consent to the release of the information or not veto it.The following states make some or all of their adoption records available:Alabama
Alaska
Delaware
Hawaii
Kansas
Minnesota
Montana
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Tennessee
Vermont
Washington
Wisconsin

, The law that determines what information you can retrieve is the law of the state where the adoption took place. This may not be the state where you currently live. If you are the birth parent, then try to remember where the adoption took place. If you are an adoptee, ask your adoptive parents what agency they worked with and where it was located.


You can read summaries of every state’s laws at The Child Welfare Information Gateway website. The summaries are current as of 2013. Because states routinely revise their laws, you should also perform a web search in order to find the most recent version of the state statute.
 Over 30 states have created “mutual consent registries” for adopted children and biological parents to find each other. With these registries, the child or family members may file affidavits indicating that they consent or refuse to allow information to be released to the other party should it be requested.As befits the name, information is not released from a mutual consent registry unless both parties agree. For example, an adoptee may submit a request to his state’s registry looking for his birth mother. The office that maintains the registry will then search for a consent form from the birth mother, checking to see if she has consented to the release of her personal information. If the birth mother has already filed a consent form, then information will be released to the adoptee.
However, if the birth mother has not filed consent, no information will be automatically released to the adoptee. Some states may contact the birth mother to check if she is willing to consent to the release of her information. Other states will wait for the mother to register with the mutual consent registry on her own initiative before releasing information.
 Some states have created an alternate system. Instead of a mutual consent registry, they have created confidential intermediary programs. In these programs, an intermediary is allowed access to adoption records in order to find birth family members. The intermediary then tells the person that someone is trying to contact them and asks if they consent to releasing their identifying information to the other party.The contact information will then be released if the birth family consents.


In some states, you may need a court order before you can use the intermediary program.
Like mutual consent registries, confidential intermediary programs require that both parties consent to be contacted.
 An experienced family law attorney would be beneficial if you are trying to open adoption records. To get records opened, you will need to prove that you have “good cause” for doing so. An experienced attorney would know the judges in the county where you must file your petition. Therefore, he or she would probably know what evidence the judges find persuasive in the “good cause” inquiry. You should try to get a consultation with a family law attorney to discuss the facts of your case.


To find a good family law attorney, see How to Find a Good Family Law Attorney.
If costs are a concern, then you can try to find a legal aid organization in your area. Legal aid organizations provide low-cost or free legal services to people with low incomes. Use this locator from the Legal Services Corporation to find an organization near you.
 Your petition must state why you want to open the adoption records and why this reason qualifies as “good cause” to do so. Unfortunately, there is no clear definition of what qualifies as “good cause,” which varies from state to state. The court in one state has found that a “psychological need” for knowing your birth parents was insufficient.However, the courts in New York have held that there is “good cause” if the petitioner can show “a religious identity crisis,” trauma, or medical need.Some states might have printed “fill in the blank” forms for you to use. Check with the court clerk to see if any form is available for you to use.
If the state does not have a “fill in the blank” form, then you can view a sample petition and order at the adoption.com website. Use this sample as a template for drafting your own petition and order. Revise the facts to fit your situation.
 You may need to have your petition notarized. If so, do not sign until you appear in front of a notary public. Notaries should be available at the courthouse, but you can also find them at most large banks.


To find a notary public nearby, use this locator from the American Society of Notaries.
 You must file your documents in the county where the adoption took place. Take all of your papers and attachments and make several copies. Take them all to the court clerk and ask to file.


You may have to pay a filing fee. Call ahead of time to check for the amount and acceptable methods of payment. If you cannot afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 You will need to appear before the judge to answer questions and to explain your position. You must show by clear and convincing evidence that the reason for opening the records outweighs maintaining the confidentiality of the adoption process.You should bring whatever additional information or evidence that supports your argument that the adoption records should be opened. For example, if you are looking for a sibling who was given up for adoption because you need medical information, then you will want an affidavit from your doctor explaining why the medical information is necessary.
 If you prevail at the hearing, then you may have to get the judge’s signed order certified. Ask the court clerk for how you can get an order certified.In some states, a judge will not open adoption records. Instead, the judge will authorize the use of an intermediary system. You may need to give a third-party intermediary a copy of the certified order.Keep additional copies of the certified order in case you need them in the future.
 The information you are seeking may be available without opening the adoption records. Instead, you can register with the registry in the state where the adoption took place.


To find the registry, search “state” and then “mutual consent registry” or “adoption registry” in your favorite web browser. The registry should be housed on a state government website.
 Only certain people can access information on a state registry. Often, access is limited to those in a blood relationship with the adoptee. Sometimes an exception is made for the adoptive parents, who may might want to gain information about the birth parents. The state statute will spell out who can gain access. In Maryland, for example, identifying information can be accessed only by the following people:birth parents
siblings
an adoptee aged 21 or older (provided the adoptee does not have a sibling under the age of 21)

, To register, you need to fill out a form. In some states, the same form can be used by adoptees, birth parents, and siblings. In other states, each party will need a different form. In New York, for example, different forms are available for adoptees, birth parents, and siblings.


Adoptees in New York should fill out an “Adoptee Registration Form,” which is available on the state’s Department of Health website.
Birth parents hoping to access the registry should fill out an “Adoption Information Registry Birth Parent Registration Form,” also available from the state’s Department of Health website here.
Siblings must fill out an “Adoption Information Registry Biological Sibling Registration Form,” which is available here. In New York, siblings must also attach a photocopy of a current birth certificate to their application., Mail the form to the appropriate state agency. You may also have to pay a filing fee. In Arkansas, the fee is $20.00.In New York, there is no fee to register., Four states require that you undergo counseling before you can register for the state’s registry. These states are Arkansas, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Texas.The purpose of the counseling is to inform you of the possible consequences of seeking out information or contacting a birth family.