 Place the rice in a colander and rinse it under cool, running water for several minutes.


The draining water will look cloudy initially. Wait until the water runs clear before turning off the water and proceeding to the next step.;
, Combine the rice in and chicken stock or broth in a large saucepan. Bring the contents to a boil over high heat, then cover and reduce the heat to low.


Allow the rice to simmer for 20 minutes. You do not need to stir the contents of the saucepan during this time.Continue with the next part of the process as the rice cooks, but keep an eye on the rice and do not allow it to overcook.
 Pour the vegetable oil into a large skillet and set it on the stove over medium-high heat.


Allow the oil to heat up for 30 to 60 seconds, then turn the pan so that it coats the entire bottom.
 Add the garlic and onion to the skillet. Cook, stirring frequently, for 2 to 3 minutes.


Both the garlic and onion should become more aromatic. The garlic should begin deepening in color, and the onion should start to wilt and turn translucent.
 Place the bulk sausage in the skillet. Season it with the salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, and parsley. Cook until lightly browned.Use your spatula to break up the sausage into crumbles or chunks as you cook it. Stir frequently, mixing the sausage, seasonings, onion, and garlic thoroughly.
 Toss the diced bell pepper and celery into the skillet. Continue cooking for another 5 to 10 minutes, or until the vegetables seem tender.


Frequently stir the contents of the skillet. If necessary, reduce the heat to prevent the ingredients from burning as they cook.
When finished, the sausage should be cooked through and all of the other ingredients should be soft.
 Once the skillet mixture and the rice mixture are both ready, dump the skillet mixture into the rice. Mix well to combine.


Cover the saucepan and leave it on the warm burner, but turn off the heat. Doing so should keep the mixture warm and allow the flavors to start blending together without overcooking the rice.
 Place the chicken livers or giblets in a separate saucepan and cover with at least 2 inches (5 cm) of water. Simmer on medium heat for 30 minutes.


Leave the saucepan uncovered as the chicken livers cook.
Once they're fully cooked, drain the water and chop the livers or giblets into small pieces. You may need to give the meat time to cool before handling it to prevent accidental burns.
 Add the cooked, diced livers into the rice mixture and stir to combine.
 Turn the burner onto low heat and simmer the mixture for another 30 minutes, or until the mixture is heated through and the flavors have blended together.


Keep the saucepan uncovered and stir the mixture continuously during this time. Do not allow any of the rice grains or other ingredients to stick to the bottom of the pan.
 Remove the dish from the heat and serve immediately to enjoy the best flavor.

