 Consider visiting gun stores to find used boxes. This will save you the hassle of cobbling together your own boxes and risk having it rejected by the shipper. Choose over-sized boxes to prevent your package from being stolen en-route.If you’re shipping via UPS, use a new corrugated cardboard box that meets the Single Wall Box Strength Guidelines.Visit https://www.ups.com/content/us/en/resources/ship/packaging/guidelines/how_to.html to see the chart.
 Use bubble wrap or other high-quality padding. Contact the carrier you plan to use. Ask a staff member to recommend packing material appropriate for a firearm. Ask your local gun store if they wouldn’t mind parting with their used packing material.


Avoid wadded up newspaper, plastic wrap, or baby diapers. These won’t cut it. If the firearm is damaged in shipping, claims against the carrier may be denied if your packaging was substandard.
 Ship it separately. Federal law prohibits the shipping of ammunition with firearms. Pack it securely in separate boxes or metal clips that fit snugly within the main package. Make sure the ammo containers can’t be opened in transit.Clearly label the package as containing ammunition. Visit UPS.com, FedEx.com, or USPS.gov to print the required ORM-D label or black and white diamond to designate your package as explosive.You must bring packages with ammunition directly to a staffed carrier location. Don’t deposit them in public mailboxes or drop boxes., Avoid writing “Firearm” or other references to the specific contents of the package. This ban includes preprinted areas on your box, your business return address, and the shipping address. If words like “gun,” “firearm,” or “boom-stick” are on anything, take them off., Insert a photocopy of your state-issued photo ID into the package if you are shipping to an FFL holder. They are required to keep a record of who shipped the firearm. It’s also an appreciated courtesy to include your driver’s license details.
 Take your box directly to a staffed post office or commercial carrier. Don’t leave your package in a public mailbox or drop box.If you’re an FFL holder shipping out of state, print a copy of the recipient’s FFL license to show the mail carrier should they require it.
 Ask for delivery confirmation. This will ensure that your package reached its destination. USPS recommends, but doesn’t require, this service.UPS requires “Delivery Confirmation Adult Signature Required” service.FedEx requires senders to choose either “Direct Signature Required” or “Adult Signature Required.”, Tell the carrier that the package you’re asking them to deliver contains a firearm. Be prepared to open your package to verify that there is no ammunition packed with the firearm.


Dealers shipping handguns through the USPS must notify the carrier and complete a form. Private carriers (like FedEx and UPS) will usually, but not always, require notification.

