 One of the most common uses of dry ice is to create artificial smoke or fog. This is as simple as mixing dry ice and water — splashing a bit of water onto the ice creates a hissing noise and produces lots of carbon dioxide gas. This is handy for dances, rock concerts, haunted houses, and other places where you might want to create an eerie, mysterious atmosphere.


As always, make sure that you make carbon dioxide gas only outdoors and in well-ventilated areas. Though unlikely, producing lots of carbon dioxide gas in an area with poor ventilation can eventually force the oxygen out, making it impossible to breathe.
If you use a container with a small vent hole, you can produce a geyser-like contraption where fog shoots out in a narrow jet. This can even be powerful enough to power a small motor or turn a pinwheel.
 Another frequent use of carbon dioxide is to make carbonated beverages (fizzy drinks like soda, beer, champagne, sparkling water, and so on.) Putting dry ice in water causes it to release carbon dioxide into the water which eventually gathers in the small bubbles that are the mark of any carbonated drink. Though most commercial and home-brew beverage-making operations actually use CO2 gas (rather than solid CO2 in the form of dry ice, the latter will still have something of an effect.Do not drink your beverage while there is dry ice in it. Wait for the dry ice to bubble away completely before drinking. Swallowing dry ice can cause major internal damage — internal tissues are more vulnerable to frostbite than skin.
Some people don't like the taste of dry ice-carbonated beverages. You may want to sample the process with a small amount of your liquid before trying it with the main batch.
 Dry ice is much, much colder than regular ice, so it can obviously keep food and drinks much, much colder. However, the danger with dry ice is that the food or drink may become too cold — put a bottle of champagne on top of dry ice, for instance, and it may shatter or partially freeze, so only use dry ice for foods that are best served frozen (like ice cream, popsicles, etc.)


To use dry ice in an ice chest, add your cold foods to the ice chest first, then place the dry ice on top and loosely shut the lid (as always, take care not to seal it completely.) Cold air sinks, so this arrangement keeps the chest frozen most efficiently. If there is any leftover space, fill it with wadded-up newspaper (extra air will make dry ice sublimate (turn into gas) faster.
Dry ice also works well for keeping normal ice frozen in a cooler.
Typically, you will want about 10 to 20 pounds of dry ice for every 24-hour period you need to keep your food items frozen (depending upon the size of the ice chest.)

, Surprisingly, dry ice can be used to keep foods like grains, beans, lentils, and pastas fresh. To do this, first place the dry ice at the bottom of a cooler. Make sure there isn't any frost on the dry ice, as this can introduce moisture and get your food wet. Pour your food products over the dry ice. Let this sit with the lid loosely on (but not sealed) for about five to six hours — the ice needs to completely sublimate (turn into gas) until there is no solid left. When this is done, seal the lid.


As the ice sublimates, it forms CO2 gas, which is heavier than air. As more gas forms, it forces the air out of the container. Without any air in the container, it is very difficult for bacteria or pests to survive, which greatly extends the food's life.
For this method, you will want to use about 1/4 pounds of dry ice per five-gallon container., As mentioned above, dry ice is so cold that it will actually cause materials like metal and ceramic to shrink slightly when it touches them. In certain situations, this property can actually be used to your advantage. See below for two examples:Fixing car dents: If you have a small "ding" on your car's exterior that looks like the metal has been pushed inward, dry ice may be able to help. Use heavy gloves to press a block or sheet of dried ice against the dent. If you can, press it against the inside of the dent as well. Hold the ice in place until frost forms a few inches around the dent, then remove the ice and let the material warm again. Repeat as needed.

Removing floor tiles: This trick is great for removing one or two ceramic tiles from your floor. Place a flat sheet of dry ice centered on the floor tile so that it touches its entire surface. Wait until the entire tile is frosted over. If the tile does not pop out by itself, use a few taps from a hammer and screwdriver to loosen the adhesive along the edges.
 Because carbon dioxide is heavier than air, it will displace air out of any container (we saw this in the food-preserving method above.) It's possible to use this principle to kill moles, gophers, and other pests that are tearing up your yard. To do this, push 1-2 inch sized pieces of dry ice into each hole and cover the top of the hole with dirt. Do this for as many holes as possible — ideally, all of them. The dry ice will sublimate and form CO2 gas, forcing out the oxygen and suffocating the pests.