 Hamsters should eat a dry mix of food made from a variety of fruits, vegetables, and legumes. If you want to make homemade food for your hamster, mix a variety of dried foods together.


Hamsters, like, humans need carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. These are known as macronutrients and allow the body to function properly. A combination of nuts, seeds, and low starch vegetables are important for a hamster's physical wellbeing.Dry hamster food mixes sold at the store typically contain dried maize, peas, dried fruit, beans, barely, and alfalfa sprouts. You can find dried varieties of these foods at a local grocery store and mix them together for your own homemade hamster food. Hamsters generally need 10 to 12 grams a day of their mix, but your hamster may need more or less depending on his size.Watch for additives. One of the upsides to store-bought food is that it's specifically made for a hamster. Added ingredients in processed food made for humans can be dangerous to a hamster's health. Go for organic products when feeding your hamster, avoiding foods high in preservatives, saturated fats, salt, and sugar.You should always enhance any hamster food you're using, whether store-bought or homemade, with a variety of fresh fruits and veggies. This creates a similar diet to what your hamster would eat in the wild.;
, In addition to healthy food, you should make a variety of healthy treats for your hamster. He'll be happier and more satisfied if he gets a reward on special occasions.


You can make a fun pudding-like treat with banana, honey, raisins, and lemon juice. Mash up a single banana and add a squirt of lemon juice. Then, add a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of raisins. Stir together and serve to your hamster.Hamster biscuits can be made with nut spread (like almond butter), cheerios, a variety of finely chopped veggies, fresh bread, sunflower seeds, and a small amount of cheese. Spread a bit of your nut spread on the piece of bread. Stick the cereal and veggies on top. Then, press the cheese around the veggies to create a cover for the food. Place in your hamster's cage., If you want to feed your hamster a homemade diet, talk to your vet first. Most hamsters have store-bought pellets or mixes as the staple of their diet. Such food is fortified with vitamins and minerals necessary to a hamster's health. Discuss your desire to feed your hamster homemade food with your vet before you attempt to do so. You want to make sure your hamster stays healthy without store-bought food.If you have your heart set on making your own food, talk to your vet about vitamins and other supplements for your hamster. This way, you can give him homemade food while making sure he's getting all the nutrients necessary for his health.
You could compromise and give your hamster a mix of store-bought pellets and grains in addition to homemade hamster food and treats.

