 While medication often isn’t recommended during pregnancy, it’s important for you to feel healthy and balanced during your pregnancy. If you go off of your medications and start to experience mental health problems, it’s not safe for you or your developing baby. If you decide to stay on medication or reduce your dose, recognize that this is the right decision for you and what is best for your health., All mood stabilizers are associated with a risk of malformation and perinatal complications.However, it is important to recognize that some are associated with more risks than others. If you have gone off medications before and experienced difficulty, you may choose to stay on medication while pregnant. Weigh the risk of remaining on medications with the potential risk of the medication onto your developing baby.


Keep in mind that you don’t have to make decisions about medication on your own. You can make these decisions with the help of your obstetrician and psychiatrist.
If you feel healthy and good during your pregnancy, your developing baby will feel healthy and good. Having mental health problems can negatively affect your developing baby.
 Although some medication is safe during pregnancy, it may become more concerning if you choose to breastfeed. Consider this decision early and how you will handle it. For example, if you choose to stay on medications, you may need to formula feed your baby in order to not expose it to the medications.Talk to your provider about the risks and benefits of remaining on medication and how it can affect your baby through breast milk.
 If family planning is in your future, consider making a switch from mood stabilizers to an antipsychotic medication. Talk to your physician about making the switch, as antipsychotics can be a good option for women having bipolar disorder during pregnancy.Talk to your prescriber whether this is a good option for you.


There are far fewer risks associated with antipsychotics during pregnancy. To date, no studies have found links to adverse effects or increased birth defects in babies born while the mother takes antipsychotics.