 To make sure that the grill is warm enough to cook the scallop and shrimp kabobs, you must preheat it. Turn the heat to medium-high and allow it to heat for 10 to 15 minutes.If you don’t have a grill, substitute a grill pan. Heat it on the stove over medium-high heat for approximately 10 minutes.
 Add ¼ cup (59 ml) of lemon juice, ¼ cup (59 ml) of vegetable oil, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried thyme leaves, ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of salt, and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) pepper to a medium size bowl. Use a whisk to thoroughly mix the ingredients and set the bowl aside.You can substitute olive oil or canola oil for the vegetable oil if you prefer.
If you prefer, you can substitute 1 tablespoon (2 ½ g) chopped fresh thyme for the dried thyme.
 For the kabobs, you’ll need ¾ pound (340 g) of sea scallops, 12 uncooked large shrimp, 8 medium whole fresh mushrooms, 8 cherry tomatoes, and 1 medium zucchini that’s been cut in 1-inch (2.5-cm) slices. Alternate one of each on 4 10-inch (25-cm) metal skewers, repeating the pattern about 3 times to fill the skewers.If the scallops are larger than 1-inch (2.5-cm) in diameter, cut them in half before placing them on the skewers.
You should leave the shrimp in their shells when you place them on the skewers.
Substitute your favorite vegetables for the mushrooms, tomatoes, and zucchini. Bell peppers, squash, and onions are other options to consider.
 Once you’ve assembled the kabobs, use a basting brush to apply the lemon juice mixture over the seafood and vegetables. Next, place the kabobs on the grill and allow them to cook for 10 to 15 minutes, turning them over once during grilling.Brush the kabobs with the remaining lemon juice mixture periodically while they’re grilling to ensure that they have plenty of flavor.
Leave the kabobs uncovered while they’re grilling.
The scallops will be white and the shrimp will be pink and firm when they’re finished cooking.
 When the kabobs are finished cooking, use a pair of tongs to remove them from the grill. Set them on a platter, and serve alongside couscous, grilled potatoes, or your favorite slaw recipe.You may want to serve the kabobs with lemon wedges.

