 Facebook Messenger is available for free from the Google Play Store.


You can also open the Messenger store page directly by attempting to chat with someone in the Facebook app.
 A list of results that match Messenger will be displayed.
 Choose the Messenger app developed by "Facebook," which should be towards the top of the list.
 Review the required permissions and then tap "Accept" if you still want to install.


On Android 6.0 and later, you'll be prompted to accept permissions when you launch the app as opposed to when you download it.
Enter your Google account password (if prompted). Depending on your security settings, you may be asked to enter your password before you can download the app.
 This may take a few minutes. Depending on your Play Store settings, you may need to be connected to a Wi-Fi network in order to download the app.
 You can find it on one of your Home screens or in your App Drawer. You can also tap the "Open" button on the Messenger store page.
 If you have the Facebook app installed on your Android device already, you'll be prompted to continue with the same account in Messenger. You can log in with a different account by tapping "Switch Accounts."

, You no longer need to have a Facebook account to use Messenger, as long as you are in the United States, Canada, Peru, or Venezuela. Note that you're limited to chatting with people in your phone's contact list that use Messenger, and won't have access to Facebook friends.Tap the "Not on Facebook?" button on the login screen.
Enter your phone number when prompted.
Enter the code that is sent to your phone via SMS.
Enter your name that people will see when chatting with you.
 You'll be prompted to add your phone number so that friends can find you easier. If you have a number associated with your Facebook account already, it will be displayed here. You can skip this by tapping "Not Now."

, Facebook Messenger will request access to your device's contacts so that it can let you know if people you add are using Messenger. You can skip this by tapping "Not Now."


Uploading your phone's contacts will allow Messenger to keep constant tabs on your contacts list and automatically add contacts that also have a Messenger account. Whenever you add a new number to your phone's contacts, Messenger will check if that number is associated publicly with a Messenger account. If it is, that account will be added to your Messenger friends list.
 Once you are logged in, you will be shown all of your Facebook conversations. You can use the app to chat with any of your Facebook friends. See Use Facebook Messenger for details.

