 Try to use as few layers as possible.;
, If it’s the winter and you have your furnace on, consider temporarily turning down the temperature to keep your home cool while you recover.If it isn’t winter, and you cannot turn down the temperature, try using a fan instead. Misting yourself occasionally with water while you're in front of the fan also feels wonderful.
 Tepid water is considered water that is at 85 °F or 30 °C. Baths are better than showers as you get to immerse yourself in the water, but showers are okay if you do not have a bathtub.Do not bathe or shower in ice cold water.
Do not use (rubbing) alcohol in an attempt to cool your skin.
 You can run a washcloth under cool or cold water, place an icepack or ice cubes inside a washcloth or towel (this method will last longer), or wet a washcloth and put it in the freezer before using it. Try making a rice pack and placing it in the freezer. This can be made with a cloth bag and dry rice or purchased as is.
 Before bed, soak your feet in hot water. Then wet a pair of cotton socks in cold water and put them on. Put a pair of thicker socks overtop of your wet socks. Go to bed.This is not recommended for diabetics, as they do not have good circulation or sensation in their feet.
Some skincare manufacturers make products for your feet that contain mint. When applied to your feet they make the skin feel cool. Use a lotion, cream or gel like this on your feet throughout the day to help cool you down.
 Doctors usually suggest taking acetaminophen, ibuprofen or aspirin if you are an adult with a fever. Follow the dosage instructions on the box to determine how much to take, and at what frequency., Since your fever is probably a symptom of another, underlying condition, your doctor may prescribe a drug to help that underlying condition (such as an antibiotic).Only take prescription medication that has been prescribed specifically for you and your situation. And take the medication in the amount and frequency determined by your doctor, and written on the bottle.
 Fevers can cause your body to become dehydrated, but in order to keep your body strong to fight whatever you have, you have to keep yourself hydrated. Drink as much water or juice as you can, as often as you can.Broths are also helpful, since they contain some salt, which can help alleviate dehydration.
An alternative to simply drinking a liquid is to suck on ice chips or popsicles. Because you have a fever and are probably very hot, this might also help you feel a little cooler, at least temporarily.
 You have a fever because something is wrong. Your body needs to use all its energy for fighting, not doing other unnecessary things. In addition, activities which need energy also cause your temperature to increase, something you definitely do not need right now!Stay in bed or on the couch. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t go out on errands unless absolutely necessary. Don’t worry about chores until you feel better.
 You can never wash your hands too much. You should especially wash your hands after you’ve used the bathroom and before you eat. It is also helpful to get into the habit of washing your hands after you’ve been out in public, or have touched public door handles, elevator buttons, or railings., You hands are your connection to world. Unfortunately that means they’re probably covered in dirt, oil, bacteria and other stuff you don’t want to think about, especially before you’ve washed them., This is especially important if either you or the other person are currently feeling ill. But just to be safe, because many illnesses can be contagious when the person isn’t symptomatic, it’s best just to avoid sharing anything, with anyone, that touches your mouth., Make sure your vaccinations and immunizations are up-to-date. If you can’t remember when you last had one, speak to your doctor — in some cases it’s better to get a shot early than not at all. These immunizations will help keep away many illnesses like the flu or the measles that have a fever as a symptom.


Note that it is not uncommon for an immunization with an active virus to give you temporary symptoms, including a fever, in the few days following the shot. Make sure you’re aware of these possible side effects by speaking to your doctor.

