 If you want your ex to want you again, then she has to see you eventually. After enough time has passed -- a few weeks, at least -- it's time to get back into her social circle or just to "run into her" at a time when she can see what a great time you're having. If she knows you're sitting at home pining for her, she'll be less likely to want to be with you than if she sees you having a great time, tossing your hair back, and laughing loudly with your buddies.


Go to the places where you know she'll be without being too obvious about it. When you see her, stop and chat to let her know you care, but don't drop everything to go talk to her. Instead, have a great time with your friends and make her want to join in on the fun.
Whatever you're doing, just make sure you have a big smile on your face and that you're laughing or just clearly having a great time without thinking of her.
If you know you'll see her, you should try to look a little nicer without making it too obvious that you made an extra effort.
 Maybe one of the reasons that your relationship ended is that her friends didn't think you made an effort to get to know them, or that they thought you didn't care enough about your ex to make the relationship worth it. So, if you want your girl to want you again, winning her friends over can help you pave the path to her heart. Here's what you can do:


If you see her friends, make an effort to be incredibly nice without suffocating them. Just let them see what a great guy you are, and move on.
You can even casually ask about your ex if you run into her friends. Let them know that she's on your mind.
 Once you've starting "running into" your ex a few times, it's time to make the first move. Start talking to her more, asking how she's doing, and taking a real interest in her life and thoughts. Let her know that she's on your mind and that you really do care about her without overwhelming her. Whether you just run into her at the campus bookstore or even invite her out for coffee, slowly find a way to make it back into her life.


Whether you're talking to her over the phone or in person, suggest that you should hang out again. Keep it very casual. When you do meet up, don't be obvious about your romantic feelings. Just make her miss you without telling her how you feel.
 If you really want to win your ex back over again, then you have to play hard to get once you get back into her life. Sure, you've had coffee, maybe seen a movie, or have even gone back to texting each other or chatting on the phone every few days, but that doesn't mean you should be completely available to her. You have to find the balance between making her think that you're at her beck and call.


If you're out in a big group, let her see you talking to other girls -- just enough to make her a little bit jealous. Just don't overdo it! You don't want her to think that you've completely moved on.
If she asks you to hang out, don't agree to hang out as soon as she's free. Make it seem like you have a busy schedule and that you have to squeeze her in.
If you are hanging out, check your phone and send out a text once or twice. Make her wonder who else you're talking to.
 Once you start spending some time with your former flame again, you need to let her see that you're a changed man. Don't do the same old things that used to drive her crazy. You can even laugh and point out how much better you are now if you want to make light of things. If she always complained about how messy your car was, clean it up and say, "Not bad, right?" the next time she needs a ride.


Do whatever you can to make her see that you're working on improving the qualities that caused troubles for the relationship are slowly improving.
Just remember not to change completely -- remember the things she must have loved about you and highlight those aspects of yourself when you're together.
 Before you tell her how you feel, you need to know that your plan to win your woman over is really working. You need to be able to read the signs to see that your ex doesn't just want to hang out with you as a friend, but that she shares romantic feelings for you. To do this, you'll have to pay attention to what she does, says, and to study her body language to know that you're on the same page.


Check out her body language when you're together. Does she make eye contact, occasionally look at the floor when she's feeling shy, and lean her body towards you when you speak? If so, then she may want to get closer to you.
See if she gives you compliments on how you've changed, or just points out your good qualities consistently. If so, then she may want to start dating again.
See if she's hanging out with other guys, or if you've heard she's interested in someone else, or if she only seems to hang out with you.
See if she goes out of her way to see you, if she mentions hanging out in the future, and if her eyes light up when you ask when you can see her again.
 If you really do think that she does want to be with you again, then it's time to share your feelings with her. Find a time to get her alone, whether you've asked her out on a date or are hanging out in a more casual but private setting, and turn to her and tell her how much you've missed hanging out with her and that you wish you could be a couple again.


Let her see that you've put a lot of thought into it -- tell her that you're aware of what went wrong and talk about how you're determined not to let it happen again.
Tell her you've spent a lot of time reflecting and working on how to become a better person. Make her see that you've already started to make an effort to be with her again.
 If your old flame does respond to your advances and wants to start dating again, too, then it's time to celebrate -- but not too much. Remember to take things slow, to be a gentleman, and to ease back into the relationship. Enjoy dating, telling each other how you feel, and kissing and cuddling, and take the time to reflect on how much you mean to each other instead of rushing right back into where you started.


Remember to take it slow. Don't start hanging out with her 24/7, but start going on dates or hanging out a few times a week. You don't want to make her feel smothered at the beginning of your new relationship.
Just because you're dating again doesn't mean you should take her for granted. Take the time to compliment her, make her feel special, and let her know how lucky you feel to be hanging out with her again.

