 Use a steam vaporizer or cool-mist humidifier to reduce sinus inflammation. You can also create moist air by filling a basin of hot water, bending over it (taking care not to get too close) and covering your head with a towel. Breathe in the steam. Or, you can take a hot shower, breathing in the steam. Try to breathe in moist air two to four times a day in 10- to 20-minute intervals.Your home humidity level should be around 45%. Below 30% is too dry, and over 50% is too high. Use a tool called a hygrometer to measure the levels.;
, Alternating between applying hot and cold compresses. Place a hot compress across the sinuses for three minutes, and then a cold compress for 30 seconds. You can repeat this procedure three times per treatment and between two and six times a day.You can also run hot or cold water over a towel, wring it out, and apply it to your face to get the same effect as a compress.
 Be sure to drink plenty of fluids, which can help thin out the mucus in your sinuses. This will make it easier to drain and can help with overall hydration.According to studies, men should try to drink 13 cups of water a day, while women should drink around nine.Some people find that drinking hot fluids can help. Enjoy your favorite cup of hot tea or drink broth to thin out the mucus., Follow the packaged instructions and use it up to 6 times a day.Saline nasal sprays can keep the cilia in your nose healthy. This will reduce inflammation in your nose and help treat your sinuses.It also moistens nasal passages to remove dried secretions which helps drain the mucus. Nasal sprays might help remove pollen, which can improve allergies that may cause sinus headaches.You can make your own saline solution by mixing 2 – 3 teaspoons of kosher salt to 1 cup of distilled, sterile, or previously boiled water. Mix and add one teaspoon of baking soda. Use it with a bulb syringe or dropper to insert into your nasal passages. You can also use this up to six times a day., Create a saline solution and place it in the neti pot. Stand over a sink and lean your head forward. While leaning over the sink, tilt your head to one side and pour the solution directly into one nostril, taking care to aim the stream at the back of your head. The solution will go into the nasal cavity and down the back of the throat. Gently blow your nose and spit out the drainage.Repeat with the other nostril. Using a neti pot can reduce sinus inflammation and help to drain the mucus. It will also help clear sinuses of irritants and allergens.Water used in a neti pot must be sterilized, either by boiling or by distillation.

