 Ground venison works well for burgers, meat loaves, and as a general alternative to any ground beef recipe, but it's perfectly-suited for chili. Whether you want to make straight-up venison chili, or combine venison with a small amount of stew beef or pork sausage, it's a great base for a hearty chili. A pound should make 8-12 servings.

"Chili meat" refers to a specific coarseness of grind, usually somewhat finer than "ground" venison. If you want a finer grind, have your deer processor grind up some chili meat, or purchase your own meat grinder to grind up your own.If you like a more Texas-style chili, stew meat chunks would be more appropriate, and you'll probably want to cook it at a lower temperature for a longer period of time, though the ingredients and the technique will be basically the same.
 Add one or two tablespoons of cooking oil to the bottom of a heavy-bottomed stew pot, and add your ground venison. Using a wooden spoon, stir the meat around as it browns up. Just before it turns dark all over, add one medium chopped yellow onion, a diced red pepper, and three or four cloves of minced garlic to the ground venison., As the onions start to brown, it's time to add the beans and the tomatoes. Use a can of drained red kidney beans, or a mixture of red beans, navy beans, and garbanzo beans, if you like. About 12 ounces should be perfect.

Use an 18 oz. can of crushed tomatoes, plus a tablespoon of tomato paste to provide the bass for the chili. If you want to use fresh tomatoes, start with about four ripe tomatoes, chopping them roughly and saving all the juices. Keep a close eye and add a little water if the chili needs more moisture added.
If beans aren't your thing, follow the chili recipe you like to make. Venison is perfectly amenable to most green chili recipes, or other types of regional chili you might prefer. Use the flavors and seasonings that you like and see if you like it better with venison.
 Season the chili to your taste. If you like it very strong, you can add more, or stronger chili powder, alongside a teaspoon of cumin, cayenne, and any other spices you like in your chili. If you don't like chili strong, add thyme, cumin, some coriander powder, and other aromatics. Add salt and pepper to taste.

To get at that distinctive chili taste, you'll need at least a bit of chili powder. Add a teaspoon at a time. You can always add more later.
 Turn the heat to low, pop the lid on, and let the chili simmer gently for a couple hours. The meat should cook in about 30 minutes or so, but the flavors will really come together with at least an hour or two of slow cooking. Taste it after thirty minutes to adjust the seasoning and add more chili powder, if necessary. Serve with cornbread.If you prefer, you can also transfer the chili to a slow cooker and let it sit all day, or overnight to really let the flavors blend. In general, the longer it cooks, the better it'll be.

