 Doing a split can appear deceptively simple. In actuality, this move requires a high level of flexibility in multiple muscle groups. The most important of these are the hamstrings and dorsal hip muscles (also called iliopsoas), however, stretching a wide range of lower-body muscles will ensure greater overall flexibility, lessening your risk of discomfort, pain, or injury. Additionally, this comprehensive stretching regimen prepares you to do both types of basic split - side splits and front splits. Besides the hamstrings and hip muscles, try to add stretches for as many of the following muscles as possible to your fitness routine:








Lower back (lumbar region)
Buttocks (glutes)
Groin (especially valuable for side splits)
Calves
Quadriceps
The stretching recommendations included the following steps in this section will target many of these secondary muscles. However, if desired, you may substitute your own preferred stretches.
 This stretch will help your hamstrings and lower back. Lie on the floor next to a straight wall. Position yourself so that your body is pointing perpendicular to the wall. Raise your legs and place them as high as you can on the wall while keeping your lower back on the floor. Reach towards your toes with your hands - go as far as you can without excessive strain or pain. Hold for 30 seconds. Repeat 2-3 times.
 This stretch targets your hip muscles. Begin as if you were doing an ordinary lunge exercise - plant one foot forward and lower yourself down to the ground by bending your front leg and sliding your back leg back until your shin lies on the ground. When you've reached the floor, put your hands on your hips and gradually shift your weight forward, keeping your back straight. Continue until you begin to feel the stretch in the top of the thigh where it meets the hip. Hold for 20-30 seconds, then return to your starting position and switch to your other leg. Repeat several times.
 This stretch hits your hamstrings, lower back, and, if you can reach your toes, your calf muscles. Sit on the floor and spread your legs in a wide "V". Raise your hands over your head. Gently and gradually bend your upper body as you reach towards one of your feet. Stop when you notice pain or discomfort or stretching becomes difficult. Hold for 20-30 seconds, then return to the starting position and stretch towards the other leg.









You may not initially be able to reach your toes. This is O.K. However, when you can reach your toes, you may grab your foot and gently pull it towards you to stretch your calf.
 This stretch mainly works your groin and inner thigh. Sit upright on the floor with your back straight. Don't slouch - if needed, you may sit against a wall. Bring your legs towards your body and press your feet together so that your legs make a diamond shape. Move your heels as close to your groin as you can without experiencing pain. You may also push your knees towards the ground with your hands for an added stretch, but use caution, as this can be somewhat hard on the knees. Hold this stretch for about 20 seconds, then rest and repeat.
 This aptly-named stretch mainly stretches your quadriceps - the large group of muscles on the front of your thigh. You'll need one or two pillows. Lower yourself into a kneeling position with your rear knee on the pillow(s). Raise your back foot, then, keeping your back straight reach back and grab it with your opposite hand. Gently pull your leg towards your bottom. You should feel a stretch in the front of your thigh. Hold for about 20 seconds, then switch legs.









Alternatively, if you're worried about putting stress on your knees, you may do a standing quad stretch. Stand up straight, lift one leg up towards your bottom, then reach back and pull it with the arm that's on the same side. You may want to brace yourself against a wall with your other hand for balance.
 Lay on your stomach on the floor. Raise yourself into a "plank" position - keep your back and legs aligned and support your upper body on your elbows and your lower body on your toes. Place one foot on top of the other so that you're balancing on one foot. Gently push back with your body weight until you feel a stretch in your foot and your calf. Hold for about 20 seconds, then switch feet and repeat.









In addition to stretching out your calf muscles, you'll also get a light ab workout from holding the plank pose.

