 Scientific analyses show the brains of persons with ADHD are slightly different in that two structures tend to be smaller.The first, the basal ganglia, regulates the movement of muscles and signals which should be working and which should be at rest during given activities.If a child is sitting at his desk in the classroom, for example, the basal ganglia should send a message telling the feet to rest. But the feet don’t get the message, thus remaining in motion when the child is seated.The second brain structure that is smaller than normal in a person with ADHD is the prefrontal cortex, which is the brain’s hub for conducting higher-order executive tasks. This is where memory and learningand attention regulation come together to help us function intellectually.
 A smaller-than-normal prefrontal cortex with lower-than-optimal dopamine and serotonin means greater struggles to focus and effectively tune out all the extraneous stimuli flooding the brain all at once. The prefrontal cortex influences the level of the neurotransmitter dopamine.Dopamine is tied directly to the ability to focusand tends to be at lower levels in persons with ADHD.Serotonin, another neurotransmitter found in the prefrontal cortex, impacts mood, sleep, and appetite.Eating chocolate, for instance, spikes serotonin causing a temporary feeling of well-being; when serotonin drops low, however, depression and anxiety result. , The jury’s still out on the causes of ADHD but it’s well accepted that genetics play a large role, with certain DNA anomalies occurring more often in people with ADHD. In addition, studies show correlations between children with ADHD to prenatal alcohol and smoking as well as to early childhood exposure to lead. Do not smoke around your child. Cigarette smoking is thought to potentially be associated with ADHD. Some studies suggest that smoking mothers or pregnant women surrounded by smokers may be more likely to have children with ADHD.Nicotine has a constricting effect on the blood vessels. This leads to a decreased oxygen supply to the developing fetus which can cause problems with brain development to occur.Consider any accidents your child has had. Damage to the frontal lobe of the brain (the part of the brain that controls behavior and problem-solving skills) may lead to development of ADHD in children., Children with ADHD exhibit certain characteristics that non-ADHD kids don’t have as much. For example, a child with ADHD is seen to be more creative and imaginative. They are also flexible with what they want. They can be fun to be with because of their enthusiasm, spontaneity, drive and energy.