 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need".;
, This will be around 2.5cm or 1 inch in size.
 Place this saucepan into a baking pan. Fill the pan with water up to the halfway mark of the saucepan.
 The soap will start to melt. When it does, add the essential oil and coloring.
 Allow it to set.


If you're wanting to make layers, like a layer cake, you'll need to follow the steps above for melting the soap as many times as you want differently colored layers. Simply pour each layer over the top of the last set layer of soap in the cake pan, until you're done.
 This layer should be a contrast color to the cake (such as white for vanilla or brown for chocolate). To make the frosting, whisk the melted soap base in the same manner you'd use for whipping cream. Once you see bubbles in it, pour it quickly over the set soap cake. If you want it over the sides too, remove the set soap cake from the cake pan first.


It is best to do this part in small batches, whipping a new batch each time, because you'll probably find that the whipped melted soap is setting almost as fast as you can spread it on the soap cake.
 At this point, you can continue to make soap decorations or you can take a shortcut and add ready-made decorations such as fabric flowers. If you do want to make soap flowers and leaves, here is what to do:


Melt the soap base in the colors required for the flowers. You'll also need to melt soap base in green for leaves; do that after you've made the flowers.
Spread out the melted soap thinly across a sheet of kitchen foil.
Roll the flower into a flower shape.
Continue to make as many flowers in desired sizes as needed.
Do the same for the melting the green soap, only when it is on the foil, cut out little leaf shapes rather than rolling. Use a butter knife to gently push in one long leaf vein and some side veins too.
To attach both flowers and leaves to the soap cake, dip the base of each item in hot soap base and stick in place on the top of the cake.
 It's unlikely that the cake will be mistaken for a real cake because soap has a distinctive glossy and chunky texture to it. However, it will impress everyone with its beauty, so place it on a cake stand as with a real cake and cut out one slice, which you can leave on its side to show the beauty of the inside and how clever you've been to make this! When it comes to time for your guests to go home, cut the soap cake into even slices and place in little cellophane bags. Tie with a ribbon and let each guest take home a piece to use in their bath or shower.

