 On your home screen, click on "Events" on the left under your "Favorites" tab. From your Events page, click "Create Event." Give your event a name (e.g., "Joe's Birthday Bash), specify a time and location, select a privacy option (invite-only, public, etc.) and, optionally, provide a description. Click "Create" to create your event.


Alternatively, type the word "Events" into the search bar at the top of the screen. A link to your Events page should appear near the top of the list.
 A popup window will appear displaying all your friend's names with checkmarks next to each. Normally, to invite friends, you have to check each box individually - even if you're inviting hundreds! However, this method will quickly and easily invite all your friends without any mindless clicking on your part.
 The scroll bar may take some time to scroll all the way down. This is the most time-consuming part of this method - unfortunately, it's necessary, as your friends won't appear in the list until you scroll to their name. This method checks the boxes of every entry in the list, so if all your friends aren't displayed in the list, they won't all be invited.
 Highlight "Web Developer," then select "Scratchpad" from the submenu. A popup window should open - in this menu, you're able to input javascript commands, which can be used to automate certain web processes. In this case, we'll input a command to automatically check the boxes next to all of our friends.


Don't navigate away from the popup invitation menu during this step - otherwise, you'll have to re-open it and scroll to the bottom again.
 Either paste this text below the default explanatory text in the window or delete the explanatory text before pasting it. If you past the command inside the explanatory text, the script won't run.
 Then, click "Run." Your browser may appear to freeze briefly as the script runs - this is normal. Within a few moments, your browser should unfreeze. Check your "Invite Friends" popup window. If done correctly, every friend in the popup window should be checked off!

, This completes the process. Enjoy your party or event!


If you want to invite most of your friends, but not all of your friends, this method is still useful - simply follow the method as normal, then, when all of your friends are highlighted, manually un-invite the friends that you don't want to receive an invitation. This is still more time-efficient than manually selecting your invites.

