 In order to become truly present, evaluate all of the things that have traditionally kept you from being so. Perhaps while at work, you get sidetracked when thinking about your children and you begin to worry about them or feel anxiety. Or maybe you feel other negative emotions often like guilt or frustration. Make a list of the emotions you are most prone to and then burn it or toss it in the trash., Though being present requires your full focus, you should still not completely shun any negative thoughts or emotions that you might have. Trying to ignore a thought is the surest way to keep it in the forefront of your mind, so give your negative emotions a moment or two, think about them, write them down, and then refocus on the task at hand.You might think to yourself “I acknowledge that I am still upset about my fight last night with my mother, but I cannot do anything about that right now. I need to work on preparing for my presentation and I will call her later when I have more time.”

, Question any negative thoughts that you might be having and evaluate whether they are important enough to take you from the task or person at hand. Many times, your negative thoughts might not be rooted in reality, so do your best to delegitimize them when you can. Work to gently redirect yourself to the reality in front of you.For instance, you might be worried that someone will break into your home. But if there have been no break-ins in your neighborhood lately or you have a home alarm system, then perhaps this fear is not worth bothering with at the moment.
 Learn to differentiate between what is a priority and what is a distraction. Make a list of everything that you need to do the day before you need to do it and rank them based on what you will complete first. Complete each task one at a time. Make time for yourself and for your family each day.One small thing that you can do at work is to prioritize emails first and then move on to larger tasks that will take more time and energy.
 Though social media has helped to advance and inform society in multiple ways, it can also be the single most distracting habit that you might have in your life. When you truly need to focus, turn off your cellphone, or at least put it on silent. Consider deactivating a few of your social media accounts or disabling email on your phone.


Consider making it a family practice that no one has their phones on at dinner.
 One way to ensure that you are practicing mindfulness is to follow the things that you enjoy and love. Take a job that interests you, ask the girl you’ve been crushing on for a while on a date, and explore your hobbies. Create a life that is worth staying present in.