 Before you start caring for a pregnant cat, you'll want to make sure the cat is pregnant. Unlike humans, there is no simple blood or urine test that can confirm pregnancy. However, physical signs do emerge in the earliest stages of pregnancy that can clue you in that your cat may be carrying kittens. The full gestation period of a cat is around 60-70 days, so the process will move along quickly.By the third week the cat's nipples will become enlarged and pink. This is referred to as "pinking up."
By the fourth week, the cat will begin to gain weight, making the pregnancy visible.
By around the fourth week, your vet should be able to help confirm a pregnancy. An experienced vet can feel around the cat's stomach and feel the kittens. They could also do an ultrasound to detect heartbeats.
There will also be noticeable behavior changes, particularly in the final weeks. They may appear uncomfortable due to their growing abdomen and meow to seek more attention or affection. As their pregnancy moves along, they'll eat more and spend even more time than usual sleeping.;
, You'll need to make sure your cat is getting proper nutrition for her own health, but also the growing young inside of her. By the start of the sixth week, you should be offering at least 25% more food. Also, make sure the diet is high in protein and calcium are essential to both the kittens and the mother's ability to lactate.Introduce a diet designed for kittens to your pregnant cat. These diets are rich in protein and calcium that the cat will need during this time. You should continue to feed them kitten food during their entire pregnancy and after delivery.
You will not need any special vitamin or mineral mixes, as long as you are feeding them a high quality diet of kitten food. Buy a common and trusted brand to make sure it's up standards.
Always make sure fresh water is available. This is just as important as any food.
 Although a healthy cat will rarely have problems introduced by pregnancy, it's important to make sure your cat is healthy enough for the rigors or pregnancy and birthing. Have your cat checked for routine parasites and make sure common vaccinations are up to date. Other more acute problems to look for include:Watch with concern if your pregnant cat loses interest in food. This can be an indication of a bigger problem and also cut off necessary nutrients. In some cases a cat may lose interest in food right before giving birth, but it should not last long.
If your cat is acting distressed and licking her vulva area, this may an indication of a problem. This could mean there is an irritation or a problem the cat is sensing. You should have the cat examined by a vet.
Look out for any abnormal, bad-smelling vaginal discharge. This can happen during labor or during pregnancy, and in all cases should be followed up by a vet.
If you notice blood in your cat's urine, or they're squatting with no urine coming out, this can be a sign of uterine infection. This can be painful for your cat and affect the kittens if left untreated.
 If you have been tracking your cat's pregnancy since the beginning, you will have a rough approximation of when the due date is looming. However, if you aren't sure of the timeline, there are other means to recognize that labor may be near. Some of the signs include:Your cat is actively looking for secluded areas for nesting.
Your cat is less active and losing appetite.
A drop in body temperature.
Frequent licking of belly and genital area.
 It is essential that your cat is comfortable and safe for the birthing process. This includes bringing them indoors so they aren't exposed to harsh elements, but also creating a safe and cozy nesting spot where they can give birth and nurse their kittens. If your cat has a current favorite bed or blankets it lays on, move them to a quiet and safe area away from busy traffic of the house.Create a nesting area. This can simply be a large cardboard box that is lined with her own bed or sheets, The mom will likely begin to situate herself in a nesting area a day or less before she is ready to give birth. If she chooses her own nesting spot outside of the one you created for her, just accommodate the spot that she chooses by making sure it's safe rather than trying to move her.

