 If you are an employee, or potential employee, you may want to calculate fringe benefits to get an idea of the full value of your services. Also, if you are looking at a particular job, you may want to calculate the value of fringe benefits to get an idea of the full compensation package.


For example, if you work at a job that pays you a salary of $40,000 per year and offers $30,000 in fringe benefits, you can add those together to get an idea of what you are receiving in return for your work ($70,000).
In another example, assume you are looking at two separate jobs. One of them offers you a salary of $75,000 but no fringe benefits. The other job offers you a salary of $50,000 and includes fringe benefits equaling around $40,000. If you don't calculate the value of the second job's fringe benefits, you may think the first job is a better offer. However, when you add up the full compensation packages of each job, you may decide the second job offer is better.
 In the first column, write down every fringe benefit you receive from your employer.
 Most fringe benefits are valued using their FMV. The FMV of a benefit is the amount you would have to pay a third party to buy or lease it. The FMV does not take into consideration what you believe the value of something to be.For example, if you are allowed to use athletic facilities owned by your employer, the FMV of that fringe benefit would be the amount of money it would cost you to pay for a gym membership in your city that includes the same types of athletic opportunities as you have with your employer. If you live in Los Angeles, California, you would not calculate the cost of a gym membership in Miami, Florida. Also, if your employer gives you access to a pool and basketball courts, you would not calculate the cost using a gym membership that only offers a weight room.
Once you calculate the FMV of your fringe benefit, put that amount in the the column next to the fringe benefit you calculated and in the same row.
 You will be able to calculate the actual value of some of your fringe benefits. If you can do so, do not use the FMV.


For example, if your employer pays for your health and/or dental insurance, you can ask them how much they contribute on an annual basis. This amount would be the value of your fringe benefit. Assume your employer pays your health insurance premiums, which equal $250 per month. If you multiply $250 by the 12 months in a year, you get $3,000, which is the annual value of that fringe benefit.
In another example, assume you are paid $20 per hour and you work 40 hours per week. Also assume your employer offers you three sick days, nine vacation days, and four days of paid time off. In general, sick days, vacation days, and paid time off are paid as if you worked a full day and got paid. Therefore, to calculate the value of this benefit, you would first calculate your average daily pay ($20 x eight hours a day = $160). You would then add together all the paid days you receive (three sick days + nine vacation days + four days of paid time off = 16 paid days off). You will finally multiply your daily pay by the total number of paid days you receive ($160 x 16 days = $2,560). Therefore, the total value of this fringe benefit is $2,560.
 Once you have calculated the value of each individual fringe benefit, you can add them all together to find the total value of the fringe benefits you receive.


For example, assume you receive three fringe benefits as a part of your employment. The first is the use of athletic facilities, the FMV of which is $3,000 per year. The second is health insurance in the amount of $3,000 per year. Finally, you get a total of 16 paid days off, which is valued at $2,560. If you add all of these benefits up ($3,000 + $3,000 + $2,560), you get a total fringe benefit value of $8,560 every year.
If you add this amount to your yearly salary, you can get an idea of your total compensation. For example, if you make $20 per hour and work 40 hours per week, your annual salary equals $41,600 (40 hours per week x 52 weeks in a year x hourly wage). If you add your annual salary to your annual fringe benefit value, you can see you are compensated annually in the amount of $50,160 ($41,600 + $8,560).

