 The easiest way to impress someone that you are either dating or want to date is to go out of your way to make them happy. Do this unselfishly and just because you want to see them smile. They can almost always tell the difference. Try to base what you do on what you know about them and what matters most to them.


For example, you could bring your girlfriend an entire box of her favorite donuts when you know she's having a bad day. Include a note that says something like "I tried to find something as sweet as you but they only had a dozen of these left."
Another example would be to leave a fridge full of pre-prepared meals for a guy friend when you know he's sick or going to be very busy, so that he doesn't have to cook for himself. He'll be smitten.
 Pay attention when your significant other talks and log away tidbits of information for later, even if you have to write them down. Remembering small, off-hand comments that they make and acting on those comments can earn you serious points.


For example, maybe your girlfriend mentions off-hand, once that Valentine's Day is her favorite time of year because it's the only time when she can find conversation hearts, her favorite candy. Find a supply company and surprise her in a few months when her birthday rolls around with an entire bag full of the candy.
 Show your significant other how much the things that matter to them also matter to you. Doing things selflessly to make the people that they love happy or embracing a hobby that lets them shine goes a long way to show that you are above the rest of the competition.


For example, maybe your girlfriend is really into ballet. It might not be your thing, but you can take a few secret lessons on the side from a local community center and surprise her by taking her on a special date and dancing with her.
Another example would be if your boyfriend has an autistic brother whom he's very close with. Play with his brother and maybe even go out with him to movies or other fun locations. By genuinely connecting with the brother, you'll get to know more about the boyfriend's life. You'll also make it clear that you're a caring person.
 This is especially important when you're first getting to know someone that you'd like to date. Letting them see that you are a fully developed, interesting person can really surprise them if all they currently have to go on is a stereotype. Have opinions, show your passions, and do things instead of just sitting around.These all show them what they can look forward to when they're with you.


For example, you might be a closet book collector. Instead of hiding this maybe nerdy hobby, show it off instead. Let them see your collection and show them the book that reminds you of them. They'll be surprised and fascinated by your passion and hopeful that you can show the same level of enthusiasm toward them.
 When you focus on just being yourself, without shame or trying to hide what makes you happy or upset, you show a lot of confidence, and we all know how sexy and impressive confidence is, right? The ability to be comfortable in your own skin is also a trait many people feel like they don't have. When they see that you do, they'll be impressed and want to be around you more so that they can live vicariously and also learn how to be more confident just being themselves.

