 If you don't already have a stuffed sheep or lamb, but you do want one, choose a stuffed sheep using the following tips:


Make sure it's not too big or too small, but somewhere in the middle. If it's too big, it may be hard to care for it, and if it's too small, it'll be even harder.
See if you'll be able to put clothes on it. If the sheep is puffy, your clothing choices for it may be limited, or you may not be able to put clothes on it at all.
Study the color of the sheep, and make sure it's one that you like.

Ask yourself, "Does it look like I would play with this sheep a lot? Or does it look like I would not play with it a lot?


Lastly, check the price. If the stuffed sheep is a common stuffed animal, but very costly, try looking in other shops or buying a cheaper one off the Internet.;
, Use the following steps to make a small home that looks like a barn:


First, get an empty, sturdy box that isn’t broken or badly ripped.
Paint the box red, and paint the roof brown.
Cut out some windows, and make a door for your sheep. Make sure the sheep can fit.
Finally, place some shredded newspaper inside the box, and let your sheep sleep inside of it.

Suggested additions for your sheep’s home would be stickers, a pretend television, and two small bowls for food and water.


You could also make a regular bed by getting a box, and placing a small blanket and pillow inside of it. Your sheep could also sleep on your bed with you.
 Buy or make your own clothes for it. The size of the clothes you need will depend on the size of your stuffed sheep. Girl sheep love wearing dresses, skirts, necklaces, and hats, while boys prefer pants and casual shirts. However, you might not want to give your sheep shoes to wear. Sheep’s hooves are round, and regular shoes are pear-shaped.


If you want additional clothes for your sheep to change out of, go for it! Pajamas are recommended. It usually would be easier to buy them instead of make them on your own, but homemade pajamas are fun and cute! The size of the clothes you need will depend on the size of your stuffed sheep. Girl sheep love wearing dresses, skirts, necklaces, and hats, while boys prefer pants and casual shirts. However, you might not want to give your sheep shoes to wear. Sheep’s hooves are round, and regular shoes are pear-shaped.

For a sleep mask, cut out a small bit of cloth, and tape securely to a ponytail holder.


To make a scarf for your sheep, just get some fabric, neatly cut it at an appropriate length, and tie it around your sheep’s neck in a fashionable way. Make sure the fabric isn’t jaggedly cut, however, or you’ll have an untidy scarf.
Keep in mind that if your sheep has small, skinny legs, you might not be able to easily make your own clothes for it.
 Take it with you everywhere you go, unless if you know it might get dirty and you’d rather keep it safe at home. Play games with it, such as Othello, Battleship, or Connect Four. You can also watch movies and play video games with it!


For easy transportation, get a purse that you can fit your sheep in with its head sticking out. Only promise to take your sheep along if it says it will behave.
 Use the following steps to make sure you have a well-fed, happy sheep:


Get – or make – two small bowls for your sheep.
Cut up brown and yellow paper, and place the pieces into one of the bowls. This will be the hay.
Then, cut up blue yarn, and place it in the other bowl. This will be the water.

If you want the water to look more realistic, pour some craft glue into the bowl without the yarn in it. When the glue dries, it will look as clear as water.
 Buy a brush, or use your own, and gently brush its wool. Make it a habit to brush your sheep’s wool in the morning before you leave for school, and at night before its bedtime. Also, once a week, give it a shower. Although sheep should bathe more often than once a week, giving stuffed animals too many baths can cause them to deteriorate easily.


To give your sheep a bath, place five small drops of water onto a towel, then rub your sheep with the towel. However, never place your sheep in the bathtub, or put more water than instructed on it, or you’ll harm it!

, Know everything you can about your sheep, and care for it based on that knowledge. Keep it away from anything it is scared of (ex: spiders), and try not to make it sad. However, if it is necessary to do something for your sheep that it doesn't like, ignore its complaints, and get through with it (ex: giving it medicine when it is sick).
 However, if you don’t have enough money to buy any more sheep, or you can’t get any more, just choose several other stuffed animals to become your sheep’s friend. However, make sure they won’t hurt or scare your sheep before leaving them alone with it!

, You could read your sheep its favorite story before it goes to sleep, or sing it a lullaby. If you made or bought pajamas for it, you can put it on your sheep. If your sheep is too excited, try gently rocking them to sleep, and sing them a nice soothing song if that doesn't work right away.

