 Always believe the best for your child, never making excuses. Excuses go nowhere.


This goes for any relationship in life; we should always believe the best about people; so expect God's best.
Have hope that your child will make daily progress. That is success.
Always be positive in regards to your child: "You can and will learn to achieve whatever is in your path: Walk in it.";
, Know that you create your own self-fulfilling prophesies about yourself, your family and your kid. You'll find answers after you start looking and expecting them: Amazingly, we know it works that way, but we forget to plan.


Let each child plan, to set ones own attainable goals -- and you reinforce this plan with your child -- then they'll try mightily to build upon the child's own plans, and become what they plan, over time.
Hold up a standard, a landmark to attain. He or she wants to be bonded to you, believe in you, that you know about "everything" and you're right. Think clearly. Whatever you believe will influence them more while they are young. "Train up a child in the way he should go, Even when he is old he will not depart from it." (Proverbs 22:6, 7)
If you believe that your child is like a little angel, then he or she will probably, most of the time, meet your expectations. If you believe one is a little spawn of the devil, from...Well...their behavior won't be as good.



The Bible says "life and death are in the power of the tongue." You can either bring death into your and your family's life -- or joy, Life, peace and hope.
The way to speak Life into your child is to seek to encourage each one. To encourage means to give people courage.
Tell your son or daughter, "You can do anything you set your mind to do." Tell each child, "You are a quick learner, and have special qualities." Name some and be sure to notice when they show their talents. Tell them "You are talented." Tell them, "You can develop your talent by practicing a little every day, if you love improving your talent."
Believe and affirm that they can be all they were meant to be, and they will be. Tell them to try to work for what they want, and to not accept the routine or mundane things of unbelief.



Show patience. Remember while they are small, that they are not capable of nearly as much as you are.
If you are too harsh with them, they will fear and then learn to hate you. Maybe they won't when they are little, but watch out for the teenage years. You reap what you sow, so if you sow criticism and anger, you will reap criticism and anger.
 Let them have choices and then expect them to change their minds from time to time. Encourage them to develop continuity, perseverance.


Show interest in what they are doing, in their hobbies, in their friends.
Listen. You may be able to keep them out of a lot of bad behaviors and trouble, if you would listen and then listen some more. Communication needs to go both ways. Listen to them about their lives more often.
They won't care what you know, until they know that you care. So show that you care, and then they will be more open to your giving them advice.



Often times parents who throw their kids in childcare -- later in life, get thrown in an old folks home by those kids.
However you want them to treat you when you are old, treat them that way now when they are young.



Don't let people gossip to you about them. But listen to them first. You might learn of a problem area that needs attention. Then always stick up for your child.
Their teachers may have critical things to say about them. Listen and ignore them. The doctor might. Ignore it. Whatever things are good and true -- think on those things.

Don't listen to anyone that might say they have ADD or ADHD. Those labels really mean that a child is not encouraged enough to learn. You as the parent need to find ways to engage them in interesting reading and learning. It is your job as the parent to mold them into a model and respectable citizen of society. Don't medicate them to fix a problem that you could fix by being there for them more.



Cheer them on. Encourage them in every extracurricular activity that they do.



Don't ignore them. If they mess up in any area of life, tell them they will do better next time. That is called positive affirmation, and includes saying "I don't only t-h-i-n-k you can learn to do/be that someday, I expect you to, if that is what you want to do." -- and "You'll have to decide to study, and then work for what you want!"
Focus more on the positives, build on what they did right in a game or on an essay, etc., rather than pointing out only the things they need to improve.



Realize that there are many couples who are unable to have kids due to infertility issues.
Thank God for the things that they are good at and for how healthy they are.
Have faith that they have a bright future and that God has amazing plans ahead for them with a future and a hope!


"...'I know the plans that I have for you,' declares the LORD, 'plans for good and not for calamity, plans to give you a future and a hope. Then you will call upon Me, and come and pray to Me, and I will listen to you.' ", (Jeremiah 29:11).
 Get relatives to come to their games or concerts, etc. Ask them to say different things like: "You did a good job. Hey, you're getting older, bigger, smarter,...", etc.



Tell them every day, "God has something for you to do that nobody else can do. No one can play your part."

