 Get rid of useless clothes, old papers, and broken things that you're not planning to fix. Donate any items that might still be usable to someone else, and throw out or recycle the rest.


When you're going through your clothes, actually try them on. It'll take a while but it's the only way to remember whether older clothes are worth keeping. Yes, you might have loved that shirt from five years ago, but if it doesn't fit and doesn't have extreme sentimental value, there's no reason to keep it anymore. Even if it does fit you, consider whether you've worn it in the last year. If not and if you're not about to wear it tomorrow, find it a new home through donation, and let someone else love it from here on out.
 In simpler terms: put everything away when you're not using it. If every bit of clothing or other personal item has a "home", staying organized is easy. It's a lot of work to set up, but once you know which drawer houses your socks, which part of the closet is for shirts, and where your trousers go, it's easy to stick to it.
 Once of the biggest sources of mess in people's rooms is dirty clothes. Get a big hamper or basket for dirty clothes, and every time you take something off that you don't plan on wearing again before you wash it, throw it right in there, rather than on the floor. Once the hamper is full (or even before), do a load of laundry. When the laundry is done, put the clothes away right away. Skipping the steps where dirty clothes clutter up the floor or clean clothes are sitting around waiting to be put away will help everything feel much more organized.
 Some people love having a lot of sentimental mementos in their rooms. It's not exactly minimalist, but it's okay, as long as you keep them somewhat tidy and clean. Clean them every now and then so that they don't accumulate a lot of fluff and dust, and they'll only enhance your room.
 Ok, everyone accumulates a fair share of junk that doesn't "fit" with other supplies. Designate one drawer or box/shelf in your closet for these items that don't "go" with anything else. Every few months, look through it and throw out what you don't need. Junk has a way of accumulating!

