 You can easily capture all the frogspawn (frog eggs) you want to raise from a local pond, lake or stream. Bring a net or a bucket to this water source. When you arrive at the prepared habitat, use a small mesh net to collect and transfer the frogspawn.Make sure you can put the frogspawn directly into their new habitat.
Raise the tadpoles separately from other aquatic animals. They should get their own habitat.
 When tadpoles are first hatched, you should have a quantity of fresh pond weed, partly as food and partly as support for young tadpoles. Dried stinging nettle leaves crushed into a fine powder can also be fed to the young tadpoles.Scatter the pond weed and nettle leaves across the surface of the water.
Tadpoles eat only vegetarian fare until their legs start to grow.
 Tadpoles in the wild normally feed on algae, but this may be difficult to find where you life. Feeding each tadpole two tablespoons of boiled lettuce or spinach is a good substitute for algae. Vegetarian fish flakes are another option, but avoid any fish flakes that incorporate animal byproducts. You should feed your tadpoles twice a day, once in the morning and once in the afternoon.Add two crushed rabbit food pellets to supplement the diet of each tadpole. You don't need to feed them this more than once a day.
Twice a week, you can add some hardboiled egg yolk to their diet to provide protein.
 Calcium is necessary to build the young bones of your tadpoles. The easiest way to do this is to add 2 drops of liquid calcium per liter of water, or 4 drops per gallon.Read the label carefully to make sure it doesn't contain additives that may be harmful to your tadpoles.
Adding a piece of cuttlebone (a sea shell) to the tank will also provide a nice, natural source of calcium.
 You'll know that the water needs changing if you notice a cloudy appearance or unpleasant odor to the water. Watch for tadpoles lingering near the surface or waste settling at the bottom of the tank. Make sure that any new water is the same temperature as the water already in the tank– drastic changes in water temperature can kill your tadpoles.To clean your tank, you will need to have a second location where you can keep the tadpoles while you clean the inside of their tank.
If your water isn't very dirty, you can leave the tadpoles in their habitat, while removing about a third of the water.
Never use commercial cleaning products, which may contain harmful chemicals
A clean tank will help prevent your tadpoles from getting infected or diseased.
 Ranavirus is the most common virus to affect cold-blooded amphibians like tadpoles. Tadpoles affected by ranavirus may appear lethargic, or you might notice them swimming erratically, weakly, or on their sides.Bacterial infections are the main cause of death among frogs and tadpoles.
The best way to prevent infection is to improve your tadpoles' immune system through proper maintenance of their habitat, nutritious food, and adequate oxygen.
Signs of infection might be easiest to see by looking at the water. If you notice your water appearing cloudy yellowish-white, or a slimy series of bubbles all along the top of the water's edge, there's likely to be a higher chance of infection developing.

