 If you are in Buy or Build mode, get those Sims moving again. This cheat only works in Live mode (the normal gameplay mode).;
, Hold down Ctrl + ⇧ Shift + C at the same time. A small bar should appear at the top of the game window.


Some Windows Vista users may have to hold down the Windows button along with the other three., There are plenty of basic cheats you can enter in this console, but the one you need is a "testing cheat" used by the game developers. Type testingCheatsenabled true and hit Enter. You should see the words appear in the cheat console as you type.
 You're now in the mode the game developers used to find errors. You'll have access to new options by holding down Shift while clicking various objects. But be careful — messing with the wrong command, especially anything related to an NPC, can permanently corrupt your save file.If you stick with the cheats described in this guide, you'll be fine.


The game might occasionally pop up a window asking you how to solve an error (Cancel, Reset, or Delete an object). Choosing Delete will permanently remove that object, so be careful.
 Hold down ⇧ Shift and click on the mailbox in front of your house. This cheat has turned your mailbox into a never-ending source of happiness.
 Instead of the usual interaction menu for the mailbox, several cheats are listed here. Select Make All Happy to fill all your Sims' needs bars to maximum. It only affects the Sims you control, not any NPCs or visitors in your household.You can also click and drag the needs bars up and down with your mouse. This will stop working after you make needs static (see below).
 Shift-click the mailbox a second time and select Make Needs Static. Your Sims' needs will not change as long as this is enabled.


To make Sims' needs behave normally again, shift-click the mailbox and press "Make Needs Dynamic."

, The testing cheats don't always stay enabled after you log out. Once you're used to it, it only takes a minute to repeat these steps at the beginning of each play session.
 After enabling testing cheats (see above), you can hold down Ctrl and click a Moodlet to permanently remove it. If the moodlet is connected to a need, this sometimes fills the need bar, but not always.


Don't use this on the "baby is coming" moodlet on a pregnant Sim, as it can cause a glitch that kills your Sim., Hold down ⇧ Shift and click anywhere on the ground. An option to teleport will show up instead of the usual "Go here."

, Enabling testing cheats adds several options to improve your Sim's job path:Shift-click the mailbox and click Set Career to switch the selected Sim's job.
Shift-click the place of work to trigger career events.
If you have the Ambitions expansion pack, you can click and drag your Sim's Profession meter up with the mouse.
 Finally, the most important cheat of all. Open the cheat console again with Ctrl + Shift + C. Type jokeplease and press ↵ Enter to see a joke appear at the top of your game window.