 Your small pet will be better able to handle the stresses of travel if he is in good health and physical condition. If you are traveling between states with him, you will probably need a certificate of health from your veterinarian as proof that your small pet is disease-free.Even if you are staying within the state, making sure that he is healthy is still a good idea.


Ask your veterinarian for a copy of your small pet’s medical records.If your small pet is on any medication, make sure that you will have enough to make it through the trip. If not, obtain a refill from your veterinarian.If your veterinarian determines that your small pet is not healthy enough for travel, consider keeping him at home and making plans for someone to take care of him while you are gone. Keep in mind that most small pets would prefer to stay at home rather than travel.;
, Make a list of the veterinary hospitals at your destination. Doing this beforehand will help alleviate the stress of finding a veterinarian in case your small pet needs emergency medical care during your trip.Alternatively, you could bookmark the websites of the veterinary hospitals on your phone or laptop.
 It will probably not be practical to place a collar and identification tag on your small pet. As an alternative, place an identification tag on your small pet’s travel carrier and regular cage that contains his name and your phone number., Do your research to identify the pet-friendly hotels in the area where you will be traveling. Be mindful that a pet-friendly hotel may not have many rooms in which they accommodate travelers with pets. In addition, you may have to pay a hefty convenience fee to reserve a pet-friendly room., Travel carriers are available at your local pet store. Pick a carrier that is well ventilated, escape proof, and has enough space for your small pet’s food, water, and toys. If you are traveling by car, the carrier should be able to be secured and fastened in by a seatbelt.Keep in mind that you should bring your small pet’s regular cage with you as well.The travel carrier should be used only when you are in the car or on the plane.
Be sure to pack plenty of fresh bedding for his carrier and regular cage.
In addition to visiting your local pet store, you can talk with your veterinarian for recommendations on travel carriers.
 Your first aid kit will be your first line of treatment in case your small pet becomes sick or injured during your trip. There are a number of items that should be included in the first aid kit, including bandaging material, tweezers, and contact information for veterinary hospitals and poison control.If you feel like you don’t have the time to put the first aid kit together yourself, you can purchase one online.


Be aware that the kit is not necessarily a substitute for taking him to a veterinarian, especially if his sickness or injury is serious.
 Even though you may be able to relax your dietary standards on the trip, your small pet will need to stay on his regular diet to keep him healthy and less stressed. If you are not sure of the water quality at your destination, pack bottled water for your small pet. Start giving him the bottled water before your trip so that he can get used to the taste.Storing his food in airtight containers will help to keep it fresh.Since fresh produce could spoil, consider buying fruits and vegetables at your destination to feed your small pet.
 Keeping your small pet’s cage and carrier clean will be necessary for the duration of your trip. Supplies that you will need include paper towels, pet-safe disinfectant, and a scrub brush.You can purchase all of these supplies at your local grocery and pet stores.
 Place plenty of his regular bedding in the carrier. To keep him entertained, place some of his favorite toys in the carrier as well. However, do not put a lot of toys in the carrier—if you have to come to a sudden stop, the toys could fly up and injure your small pet. You should also avoid putting swinging toys in his carrier, since these could easily injure him if you have to stop suddenly.Placing a toilet paper roll in his carrier will give him a comfortable place to hide.Consider covering the carrier with a towel to give him a dark and quiet space in which he could feel more comfortable.Giving him chew toys will also help keep him busy and entertained during the trip.
 The trip will be less stressful for your small pet if he is able to continue eating at his regular times. When it is time to feed him, use a deep food cup that you can attach to the side of the carrier to prevent the food from making a mess inside the carrier. Have one dish for his pellets and another one for fresh produce.Feed him less than you would if you were at home.He may experience some digestive upset if you feed him too much during the trip.
Be aware that small pets may not want to eat in a moving car.When you stop, consider giving him time to eat before getting back on the road.
 Your small pet must have fresh water at all times.However, keeping your small pet hydrated without making a mess in his carrier could be tricky. Consider placing a small water bottle in his carrier rather than a water dish.Water bottles that are ideal for travel carriers are available at your local pet store.
 If your small pet is not used to taking trips in the car, you will need to get him comfortable with this before your actual travel date. Place him in his carrier and begin taking him on short car rides in your local area.If he seems to be comfortable, gradually take him on longer car rides. Consult with your veterinarian if your small pet is unable to relax while in the car.
 After placing your small pet in his travel carrier, secure it in the backseat with a seat belt. Securing the carrier with a seat belt will prevent it from moving around during the car ride. It is safer to have the carrier in the backseat, since having your small pet’s carrier in the front passenger seat can put him at risk of being injured by the air bag if you get into an accident., During these stops, take the time to check on your small pet and play with him to make more comfortable.If necessary, the stop would also allow you to clean his cage and replenish his water.



Never leave your small pet unattended in the car during a stop, especially during the summer.Small pets are very prone to overheating, which can become a serious medical problem requiring immediate veterinary care.
 Traveling by car is the best way to travel with a small pet. In fact, the Humane Society of the United States advises traveling with pets by air only when absolutely necessary.However, if your destination necessitates travel by plane, you will need to familiarize yourself with your airline’s rules and regulations for pet travel.Make sure to check the regulations before purchasing your ticket.
The website http://petfriendlytravel.com/airtravel provides helpful information on each airlines’ regulations regarding pet travel.
Be aware that not all airlines permit travel with small pets.Also, keep in mind that airlines that allow travel with small pets may require them to stay in the baggage compartment. If this is the case, talk with your veterinarian about ways to keep your small pet comfortable when traveling in the baggage compartment.
If you are uncomfortable with the possibility of having to stow your small pet without being able to see him, you may want to consider traveling by car instead.
 You do not want to find out when you are on the plane that your small pet’s carrier is too large to fit under the seat in front of you. To prevent this from happening, consider calling the airline on which you will be traveling and provide them with the carrier’s dimensions. If the carrier is too large, purchase a smaller one at your local pet store.


Keep in mind that your airline may charge an additional carry-on fee for your small pet.Your airline may also specify whether the kennel should be hard- or soft-sided, and will likely require that the carrier be ventilated and leak proof., Even with being able to carry your small pet on the plane, transferring planes could be very stressful for him. In addition, it could add more complications for you, especially if you check his regular carrier. Booking a direct flight will lessen the likelihood of his regular carrier getting lost and will make the trip less stressful for the both of you., Placing him in his regular cage will help your small pet adjust to the new location. Place his bedding, food and water dishes, and toys in the cage before you transfer him. Set up the cage in a quiet area of the room that is out of direct sunlight and drafts.Continue keeping his cage clean while you are at your destination., Small pets need a lot of daily exercise. Whether you are staying in a hotel room or at someone’s house, find a safe area where you can set up a play area for your small pet.In addition to meeting his daily exercise needs, the exercise will allow him to release any pent-up stress that he had during the car (or plane) ride.
 Just like with being in the car, you will need to do your best to maintain your small pet’s regular schedule when you arrive at your destination.Keep his feeding and playing times consistent. The more regular you can keep his schedule, the better he will acclimate and the less stressed he will be.
 You will need to clean his cage at least several times, depending on the length of your trip. If you happen to run out of cleaning supplies, pick up some more at a local grocery or pet store. Be sure to replace any soiled or damp bedding. In addition, promptly remove any uneaten food to keep it from spoiling.


As you clean his cage, look at the consistency and amount of his droppings. Unusual droppings may signal a medical problem.