 Ginseng is one of the most commonly known alternative medicinal herbs that help with a stomach upset. It is best taken in capsule form immediately after the onset of symptoms.


Ginseng is classified as an adaptogen herb. These types of herbs are known to help the body deal with stress. Nausea and vomiting is usually associated with stress induced by headaches.
Chemicals found in ginseng reduce stress and therefore can reduce acidity in the stomach leading to hyperacidity. This prevents nausea and vomiting.
 Another herb known to help with stomach upsets is peppermint. Peppermint is known to reduce spasms in the digestive tract. These spasms can induce nausea and vomiting.


Peppermint may come in the form of tea or oil. For nausea and vomiting, tea is the recommended form of peppermint since it addresses the spasms in the stomach. unlike peppermint oil which normally use as a relaxing and calming agent.
Peppermint tea is prepared by brewing the leaves in boiling water. Chew the leaves between sips of tea. A cup of peppermint tea during episodes of nausea and vomiting can help a lot.
 This cinnamon and cloves remedy is prepared by brewing one half teaspoon of cinnamon or one teaspoon of cloves in a cup of boiling water, then wait for it to seep and strain.


Cinnamon is known to be a carminative. This helps to break up intestinal gases. When intestinal gases and gastrointestinal spasm are reduced, nausea and vomiting are also reduced.
Cloves are flower buds from an aromatic evergreen tree. Cloves can be prepared in oil form or dried. Cloves are rich in minerals such as sodium, which is helpful for those who suffer from nausea and vomiting since it decreases acidity. The oil from of cloves can also be used to combat nausea. To use it, apply the oil to your temples and massage until relief is felt.
 A cumin and nutmeg remedy is prepared by crushing one teaspoon of cumin seeds and infusing it with a pinch of nutmeg.


Boil a cup of water and add the crushed cumin and nutmeg. Strain and slowly sip the mixture.
Cumin is known to have a warming property. This warming property relieves acid secretion in the stomach. Nutmeg is an herb that contains chemicals which aid in digestion and also help in neutralizing hyperacidity of the stomach.
 Ginger is one of the best known herbs for helping with stomach problems. Peel and grate a piece of ginger root, squeeze with a garlic crusher and separate the juice. You can either drink it directly or add hot water and drink.


Ginger contains the chemicals phenol, gingerol and shogaol. These chemicals soothe the stomach into its original rhythm.
When the stomach goes back to its original rhythm, nausea and vomiting is prevented.

