 Once you have been voted into the church and no longer need to live with a host family, you may look for a place of your own. Most Amish live in farmhouses surrounded by land that can be used for growing crops and raising animals, as the Amish try to be as self-sufficient as possible.


Unfortunately, available farmland is becoming harder to find, due to urban sprawl, high demand for land from an ever-growing Amish community (even though new people rarely join, the average Amish family has seven children) and prohibitively high costs.You will also need to keep in mind that your home will need to be close enough to the center of the community that it can be reached by horse and buggy, the major method of transportation. This will limit you to about a 10–15 mile (16–24 km) radius.
 Pennsylvania Dutch is a dialect of German, which is widely spoken by the Amish community. It is the main language spoken in the home and at Church, although Amish children do learn to speak English in school. Pennsylvania Dutch is primarily a spoken language, with no standardized form of writing or spelling, and must be learned to become fully immersed in the Amish community.


As a newcomer to the Amish community, learning to speak the new language will be difficult, but not impossible. You will pick it up just by listening to others, attending Church services and by making an effort to speak it whenever you get the opportunity. It may also be possible to hire a Pennsylvania Dutch tutor who can help you to improve at a faster pace.The term "Pennsylvania Dutch" is a misnomer, as the language has no association with the Netherlands. It is, in fact, a dialect of German that was spoken in parts of Switzerland, Tyrol, and the Rhineland. It is believed the term "Dutch" comes from an archaic form of English, which referred to any continental Germanic language., The Amish aim to live a life of simplicity, unfettered by the materialistic trappings of the modern world. However, learning to live without modern comforts can be quite a challenge for people who haven't been brought up in the Amish way. Learning to live without electricity, which the Amish consider to be "worldly" and unnecessary, will perhaps be the greatest challenge of all.


Depending on the strictness of the Amish community you have joined, your new home may or may not have running water. If it does not, you will need to use an old-fashioned hand-pump instead. Some homes will use natural gas to provide heat and light, whereas others will use wood or coal-fueled stoves.
Telephones are not allowed in most Amish households, though some communities will allow for a shared phone to be installed in a shack or outhouse, which can be used by several families whenever necessary.
 In addition to restrictions on electricity and modern plumbing systems, the Amish forbid ownership of motorcars. This is because Amish communities thrive on being close-knit and mutually dependent. A motorcar would make cities and other "English" communities much more accessible and may tempt the Amish to leave their faith and families behind. They also believe that having a motorcar might inspire feelings of pride in its owner, and pride is considered to be a serious sin.As a result, Amish communities use a horse and buggy for transport, which is sufficient for covering the distance required to get to Church, visit neighbors and make the trip to Amish supply stores. Consult with your neighbors on where you can get a horse and buggy of your very own.
While they can't own or drive a car, the Amish are willing to accept rides and even hire drivers if a necessary trip must be made - to visit far-flung relatives, receive medical treatment, or procure supplies unavailable in Amish stores., The Amish style of dress is very distinctive and must be strictly adhered to, by both men and women. Clothes must be plain and unadorned, in solid, dark colors, made from simple, durable fabrics. The simplicity of dress is meant to reflect the Amish way of life, which is practical and unmaterialistic. Vanity or the concept of taking pride in one's appearance are forbidden in Amish culture.


Men should wear straight-cut suits without pockets, collars or belts, which women should wear high-necked, long-sleeved, full-skirted dresses, covered by an apron. Any form of patterned fabric, ornamentation or jewelry is not permitted.Men should remain clean-shaven until after marriage, when they are required to let their beard grow. Mustaches are not permitted and haircuts can only be given by Amish barbers. Women must wear their hair in a braid or bun, which is then covered by a prayer covering which is a symbol of their subjection to God., Amish people will avoid having their picture taken whenever possible. This is because they believe that photographs are a form of "graven image" which is forbidden by the bible. They also believe that having photographs of themselves may inspire vanity, which is forbidden and considered a sin.There are, however, some exceptions to this rule. Some Amish will allow themselves to be photographed as long as their hands or hats cover their faces.
Other are okay with being filmed or photographed as long as they are shot in a natural setting, where it's clear that they are not posing for the camera.
 Barn raisings are an integral part of Amish tradition. They represent some of the most important Amish cultural values - acting selflessly and working together for the good of the community. They are a good example of what is referred to as a "frolic" - an Amish work event that combines socializing with a practical purpose. By participating in a barn raising, you get a chance to interact with your neighbors while making a meaningful contribution to the community.Men from the Amish community work together to build the barn from scratch, according to the plans drawn up by one or two master "engineers". They supply all the labor free of charge and may donate supplies and livestock. The project may take as long as a week to complete.Women participate in the barn raisings by cooking for the men, while children help with smaller tasks involved in the building and running errands.

