 Your child likely knows a lot about their allergies, but they may not know what to say when they are questioned about it. Preparing them with a response when they are offered food can prevent an awkward situation and make them feel more comfortable about their allergy.


For instance, you could coach them to say “Thanks, but I have my own snack,” when they are offered something during school. Or they can say, “Thanks, I’ll save it for later” if they don’t want to turn the food down., In this day and age it seems like everyone should know about food allergies, especially teachers. However, you should still speak with your child’s teacher about their allergies so that they can answer any questions other students have about them.


Children may stay away from your child because they don’t understand what a food allergy is. If your teacher can answer their questions, they may not feel so apprehensive.
Approach the teacher by saying, “I just wanted to talk to you about my child’s allergies. I really want them to make friends and I’m hoping that by talking to you, you may be able to encourage their friendships.”, Talking to your child’s classmates about food allergies can make them seem not so scary or weird. Ask your child’s teacher if you can come in and address the students to educate them about the allergies. If the students know about the allergies and that they shouldn’t be afraid, they may be more inclined to become friends with your child.


For instance, you could read stories about food allergies or show fun videos that explain them. You can also hold a question and answer session with them to help them see that they can be friends with someone who has a food allergy., Some parents don’t like the fact that they have to tailor their kid’s lunches to other children’s needs. Because of this resentment, they may speak negatively about your child to theirs, which can lead them to not want to become friends.


If you discuss the allergies with the parents one-on-one, they may better understand your child’s allergy and not be so upset about it.
During the meeting, expect some resistance from some of the other parents. Offer suggestions on how they don’t have to do too much to their school lunches to keep your child safe. Again, show videos and share information that can make them more comfortable with you and your child and hopefully it will make their children more comfortable with yours.
Also, reiterate how dangerous exposing the allergens to your child could be. Knowing the severity of the situation may make them more willing to help.