 Use this method to download videos from popular free streaming sites. You can use these web-based downloaders for unprotected/unencrypted videos on sites like YouTube, Vimeo, Soundcloud, Vine, and more. They will not work for subscription sites like Netflix or Hulu which are protected. A few of the more popular video downloader sites include Keepvid, Clipconverter, Videograbby, and Savido.


Consider installing an ad-blocking extension. Many of these sites have a lot of ads which can misdirect you or even infect your computer with malware. See Block Internet Ads for a guide on finding and installing an ad blocker for your browser.
Microsoft Edge does not support ad blocking extensions. Consider using another browser to download your videos, or just be careful when using the downloader site.
 Navigate to the streaming site and open the video's page so that the video is ready to begin playing.
 Select the entire URL in your browser's address bar. Make sure you have the whole thing selected. You can press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+A to select the entire thing.
 Either right-click the highlighted URL and select "Copy," or press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+C.
 Open the downloader site that you want to use and paste your video URL into the appropriate text field. Paste your URL into this by right-clicking the field and selecting "Paste," or by clicking in the field then pressing Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+V.
 When you click "Download," a new page will open with a list of available formats and resolutions.


Note: if you're using Videograbby, instead of being presented with options, your file will immediately begin downloading at the highest available quality in MP4 format.
Be careful if you're not using an ad-blocker, as some ads try to trick you with fake "Download" buttons.
 There will often be quite a few options to pick from, all with different formats and resolutions.


The MP4 format is the most universal option and will work on most devices with needing conversion.
The highest quality video will usually be 720p (1280x720). The 1080p option will often have separate audio and video streams, which will require combining later.
Select the highest quality option for computers or most modern portable devices.
 The video should begin downloading to your computer immediately.


If the video starts playing your browser instead of downloading, return to the list of downloads, right-click the link, and select "Save link as."

, The video will usually appear in your default download folder, unless you were prompted to select a location and chose somewhere else.


Some services will rename the video to "videoplayback" instead of the title of the video.
If you are having trouble playing the video it may be a file extension issue, as certain players don't accept certain video file extensions. Try an open-source media player like VLC or MPC-HC - these accept multiple extension types and should be able to play your video if the download was completed correctly.

