 You will need to access the insides of your computer in order to install the drive. For the easiest installation, move your computer to a location that allows you to easily access the case, such as on a table.


If you are installing an external drive, plug it into your computer via USB and skip down to the next section.
 Most newer cases have thumbscrews along the back that allow you to quickly remove the panels. If you don't have thumbscrews, you will need a Phillips-head screwdriver. Remove the panels from both sides so that you can access the drive bay on each side.
 Before working inside the computer, it is always wise to ground yourself. This will help prevent electrostatic discharge from damaging your delicate computer components. The ideal way to ground yourself is to connect an electrostatic wristband to your case. If you don't have a wristband, touch a metal faucet to discharge static buildup.
 If you are replacing an old drive, you will need to pull it out before installing the new one. Disconnect the cables from the back of the drive, then remove the screws on each side of the drive. Push the drive slightly from behind, and then pull the drive out from the front of the case.
 If you aren't replacing an old drive, you will need to locate an empty bay. These are usually found on the front of the case, towards the top. You may have a drive or two already in this area. Remove the front panel to expose the bay.
 Some cases use rails to secure the drive to the case. If this is the case, the rails will need to be attached to each side of the drive before inserting it in the case.
 Nearly all drives are inserted in from the front of the computer, though you may need to double-check your computer's documentation. Ensure that you are inserting the drive right-side up.
 If you are securing with screws, you should be suing two screws on each side. Make sure to secure the drive on both sides of the case. If you are using rails, make sure that the drive is inserted all the way and clips into place.
 Use the included SATA data cable, or use your own if the drive did not come packaged with any. Connect it to the next empty SATA port on your motherboard. Refer to your motherboard documentation if you cannot find the SATA ports on our motherboard.


The SATA data cable can only be inserted one way on both the drive and the motherboard. Do not fore the connection.
Be careful not to disconnect any other components, such as your hard drive, or your computer will not boot up.
 Find a power connector coming from your computer's power supply. This is usually located at the bottom of the case. Connect the power cable to the power slot on the back of the drive. Like the data cable, the power cable can only be inserted one way, so don't force it.


If you don't have an available power connector, you can buy an adapter that can provide additional connectors.
 Close up the case, return it to its position, and reattach the cables. Power on your computer.