 Learn which causes are important to you by conducting research online or talking to family or friends you know who volunteer or care about human rights issues. By researching and learning about various areas of human rights activism, you may find a cause that you are passionate about that you did not previously know about.


Use the internet to conduct an online search of human rights activism. You can use a search engine to search for “human rights activism,” “human rights issues,” or “human rights volunteering.” The results that come up should give you an idea of what human rights causes, groups, and issues are out there.
You can use an online search engine to search for famous human rights activists to become inspired by the work of other great activists, such as Martin Luther King Jr. or Nelson Mandela.
Talk to family or friends who are human rights activists and ask them how they volunteer and what areas they focus on and why. You can learn a lot by listening to others speak about issues that are very meaningful to them.;
, Amnesty International is the world’s largest organization for human rights. Their website contains plenty of information about human rights issues. By visiting their website, you can learn about the violations of human rights in the United States and around the world.Go to www.amnestyusa.org.
Click on “Get Involved” in the top menu.
Click on “Issues” in the menu on the left side of the page.
Browse the human rights issues that are listed on the page. There are several areas of human rights issues that are featured on this page, including poverty, refugee and migrant rights, women’s rights, and children’s rights.
Click on one of the issues to learn more about it. Reading about the different areas of human rights will give you a better understanding of what you would like to focus on.
 Using a sheet of paper and a pen or pencil or using a Microsoft Word document, write down or type the causes that mean a lot to you. There may be several causes or there may be just a few.


Narrow the list of causes to one or two that mean the most to you. By narrowing your focus, you will be able to fully lend yourself to a cause, which will be the most beneficial to you and the people you would like to help.
For example, if you care about LGBT rights, censorship, refugee and migrant rights, women’s rights, and the death penalty, you might choose one or two that are the most directly relevant to you, such as censorship and women’s rights. You can also narrow this down by picking the one that you feel the most passionate about.
 By choosing a cause to dedicate yourself to, you will be more likely to make a difference in your chosen area. This is because you will have more time and resources to dedicate to this particular cause, rather than spreading your time and resources too thin by being involved in several causes.


You can visit VolunteerMatch.org to get matched to a cause based on your interests. This is a great resource because you can receive suggestions and information for nonprofit organizations in your area that need your help.