 Being generous doesn't mean that you need to give away handfuls of cash every day, though it can, of course, mean being open with the resources you have at your disposable. However, it also means being generous with your time, love, and support, in such a way that you make the people in your life feel like they are valued.In other words, make time for the people in your life. Tell them you like them, love them, and value them often. Show you care by acting out small kindnesses, such as having a cup of coffee ready when a person gets up, warming up the car ahead of time, or bringing someone flowers just because.
Part of being generous is to give without expectation of it being reciprocated. Part of the definition of an English gentleman is one who is able to give more than he takes.
 When it comes to moral decisions, a gentleman will stand his ground. In other words, you don't take the easy way out by skirting the rules, nor would you bend on a decision if it would harm other people in some way. Basically, you need a moral code, and you need to stick to it., While a strictly old-fashioned definition of an English gentleman would be someone who didn't work, a more modern definition usually means someone who is willing to work hard for the things he wants in life. It's an unwillingness to take "no" for an answer. You must be willing to overcome the obstacles that life throws at you with class and grace., While traveling does take some money, it provides you with invaluable lessons about the world, including how to get along with a wide variety of people from differing backgrounds. Learning about the world will only help you appreciate it more, as well as teach you the injustices you need to fight against.While English gentleman traditionally referred to a gentry class person, it now has the meaning of any well-bred, educated person. Traveling can help you achieve those qualities.
 While speaking well isn't necessarily a value, it often does distinguish an English gentleman. An English gentleman phrases things in polite ways that may come off as slightly stilted to some ears, just because it's a bit formal. For instance, you might say "Pleased to meet your acquaintance," rather than "Nice to meet you."