 Locate the app on your home screen or app drawer, and tap to launch it.;
, If this is the first time you open the app, or if you logged out of your last Google Drive session, it may ask you to log in using your Google account. If it does, enter your login details in the space provided and tap “Sign in” to continue.


If you do not have a Google account yet, tap on “Create an Account” at the bottom of the login page, and simply enter the required information in the text fields.
Once logged in, Google Drive will begin syncing your files and folders from its cloud storage.
 After Google Drive has finished syncing, you will see all the folders in your My Drive at the top. Other files will be at the bottom. You can scroll through them by swiping up or down.


If you want to find a specific file or folder, type in the file’s or folder’s name (or keyword) in the search field at the top.
 To better organize your files, you can create folders in My Drive. You can also nest folders inside existing folders. Just navigate to the directory you want to create a new folder in then tap the plus icon in a red circle. Select “Folder” from the options that appear to create a new folder in the directory you are currently in. A text box will appear for you to input the name of the new folder.
 Go to the folder you want to save the file in. You can navigate through folders by tapping them. Once you’re in the folder, tap on the plus icon within the red circle on the screen. You’ll see some options for putting files into that folder.


Create a new document file by selecting “Docs” from the options. If you have Google Docs installed on your device, it will open up for you to start creating your document. If you don’t have Google Docs yet, you will be redirected to Google Play where you can download the app.
Create a new spreadsheet file by selecting “Sheets.” If you have Google Sheets installed on your device, it will open up for you to begin creating your spreadsheet. If you don’t have Google Sheets, you will be redirected to Google Play where you can download the app.
Create a new slide presentation by selecting “Slides.” If you have Google Slides installed on your device, it will open up so you can start creating your new slide. If you don’t have Google Slides, you will be redirected to Google Play where you can download the app.
Your changes in the file will be automatically saved. Once you’re finished with your work, just tap the check mark at the top of the page.
 You can upload files from your device. Navigate to the folder where you want to upload your files into then tap the plus sign. Select “Upload.” The Android file explorer will open where you can choose the file to upload in the current directory.


Tap “Scan” to take a picture of documents you want to upload automatically to your Drive upon capture.

