 A quick and free way to update an old piece of furniture is to move it to a new location and use it for something else.


An old bookcase that looks unattractive in your living room may be the perfect piece for storing your bathroom essentials, for instance.
An unneeded wardrobe can be moved to the living room and used to hide away the cluttered cords of an entertainment system.;
, You can often update a piece of furniture by deliberately breaking the rules regarding indoor or outdoor use.


Your worn but durable patio chairs may give your kitchen a fresh, eclectic look when used as dining chairs.
An old nightstand might work well as a side table on a deck, for example.
 You may be surprised at how dramatic a change can result from swapping out the hardware on old, outdated furniture.


Handles and drawer pulls can be easily updated for a fresh look. This is also a quick way to update kitchen cabinets.
You can also consider adding new doors or shelves to an existing piece of furniture to hide or organize bothersome clutter.
Adding casters to a small nightstand or side table can allow you to create a rolling kitchen island for additional storage and prep space.
 If an old sofa or chair has become an eyesore due to stains, tears, or an outdated pattern, consider slipcovers for an inexpensive update.
 For a dramatic way to reuse old furniture, you can completely alter its shape and purpose using some basic tools.


Saw an old coffee table in half lengthwise. The cut edge can then be secured to a wall for a simple 2-leg console table, or you can even stack the 2 cut pieces to create multiple shelves.
You can also saw the legs of a dining table down so that it can be reused as a coffee table or a low play table for children.
 Most of the time, what makes a piece of furniture look outdated is its finish. You can freshen up the furniture's appearance by sanding or stripping away the existing finish and painting or staining it.


If you do not want to deal with chemical strippers or heavy scraping, consider using paint, which can be applied over an existing finish.
For furniture that will see heavy use, such as a dining table or any furniture subjected to wear by pets or small children, seal the finish with a durable sealant like polyurethane.

