 Children learn self-talk from their parents. If they hear you saying "I need to diet more, I'm so fat," their thought will be "If Mom's really fat, then by comparison, I must be a whale!" Instead, treat yourself with the love that you'd show to a friend, or the same way you'd like your child to treat themselves. Recognize that your body is beautiful (yes, yours!) and let your teen see you recognizing that.


Avoid fad diets or restricting. This will encourage unhealthy eating patterns in your child (and be bad for your body too).
 This step may surprise you, but it matters. Your teen knows that they are fat, so if fat is something to be horribly ashamed of, your child will be horribly ashamed of themselves. Teach your child that everyone deserves respect, no matter how much adipose tissue they have.


Don't criticize people from being fat. In fact, there's no need to mention people's weight at all.
Don't treat fatty foods like the devil—teach moderation instead.
Remember that all fat people—like your teen—are more than the size of their pants.
 The fat acceptance movement holds that fat people deserve equal employment opportunities and other social forms of equality, and that they should not live in shame. This movement has been shown to actually increase the health of its followers, because they feel better about their bodies and are willing to take better care of them.The Health At Every Size movement emphasizes ways that fat people can feel healthier and take better care of their bodies.
 The focus shouldn't be on diet and exercise—put your relationship first, and have fun together. Health should be part of but not all of your relationship. Ask how their day was, talk about their hobbies and interests, and do fun things together. This will strengthen your relationship and the teen's self esteem.
 Your teen needs to know that you'll be there for them when they're struggling, and that their feelings matter to you. Patience and listening will help them know that you value what they have to say.


Practice validation. "I'm happy/sorry/pleased/etc. to hear that." "That must have felt awesome/difficult/inspiring."
Ask questions. "Then what did you do?" "What do you think about that?"

, As an adult, it's tempting to want to take the reins and tell them what to do, because you're older and wiser. However, this doesn't help in the long run. Your teen needs to know how to weigh information, consider options, and decide what they want. Instead, offer unbiased information and support. When they feel responsible for their choices, they often choose well.

