 Build a “cat tree” near a window so that your cat can observe birds, squirrels and other small creatures. This may be an especially great way to amuse indoor cats, or outdoor cats that may be inside.


Construct your “cat tree” from items around the house or build an actual structure with different level platforms and perches. You can also purchase commercial cat trees at most pet stores.
Open the blinds or curtains for your cat to watch outside. Be aware that your cat may make noises or even lunge at the window if she tries to “capture” her prey. If you have sheer or lace curtains, it’s not uncommon for cats to get stuck on or rip them.
Incorporate the cat tree into your playtime with your cat. Sit on the sofa or a chair and pet her or let her come to you in between “hunting” from her tree.;
, Because cats are naturally curious, they love to explore and forage. Placing items such as boxes around your house can encourage exploration and hours of amusement for your cat.


Open up a paper sack without handles, which can choke your cat, and place it on the floor. Your cat may naturally just go into the bag or you might need to tap on the outside of it to get her attention. You can also crumple up a piece of paper into a ball and toss it inside the bag. Avoid using plastic bags, which can suffocate your cat.
Place a box on the floor and leave an opening for your cat to get inside. Put a toy inside the box or toss a small jingle-bell ball for your cat to bat., Whether your cat stays indoors or spends time inside and outside, give her toys that promote hunting and the predatory sequence of searching, stalking, chasing, pouncing, catching, and manipulating .Purchase toys at your local pet store that you think your cat might enjoy. There are a wide array of toys that range from simple to very involved. For example, you could get a squeaking squirrel or a chirping bird that are soft and small enough for your cat to toss around with her mouth. Consider getting toys filled with catnip to further attract her to play. But remember, your cat may love a plastic ball that has a jingling bell in it just as much.Give your cat simple items you have around your house as toys. Balled up paper, wine corks, pieces of rope can provide just as much stimulation and for your cat as store-bought toys.Some other household items that your cat may enjoy are shower curtain rings and cardboard tubes from toilet paper or paper towels.Hide the toys or items throughout your home to promote her “hunting” skills. You may want to rotate the toys every week so that your cat doesn’t bore of them., As easy as it is to amuse your cat with toys and simple household items, it’s important to know what could harm your cat. Many toys contain small bits that a cat can swallow, which can cause intestinal issues and even death.Store the following items or remove them from toys to minimize the risk of harm:


Ribbons or string
Feathers
Tinsel
Sequins or other small decorations
Paper clips and rubber bands
Pins and needles., Catnip is a plant that is a member of the mint family. It has a chemical that attracts some cats and doesn’t affect others. Give your cat a bit of dried catnip leaves and see if she goes nuts.Be aware that catnip is safe and non-addictive for your cat. How she reacts to it is entirely dependent on her genes.Roll your cat’s toys in catnip if she enjoys the plant. You may notice that the catnip stimulates even more vigorous play with the toy.
Buy some dried catnip or consider growing your own from a plant you purchase at a pet or home store.
 Cats naturally love to chase and catch objects. Toss small lightweight toys across the room for your cat to chase, catch, and manipulate through batting or pawing.Use items from around your house such as ping pong balls or wadded up pieces of paper if you don’t have any toys.
Make sure to get your cat’s attention before you throw the object so that she can anticipate the direction she needs to run. Consider faking her out by moving your hand in a throwing motion and then saying her name as you throw the object towards or away from her.
Shine a laser light on walls and on objects around the room. Your cat will chase the light, so fast and erratic movements will keep his attention. Shining the light high on a wall will provoke your cat to jump high in an attempt to "catch" the light. Make sure to not shine the light in your cats eyes and award her with an actual toy to grab when you are done with the laser.Consider teaching your cat to fetch. Although most cats won’t fetch like a dog, you may be able to teach your kitty to bring back objects you have thrown to her., Many stores sell wand toys, which are made up of a stick with a toy attached by a string. Wiggle the stick to flutter the toy and watch your cat go crazy trying to catch it.


Pull the toy away just as your cat is about to catch it to keep the game interesting for her. You can also move it in different directions to keep her guessing and interested. Make sure to allow her to catch the toy on occasion.
Remove any objects, such as feathers, from the wand toy that your cat could remove with her claw or swallow.
 Wiggle a long piece of yarn or string in front of your cat. Pull it across the floor and make it dash back and forth. She’ll likely enjoy chasing after you to catch the string.


Tie several pieces of yarn at the end of the string to a small puffball your cat can enjoy.
Store any string or yarn toys away from your cat when you are not supervising her play. This can minimize the risk of her swallowing them and harming herself., Close a door slightly and leave your cat on one side of it. Push a small stick or cat toy under the door to get you cat's attention. Slide the toy under and around the door and then hide it on your side again just before she catches it.


Allow the cat to "win" by pulling the toy to his side of the door when you’re done.
Be aware that your cat might slide her paws under the door in anticipation or to find her toy. Avoid pulling at her paws if she does this, which can hurt her.
 Tease your cat with small, lightweight stuffed toys. Once your cat becomes interested in the toy, he will likely grab it from you and beat it up with his mouth and paws. Get an appropriately-sized toy, smaller than your cat., Remember that play often stimulates a cat’s natural predatory instincts. If you are playing with your cat, make sure to keep your fingers, hands, or arms clear of her claws and mouth so that she doesn’t accidentally swipe or bite you.


Avoid yelling at or punishing your cat if she accidentally hurts you. Not only can this traumatize her but it may discourage her from playing in the future.
Wash any scratches or bites immediately with soap and warm water.
 After you finish playing with your cat, give her a small treat as a reward. This tells her that you enjoy her company and can strengthen your bond.


Avoid feeding your cat too many treats, which can cause her to gain weight. If you are concerned about this, give her a taste of canned food or some catnip instead., There are times when cats want to be alone and shouldn’t be disturbed, such as when she is cleaning herself or eating. Watch for the following signals that your cat wants to play and indulge her whims as much as you like:


Spontaneously playing with toys or objects
Sudden, short movements
Dilated pupils
Flattened ears, if no other cats are present
Frozen postures
Crouched legs
Making vocal noises
Running around like crazy, Make sure that any play you enjoy with your cat is always gentle and loving. This can get her to seek your out for more play and deepen your bond.


Pet and praise your cat during play. Talk to her by using her name. For example, you can say “Do you want the mouse, Sam? Look at you! Good girl, you’re ferocious!”Avoid squeezing your cat or pulling her tail as a part of your play. Only pick her up during play if she seems receptive to it.
Avoid using a loud tone or yelling at your cat, which may confuse her and discourage her from playing.
 Consider positioning yourself at your cat’s level during playtime. Sitting or lying on the floor or the sofa may relax her and promote bonding.Sitting on the sofa or in a chair may also be another way to get your cat to comfortably approach you.Sitting near the window to give your cat several different types of entertainment from which to choose., Your cat may show you affection during your playtime. Make sure to show her you are enjoying your time together by giving her back the affection. Some typical ways your cat may demonstrate she loves you during play are:


Bumping her head against yours. Let her rub her head against you and offer your head back.
Showing you her butt. You can show her similar affection by blowing gently at her bum.
Licking you. You don’t have to lick your kitty back, but you could stroke or pet her and say “I love you, too, Sam. You’re such a good girl.”

