 These activities won’t count toward your 150 minutes, but they will help your body stay awake and lively. Any time you spent not sitting still is time well spent for your body. Avoid spending long stationary periods reading or watching television.If you want to spend lots of time reading, listening to music, or watching TV, consider using a treadmill or stationary bike with a book stand. You can read while you exercise, or you can keep the machine in your TV room and exercise while you watch.;
, The best way to ensure that you keep up your exercise is to do activities that are fun for you. Make your exercise regimen into a hobby, or find a way to make your hobbies part of your exercise regimen.Golfing, tennis, or pickle are good examples of activities that older adults can do and that they may enjoy.
 Instead of sitting and chatting, for example, you and your buddy can chat on a walk. If you’re nervous about signing up a for a yoga, Tai Chi, or water aerobics class, find a friend to sign up with you. Or introduce yourself to new people in your class. Exercise is a lot more fun with your spouse or a friend.


There are programs at fitness facilities called “Silver Sneakers” these programs help adults get more active and involved both physically and socially.
If you have grandchildren, playing with them is another great option. They’ll enjoy it and it will strengthen your bond together.
Dogs are wonderful exercise buddies as well. They love to be active outside. Try throwing a ball or Frisbee for your dog or taking it for extra or longer walks. If you don’t have a dog, ask to borrow a friend’s dog. You might even think about adopting a dog—lots of older dogs need loving homes and aren’t as high-energy as younger dogs., You don’t have to go out of your way to be more active. There are lots of ways to add activity to your daily life without changing too much. Lots of little moments of motion and exercise can add up to big improvements.


When you’re out, try parking a little further away than usual, to increase your walk. Get off the bus or train a stop or two before your usual stop. Choose the stairs over an elevator or escalator. If you live within walking distance of your destination, walk instead of driving.
Move around while you wait. Do neck rolls or practice balancing on one foot while you wait in line. Practice knee bends while you wait for water to boil. Do some toe-touches while your bread is in the toaster.Studies have shown that no segment of the population can benefit more from physical exercise than the elderly.