 It’s important to clean off the map or poster before humidifying. Newer items won’t have much debris and you can wipe off spots with your finger or a soft, dry cloth. Dirtier items should be treated with a soft, natural brush like those made of animal hair or feathers. Any dirt left on the item during humidification can lead to stains.Avoid using synthetic fiber brushes like nylon scrub brushes. These are too harsh to be used on delicate items.
If your item is very dirty, you may be able to have someone restore it. For example, a paper conservator may save your paper map.
 The map or poster must not be rolled up with rubber bands. Any other fastening objects, including staples and clips, should be set aside. If your item is not completely rolled, roll it up in the direction of the curl., Add about two inches (5.08 cm) of room temperature water to a large plastic tub. Make sure the container is big enough to hold a second container. A plastic storage tub or large trash can are common choices.More water will provide more moisture, which speeds up humidification. This can be risky if you don’t monitor your map or poster carefully.
Misting near the map or poster with a spray bottle is an alternative treatment that can uncurl your item quickly. However, it is very difficult to get the perfect amount of water exposure.
 The rack needs to lay flat and stay above the water. Instead of a wire rack, you may set a smaller plastic container or trash can in the water. Make sure the rack or container is secure enough to stay in place., Lay the item out on the rack or inside the smaller container. Double-check that you used room temperature water before sealing the container. Warm water can condense on the container lid and drip onto your map or poster. Keep the humidification system in a temperature-controlled room where it won’t be disturbed., Once the lid has been sealed on the plastic container, you must let the map or poster absorb moisture. This takes about four to six hours. Come back after one hour to check on the system. Make sure water isn’t dripping from the lid. Check back again after four or five hours to see how your item has changed. It should feel softer and more relaxed., Remove your item from the humidifier. Gently try to unroll it. It should not curl up at all. In case the item feels resistant and ready to tear, leave it alone. Place it back in the humidifier and let it absorb more moisture., Cotton archival paper can be ordered online or at craft stores. You may also use cotton towels or blankets. Lay one piece of cotton flat on a table. Place the uncurled map or poster on top of it. Cover it with the second piece of cotton. Now weigh down your item so it stays flat.

Try setting a wood cutting board over the cotton and topping it with a couple of heavy books. The weight can help prevent the item from curling again., The cotton should be left in place overnight. If your paper feels dry by then, great! Often it takes a few days. Continue to check on your map or poster from time to time. Whenever the cotton feels damp, replace it., Humidification is best done with maps and posters you are willing to risk. Valuable or brittle items should be taken to a professional. Search in your area for paper conservators. Museums in your area may also be able to refer you to a conservator they trust.