 "Pushing" down with your feet causes the board to accelerate or decelerate. Push on your front foot to move forward and on your back foot to slow down, but only as much as the rope will allow.
 You want to ensure your chest is always over your toes, and you are utilizing your heel and toe edges to do the turning. Lean the way you want to turn-- if you are right footed and want to go right, lean into your heels.


You are dipping a bit of the boards edge into the water in order to turn.
 The wake is the triangular surf behind the boat's engine, and it is often bumpy to ride behind. Turn your board out of the wake for the smooth waters on the sides, especially if you plan on trying out some "flat water" tricks.


Be ready for a bump at the edge of the wake. While it can take some getting used to, having a solid core and slightly bent knees will work wonders.
 Once you're comfortable turning it is time to get some air. Get outside of the wake then turn quickly back towards it. Put light pressure on your back foot to push the nose in the air and keep your knees bent as you hit the wake, popping you into the air. Slightly extend your legs so that you can bend your knees on the landing, much like you would after jumping off a high ledge.


Pull the rope in 2-3 inches to keep it tight as you start the jump., The form is the same for jumping on a skateboard, but it is still simple even if you've never skated. Get to some flat water either in the center of the wake or on the outside. Put pressure on your back foot so that the front sticks up out of the water, then use both feet to hop up, sucking the board up with you. The board should follow.


Your feet will need to be back a bit so that the back foot is near the end of the board., The mechanics of wakeskating are similar to skateboarding, so anyone with a background on a board can transition easily into the burgeoning watersport.Some tricks to try out include:


Riding one-handed.
Spinning 180 or 360 degrees.
Kickflip.
Pop Shovit.

