 Children as young as 8 may begin to experience puberty both physically and mentally. It is important to make children aware what changes may follow, such as:


Physical changes like the growth of genitals, breast development and menstruation in females, and growth spurts.
Sexual feelings that may lead to sexual attraction to others and masturbation.
Emotional changes that affect how children see themselves, their self-image, and how they relate to others like their parents, family, and friends.
 Elementary-aged children may start to become physically intimate with each other and start dating, kissing, or touching. Some older children may even begin to explore the idea of being sexually intimate with someone.


Some education programs will start to educate elementary-aged children about protection and contraceptives when engaging in sex. As well as the effects of HIVs/AIDs and STIs/STDs.
The continuation of teaching children that their bodies are their own will help them engage in safe and healthy relationships with others.
 At this time, children will come across difficulties with expressing themselves or have trouble understanding what is happening to them as puberty begins. It's important to address issues such as:



Sexuality. Since children at this age will start to develop attraction towards one another, some may experience difficulty adjusting to their sexuality, especially if they identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or anything other than what is assumed as "normal". Provide resources and comfort to help children adjust to their sexuality.
Gender identity. Some children may be expressing their gender differently or identify as transgender. Validate these differences by providing children tools and resources to better navigate their gender and also protect them from discrimination or bullying.

Masturbation. In most sex education programs, masturbation is seen as a healthy and normal activity. Many may have questions about masturbation or about their sudden development of intense sexual feelings that might have lead to incidents like having "wet dreams".

Family life. Family life may be affected since parents or family members may start to give more responsibilities to older children and even divide tasks based on gender. At this time, sex or gender discrimination is an important topic to cover.

Body image. With all the physical changes happening, it's important to address healthy ways to deal with low self-esteem or issues with body image.

