 Make an appointment with your primary care physician to discuss getting a referral for an obstetrician and/or gynecologist. Talk about why you want to see an OB/GYN. Explain to your doctor which services you think you need. Your doctor may be able to provide some of those services, or your doctor may give you a referral.Your doctor may give you a specific OB/GYN that they recommend or let you choose yourself, based on your insurance options.;
, Go on your insurance company's website and find a list of OB/GYN providers in your area that are covered by your insurance. Write down their names, locations, and phone numbers. This will be your working list of potential OB/GYNs that you can visit.


Many insurance providers have a list of “in-network” and “out-of-network” physician options. Unless you have a compelling reason for selecting an out-of-network OB/GYN, many insurance companies will cover little or none of the cost of out-of-network visits and care.
 Search for free clinics or women’s health clinics. Many of these clinics can provide low-cost options, with a sliding scale based on income.They can provide a huge range of reproductive services, from pap smears to STD/STI screenings to pregnancy tests.


Select the service you need. If you’ve never been to see an OB/GYN before or haven’t been in a year or more, choose a “well-woman” exam, or a general check-up for reproductive health. You can also seek treatment for STD/STIs, pregnancy, and other general issues. If you’re not sure what kind of service you want or need, call the office or clinic to talk with a professional.
Schedule an appointment. Even if you are uninsured, some health care providers, like Planned Parenthood, cannot turn you away from their services because of inability to pay.Keep in mind that clinics are typically open during normal business hours, so you may need to make arrangements for work or child care.
 You may have a lot of options from your insurance company. Ask your general practitioner, family, and friends who their OB/GYNs are. Ask them what they like and dislike about their experiences there.Many people love their doctors and will be able to make recommendations. Others may dislike their doctors and give you important information about what you could expect at the office they visit, such as long lines, insurance hassles, or rude providers. Here are some potential things to ask about:


How easy it is to make an appointment
Wait times in the office
Kindness and professionalism of the people at the office
Professionalism and personality of OB/GYN
Birth control services
Pregnancy services
Overall experience

, See how long it would take you to travel to various doctors from your home and your work. Cross off any options that are inconveniently located or too far away. Keep in mind that you will most likely be traveling to your OB/GYN during business hours.
 This depends purely on your preferences. If you have a preference for a female doctor, do not see a male doctor. You are entitled to be comfortable. Remember that you will have to be completely undressed during your visits to your OB/GYN.Also remember that sometimes a doctor’s name is not necessarily indicative of their gender; for example, the first name Dylan can be used for all genders.
 If you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant, you will need an OB/GYN that can provide both obstetrical (OB) and gynecological (GYN) services. If you are planning to have a baby, make sure that the hospital that your OB/GYN delivers at is also covered by your insurance. If you’re only looking for an annual checkup, however, you may only need a gynecologist, rather than an obstetrician and gynecologist. Figure out what you need from your physician and call the offices on your list to ask them if they provide all the services you need. If they do not, cross those options off of your list.


An obstetrician, or an OB/GYN, is a medical doctor trained in women’s reproductive health, pregnancy, and birth.A gynecologist is a medical doctor who primarily focuses on health care and diseases related to breasts and women’s reproductive health.All gynecologists are trained in both obstetrics and gynecology, but this particular doctor has chosen to practice gynecology only.
 Contact your potential offices and ask them if they are accepting new patients. If they are not, cross those off of your list of potential doctors. Being able to make an appointment quickly and easily is important for choosing an OB/GYN, especially if you are planning to have a baby.
 Use these sources to narrow down your list from many providers to only a few. Search a variety of sources and take all online reviews with a grain of salt. Not every doctor is perfect for every patient.


Many state medical boards provide information on every registered OB/GYN, listing any documented complaints or reprimands currently in effect against the physician. If a physician has a complaint filed by a patient, check to see if it is for inadequate or negligent care, and if so, continue down your list in search of a new provider. If the complaint instead deals with insurance reimbursement or other non-care based issues, you should keep it in mind should you decide to engage their services.
Look on doctor review websites such as Vitals and Healthgrades.Take online reviews with a grain of salt, as always, but cross off any doctors on your list who have overwhelmingly negative reviews. Pay attention to what you’re looking for in a doctor and cross off any doctors with poor grades in those categories. For example, if you care a lot about bedside manner, you may cross off doctors with negative reviews regarding bedside manner but keep doctors with negative reviews regarding office wait times.
 Call in advance and ask to meet with an OB/GYN before you schedule an official appointment. Be aware that many offices may not agree to meet and greets — there is no reimbursement for this and they can be time-consuming. If they do, some offices will request some form of payment, which the insurance company won’t pay. If the doctor does agree to a meeting, look at the cleanliness of the office and the friendliness of the staff. Ask the doctors about their credentials, their certifications, their education, and their views on certain issues (such as birth control).If the doctor is unable to accommodate a meet and greet, consider making an appointment for a minor issue so you can still ask questions, get a feel for the office, and potentially have the visit covered by insurance.
Ask how long the physician has been practicing. Even a new OB/GYN has received extensive training, but if you have considerable health problems or if you are experiencing a high-risk pregnancy, you may wish to opt for a more experienced provider.
If you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant, find out if the physician or nurse is available after hours for urgent questions and whether the OB/GYN will be available or on-call for your delivery.
If you have special needs or considerations, such as a recent hysterectomy or Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, ask whether the physician has experience handling cases such as yours.
 Make sure that you can make this appointment time and will not have to cancel. Ensure that you are getting a comprehensive check-up the first time you go. If you have any medical records from past doctors, bring those to your appointment.


Remember, you are not required to return to an office simply because you have begun seeing them as a patient. In most cases, your new provider can call or fax a form to the old OB/GYN office to get a copy of your medical records.

