 Kiosks can accommodate almost any kind of business. Apparel, food, and electronics -- especially mobile phones -- are some of the most common kiosk businesses. Whatever you choose, try to be versatile and offer variety.For instance, if you’re a food kiosk, don’t just offer hot dogs. Offer chili dogs, French fries, soda, etc.
A phone kiosk might offer phone cases, chargers, and other paraphernalia in addition to selling phones.
Brainstorm some innovative ideas either alone or with a friend.Look for opportunities that would lend themselves well to the small scale that carts and kiosks offer.;
, Check other cart and kiosk businesses either online or in person to get an idea of their sizes. Think about what style is most appropriate for your business.


If you plan on selling food, determine whether you need refrigeration, a grill, an oven or some other feature that accommodates your product.
When selecting a cart or kiosk, you should also consider whether you’ll need storage space.
 If your business meets with success, graduate up to a larger kiosk.This way, you’ll be able to negotiate the learning curve that comes with any new business on a smaller scale. This will save you time and money and help you learn how to operate most efficiently. Use this period to iron out any potential problems and streamline your business processes.
 Advertise open positions at your kiosk online at Monster.com and LinkedIn. You could also advertise for the position in your local newspaper or community bulletin.


Look for people with a background in the industry that you’re working in. For instance, if you’re setting up a hat kiosk, try to find someone who has worked in a hat store, a sporting goods store, or apparel sales.
Choose the best candidates and interview them. If they do well at the interview, hire them.
Think about how many workers you’ll need. You’ll probably need to hire at least four or five.
Most kiosks only need one or two employees working at a time, and therefore have low labor costs., You will need to be covered for property damage and depending on what you are selling, you may need further coverage. Meet with your insurance agent to determine what coverage is necessary for your business.
 Take a walk around your local downtown or shopping mall for areas that could accommodate a cart or kiosk.Keep an eye out for empty kiosks in shopping centers or unused space near sports arenas, parking lots, and public parks. Try to envision how your kiosk or cart might look in each space. Talk to other kiosk and cart owners to get a sense of what they’re paying each month in rent.

