 To make a paper bunny ears hat, the first thing to do is prepare the piece of paper that will be your headband. Wrap a piece of A4 or A3 paper around your forehead at the height you want to wear it.In the middle of your forehead is a good place.


If you have too high it could fall off easily, but if you have it too low it might slip down over your eyes.
When you are happy with it, mark with a pen or pencil where two sides of the paper meet in front of your forehead.;
, It’s a good idea to leave a little excess, so cut the paper an inch further out than where you made the mark. Cut all the way up the paper and then wrap it around your head again to test the size. Once you are happy with the fit, you can slim down your paper headband by cutting horizontally across the paper. Then stick the two ends of the paper together with glue or tape.


You might need someone else to help you stick it together to make sure it fits properly.
The slimmer you cut the band, the less visible it will be. But it will also be more susceptible to tearing.
 Now you have the headband you need the actual bunny ears. Just cut out two nice bunny ear shapes of equal size. You can do this by using a template or putting two pieces of paper on top of each other and cutting them together.


Once you are happy with the size of your ears, colour them in or decorate them however you like.
A traditional bunny ear would be white on the outside with a pink centre.
 You can add pipe cleaners to the back of your ears to help you control them. You can keep them nice and upright and give them a little bend at the top. Just cut out two pieces of pipe cleaner, one for each ear, to approximately the same height as your bunny ears.Secure a pipe cleaner to the back of each of your bunny ears with tape or glue.
 Now all you need to do is to stick the bunny ears to the headband and you are ready to wear them. You can stick them to either the inside or the outside of the band, depending on which you think looks better. Use glue, tape or a stapler to fix in the bunny ears. #*Sticking them to the inside will mean that you won’t see the very bottom part of the ears.


If you use glue, make sure you let it dry before putting it on your head.

