 Professional photographers almost always shoot in RAW, because it lets you change many camera settings after the picture has already been taken. JPGs are set images once they've been taken, limiting your post production capabilities.RAW photos take a lot of space, but the benefits are huge; for example, you have greater control over:


File size and quality.
Exposure
Shadow detail.
Brightness/Contrast
Sharpening and blur., The simplest edit you can make is a crop, where you redefine the borders of the image to better your composition. Always save two copies of the picture, one before cropping and one after, to avoid losing key parts of the photo you may want later.Experiment with different crops of your photographs to see what looks best.
 Saturation is the color quality of the image. An image with high saturation will be vibrant and bright while low saturation is gray and moody.There is usually a small slider on photo editing software that lets you adjust saturation on the fly.


As a rule of thumb, happy/energetic photos have a higher saturation, while low-key/somber photos have lower saturation.
Be careful not to overdo it on saturation -- a subtle increase or decrease should create the mood you want without seeming odd or unnatural.
 This is necessary for almost every photo unless you had perfect lighting when you were shooting. Remember that a good photo has a lot of contrast, with vibrant brights and dark, deep shadows. That said, you still need a wide variety of middle areas in between, and contrast that is too high will look two-tone and flat.


If you try to brighten a dark image too much, the picture may look rough and grainy. Be careful with drastic changes.
If you increase the contrast too much, you will lose some of the details in the picture.Look at the histogram of the image. The histogram is a line graph of light values. It should have a big peak on the left, and then slowly drop down as it moves the right. The left of the graph is the number of all black pixels in your shot; the right is the number of all white pixels. Any enormous peaks should be toned down using brightness/contrast sliders., Almost all photographs need a little editing, but you need to be careful not to overdo it and make your photos appear unnatural. A tweak to brightness and contrast, a little boost in saturation, and crop here and there should be enough to make your shots stick out. If you find yourself doing major editing, you need to rethink how you are shooting your photos.