 If your relationship is relatively new, it's not all that uncommon for couples to have goals and future plans that diverge. Similarly, newer couples may still have completely different inner circles of family and friends. When you and your partner develop a deeper commitment to the relationship and each other, this changes.


If your boyfriend is tentative about plans and goals or hasn't introduced you to his loved one, it may not necessarily mean he's not into you. Decide if you have been together long enough (i.e.longer than a few months). It may also help to question if you have labeled your relationship as "exclusive.", Every relationship requires a bit of reorganizing of the parts to make the whole work. Although your mate may show some of these signs, you might want to ask yourself if they are deal-breakers or whether you can learn to live with them. Ponder what you want out of the relationship and whether your current partner is giving it to you.Make a list of the most important aspects of a relationship from your point-of-view. Then, go down the list and evaluate where your partner stands on each characteristic.
 Relationships are not one-sided, so your decision-making shouldn't be either. Choose an appropriate time to sit down with your partner and share your reservations. He may be able to explain some of his choices or behaviors and put your mind at ease.You might say, "I'm very concerned that, after three months, I haven't met any of your friends. Can you explain why?"

Listen actively to your partner, giving him the chance to fully share his side of things before responding.
 After you have discussed the issue with your partner, you will need to arrive at a conclusion. Is your partner full of it? Do you think he's serious about you? It's important to listen to your instincts on this one. They could be giving you clues about how to move forward.


You might decide to end the relationship now, or postpone the decision until a later date. For example, if you think maybe your relationship is still young, you might wait a few months to see if some of your concerns work themselves out.

