 Check with your insurance company to see if dental implants are covered on your plan. Although many insurance companies consider this a cosmetic procedure and don’t cover it, more and more insurance companies are beginning to offer coverage because of the long-term benefits of dental implants over alternative treatments.


If your insurance does not cover dental implants, ask if they will cover part of the cost that would be covered under an alternative treatment, like dentures or a bridge., If your implant is not covered under your insurance policy, check with your dentist to see if they offer a payment plan of some kind. Some dental practices offer payment plans for expensive procedures under these circumstances.Keep in mind that you will likely have to pay interest and other fees if you go with this option.There are also organizations like DentalLoans.com that can help you finance your dental implants if your doctor does not offer a payment plan. These types of services will give you a loan to cover expensive dental work (provided you meet their qualifications), splitting the cost into more manageable monthly payments, rather than one big lump sum., Discount dental plans are membership-based plans that require the patient to pay a yearly fee, normally ranging from $100 to $300. In exchange for this fee, members receive discounts between 10 to 60 percent on dental procedures.


You will be required to go to an affiliated dentist when using this type of plan. These dentists may not necessarily be located in your area.
Beware of offers that sound too good to be true. They might be. Check the terms of the plan in addition to the qualifications of the dentist thoroughly., Many dental associations offer low-income patients discounted care. They may also offer assistance to those in certain demographic groups, such as victims of domestic abuse and people with disabilities. In addition, there may be charitable organizations in your area that offer grants for dental work.For example, Cosmetic Dentistry Grants Program offers grants to people for cosmetic dental procedures that may not be covered by their insurance. To receive this grant, you must go for a free dental assessment by a qualifying dentist to determine what work you need done, and complete any general dentistry work, like fillings and root canals, that is necessary before the cosmetic procedure can be completed., If you were not able to find an affordable solution, you may consider starting a fundraising campaign to help cover your costs. Websites like Indiegogo.com and GoFundMe.com allow you to start a campaign to raise money for a personal matter.


If you choose to go with this option, you’ll need to set up a page explaining your situation and containing a link for people to donate to your cause.
Make sure you include a detailed explanation of your situation and how being able to afford dental implants will change your life for the better.
You can then share this page with your friends and family through social media sites like Facebook and Twitter.