 Act the same way you do when your around your friends, don't act differently around them than the way you act around your crush. If you do, he or she will think you're being a fake.;
, Realize that you cannot make a person like you. You can be persuasive and encourage a person by being charming, friendly and happy in their presence but you cannot force their interest to focus solely on you. As such, it's important to be realistic and accept that he or she may want to be "just friends" or won't even want that. However, that doesn't mean that you don't try. It means that you learn to read the signs and respect the decision they make, as hard as it may be if it doesn't go in your favor.
 Dress nicely and neatly. Show your flair by wearing things that represent your style.


Stay comfortable. There is no point looking good if you're suffering. Jeans that are so skinny you can barely walk will elicit giggles in sports class, not awe-inspiring looks.
 Do you both like the same things? Perhaps you play the same sport or do the same activity during lunch hour or after school? Make the most of things you both connect on.
 Has your crush been having some troubles in a subject you're just ace at? Hop in and offer some advice, and some tutoring help. What a great way to get closer!

, Show him or her your generous side by offering things when in need, such as a forgotten pencil or lunch, or a listen to your newly downloaded hit song.
 Talk about stuff that he or she wants to talk about. Talk about stuff that you would like to talk about. Ask your crush some fun questions, such as "when is your birthday?", "What is your favorite color?". Little by little you'll get to know her or him.
 There is no need to be rude or to show bad manners.
 Act the same but with a little bit of flirting and feeling this time. When he or she makes a joke, laugh genuinely. When you see her or him in the hallway, make eye contact and perhaps offer a wink. When you both are staring at each other, don't worry if either of you blushes a little––that just shows you that you're both attracted to each other.
 Don't offer too many compliments, just enough to make it clear that you don't mind noticing the good things about her or him.
 Whenever you are sitting by him or her, angle your toes where he or she is sitting, then bump against your crush gently. Gently brush away a hair from his or her shoulder or even face. Gently hold her or his arm briefly. Be a little touchy-feely without overdoing it.
 Invite her or him to your house for a party or ask him or her to dance with you at a class party. Keep your friends around and your crush's friends around at first, to keep it light.
 When you have the impression that he or she is interested in you, ask him or her for a date. That is, if he or she hasn't already asked you.

