 Check daily during a severe whitefly infestation, and pluck off badly infested leaves. These have many white eggs and/or wingless nymphs ("crawlers") on the underside of the leaf. If severely infested, the leaf may be coated with a sticky or waxy substance produced by the feeding nymphs, or it may turn yellow and spotted.This method works best for small gardens where you can check each plant regularly.
 You can dislodge young whiteflies from the underside of leaves by spraying them with a hose. To catch the winged adults as well, use a hand-held vacuum cleaner to catch whiteflies when they are most sluggish, in the early morning or during cool weather. Put the vacuum cleaner bag inside an airtight plastic bag after capturing, and freeze it for 24 hours to kill the whiteflies before emptying in the trash.This method is most helpful when the whiteflies are first noticed. If they have had a chance to lay eggs, these may remain on the leaf and start a new generation of many hundreds or thousands of whiteflies after hatching.
If the infestation is minor, this method can help reduce the population of whiteflies to the point where natural predators will be able to keep the population in check.
 Add a layer of aluminum foil or reflective plastic mulch covering the ground. This can make it more difficult for adult whiteflies to locate host plants, reducing the amount of eggs successfully laid.This step will require special water considerations. Plants surrounded by plastic mulch will need to have a drip irrigation system.
Do not use mulch in hot weather, as it may overheat the plants.
 If a plant is severely infested, transfer it to a separate room or an outdoor area distant from other plants. Isolate all newly acquired plants for several days before introducing them to a location with other plants, and inspect the undersides of the leaves for whiteflies., As explained in the section on natural enemies, insecticide rarely works on whitefly populations, and may even kill the animals that feed on them. However, if the whitefly population in your garden is out of control, you may have nothing to lose. Neem oil, insecticidal soap, and malathion are common options, and you may wish to choose two of them to alternate between, in case your whiteflies are resistant to one. Apply an insecticide once every five to seven days to the undersides of infested leaves.Always check to make sure the insecticide you plan to use will not harm the plant you are applying it to.

