 Simply make time for it (the relationship) and each other. Even if you have to write it down in a calendar, schedule times and dates to be together and connect or bond or be intimate with each other in every way, on all levels, and in every area possible. Have a weekly date with each other, and make the most out of your days off together. Go out once in a while and stay in once in a while. Alternate.;
, Many people lie for many reasons even if they don't know they are lying. Cheating is not about being not being monogamous as many have been tricked into thinking, however cheating is about deceit.


Never try to be someone you are not: This is a form of lying that people overlook. If you are broke, don't pretend you have money. If you hate sports don't pretend you love them. If you hate to cook, please don't play like it's your favorite pass time. If you don't like sex, be up front, because you will be found out later in the relationship.
 Don't neglect other areas of your life - such as your friends, family, work, school, time for yourself, etc.
 Remember; you have the Internet, magazines, books, (etc). Use these resources as an advantage to your relationship.
, Sometimes people cheat because they feel trapped. Bringing things to the table and being willing to reorganize your relationship could give your union a fresh new perspective. Because relationships change when we don't change with them this leaves gaps for cheating opportunities.
 Work towards having a healthy and loving relationship with each other. Have fun together - laugh and smile with one another. Joke around - have a good time. Be upbeat and positive, (etc.)

, Try to be neutral, i.e. "I can't believe how many relationships suffer from infidelity, I'm sure it wouldn't happen to us, but if something were to happen I want to be able to tell you and vise versa." Ask your partner how they feel about the relationship and if there's anything they want to try, more time apart, more time together, etc. Gain insight into their views on cheating.

