 The thyroid gland is located at the base of your neck. It is a very important gland, producing thyroid hormones that help regulate your metabolism, body temperature, and heart rate. In children, the thyroid aids in growth and development. The thyroid is responsible for releasing hormones into the body.Thyroid problems can be divided into two types: an overactive thyroid or hyperthyroidism, and an underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism.
Hypothyroidism is treated with Armour thyroid while hyperthyroidism is not.
 Hypothyroidism is also known as an underactive thyroid. This means your body produces too little thyroid hormones, causing body functions to process more slowly. All forms of hypothyroidism can be caused by viral infections, radiation damage, some medications, pregnancy, and other rarer causes.Having an iodine deficiency can cause hypothyroidism. Iodine deficiency may be a more important cause of hypothyroidism since the primary source of iodine for many people who don’t eat fish is iodized salt. Since many people have reduced their salt intake, their iodine intake has also been reduced.
Symptoms of an underactive thyroid include fatigue, constipation, depression, dry, coarse hair, hair loss, dry skin, wanting to sleep often, intolerance to cold, decreased heart rate, swelling of the thyroid gland (goiter), and unexplained weight gain or difficulty losing weight.
Hypothyroidism is commonly treated with hormone-replacement therapy (HRT). HRT can be accomplished with natural hormone from animal sources, like Armour thyroid, or with synthetic, man-made hormones.
 Armour thyroid is an animal-source thyroid replacement used in the treatment of hypothyroidism. It is a natural mix of pig-derived thyroid hormones. It is measured as grains, and the doses range from ¼ grain to five grains. It’s used as HRT for people with hypothyroidism of any cause except for temporary hypothyroidism, and for the prevention and treatment of goiters, thyroid nodules, thyroid cancer, and multinodular goiters.A fourth grain of Armour thyroid is considered to be a 15 mg dose and equivalent to a 25 mcg dose of the synthetic T4 hormone commonly used. This is often the starting dose.
Other dosage equivalents include: one grain equal to 60 mg and 0.100 mg of synthetic T4; three grains equal to 180 mg and 0.300 mg synthetic T4.

