 Start by deciding how much you can afford to spend on the fitness retreat. There are fitness retreats that are more high end and will be fairly expensive, around $3,000 – $5,000 or more per week, not including travel costs. There are also fitness retreats that are more affordable, less than $2,000, not including travel costs. Do your research and compare several fitness retreats to find one that will fit your budget.Make sure you save a decent amount of money to then pay for the retreat. Having savings set aside for the retreat will give you more options and put less stress on you when you go on the retreat.;
, Consider if you want to travel to a new place as part of the fitness retreat. This may depend on your budget and time constraints, as you may or may not have the time off required to travel somewhere for the retreat. Often, finding a fitness retreat that is in your local area will be cheaper than a retreat that you have to pay to travel to, whether you fly or drive.For example, you may find a fitness retreat that is in your hometown or city. You may then be able to afford the cost of the fitness retreat because you do not have to worry about paying for travel costs.
You may also find a retreat that is less expensive but still fits your fitness needs, even with travel costs factored in. For example, a yoga retreat that is two days long in your hometown will be cheaper than a yoga retreat that is two weeks long and out of the country.
You may go for a retreat that you travel to if you are looking for a chance to explore a new country or place and also get fit. Doing a fitness retreat in another country could allow you to do both of these things.
 Go for a fitness retreat that will help you get one step closer to your fitness goals. For example, you may have a fitness goal to lose 10 pounds. Look for a retreat that is more like a bootcamp, with intense workouts and structured meals. Or you may have the fitness goal of improving your yoga practice. You may then opt for a retreat that focuses on yoga.If you have any limitations or injuries, find out if there is a physiotherapist onsite who can assist you with these issues. Ask if they are able to accommodate any special needs due to your injury. For instance, will you be able to modify activities? Will someone be able to work with you on safely exercising your problem area?
Find out if the retreat includes one-on-one time with a trainer who can help you meet your goals, or if this is something you need to pay extra for.
 You will also want to consider whether or not you want a retreat that is structured, with required classes and activities, or more flexible, allowing you to do your own thing, or choose which classes or activities you want to attend and when. Think about what you want to get out of the experience and find a retreat that fits.

Look for a fitness retreat that includes activities and exercises that you enjoy doing. This way, you will get the most out of the retreat fitness-wise. If you are really into Ashtanga yoga, for example, you may go on an Ashtanga yoga retreat. Or if you are really into CrossFit, you may opt for a CrossFit retreat.
Read over the activities offered at the retreat and compare several retreats to find the right one for you. Some retreats combine several different exercises to help you get fit. This may be a good option if you’re open to trying new exercises and want to work out in different ways on the retreat.
Find out how many people are usually in each class or activity, as this can make a big difference in terms of how much personal attention you receive. Will your class have 20 people or five?
If there are required activities or classes, be sure you check the time of day. If you're not a morning person, and the first required class starts at 5am, then that might not be the retreat for you.
 Depending on the retreat, your accommodations may be similar to a four-star hotel, or they may be more rustic or austere. This will certainly influence the price, so see what options there are within your budget.

Find out if you will have your own room, or if you will be sharing with a friend (or stranger if you go alone).
Inquire about the bathrooms. Will your room have its own bathroom or is there a communal set up? On a fitness retreat it is likely you will want to shower multiple times a day, so you'll want to know if you will potentially have to wait in line to use the facilities. In addition, you might want to find out if they only have showers or if there are also bathtubs, as you may wish to soak your sore muscles at the end of the day.
Ask about laundry. Since you're working out all day, you will want to know what to do with those sweaty gym clothes. Is there a laundry facility on-site where you can wash your clothes? Are they complimentary or coin-operated (so you know if you need to bring quarters)? Do you need to send laundry out, and is there an additional fee for this service?
Ask about any "house rules." Are there quiet hours or a set time for lights out? Is there a ration on towels? An emphasis on conserving water?

, Fitness retreats can vary widely when it comes to meal options. Your meals may be included in the package cost and prepared for you, or you may be given space to prepare your own meals and have to bring your own food. You may also want to know how much flexibility there is with the meal plan. Are mealtimes set, or can you eat whenever you want? Is it cafeteria-style? A dining room?

You may also want to find out of there is a dietitian on-site to help you plan meals and meet any weight-loss or health goals.
Find out if there is food available to purchase at the retreat, or nearby, or if all food is already provided for you.
Ask about special accommodations if you require them, such as vegetarian food options or allergy-free meals.
 Maybe you want to embark on the fitness retreat solo or perhaps you’d have more fun going with a few friends. Often, fitness retreats will offer discounts or special deals for participants who sign up in pairs or in a group. If you are trying to save money on the retreat, going with someone else may be the way to go.If you are going on the fitness retreat alone, make sure you feel comfortable and safe signing up for the retreat. Going alone can be a good way to stay focused on your fitness goals and give you the opportunity to meet new people at the retreat.
 To help you find the right retreat for you, ask your fitness trainer or people you work out with at the gym. Speak to friends who are fit and ask them if they have gone to a fitness retreat before. Reach out to people in your network who can help you find a good fitness retreat for your budget and your fitness goals.

You can also contact several fitness retreats and ask them questions about the retreat before you sign up. Request a copy of the activities schedule at the retreat.
 To prepare for the fitness retreat, set aside the time required for the retreat. If you have a job, take time off to ensure you can go on the retreat. You may pick a fitness retreat that falls on a holiday weekend so you do not have to take extra time off of work. Or you may use your vacation days at work to go on the retreat.

If you are in school, you may pick a fitness retreat that falls on a holiday weekend or during a school break. This way, you will have the time off necessary to participate in the retreat.
If you have other life commitments, like children or pets, you will need to arrange for someone to care for them while you are on the retreat.
 For instance, if it is a snorkeling retreat, do you need to be a skilled swimmer? If it's a scuba diving retreat, do you need to be certified already? If you need to develop your skills or fitness a little before you are ready for the retreat, make sure you put in the time so you can make the most out of your retreat.

Find out if various skill levels will be accommodated at the retreat or if everyone will be expected to be at the same level. You don't want to go on a retreat that is too advanced for you, nor do you want to be an advanced athlete at a retreat meant for beginners.
 To ensure you have a good time at the fitness retreat, make sure you pack workout clothing that is comfortable. Go for workout clothing made of wicking material so you stay dry while you sweat. Bring comfortable running shoes so you can work out safely during the retreat.You may also pack warmer clothing or clothing you can layer over if the retreat is in a location that is temperate. Going to a retreat in the desert, for example, means you will have cooler nights and warmer afternoons. Pack according to the weather at the fitness retreat.
 If you are going on a retreat for a specific sport, like tennis, you will probably want to bring your own racquet. If the retreat involves equipment-heavy activities like skiing, snorkeling, or golfing, ask if you should bring your own gear or if you can rent or borrow while you are there., Some fitness retreats take the idea of disconnecting literally. You may not be allowed to use electronics like your cellphone, your computer, or other devices. If this is the case, make sure you let others know that you will not be reachable by phone for the duration of the retreat.Some fitness retreats will encourage you to write your thoughts and reflections down in a journal over the course of the retreat rather than online or on your phone. If this is the case, make sure you pack a journal.
 Throw yourself into the planned activities at the retreat so you get the most out of your experience. Some fitness retreats will be more structured and have a list of activities planned for each day. Some fitness retreats will be more loose and give you more time to relax and unwind on your own, in addition to exercising.You may go into the fitness retreat with a fitness goal, such as losing 10 pounds or toning up different parts of your body. Focus on activities at the retreat that will help you to achieve your fitness goal.
 Another key element of the fitness retreat is the chance to bond with others in a relaxing setting. Take the time to get to know the other participants at the retreat. Strike up conversations at meals. Support others during workouts. Exchange personal stories with the other participants.While you are at the retreat, you may try to split your time between a few hours alone with yourself and a few hours around others.
 Some people find it difficult to relax and disconnect at a retreat, especially if they are used to a busy schedule in their daily life. Be open to focusing on your health and wellness while you are at the retreat. Try to stay in tune with your body and workout hard during the fitness classes.Depending on the fitness retreat, you may be able to work closely with the fitness instructors at the retreat to achieve your fitness goals.

