 Talk to them about themselves, their family, their work, and show that you genuinely care about them. Each person is unique and getting to know them will help you plan the best way to give Dawah to them.


Try to find out as much as you can what they know about Islam. Some good opening questions are: How did you first hear about Islam? What do you know about Islam? Or bring up some recent news involving Islam.
Do not speak too much about Islam at one time -- let them set the pace. It is best to give Dawah in small doses. Depending on who you are talking to, you can continue the conversation or give literature for them to go through on their own. Giving Dawah is about simplicity.Just be friends with them. Sometimes introducing or reminding someone of the Islam faith is just to be a good friend and show through example. This is especially effective if you know of a Muslim that is straying from Islam.
 You can ask, "What do you think is wrong with Islam?" or "What do you think Islam is?" Then clear each misconception with as much knowledge and clarity as you can offer. Or point them to the right direction to obtain these answers.


Many people will have confused Islam traditions and teachings with ideas that they are already familiar with outside of Islam. For example, people who are familiar with the Christian Bible and its many interpretations may draw the same interpretations when they hear that the Quran mentions Adam and Eve. Some believe that, because of the Bible, society sees women as lesser than men and then have the misconception that women are also oppressed or dominated by men in Islam. Point them towards the Quran and outline the differences between the Quran and the Bible and what these differences mean.
In the media and popular culture, many Islamic traditions are the subject of heated debates. The hijab worn by Muslim women is a popular debated topic. You should clarify these misconceptions and lead them to view these concepts of Islam in the framework of Islamic thought which sees the wearing of the hijab as honouring purity of both thought and body.
 Thank the person for giving you the chance to share about Islam to them. You might even want to try saying thank you if someone asks you a rude question or insults Islam, as exemplified by the Prophet Muhammad. By saying thank you in response to abusive statements, you show others that Islam is, indeed, a good faith. It may also surprise them and make them more open to listen to you.


For example, someone might ask, "Why do Muslim women cover their heads? Isn't this a sign of subjection of women?"Tell them, "Thank you for asking me about my religion" and continue with "You have an interesting question concerning Islam and I congratulate you for seeking correct knowledge about our faith."

, Arguing and debating is against the teachings by Allah in the Quran; "He who gave up disputing while he is right, a palace of high rank in Paradise will be built for him" (At Tirmidhi). Although your intentions may be good, arguing could lead to disputes and it is best to spread the knowledge in a peaceful way. In Islam, backing down is better than debating.


Stop looking for "loop holes" in others' beliefs or putting them down for their beliefs. Belittling others is against the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad.
Be more inviting and less defensive. Being defensive or argumentative pushes people away from Islam. It may also hurt people such as your family or friends and even you, bringing in frustration caused by these disputes. In the end, God knows your intentions and will work his will.
 Islam believes that truthfulness is one of the pillars the world's survival depends on. Since speech or speaking is an exclusive human trait, lying is seen as losing your humanity. So when giving Dawah, not only is it important that you do not lie, but also preach that you cannot lie and the faith of Islam is all about truth. You can give examples from the Quran and Sunnah of what lying means and what its consequences are.


Some examples of lying are lying when buying and selling, lying about visions and dreams, telling lies as jokes, or being hypocritical.Allah also warns against speaking about everything you hear as you may hear both truths and lies, and speaking about everything could count as lying.
Do not tell lies about Allah and His Messengers: “Telling lies about me is not like telling lies about anyone else. Whoever tells lies about me deliberately, let him take his place in Hell.” Narrated by al-Bukhaari, 1229.If you do not know the answer to a question, say "I don't know". Don't lie about your knowledge or spread misinformation. The best way to go about this is to be truthful and direct the person to another source that may contain an answer to their question.
 The purpose of Dawah is not to convert or convince others to Islam. The decision should be made by the person's own free will.You're duty is to convey the message of truth. Allah guides whom He wills.


Ask them, even if they do not accept Islam, what they think of Islam now. This can aid you in future attempts at Dawah or even continue the conversation.

