 This is a traditional job to do in the winter as people may not have the time to shovel snow. It will be better if you bring your own equipment to do the job so you don't have to rely on other people to give you equipment.


Let people know before the snow comes that you are available for snow clearing and let them know your rates. Ask around for rates offered by other people and keep yours the same or less, to drum up business.
Pop flyers into people's mail boxes to let them know what you do, or simply tell people when you meet them.
 This is a struggle everyone has during winter and few people enjoy it. You could earn a lot of money doing this if you do it properly. Just be aware though, that many people might not want you to scrape ice off of their cars as they don't want to risk damage to the car. A few glowing references from people who know your abilities might help you to convince such people.


Scrape only the windows. You don't need to get the ice off of the body of the car and this risks damaging the paint.
 When it's not lemonade season, make hot chocolates, coffees and tea. You could even ladle soup out of a crockpot. Since you'll be handling hot items, you'll need to be old enough to do this responsibly and with care, and it's a really good idea to have mom, dad or a teen sibling help you out with this sort of venture.


Choose a sheltered, reasonably warm spot to locate your stand and make sure it's one where plenty of people will come by in a short space of time, such as a work area around lunchtime or the local sled park at peak sledding time. It's important to minimize the amount of time spent outside.
Offer cookies too. People will often like a snack with the hot chocolate.
Wear warm clothing that still lets you move with ease. Fingerless gloves can be great for holding cups, pouring and taking money.
 In harsh climates in the winter the elderly won't want to risk going outside. You could run some errands for them and shovel their driveway, etc. This is a very effective way of earning money as the elderly tend to need help.

