 Photographs can make your hair look thinner than it looks in real life. One way to fix this is to give your hair some lift at the crown.


Dig your fingers into the crown of your hair right before the photo, and scrunch the hair. It will make your hair look less like you have a “helmet head,” too.
Back comb the hair at the crown of your head, and use a little hairspray on it when styling your hair for a photo. Use a curling iron to curl back a piece of hair at the crown.
 Where you stand in group shots can make a big difference when it comes to how you will look.


Try not to stand directly next to a person who is much slimmer than you are. Props or other people’s bodies can hide body parts that you don’t particularly like (the stomach, the arms). Cinch your waist with your hands. Put one hand on either side of your waist but position the hands so they face inward several inches.
Do not be the person who stands closest to the camera because that is likely to make you appear even bigger than you are, especially if everyone else is standing at the same length from the camera. If you’re a lot shorter than someone else in the photo, try not to pose alongside a frame of reference (meaning something we all generally know the height of, such as a mailbox).



Money is a stronger sound, and it will turn the corners of your mouth upward. This will create a genuine looking smile.
The problem with the word "cheese" is that it turns the corners of your mouth downward, creating a poor angle.
 What you wear in a photo can make a big difference between whether you will look your best or not.


If more of your legs are visible in the photograph, such as by wearing a short skirt, they will look longer. Swimsuits cut high at the hip and skinny jeans with flare bottoms also create the illusion of longer legs.
Patterns can be very distracting in photos. Blue and red photograph well; there is a reason politicians often use them!Sleeves will keep the focus on your face, not your arms. Fitted clothing usually looks better in photographs than baggy clothing does. Collared shirts are nice for framing the face.
 If you have a light-colored backdrop, your face will look brighter.


This also helps the camera’s automatic settings settle on a good color balance, so it means your skin won’t look too yellow or pink in the final photo.
Take a lot of pictures. Very few people look good in pictures all of the time. So if you take more of them – many of them – you can choose the ones in which you look best.
 You want soft light to hit your face from the side, so it’s a good idea to position yourself facing a window or other natural light source.


It’s a good idea to take pictures when the sun starts to set. If you pose for a photograph when the sun is at its height, the downward sunlight will create bags under your eyes and highlight other facial imperfections.
You will look younger at dusk because the light brightens up the area under your eyes, making you look younger overall. Light is also more diffused on cloudy days, so it will lessen the lines on your face. Similarly, you could use your camera’s flash in sunlight because it will even out skin tone and create a brighter effect that is more flattering.
 It’s not a great idea to have your photo snapped after you’ve had a few glasses of wine or other alcohol.


The reason for this is that alcohol can make your eyes look droopy, in addition to causing other issues (your makeup may have started to run, and so on).
The bottom line: almost no one is at their best in photos after a couple of drinks, so avoid it., There are many sites that will allow you to upload and improve on a photo. Be careful! You want to make subtle changes, so they are not obvious.


Putting a filter on the photo or slightly boosting its brightness can even out your skin and even make your eyes look brighter.
Crop the photo to highlight the parts that look better. Boosting the color and saturation of the photo can give your skin a slightly brighter hue. You'll be amazed at the difference a little enhancement can make.

