 While there isn't really any benefit to leveling up Magikarp longer than you have to in order to get it to evolve, there are some cases when keeping a Magikarp may be more desirable.


A Shiny Magikarp is a very good trophy, and the Pokémon that it evolves into (Shiny Gyarados) is one of the most common Shiny Pokémon in the game.
You can try to raise a Magikarp to Level 100 for a challenge. A Level 100 Magikarp will also make for pretty good trading stock, as it's really tough to get.
At Level 30, Magikarp learns Flail. This is a very powerful move if your Pokémon is injured, which can make it a risky choice. If Flail suits your playstyle, it can be one of Gyarados's most powerful moves, and may be worth holding the evolution off until your Magikarp has learned it.;
, Magikarp will start trying to evolve once it reaches Level 20. You can keep it from evolving by holding "B" during the evolution, or you can let it evolve into Gyarados.


See the next section for some ways to get Magikarp to Level 20 easily.
 You'll need to do this for most battles, as Magikarp doesn't have any attacks in its lower levels. As long as the Magikarp is in for one round, it will get a share of the experience.
 This is an item that allows the Pokémon holding it to receive a portion of the experience gained from a battle, even if it didn't participate. It will still need to be in the active party, but you don't have to worry about switching it in and out of battles.
 You can drop Magikarp off at the Day Care Center in the game to have it automatically gain experience. This will take a while, since the experience gain in the Day Care is slow, but you don't have to fight any battles or keep it in your active party.


Your Magikarp won't evolve in the Day Care Center, even if it surpasses Level 20. It will immediately try to evolve after its first battle when you retrieve it if it meets the level requirements.
 If you have a stack of Rare Candies, you can quickly get your Magikarp up to the level that you want. When you feed it a candy that turns it from Level 19 to Level 20, it will start to evolve.
 In order to evolve Gyarados into Mega Gyarados, you will first need to get your Key Stone, which is embedded in a Mega Ring. To obtain the Mega Ring, you'll need to defeat your rival and then earn the Rumble Badge at Shalour Gym. Take the badge to the top of the Tower of Mastery to receive the Mega Ring.After obtaining the Mega Ring, you'll need to upgrade it by defeating your rival again in Kiloude City. Professor Sycamore will upgrade your ring after the battle.

Click here for more details on the Mega Evolution process in X and Y.
 In order to gain access to the Mega Stones in Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby, you'll need to defeat the Legendary Pokémon first. This is Kyogre in Alpha Sapphire and Groudon in Omega Ruby., This is the Mega Stone required to evolve Gyarados into its Mega form during a battle. The location of the Gyaradosite will depend on the version of the game you are playing. the ground will sparkle where the Gyaradosite is located.



X and Y - You can find the Gyaradosite in Couriway Town near the three waterfalls on the east side.

Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby - Find Chomper the Poochyena on Route 123. You can find him at the 123 Go Fish shop. Give Chomper a scratch to receive the Gyaradosite.
 This is required in order for it to Mega Evolve during battle.
 You can only have one Mega Evolution active per battle. It will keep its Mega form if you switch it out during battle with another Pokémon. The Mega Evolution will last until the battle is over or the Gyarados faints.

