 If you want to repost a picture originally posted on iFunny, the easiest way to save it to your computer or smart phone is simply to tap on the "Save" icon below the picture.


The "Save" icon looks like a small folder with a downward pointing arrow on it.
Note that this only applies to images you are reposting from iFunny. If the photo you want to repost is from another website, you will need to take a screenshot or screen capture.;
, To take a screenshot of an image on your iPhone, you need to press the "home" and "lock" button at the same time.


Navigate to the image you want to repost. Center it on the screen so that the entire image can be seen.
Hold down the "home" and "lock" button simultaneously. You only need to press these buttons quickly. Do not hold them down for more than a second.
You should hear a camera shutter sound after you release the two buttons. This sound indicates that the screenshot has been taken, and you should be able to find it in your "Camera Roll" afterward.
 To take a screenshot of an image you want to repost using an Android phone, you need to press the "Volume Down" and "Power" buttons simultaneously. This should work on Android 4.0 phones and any Android phones released after that.Navigate to the image you want to repost on iFunny. Make sure that the entire image can be seen on the screen of your smart phone.
Press the "Volume Down" and "Power" buttons at the same time. Hold them down until an animation appears on the screen to indicate that the screenshot has been saved.
From that point on, you should be able to find the image in your Gallery, within the Screenshots folder.
 The most basic way to take a screenshot on a Windows computer is to press the "Print Screen" button and to paste that image into Microsoft Paint.


Find the image you want to repost. Make sure that the entire image is visible on the screen.
Press the "PrtScn", "Prnt Scrn," or "Print Scr" key on your keyboard.
Open Paint from your Start menu.
Once inside Paint, press "Ctrl + V" on your keyboard, holding both keys down simultaneously. The image of your screen should be pasted into the program.
Save the image by navigating to "File" and then to "Save As." Choose a location and name you will be able to remember easily.
 The simplest way to take a screenshot on a Mac computer is to press the key combination "Command + Shift +3" all at once.


Find the picture you want to repost and make sure that the entire image can be seen on the screen.
Press "Command," "Shift," and "3" simultaneously. You should hear a sound that sounds like a camera shutter.
The image should automatically save to your desktop. Usually, it will be saved as "screen_shot" with the date and time listed in the name.
 Navigate to iFunny on your computer or go to your “Home” screen on your smart phone and tap once on the iFunny icon to open it up.
"If you are signed into iFunny, you should see the "Featured," "Popular," "Collective," "Commented," "Liked," and "iFunny Studio" icons on the main page of the app. The “iFunny Studio” icon is in the lower right corner. Tap or click on this icon to continue.
 You should see words that say "Upload Ready," with "Photo" and "Video" option buttons next to the label. Tap or click on the "Photo" option.


When you choose this option, a pop-up will appear asking you to "Choose the Photo Source." Tap or click on "Photos" so that you can navigate to the image you saved for re-upload.
 If you are on an iPhone or Android, you will be taken to your "Photos" or "Gallery" app, respectively. You can locate the image you saved from here. Once you find the image, tap on it once to select it.


On an iPhone, choose "Camera Roll."
On an Android, choose "Screenshots."
If you are on a computer, an "Open" window will pop up and you will need to navigate to the desktop or whichever other folder you saved the screenshot in. Double-click on the image name once you find it to choose it.
 As soon as the image has been selected, you will be taken to the "Crop" screen. Crop it as needed by dragging the resize box around the image itself, cutting away excess empty space surrounding the picture, and tap on the "Done" button to continue.


You will probably only need to do this if you are reposting an image you saved by taking a screenshot. If you are reposting an image you saved directly to your phone via iFunny, you might not need to crop it down to size.
 Next, you'll be taken to a screen with the word "Publishing" at the top. Tap or click inside the text box next to the image preview to type any caption you want to include.


If you are reposting an image, you might wish to consider crediting its original source. This is especially advisable if you are reposting content that might be copyrighted.
 With the image and caption set, tap or click on the "Publish to iFunny" button at the bottom of your screen. This will repost the image onto iFunny from your account.

