 In elementary and maybe even middle school, it was acceptable to wear sneakers with practically every outfit you owned. Now that you are a teenager, wearing nicer shoes (flats, heels, or even some types of flip-flops) will help you look your age. Athletic shoes are for exercising and walking-intensive activities, not for everyday wear.;
, Study other people your age (or the age you want to appear) to determine the best type of hairstyle for yourself. Long, stringy, neglected hair will only make you look like a middle school student. Shorter hair usually makes girls appear older, but if you're attached to your long locks, consider getting a few layers, perhaps with some sideswept bangs as well. If you are reluctant to even get a haircut, at least try parting your hair on the side if you don't already.
 If you have braces, there is little you can do besides waiting until your beautiful straight teeth are revealed, but if you need to wear a retainer or have not yet started in braces, consider asking your orthodontist about using Invisalign instead. Whitening your teeth with a whitening toothpaste or a product like Crest Whitestrips will also be helpful. If you do not have braces but need them, take action as soon as possible. You do not want to be stuck with braces in college.
 Remarkably, stabbing pieces of metal through your earlobes will do wonders for your apparent age. If you have not yet done this, what are you waiting for? If your earlobes are already pierced, consider a cartilage piercing.
 Some kinds of eyeglasses make girls appear younger. Consider switching to contacts, or if that is not an option, find some more mature-looking glasses, whether that means buying a pair not emblazoned with little hearts, or simply going frameless.
 Just a bit of mascara and eyeliner can go a long way. Don't go overboard.
 This may seem insignificant, but it makes a big difference. Either get your eyebrows shaped up in a salon or learn how to groom them yourself.
 While you're at it, if you have not started shaving your legs and underarms, now is the time. Not only will you feel and look cleaner, but this is a major step in many girls' journeys to womanhood. Consider hair removal in other areas if necessary or desired.
 Frankly, don't hide your figure. If you are used to covering up, wear slightly more revealing or figure-flattering clothes sometimes. This does not mean replacing all of your clothes with the most provocative styles. To avoid appearing desperate and trashy, emphasize just one feature at a time. For example, if you choose to wear a lower-cut shirt, pair it with classy jeans instead of a micro mini.
 As you get older, you will need to continue updating your appearance. Keep observing other people to determine the keys to looking your age.

