 Shop at American Eagle, Abercrombie, Aeropostale, Pink, Saks, Nordstrom and all the "in" stores. If you can't really afford it, just shop in the clearance sections. Clothes can be up to 80% off in all the above stores. Also check out their outlets. Before shopping there, look for coupons for up to 25% off, because on top of the 25-90% off sales, sometimes you can add 25% off on top of that with your coupon. You can also shop at places such as Loehmann's, Marshalls, TJ Maxx and Ross if you look for big names such as BCBG, Ralph Lauren, Lilly Pulitzer, Tommy Bahama, Nine West, and Franco Sarto for super cheap prices every day. Plus, if you get a Maxxinista card, you get an additional discount and credit toward your next purchase.


Save up so you can afford designer clothing.;
, Shoes make the outfit. The cheaper the shoes, usually the less durable and comfortable. If you're in middle school or elementary, just shop for cute and comfy sneakers/canvas skimmers/Chinese slippers/ballet flats at cute yet cheap stores like Payless or Old Navy. If you have some more money, get shoes like Toms, Topsiders, Uggs, and Converse. If you're in high school or college, you'll just need a few pairs:


A pair of comfortable everyday shoes that aren't sneakers, loafers or moccasins. These can be a pair of metallic leather ballet flats, a pair of pretty purple low wedges, or a pair of pony hair leopard print pointy toe flats. Look into funky neutrals for the pattern, or color such as metallics, a color you don't wear a lot but adore, animal prints, polka dots, black snakeskin. Think of low wedges, ballet flats, 1 inch (2.5 cm) thin heels, and pointy toe flats. These should be comfortable enough to walk to school in, yet cute enough to wear with a flirty sundress.
If you pick a shoe that makes a big statement, limit it to the shoe. Don't pair a leopard print flat with a leopard print purse or worse - a skin tight shirt, or a metallic flat with a sparkly white eyeshadow or headband. Tacky much?
Black is great in simple leather, since it can be changed to look like a new pair of shoes with shoe jewelry.


A pair of comfortable everyday leather knee high boots. They should zip up and flatter the calves. The should be either flats or 1 inch (2.5 cm) thin heels or low wedges. They can be a nice neutral like black. Be wary of browns and tans because these colors can clash. Look at your skin color and hair color to assess what's perfect for you. Black works for most. But blondes that like to wear earthy browns and neutrals would carry of the earth natural hippie look well with camel colored boots. Make sure you can walk in snow and they are good for rain as well. You can look for very realistic faux leather lined with Thinsulate from good brands such as Enzo Angiolini and Nine west. Unlike the item above, it should not be a metallic/color/print/polka dot/special texture--that would make it less of a staple. It should be dressy enough to wear with a sweet little dainty dress in fall, but comfy too.
With this shoe use cheap jewelry from places like forever 21, or Claire's to sassy up outfits.
 Why two? Trends change every year, but they always seem to ping pong from oversized to teeny tiny. You don't want to be a latecomer to each and every pendulum swing of the trend cycle. Pick leather because it is classic but always in the moment. Pick a color that flatters your skin tone. Don't pick up metallics, or special prints, but feel free to experiment with color. If you have a special color that you have on your everyday comfy shoe, wear it while purse shopping if you would like to have them match. Look at trends in purses; a major theme is dark colors like rouge, purple, and olive green.
 Have two pairs of flattering dark colored (navy) jeans with a super skinny leg. Two t-shirts in colors that flatter you and a construction that skims your curves but doesn't squeeze them. Look into scoop necks and v-necks. If you live in cool climate, invest in a wool coat... Check out places such as Winners, Burlington Coat Factory, TJ Maxx,and Marshalls. Also buy 3 sweaters/jackets in either scoop, v-necks, or zip-down. One should be a basic black, two should be happy colors that make you smile. If you have a school uniform, get at least 5 shirts in bright and happy colors, black or navy skinny/curve-hugging bottoms, and 2 skirts in approved colors. If you can, own at least 1 feminine and pretty sundress.
 This is the jacket that you put on over a pair of navy skinny jeans and a black sweater and it becomes an outfit. It becomes you. Think of your interests... Are you a hopeless romantic that gushes over silks and velvets in Victorian colors? Are you a rocker chick that's life anthem is "Highway to Hell"? What jacket speaks to you? What do you put with your boring basics, and it becomes your closet staple? What brings out you in this mass produced world? Scour for it in every single unknown boutique. It's pieces like this that sets your closet apart from the pack. Get one in leather if you're rocker, cute and bubbly designs if you are girly, or plaid/stripes if you are preppy.
 Girly girl, what about a necklace with a diamante heart pendant in pink? Like to make jewelry? Make something that makes you smile. Like sports? How about your favorite sports team's emblem on a pendant? Feel like a hippie? How about a hemp string or leather string with a wood pendant fashioned into a flower? If you are preppy, try some pearls. If you are the stereotypical popular girl, wear bangles. Always wear a pair of earrings. Own at least one dangle and one stud. Be creative, and most of all, have something that goes with everything and is totally you.
 Go to websites such as style.com and look at designer collections. Look at ways that clothes are being worn. Are brooches being affixed to a certain part of the jacket or dress? It is not necessarily something you have to buy. Maybe you have a wool coat that hits at your mid thigh? Maybe wearing it with your knee high boots and a pair of translucent black tights with a pair of fishnets is what you can do, just like the model in the picture is being styled. Or wearing the wool coat just like that but with a bright maroon belt? Substitute shoes and colors and certain things for your own version. Always be up to date on styles for your grade. Currently, bright colors are in, so make sure to have plenty!

, Do you have something that you used to love, but now don't like it? Something that is too heavily patterned for your taste can be cut and turned into a scarf, which can be worn as a belt. Something that is too 'blah' can be given extra texture with wearing with more colorful clothes, or can use a ribbon a touch darker for a signature look. Go to a fabric store and scour the reduced section for extra things. An old pair of canvas skimmers in basic colors can be sassed up with a ribbon or shoe jewelry. If you have an old t-shirt that you have grown out of, but love a detail in it, cut it out and hem the edges... You can sew it onto a simple white or black tank/tee to add detail. (See How to Modify Your T Shirt.) You can buy tees and tanks real cheap by the bundle, so that 3 dollar tee/tank can look 30 dollars later. Adding contrast stitching by stitching a color obviously darker or lighter on clothing to create a unique look is the cheapest way to rejuvenate a pair of 3 yr old jeans or tees.
 Get highlights if you can. Get your hair cut in long and pretty layers. Keep it straight most of the time, yet curl it every two weeks. Keep your hair soft and shiny. Wash it every other day with a good quality shampoo and conditioner. Brush it every morning and night. Style it in pretty styles like waves, straight, half-up, braid, french braid, side ponytail, high ponytail, etc. If you really want to come back with a bang, get side bangs!

, Make sure it is super clean, clear, and soft. Get into a daily routine with a face care system made for your skin.Wash your face twice a day.Exfoliate twice a week and give your self a facial once a week., wash, tone, and moisturize twice a day. Exfoliate twice a week and facial once a week.make sure to give yourself a spa day once a week or every other week. Take a relaxing bath, give yourself a mani and pedi, a facial, and a massage.
 Exercise 5-7 days a week. Do aerobics 3-4 days a week and strength training 2-3 days a week. Stretch daily too. Get into a sexy sport, like dance, cheerleading, volleyball, or any other mainly feminine sport.
 Just because you look super hot doesn't mean you are super hot. You need to be outgoing, flirtatious, and adorable. Everybody should love you, even if you weren't popular the previous year. If you had a bad rap the previous year, you can clean it up this year by associating yourself with the right people. Try to be the best you can be.
 They may not seem like much, but really they can make a difference. Get a supply list. Get your number 2 pencils in cute colors like pink or blue. Get patterned folders from brands like Vera Bradley or Lilly Pulitzer. If you can't afford those brands or don't like them, get cute folders with flowers, stripes, polka dots, etc. Get composition books in colors like hot pink, white, blue, or green. Binders should have cute patterns. Label all of your school supplies per subject. Have a different color highlighter for every subject. Get book covers, pens, markers, scissors, or anything else you need in colors like pink, white, blue, green, or other bright colors. Make sure that your patterns are hot and cute with dots, floral, stripes, gingham, etc. Get a backpack in a solid color and make sure everybody can sign it. Make sure it is slightly on the smaller side and has a matching lunchbox that fits in there. Keep most of your supplies in your locker. Make sure your locker is decorated adorably too.

