 Although Prep is a lifestyle, clothes are a major part. Try stores like Ralph Lauren, Lacoste, J.Crew, Lilly Pulitzer, The North Face,. Always go for quality over quantity. If These stores are out of your price range, that's okay; try finding polos, oxfords, khakis, Bermuda shorts, cardigans,classic-cut jeans,pea coats and sundresses at other stores. Make sure everything is very clean and well fitting.;
, You have to keep your hair well-kept and frizz-free. Wash it at least once every two days. Most preps have very polished straight hair, some have loose waves. Remember: switch it up, don't always wear your hair the same way, and make creative use of ribbons and headbands.
 Always the perfect accessory, a bag completes the outfit, and if you have more than one, you can wear the one that suits the mood you're in. Good ones include Chanel and Coach. Totes are a must and they can come cheap, Classic ones include Longchamp, Tory Burch and Herve Chapelier which come in fun colors, others can be monogrammed and can be bought at Lands End or Vineyard Vines. For school, try carrying a simple bag or purse. Remember anything covered in labels is not preppy, understated is best.
 Most preps wear Eliza B flip flops, or jack rogers sandals during warmer months. However regular leather shoes will do. Boat shoes, moccasins, and flats are the usual type of footwear. Sometimes tall fur boots over jeans on a cold winter day. If heels are worn they are usually a very small heel in a very classic style.Sperry topsiders are very preppy,too,and can be worn year round.
 A little concealer and tinted moisturizer to cover up imperfections, a hint of blush to give you some color, a little mascara and maybe eyeliner if it looks good on you and ChapStick. It's better if you use just mascara and Lip Gloss. If you are a prep, you should start wearing mascara at a good age. 12 or a little before you are 13 would be a good time to start.
 Use an acne treatment even if you have little to no acne, since they also prevent acne. Or use toothpaste, but only put it directly on the acne otherwise it will dry out your skin and produce more oil! If you are looking for good skin care go to a dermatologist, it's worth it. Eat well and drink 3 glasses of water a day. Ignore everyone that says eight glasses is good- you get most of your water from the food you eat!!! The results will show, trust me. If you have acne, don't be hard on yourself. Do what you can but don't feel badly about your skin. Acne doesn't last forever.
 Some sports that are common for preps are field hockey, tennis, lacrosse, golf, crew, sailing, swimming and diving. Some other alternatives are dance(especially ballet) or cheerleading.
 Always chew slowly and eat ONLY when you're hungry and ALWAYS stop when you're full. Eat whatever you want, but in very small portions. br>
, Study hard and get the best grades you can. Always raise your hand if you know the answer, but don't show off. It's alright if you don't know an answer, simply don't raise your hand. Always better to look smart than to open your mouth and disprove it. Do not act as if you are above others if your grade are good.
 Be nice to everyone. You don't have to be friends with everyone. Just be polite. Never be mean to anybody.
, Don't copy this article completely. Adjust it to suit you, be happy with yourself.

