;
, You've been hurt, and lets face it you're probably thinking it's the worse thing that's ever happened to you.
 Listen to feel good music, eat yummy food (but don't binge eat) watch movies (maybe not rom-coms, they might make you feel worse) and have some alone time, maybe write your feelings in a journal or scrap pieces of paper as long as you're letting your feelings flow. Even cry, believe it or not it does ease the pain. Do hobbies, paint/draw, read, visit friends or consult in a good friend of what has just occurred.
, Texts, emails any embarrassing notes you may have written in your diary or school books. Even put away those pictures of you two, but don't bin them, keep them for remembrance, but if you feel its best to throw them all out do so. Its only been the first week so you're probably full of mixed emotions and probably feel like a roller coaster, one minute your sad, the next you're alright. Maybe you're sad that you two broke up or angry that girl never gave you the time of day to talk to her or never gave you a chance. Delete them off your Facebook. It is a clean break.
 Don't think why things went so bad. Never feel that you screwed up massively and that you're never going to find anyone special ever again. There are more than 6 billion people in this world, and you're perfect guy/girl might show up when you're least expecting it. Consider what was wrong in your relationship, why you and your crush would never happen. Remember the good times you had and that person shared but if your partner wanted more than what you were prepared to give to his/her life, it probably was going to end sooner or later.
 Start a new hobby, meet new friends. You never know, you might just find that kinda girl/guy you've always wanted. Just because your last relationship/crush never worked out doesn't mean you're doomed for loneliness and being a singleton for life!

, Was your confidence knocked by that rejection? Did you think you were not worthy enough for anyone else or that that you thought that you had freckles and your ex-crush didn't go out with you and talk to you, because you thought he wouldn't like you because of the way you looked, doesn't mean that other people might think you're cute! Everyone is beautiful in there own way, inside and out! The guy/girl that didn't choose you is the LOSER and always remember you're the PRIZE.
 Learn a new instrument, you never know if you're good at something until you try! Anything to help you take your mind off things!

, Get a haircut and go SHOPPING! Maybe try out a bob, bangs or side bangs? Make sure you look after yourself and to wash every 2-3 days. Try to to become more fashion interested! Trying out a new image will make you feel BETTER.
 The worst thing is to Try to get pity from people. You'll get the odd person who will be there for you and for you to confide in, but don't go and depress everyone else about your sad breakup! Guys in your class/work may also notice and will be instantly put off by you.
, Music is absolutely brilliant to get over a breakup. Listen closely to the lyrics and you may become familiar with the lyrics and the way the artist/band is singing about. Try to listen to Pop/R&B/Indie/PopRock/Electro. Nothing too depressing like MCR or Marilyn Manson!

