 A pre-workout snack can play an important role in your performance during your exercise routine.


Before a workout, you can use a pre-workout snack to give your body an extra boost of energy to fuel yourself through your workout. The best type of snack is a carbohydrate rich food.Although hemp protein powder is a great source of natural protein, many hemp protein powders are also fairly high in carbohydrates.
Mix your hemp protein powder with milk - another source of carbohydrates - to give your body a good energy boost for your workout.
 Like a pre-workout snack, hemp protein powder can also be an excellent post-workout snack as well. After a workout, you'll need to replace your muscle's glycogen stores (your body's stored form of energy) and the protein broken down during your exercise as well.The best combination for your post-workout snacks is a combination of both protein and carbohydrates. In addition, eat this snack within two hours of finishing your workout for the best recovery and regeneration.Use your hemp protein powder mixed with milk (a source of carbohydrates) for a quick and easy high protein snack. You can also make a hemp protein powder smoothie and add yogurt, fruit and ice cubes for a thick and creamy high protein and high carbohydrate snack as well.
 Another great time to load up on extra protein from your hemp protein powder is right as you go to bed. Studies have shown that your growth hormones are elevated when you're asleep. When you drink a high protein shake before bed this can help stimulate growth and repair of your muscles.If drinking a large protein shake right before bed is uncomfortable, drink it about an hour before hitting the sack. This can help you digest your protein a little more thoroughly before falling asleep.
 In addition to appropriately timed snacks, you may need to add hemp protein powder to your diet to help meet additional protein needs as an athlete.


Although you do not need very large quantities of protein daily, you do need to ensure you're eating enough to support whatever activity you do.
If you're a "power athlete" (participating in sports that require speeds or strength) you may need up to 1.7 g of protein per kg of body weight.If you're an endurance athlete (a long distance runner for example), you may need up to 1.4 g of protein per kg of body weight.Use your hemp protein powder as snacks or in addition to meals to help ensure you're consuming enough protein every day.

