 If it's an area you're not familiar with, you'll want to know how to get there, where to park, and what traffic is beforehand. Not knowing any of these things may make you late -- a quality that may not be tolerated. Better safe than sorry!


A few days before, go scope out the area. Find parking and the right door. If you're going during rush hour, consider alternate routes to get there quicker. Knowing the area and being sure of how to get there will help you calm down and help you concentrate on what you should really be thinking about.;
, Check out their website, reports, and what others have to say about them. This knowledge will come in handy during the interview. You'll be able to cater your image to what they're looking for if you've familiarized yourself with their mission statement and policy.


If you know what you're getting into, you'll not only know if you're a good fit, but you'll also be able to turn the interview into more of a conversation. Your interviewer will be more at ease (they may not enjoy the process either) and you'll leave a friendly, knowledgeable impression. When your interviewer mentions something about their company, you can expand and ask further questions with your base knowledge.
 The idea is to be as prepared as possible -- and this goes for your look, too. If you've got your interview clothes ready, there's that much less to worry about. What's more, looking as professional as possible is a lot easier to do when you're not in a time crunch in the morning.


Stay away from jeans. Depending on the job you're interviewing for, you may need to bust out the suit. Whatever your position on the ladder, a skirt or tie never fails.
Just as with anywhere, leave the extra jewelry and flamboyant clothes at home. Good hygiene is important, too, but that's not code for bathing in perfume.Remember, this is your very first impression. Before you even open your mouth, the interviewer is considering your look.
 There may be stairs you have to climb or a locked door -- it's best to account for any obstacle.


"On time" is not punctual. Certain companies may consider "on time" late. For an interview, there is no such thing as "fashionably late." Punctuality is always, always best.

