 Toothpaste is generally considered the best method for removing Kool Aid. If you have toothpaste on hand, use that before trying other means. Stain removal or whitening toothpastes are probably your best option as they're designed to remove set in stains on teeth and will act similarly on your hands. Look for toothpaste that contains blue covarine, as this has the most immediate effect. You don't need to leave the toothpaste in any longer than it takes to remove the stain., If toothpaste is unavailable, try oils. While not generally recommended to treat Kool Aid stains specifically, oils are often useful for removing dye from skin. They might be helpful for Kool Aid as well. The following oils may help remove Kool Aid:Olive oil
Vegetable oil
Baby oil

, Yet again, kitchen products are not recommended for Kool Aid specifically but have been shown effective at removing dyes. Make sure you dilute any acidic kitchen products, like vinegar or those containing citrus fruit, with water before using them on your skin and avoid contact with cuts or sores. If toothpaste is unsuccessful, you may want to try some of the following kitchen products:Lemon juice
Salt
Vinegar

, As a strong dish soap is used to remove stains from dishes, using a small amount of dish soap on your hands may successfully remove Kool Aid stains. If other means do not work, try simply washing your hands with warm water and dish soap., If the Kool Aid stain is on your hands, you should wash your hands. Do so like you would normally wash your hands, but use the stain remover you chose instead of hand soap.


Run your hands under clean water. Let your hands get wet before turning off the tap. Be careful, however, as the Kool Aid may drip when wet and you don't want to stain your sink. It might be a good idea to lay a washable cloth towel or paper towel down on the sink while you wash your hands.
Lather your hands with the strain remover. Once your hands are wet, apply whatever stain removal method you chose and lather your hands. Make sure you get between your fingers and the back of your hands. Lather your hands for about 20 seconds. It can help to hum the "Happy Birthday" song twice to keep track.Rinse your hands thoroughly and pat dry., Oftentimes, Kool Aid gets stained on the upper lip. This is sometimes referred to as a "Kool Aid mustache" and is fairly easy to remove.


Add a small amount of the stain remover to a damp washcloth. If you're using something more acidic, like vinegar or lemon juice, you only need to add a few drops as any more could irritate your skin.Gently dab your upper lip with the washcloth until the Kool Aid comes off.Rinse off your upper lip with cool water and then pat dry., Oftentimes, people use Kool Aid to dye their hair and end up staining their hairline. If this is the case with you, you can mix in your chosen stain remover with your regular shampoo and take a shower. Be careful to rinse your hair thoroughly, especially if you used something like toothpaste which can be hard to get out of hair. You might want to do one wash using the stain remover along with your shampoo and then another wash with plain shampoo., If you also got Kool Aid on your clothes, it may not easily come out in a normal washer cycle. There are other tricks to get Kool Aid out of clothes, however.


Add liquid laundry detergent to the stained area before putting the clothing through the washer. Then, rinse it off with cool water. Make sure the water is cold and not warm, as warm water could cause colors to bleed.Run the clothing through a washer. The strain should be gone when it comes out of the washing cycle., If Kool Aid spilled on the carpet, this can be difficult to get out. Water, dishwashing liquid, and vinegar can remove Kool Aid from carpeting.


Mix together two cups of cool water, one tablespoon of dishwashing liquid, and one tablespoon of white vinegar.Clean the Kool Aid from the carpet using a washcloth. Blot at the stain until it's absorbed or removed.Wet a washcloth with clean, cold water and blot the spot on the carpet to remove the solution used to remove the stain., Use the same solution to clean Kool Aid off furniture as you used for the carpeting. Blot at the spot where the stain was until it's absorbed and then use a clean, damp washcloth to remove the cleaning solution.