 If home treatment isn’t working or your breast pain is affecting your daily life, see your doctor. Breast pain is very common and very treatable, and getting a medical diagnosis early can help you relieve pain and/ or get proper treatment for underlying causes.You can see your regular doctor or visit an ob/gyn, who specializes in treating disorders such as tendinitis.Your doctor will conduct a physical exam to check your pain as well as feel for abnormalities in your breasts. She will also likely ask for a health history, including factors such as what type of activities you do and what medications you take.Bromocriptine, an oral medication, may be prescribed., Ask your doctor to prescribe a topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory cream or purchase an over the counter option at a local pharmacy. This can help relieve pain and reduce swelling associated with breast tenderness.Apply the cream directly to the area of your breasts on which you feel pain., Because birth control pills often contain hormones, they may contribute to breast pain. Consult with your doctor about adjust the type or dose of pill you take, which may help to relieve breast pain.Skipping the placebo, or pill-free, week, may also help manage breast tenderness.Switching your form of birth control to a non-drug method may also help.Make sure to consult your doctor before stopping your birth control pills or changing them.
 If you are using hormone therapy for menopause or another condition, talk to your doctor about reducing or stopping your dosage. This may help relieve breast pain and tenderness, but may also have other side effects.Speak to your doctor about reducing your medications, going off of them, or trying alternative hormonal treatments., These drugs are short-term solutions for extreme pain and may be a last resort for those women who do not respond to other therapies. Speak to your doctor and consider taking one of these medications to help manage your breast tenderness.


You need a prescription from your doctor for both Danazol and Tamoxifen.Be aware that both of these drugs can come with significant side effects including weight gain, acne, and voice changes., If your breast pain is causing you stress, think about undergoing relaxation therapy. Although studies have not been conclusive, some evidence suggests that relaxation therapy may help relieve breast pain by controlling the severe anxiety that can accompany it.