 Rabbits have scent glands around their anus, and the excretion can build up and begin to smell after awhile. To clean this area, simply dip a cotton ball or cotton swab into warm water. Swab the area to remove all traces of excretion. If you repeat this often enough, no further cleansing should be necessary.Your rabbit may grow nervous and jumpy while you clean this area. Have a partner help you by holding and stroking the rabbit while you cleanse the scent gland area.
Rabbits also have scent glands under their chins, but these do not produce a bad smell and do not need to be cleaned.
 These are safe for rabbits and is much safer than using regular soap.
 If the excretion has been left to build up for a long time, you may need more than water to clean it. Fill a small bowl with warm water and add a few drops of gentle baby shampoo or castile soap. Dip a cotton ball in the solution and gently cleanse around the rabbit's anus, taking care to wet only the area that needs to be cleaned. Repeat until the area no longer has traces of excretion.Make sure you don't leave any traces of soap on the rabbit. This can cause skin irritation.
Do not use cold water; make sure it is sufficiently warm. Otherwise the rabbit may get cold and go into shock.
 It's not a good idea to let the rabbit's body air dry, since the longer the rabbit is wet, the higher the risk of a problem developing. Use a hair dryer on a warm, low setting (not the cool or hot setting) and make a few passes over the wet part of the rabbit's behind. Continue until the fur there is completely dry.


Realize that your rabbit may get scared very easily of the sound of a blow dryer. If this is the case, make sure you have a super absorbent towel on hand that is soft. Rub your rabbit until s/he is dry.
 Some rabbits experience incontinence, the inability to hold their urine properly. Older rabbits or rabbits with an underlying medical problem commonly experience this issue. Dried urine can build up on the fur, causing a bad smell and leaving the rabbit uncomfortable. If this happens to your rabbit,


Clean the area using a cotton ball dipped into water.
Dry the area thoroughly with a hair dryer on a warm, low setting.

Again, your rabbit may get frightened. Use a super soft towel or blanket instead if necessary.


Take your rabbit to the vet to seek treatment for the underlying problem causing incontinence.
 Long hair around the anus and underside of the rabbit can trap moisture close to the rabbit's body. Keeping the fur in these areas shaved or trimmed short helps the skin underneath dry faster and keeps the area clean. Ask your vet how to best maintain the fur on your particular breed of rabbit.