 Subsequently, additional physiological systems are activated in the body, for example, the immune, endocrine, and nervous systems (stress response)

, Experts say a cycle may develop in which stress triggers skin conditions, and then the condition leads to more stress creating a vicious stress -damage -more damage cycle.


Aggravates allergic and inflammatory skin conditions

, Not only it fuels the skin conditions but also plays havoc with normal skin beauty and makes it look dry dull and lifeless.


b) Increase production of stress mediators /hormones in body
Pituitary ACTH stimulates adrenal cortisol and glucocorticoid production. Stress influences cellular and humoral immune responses by releasing glucocorticoid, catecholamine, and CRH prolactin, substance P, and nerve growth factor and POMC peptide secretion as well as by altering cytokine profiles (Elenkov and Chrousos, 1999) initiating a chemical cascade or chain reaction of skin and body damage.
c) Depletion of feel good hormones in the body
The neuropeptides can create inflammation and an uncomfortable skin sensation, such as numbness, itching, sensitivity or tingling.
Neuropeptide also travel to the brain and ultimately increase the reuptake of neurotransmitters – meaning that stress depletes the chemicals that regulate our emotions, such as serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine.
Darkening of Skin and reduced immunity.
Neorpeptite also trigger Melonocyte Secreting hormone (MSH) which increase melanin and darkens the skin. Since melanocytes (melanin secreting cells) are linked to Langerhans skin cells linked to immunity there stress also weakens the immune system and makes it prone to free radical damage and diseases.
Stress can also impair the ability of the skin to act as a protective outer layer. Stress can make the skin more permeable, more sensitive and more reactive, which is why dermatologists recommend the use of over-the-counter moisturizers to enhance the skin barrier function.
Skin becomes more prone to inflammation and infections. If stress compromises the skin’s barrier function, more irritants, allergens, and bacteria can penetrate the skin and cause problems. Specifically, stress can make a person’s rosacea more red or acne lesions more inflamed and more persistent. It can worsen hives, fever blisters, psoriasis and seborrheic dermatitis.
Stress has Psycho social affects and could make us complex, socially withdrawn, lethargic, lack of enjoyment/sleep and taste in food, sex and other pleasurable activities until our quality of life goes worst.
,;
, Professional consultation with a cosmetic dermatologist or licensed skin therapist is vital in this whole process


Aromatherapy with essential oils like lavender, jasmine, rosemary, Dandelion, Burdock root is healing and soothing. Chamomile has a long historical use for skin ailments. One study showed that topical chamomile cream was as effective as a type of low-dose steroid cream for eczema. It can also be taken internally as a tea.
Relaxing messages could be a nice add on if done by a professional message therapist. Relaxes your muscles and eases the tension
Meditation: Meditation is good to to reduce stress like tai chi and yoga. Stress is one of the critical factors that aggravate both diseases. Meditation should be practiced daily in a calming congenial environment for at least 15-20 minutes at a time working up to 30+ minutes.
Meditation benefits the body by lowering blood pressure, decrease heart and respiratory rate, increase blood flow, and increase the relaxation response.
Deep relaxation and breathing exercises slowly inhaling and exhaling from other nostril could be done to reduce stress.
Nutrition. If allergic avoid milk, eggs, wheat products, night shades (tomatoes ,egg plants and bell peppers), overly sweet, overly spicy, corn and shellfish.
Regular exercise.
Take foods which relieve stress proven with research e.x Dark chocolate, skim milk, oatmeal, salmon, walnuts, sunflower seeds, spinach, blue berries.
If you have major depression without any obvious reasons for many months please seek the help and refer to a Psychiatrist/Psychologist for proper treatment in a stress management program .
 These strategies include psychotherapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, hypnosis, biofeedback, antidepressants and beta-blockers are effective tools for managing stress and can be a part of treatment plan for eczema .


Natural therapies for itchy inflamed skin and restore damaged outer epidermis skin barrier with coconut oil, essential fatty acids, ceramides, probiotics and water bath with boiled neem leaves.

