 Why not podcast on your opinions and thoughts of what’s happening around the world, or in your own district?;
, This is the most popular form of podcast. Why not talk about your favourite television show or review your favourite films? Or podcast about your favourite sport, or maybe you have an interesting or unusual pastime.These are good because when you talk excitedly about your interests, your listeners will became excited too.
 Some people who to listen to podcasts love to know how to make things or how things work. Keen gardener? Create a podcast about gardening. Are you a chef? Then make a podcast about how to cook certain recipes. Expert on Chinese art history? Podcast it. Workout podcasts are also very popular. Some universities are starting to produce podcasts as learning material for their students.
 There’s nothing that says that podcasts can’t be a story. Whether dramatic, thrilling or comedic, podcast listeners love to tune into a good story. You may decide to have an ongoing story arc, or have stand alone episodes, it’s up to you. Narrative podcasts are the 21st century version of radio dramas.
 Some businesses release podcasts. It is perfectly acceptable to make a podcast that promotes a product or business, but be warned: people won’t want to tune into an advertisement. You must give them an incentive: make it entertaining and not a commercial.
 There is no topic you know more about! Talk about your future goals, your love life or you can rant. These podcasts are perfect for keeping in touch with family or friends.Podcast listeners want a connection: they want to feel that you are talking straight to them as another human being, and this is one of the best ways.
 Comedians and musicians all use podcasts to test their work and promote their art. Entertainment podcasts also can take the form of audio essays, where you talk about a topic in an essay like manner. Or entertainment podcasts can be just you and your best friend having a good conversation.
 Podcasts can be used to create awareness for important causes you are involved in. Stand up for basic human rights, environmental issues, or any issue that affects your community. Why not interview someone who is working hard to combat these issues and post the interview on your podcast?

