
The Do Mindful Meditation page looks at the four postures more in depth, but sitting meditation is likely to be the most practical and give the best benefits.
It is also very important to read or practice body mindfulness meditation first as this theme actually is very similar, using a memory list from this meditation. Once you have learnt that list you can practice this meditation more easily.
By practicing body mindfulness just before element meditation will also offer the practitioner some increased awareness or concentration advantages as the mind has already relaxed and settled into meditating.;
, These ancient elemental physics are something taught well before the periodical chart we use today. The environment and universe was divided into four symbolic elements or properties, but as they have a slightly more complex physical property, their names can be rather representative.


Earth - anything solid, stiff, dry, brittle etc.
Water - anything liquid or malleable, but also represents cohesion.
Fire - temperature both hot and cold.
Wind - air, gasses, air pockets, voids, pressure changes, farts, movement etc
Part of the meditation requires the practitioner to be familiar with how these properties appear and interact. Earth is anything solid, but as dust is a solid, it needs cohesion (water element) which is the glue that holds it all together or the solids will return to raw separate atoms. As there is no simple glue-like substance that holds atoms together other than nuclear binding energy, this energy comes under the water element. Often energy would sound like it comes under fire, but it can also come under wind if it creates movement. It can always be several things at once such as microwaves creating friction (wind) which generates heat (fire) when heating food.
The subject can be simplified just by looking at ordinary water. If it moves, then it looks to currents and pressure changes in the water which belong to the "wind" element, likewise if it is mist or steam. If it has temperature either hot or cold then it is fire, if it is stiff (frozen), that is earth property. Water on its own has no intrinsic defining characteristic apart from liquidity and the cohesion of oxygen and hydrogen atoms, every other characteristic belongs to the other groups. That's what its about, putting physics into symbolic representations and groups.
In a more modern context, if you have knowledge of analytical chemistry, you can also break it down into actual elements, such as carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, calcium, potassium, phosphorous etc, but it takes exceptionally deep meditation skills to see the individual atomic forms, its fine to practice if you are aware of what (for example) bones are already made of chemically.

Focus on a specific part (such as head hair) and consider the following things:
Its basic structure - it's a solid so is earth element.
Its location - It grows out of the scalp. The scalp doesn't know there is hair coming out of it and the hair doesn't know its growing in the scalp. Hair doesn't think, it just is.
Does it change or is it permanent? - it changes by growing longer, falling out in combs or brushes, grows thin with age and so on, without our direct control.
Does it have a self, is it the self? Is this part me, mine, what I am? (etc). As it neither contains "entity" or is the "soul", it has no intrinsic self nature.
There is effectively no time limit the practitioner should spend examining each component of the body that has the earth characteristic. You can spend as long as you want doing this, a few minutes before moving onto the next part or element or the whole meditation focusing on one body component or one elemental group.
 Ask yourself the same questions, investigating the same way. You can also continue the same as above focusing on just one component, or following through until you have done the entire group.
You may also do a meditation solely on liquid elemental signatures (so not involving earth at all), but for beginners it is usually best to try all aspects to gain a more solid foundation and experience in order to develop this meditation further.
 The list found on the body mindfulness meditation page was already divided into two groups, solids and liquids and does not include wind or fire elements in the repetition, so there are two methods to proceed.
The first method will now need to leave the anatomical list behind to expand into the next groups, but for the second method the list is still very useful as it can be used as a prop. Both methods are valid, just as good as each other and can be used together or separately.
For the first method, look for the raw elemental signature. For fire it will be looking where warmth or coldness is generally, how warmth is generated or obtained - metabolic, chemical, kinetic, external environment (etc).
For the second method, the list can be used to reuse the list looking for its individual wind or fire element in each component such as (eg) lungs are a solid, but also are warm so have fire element, through movement they generate some heat energy. Head hair on the other hand is exposed to air, but does not generate its own metabolic heat, rather it gains warmth from being part of the body and warmth from relative air temperature. You can expand this exploration as much as you like.
Generally speaking, the second method is broken up to consider the first two groups again (solids and liquids) but both methods ask the practitioner to consider these things in relation to them:


Is it something that is warmed. Look at the current temperature of various parts is it heated by something else or generate its own warmth? Much of the body doesn't, which is why it gets cold.
Something that ages. Does the part you are looking at change and grow old?
Something that burns up. Do extremes of heat destroy these parts?
Something that is consumed to generate heat.
Something where it is digested and broken down through the use of heat, or generates metabolic heat - food and other wastes.
Does the heat in the body have a self, is it the self? Does heat or energy think? (etc).
It can be simply expanded that because the entirety of the universe and (ourselves) is divisible into elemental and atomic forms, which are also divisible into energy forms, the question of where does the soul remain still arises. In Buddhism, the soul is an illusion, a deception and sometimes just a general conceptual term we use to describe a person (such as, "he was a good old soul"). If energy was soul or self it logically follows, we must ask that by burning a candle, or turning on a lightswitch, are we burning "soul" or souls? The concept is silly to anyone, so where is the soul when it exists in nothing?
Metaphorically, some thinkers have actually got this far and then pounced that the emptiness must be the soul, God, or some form of divine "God-ness", as they were not able to be comfortable with the rather ego-deflating, but also incredibly vast idea that soul is simply a concept and that empty impermanence and constant dynamic change and flux is the ultimate reality of the entire universe.
 For the wind element it is to look for air such as breath or external wind, air pockets such as around the joints, in the bowels etc. It also covers movement with expansion and contraction for breathing, or the heat beat which both count as air element.
You can use either of the two methods are per the fire element. Consider these things about the body:
Look literally at air and wind in the body such as in the lungs, intestines, bowels (and so on).
Look at the small air pockets in the muscles, by bending and stretching small muscles to increase its pressure, does that make more larger scale muscle movement such as walking?
Are gases or movement part of the self, have a self, is it the self? Does movement think?

,
Consider the "non responsive" nature to elements. If you dig a hole in the ground, the ground doesn't protest. When you go to the toilet, the water doesn't protest and so on. Does energy or atoms feel individually or collectively or at all? Feeling is merely a process in the brain reacting to physical and mental stimulus, but the body feels through sensory organs and that data is used by the mind to generate sensation. The mind being broader than just the brain or the heart is a revealing part of the nature of the mind and body.
If any part at anytime becomes visible as an image, either the body component you are focusing on or the element becoming symbolic, keep giving attention to that over and over as a way to focus concentration building.
Examine further that if you were to break everything down into atoms, you can see how the elements stay together. This body is dependent on physical processes to prevent it from breaking down and falling to bits. You can also examine how the atoms that make us up also make up other things and they ultimately just change location, without any grand scheme behind it.
Keep practicing until you start to get an understanding of what you are looking at. It will take some time, but its not time wasted if you use it to find out what you really are.

