 You might turn down your relative’s advice when you asked for it. If, after some consideration, you have decided on something else, you may want to let your relative know. Tell them that you considered their advice, but chose a different route. Thank them for their time and consideration and for providing their perspective.


For example, say, “I know I asked you for advice about the divorce, and I thank you for your suggestions. I decided to pursue it differently, but I appreciate what you said.”

, If your relative consistently doles out advice, think about how this affects your relationship. The fact that your relative is a therapist can create an uncomfortable dynamic for you. If their advice makes you uncomfortable, say something. Communicate how you feel and how the advice affects you.


For example, say, “I appreciate the advice you give, especially because I know you have some expertise. However, sometimes it makes me feel uncomfortable receiving advice from you as my relative and as a therapist, and I’d rather you not give advice unless I ask for it.”
You can also say, “It’s difficult to turn down advice from you as my relative and as a therapist. I don’t like feeling conflicted in this way with you, so it would be best to keep advice off the table.”

, It is important to set boundaries early in any type of relationship. You may like getting advice, hate it, or appreciate at times and not others. If you don’t want to hear it ever, let your relative know as soon as possible. If you sometimes appreciate some advice, make this clear, too. Clear communication can help your relationship in the long-run.For example, say, “I’d like advice only when I ask for it” or, “I’m not interested in your opinions and I’d rather you kept them to yourself.”
If you enjoy talking to your relative, start conversations with what you want. For example, say, “I don’t want to hear your advice, I just want your support” or, “I’d like some advice on this.”

, If your family tends to know everything about everybody, it may be difficult to maintain a sense of privacy in your personal life. Some families may be more meddling than others, and this can be true with relatives who are therapists as well. If you’d like to have more privacy in your affairs away from your family (and especially your relative), request that your private matters stay private.


For example, if you’re struggling with mental health problems, you may not want your whole family knowing about your struggles and weighing in, no matter how good their intentions are. If you do talk to a family member, say, “I want to confide in you, yet please respect my desire for this to be confidential and do not share it with anyone else.”
You can also say, “This is a difficult time for me, and I feel overwhelmed by lots of advice. I just want support right now.”

