 Some days you just need to relax and de-stress, and a day when you have no obligations weighing on you is a perfect day to enjoy a spa. Start by creating a calming environment by turning out some lights and lighting candles. You can also put on some spa or classical music to further help you relax.You can take many different approaches with your spa day. You can fill up a bath with nicely scented bubble bath and soak in the tub until you are wrinkly, make a facial mask and relax as your pores are cleansed, do a pedicure or manicure (or both!), or apply some homemade facial and body scrub.
Use essential oils in your bathtub, in a hot pack for sore muscles, or in a body scrub for more relaxation.
 This may not seem relaxing, but when you exercise your body releases endorphins which can improve your mood. Visit your local gym to do some cardio or strength training, or find some workout videos online. If you are looking to really relax, yoga is a great alternative to extreme cardio or strength training workouts. You can also go on a long walk, which can be refreshing and a form of exercise all at the same time.Develop an exercise routine.
Learn how to burn fat and build muscle.
Do Pilates if you are looking for a combination between yoga and strength training.
Focus on a certain area of your body, like your abs, legs, arms, etc.
 When you have extended time on your hands it lends for a great opportunity to pick up a book and get through a good portion of it. Read that book you've been meaning to get into for a while, or find a new book online at a library.


You can visit Goodreads online for some book recommendations, and you can often check books out from your local library online and read them on a Kindle or Nook, so you don't even have to leave the house!
Create a cozy corner in your home to snuggle up while you read your books.
Make a cup of tea or a hot drink to go with your cozy afternoon.
 Start a new show on Netflix or Hulu and binge watch an entire season, or watch that movie that you've been wanting to see that just came out on dvd. Sitting in front of a tv with some popcorn and candy can kill at least a couple hours of your time, if not more.Find some free movies on the internet.
Create tasty snacks for movie watching.
Invite a friend over to watch a scary movie.
 You can find cheap puzzles at a dollar store, or if you live with your parents your mom or grandmother likely has one lying around the house. Start an advanced puzzle, or spend an hour or two doing an easier puzzle. Then, once you have completed the puzzle, apply some puzzle glue and frame your puzzle. Puzzles can make cool paintings or pictures for decoration.


Instead of a picture puzzle, why not try a logic puzzle or word puzzle?
You could do something more creative and make your own puzzle.
 There are endless podcasts online covering hundreds of topics that you can download to your phone or computer. Take some time to explore the different categories to find an interesting podcast and do some things around your home as you listen to it. Or you can take time to relax by listening to some music.


Find new music on Spotify or download free music.
Subscribe to a new podcast and download it to your phone to listen to later.
 Loving on your animals and spending time with them is one of the best ways to relax, and your pet will love the extra attention. Dogs have actually been used in therapy and to help assist with depression, so it's clear that they can often help lighten your mood. How can you not smile when your dog or cat climbs into your lap or sits at your feet, eager for attention?Take your dog on a walk.
Teach your pet a new trick.

Snuggle with your pet.
Give your pet a needed grooming.

Play with your pet.

