 Many parents may find that the easiest way to stop their toddler’s outburst is to give them a cookie. This is a bad practice. Using sweets and junk food as a treat can encourage unhealthy eating habits at a young age.Rewarding children for tantrums or whining can reinforce bad behavior, causing the child to think that whining or crying will result in a treat.Providing treats or food when the child is emotional may teach the child to eat emotionally.
You should also refrain from using dessert or sweets as a reward for eating vegetables or other foods at dinner. This sets up a pattern of sweets being the best part of the meal, which develops unhealthy eating habits., You shouldn’t bargain with your toddler about eating. Don’t tell your child that they can have another food or get to do an activity if they eat a few bites of food. This sets up a negative food pattern.Instead, give your toddler some control over their food by letting them choose foods. Make sure to present your child with two choices you decide on. For example, don’t just blanket ask your child what they want to eat. Instead, phrase the choices like, “Would you like grapes or an apple? Do you want chicken or fish?”

, Kids can develop eating anxiety and they can be discouraged or act resistant to eating if meals are a bad experience for them. You should make mealtimes a good experience for the whole family.Refrain from yelling at your child or other family members during meals. This might lead to negative responses.
Encourage you child to recognize if they are not hungry and put the food away and try later, but with the same food. They can still sit at the table for family mealtime even if they are not eating.
 When it is time for your toddler to eat, that should be the only activity. You shouldn’t eat dinner while watching television, playing games, or doing anything else that will distract your child from eating. Your child should focus on eating and the food.You should also not be distracted. This means everyone at the table should put away their phone, tablet, or computer during meal times. Make mealtimes about eating.

