 Even if you don't believe your injury is severe you will want to visit with your doctor. Your doctor will be able to accurately gauge the severity of your injury, offer treatment, and get you started towards a quick recovery. If you have a hamstring injury visit your doctor before beginning any treatment or recovery exercise regime.


There are three grades of hamstring injury. Grade 1 is a strain, grade 2 is a partial tear, and grade 3 is a full tearing of the muscle.
Your doctor can tell you how long your injury may take to heal.
Initial treatment methods can be demonstrated by your doctor.;
, The first step in initial treatment of a hamstring injury is to rest the affected muscle. Keeping the area inactive will prevent further injury and allow the healing process to begin and continue without further complication. Avoid using the area any more than is necessary to allow it the proper amount of rest.Severe injuries may require you to use crutches.
Stay off the injured leg as much as possible.
 In addition to resting the injured hamstring it will also be important to regularly apply ice. By applying ice to the injury you will help prevent inflammation, swelling, and pain. Make sure you are applying ice often enough and properly to get the most of your initial treatment and speed along your recovery. Always warp ice in a towel to prevent frostbite.
Apply the ice for about 20 minutes at a time.
Use the ice every three to four hours for the first four or five days after the injury.
 After a hamstring injury the area will tend to swell and expand, resulting in loss of flexibility. Because of this it is important to compress the area and limit the amount it swells. Wearing a compression bandage will help keep the swelling to a minimum and reduce the effect the injury has in regards to range of motion and strength loss.Elastic bandages should be available at most pharmacies.
Wear the compression bandage around your thigh.
Do not wear the compression bandage too tightly. If you feel loss of sensation, numbness, or “pins and needles” in your leg, immediately loosen the bandage.
 Elevating your leg will work with the other steps of initial treatment to minimize the amount of swelling. Keeping swelling to a minimum is important when trying to reduce the amount of flexibility and strength lost. Always keep the injury elevated when resting and recovering.Putting a pillow under your leg is enough to elevate the area.
 Before you begin any recovery exercise program you will need to talk with your doctor. Your doctor will be able to judge if you are able to engage in such a program, which exercises are the best fit for you, and how you can avoid re-injuring the area. Talk with your doctor to learn more about your personalized recovery plan.


Your doctor will be able to tell you what level of exercise is appropriate for your situation.
Visiting your doctor will allow you both to better track your recovery.
 To recover as completely as possible, it is important that you begin rebuilding strength and flexibility as soon as you are able. Exactly how soon you are able to start retraining your leg will depend on how severe your injury was. Ask your doctor or physical therapist when you can begin your rehabilitation process.Resting your leg after injury will help it to heal. However, this period of rest will also result in lost flexibility and strength.
Generally, light recovery exercises can begin a few days after the initial injury or once pain has subsided.
 In nearly every case of recovery and rehabilitation you will be required to work slowly to regain the intensity you were used to. Trying to exercise too much, too quickly, will likely result in further injury, improper healing, or a slower recovery process.Stop any exercise immediately if you feel any pain.
 After a hamstring injury and a period of rest, you will likely have lost flexibility in the area. A great way to recover this lost flexibility is to begin stretching the injured muscle, working slowly over time to increase the range of motion. Try the following stretch to get started regaining flexibility in your injured hamstring:Place your injured leg on a flat surface that is around hip hight.
Keep your knee from bending and try to straighten out your leg along the surface.
Gently and carefully lean toward your toes.
When leaning forward keep your back straight and bend at the hips only.
Stop when you feel discomfort or pain.
 If your hamstring is especially tight or injured, you may want to try the seated hamstring stretch. This stretch will allow you to sit comfortably and extend your leg outwards, letting you gently and safely stretch your hamstring. Take the following actions when using this stretch:Sit down on any flat surface.
Gently extend the injured leg upwards, brining your foot into the air.
Move slowly and don't over-stretch your hamstring.
Pay attention to how your hamstring is feeling during this motion.
Feeling tightness in the muscle is normal. However, feeling pain while stretching is a sign that you have pushed to far.
Stop if you feel any pain or discomfort during the stretch.
 Laying down and stretching your hamstring can offer a deeper stretch than other methods. This method can help restore range of motion and help you return to a level of activity that you enjoyed before the injury. Try the following actions to stretch your hamstring while laying down:Lay down on a flat surface.
Raise your injured knee up, bringing it towards your chest. Stop when your knee and lower leg are straight up.
Gently begin to extend your lower leg upwards, attempting to bring your entire leg into a straight line that points up towards the ceiling.
Work slowly as you attempt to straighten out your leg at the knee.
Stop immediately if you feel any pain or discomfort.
 After your hamstring injury you will likely have lost some strength in the injured leg. Before you can safely return to pre-injury activity levels you will need to regain that lost strength. The chair drag is a simple exercise you can use to start recovering strength and getting you fully active again.Sit in a rolling chair.
Extend your injured leg outwards, placing your foot on the ground.
Use your leg and hamstring to pull yourself forward.
Continue dragging yourself around in this way to build up the muscle in your injured leg.
Stop if you feel any pain or discomfort in your hamstring.
Work slowly and carefully when doing this exercise to avoid further injury.
 Resting your leg and hamstring after an injury will result in lost muscle tissue and strength. The best way to regain strength is to start small and gradually work up to greater amounts of intensity in your workouts. Always start with very light exercise to avoid injuring the area again.Walking can be a simple exercise that can build strength and avoid further injury.
Riding a bicycle can be gentle enough and still allow you to build strength in your hamstring.
Stepping up onto a high step can target the hamstring and rebuild strength.

