 Table for two, please.


Eye-n tish fur tsv-eye, bitt-uh.;
, I have a reservation at seven.


Ee-ç hah-buh eye-nuh rez-err-veer-ung oom noyn-ts-ay-n oo-err.
 Are these seats taken? You can also use: Ist hier noch frei? Is this available?


Sin-t dee-suh plet-suh noç fry OR Iss-t here noç fry

, May I see the menu, please?


Kah-enn ee-ç dee sch-pie-suh-car-tuh bitt-uh ah-enn-sh-ow-enn

, Are there daily specials?


Geeb-t ess eye-nuh Tah-guess-car-tuh

, I would like/ we would like.


Ee-ç m-ir-ç-tuh/ veer m-ir-ç-ten

, We would like to order something to eat.


Veer m-ir-ç-ten ett-vas z-oo-m ess-enn buh-shtell-enn

, I would like to order something to eat.


Ee-ç m-ir-ç-tuh ett-vas z-oo-m ess-enn buh-shtell-enn

, Do you have vegetarian/ vegan food.


Hah-ben sea ve-gah-tar-ish-ess / vay-gahn-ess Ess-enn

, I’m allergic to fish.


Eeç been gay-ge-n fish ah-lair-gish

, I would like…


Eeç het-tuh xx gair-n

, I’d like the side salad as an appetizer, please.


Eeç het-tuh day-enn b-eye-lah-g-enn- Sah-laht gair-nuh awl-ess for-shp-eye-suh

, I’d like the Wiener Schnitzel as my main course, please.


Awls how-p-t-geh-riç-t het-tuh eeç dah-s Vee-ner Shnit-tsel gair-n

, I’d like the Black Forest Cherry Cake for dessert, please.


Zoom days-air-t het-tuh eeç gair-n day-n shv-arts-veld-er keer-sh-tor-tuh

, We would only like to order a drink.


Veer m-ir-ç-ten n-oo-r eye-enn ge-trenk buh-shtell-enn.
 What kind of beer do you have?


Vah-ss fur beer hah-ben sea

,


K-ir-nen sea eye-n beer emp-fay-len

, May I please see the wine list?


Kah-nn eeç dee vine-car-tuh bit-tuh ah-n-sh-ow-en

, (Can you suggest a wine?).


K-ir-nen sea eye-nen vine emp-fay-len

, Can I smoke here?


Kah-nn mah-n here r-ow-ç-enn

, Where is the washroom?


Voh iss-t dee twa-let-tuh

, May I have the check please?


Kah-nn eeç dee re-ç-noo-ng bit-tuh hah-ben

, I’d like to pay, please.


Tsah-len bittuh

, Before you can begin learning vocabulary and phrases, it’s a good idea to learn the alphabet in German. Because German words are pronounced as their written, knowing how to say the alphabet will help you with pronunciation.


The alphabet in German has the same 26 letters as the English alphabet. There are four additional sounds that are not included in the actual alphabet: ä, ö, ü, and ß (which is increasingly written as “ss”).You pronounce the letters in the German alphabet as follows: a- ah; b- bay; c- tsay; d- day; e- ay; f- eff; g- gay; h- hah; i- eeh; j yot; k- kah; l- ell; m- emm; n- enn; o oh; p- pay; q- koo; r- err; s- es; t- tay; u- oo; v- fow; w- vay; x icks; y- oop-si-lohn; z- tset.You pronounce the additional letters as follows: ä similar to the e in melon; ö similar to the i in girl; ü no equivalent in English; ß double s sound.
To hear how the alphabet sounds, listen the pronunciation video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6vquyjxImk. A native German speaker walks you through each sound.There are several diphthongs, or combinations of letters, in German that are useful to know: th- tay; sch- shh. Vowel diphthongs, like “ie” or “ei” are always pronounced like the second letter. Thus, “die” (the) is pronounced like “dee” and “Eier” (eggs) sounds like “eye-er.”
There are some additional vowel diphthongs that you should know: ai- eye; au- ow; äu- oy; ea- ay ah; ee- ay; eu- oy; ui- oo ee., Now that you’ve got the basics with the alphabet, you’re ready to learn the German pronunciation. This will help you learn how to order food without confusing your waiter.


Unlike English, you pronounce German words just as they’re written. That is, you say each syllable, making famously long German words like Geschwindigkeitsbegrenzung (ge-shvin-dig-kites-be-grenz-oong) (speed limit) relatively easy to pronounce.
Unlike English, German has very few exceptions to this rule. For example, you won’t need to learn that “rough” and “although” have different sounds. The words “sprechen” (to speak) and “rechen” (to rake) sound exactly the same.
Here are some examples of food words that show how German pronunciation follows its spelling: Wasser (vah-ss-er, water); Cola (koh-la, soda); Saft (sah-eff-t, juice); Bier (beer, beer); Wein (vine, wine);Frühstuck (froo-stoock, breakfast); Abendessen (ah-bend-ess-enn, dinner); Suppe (soo-puh, soup); Käse (kay-suh, cheese); Fleisch (fly-sh, meat); Nudeln (noo-dell-enn, noodles or pasta); Obst (oh-b-st, fruit).
 There are some key phrases in German that anyone ordering food or visiting a restaurant should know. Learning these will make your culinary experience easier and more pleasant.


The words for “yes” and “no” in German are “ja” and “nein.” If you want to say “I would like,” the German equivalent is “Ich möchte…”
Many restaurants in German-speaking Europe allow you to seat yourself, but if not, you can ask for a table by saying “Ein Tisch für zwei, bitte” (A table for two, please.).
If you have a reservation at a restaurant, you say “Ich habe eine Reservierung um neunzehn Uhr” (I have a reservation at seven.).
Most restaurants will post a copy of their menu on the outside so that people can see what they offer, but you can also see a menu by asking: “Kann ich die Speisekarte bitte anschauen” (May I see the menu?).
Once you’ve looked at the menu and want to order food, say “Wir möchten etwas zum Essen bestellen” (We would like to order something to eat.).
If you only want to get a drink, for example at a bar- called a Lokal or Bar in German- you can say “Wir möchten nur ein Getränk bestellen” (We would only like to order a drink.).
If you are a vegetarian or vegan, you can ask “Haben Sie vegetarisches/ veganes Essen” (Do you have vegetarian/ vegan food?).
If you are allergic to something, you would say “Ich bin gegen Fisch allergisch” (I’m allergic to fish.).
 In addition to knowing key phrases to use when ordering, you’ll also want to learn vocabulary that you can use in any food-related situation from a restaurant to a bar or grocery story. The following is a basic list of food and drink vocabulary that you’ll see often.


All nouns in German are capitalized. This will help you identify food-related vocabulary on a menu.Drinks: Wasser (water) (Sprüdelwasser, Stilles (carbonated water; still water); Cola (soda); Milch (milk); Saft (juice); Bier (beer); Wein (Weisswein, Rotwein, Rosé (wine, white wine, red wine, rosé); Cocktail (cocktail).
Food: Frühstuck (breakfast); Mittagsessen (lunch); Abendessen (dinner); Vorspeise (appetizer); Hauptgericht (main course); Dessert/ Nachtisch (dessert); Salat (salad); Suppe (soup); Käse (cheese); Fleisch (meat); Nudeln (noodles or pasta); Gemüse (vegetables); Obst or Früchte (fruit).
Spices and Sauces: scharf (spicy); salzig (salty); Salz (salt); Pfeffer (pepper); Senf (mustard); Ketchup (ketchup); Essig (vinegar); Öl (oil).
Cutlery terms: Löffel (spoon); Gabel (fork); Messer (knife); Teller (plate); Schale (bowl); Glas (glass); Tasse (cup); Serviette (napkin).
 There are regional differences in vocabulary and pronunciations between the Germans, Austrians, and Swiss, just as there are differences between Americans, Canadians, the English, and Australians. Knowing this will prepare you for different sounds and words when ordering you food in these different places.


Switzerland, in particular, has a very different dialect, called Swiss-German or Schwiizerdüütsch, to that spoken in Germany or Austria. It is almost unintelligible even to native German speakers.Some examples of differences you might encounter when ordering food: Brötchen (roll) is used in Northern Germany, while Semmel and Mütschli are used in Bavaria/ Austria and Switzerland, respectively; Sprüdel or Sprüdelwasser (carbonated water) is called Mineral in Austria; Pilze (mushrooms) are Schwammerl in Bavaria and Austria, and Champignons in Switzerland.
 Every country has different customs restaurants or food stands. Learning about food and restaurant culture will help you avoid unpleasant situations or offending people.


Europeans generally spend more time in restaurants enjoying the food and conversations than eating quickly and leaving. It’s thus not uncommon to wait longer for servers to arrive at your table, take orders, deliver food, or collect your payment.There are still many places that do not take credit cards, so always make sure you have enough cash. Tipping is generally 5-10%.If you want to get your server’s attention, put your hand up in the air and make eye contact.
It’s not uncommon to sit at a table with people you don’t know, especially in traditional restaurants (called Gaststätten) or beer gardens (Biergarten)., If you find a restaurant that looks nice and you decide to try it out, it may or may not have a host who seats you. Either way, there are a couple of useful phrases that will help you find a seat in any location.


Remember that it’s not uncommon to be seated with people you don’t know, especially if the restaurant has longer family-style table.
If you’re in a restaurant with a host or hostess, ask for a table by saying “Ein Tisch für zwei, bitte” (Table for two, please.).
If you’re in a restaurant or at a food stand and want to know if a table or space is free, you can ask a server or the people at the next table/ seat “Sind diese Plätze noch frei” (Are these seats taken?) or “ist hier noch frei” (is this available?).
 If you need a menu or are just interested in the daily specials that many restaurants in German-speaking offer, you can ask your server, the host/ hostess, or the bartender.


If you want to see a regular menu, ask “Kann ich die Speisekarte bitte anschauen?” (May I see the menu?”).
If you are interested in daily specials, which are often local specialties, you can ask your server “Gibt es eine Tageskarte?” (Are there daily specials?).
Many restaurants now offer the so-called “Businesslunch,” a fabricated “English” word that simply means the restaurant offers a lunch special that usually comes with a soup or salad, a main course, a dessert and coffee.
 German-speaking Europe has wonderful cuisine and an equally wonderful selection of drinks and local specialty beverages. Knowing your various options and the names for them will help you make an informed choice that you’re sure to enjoy.


If you’re interested in ordering in beer, ask your server “Was für Bier haben Sie?” (What kind of beer do you have?). The word for brewery is “Brauerei” and it’s not uncommon to see “Bräustüberl” that are restaurants affiliated with a specific brewery.
If you want to ask your server to suggest a beer, ask “Können Sie ein Bier empfehlen?” (Can you suggest a beer?).
Know that a beer is not a Bier. While the German word for beer is Bier, you almost never order by saying “Ich möchte ein Bier” (I would like a beer). Every region has its specialty beers and names to go with them. In Cologne for example, you may want to try Kölsch, while in Bavaria you might want to try a Weissbier (a wheat beer) or a Helles, which is similar to a Pilsner. In the north, you’re likely to find Pils, which is a Pilsener to English speakers.
If you want to see the wine list, say “Kann ich die Weinkarte bitte anschauen?” (May I see the wine list please?). If you want your server to suggest a wine, ask “Können Sie einen Wein empfehlen?” (Can you suggest a wine?).
Germany, Austria, and Switzerland have incredible wine cultures. Beyond Germany’s famous Riesling, try out local vintages like Silvaner in Rheinhessen, Grüner Veltliner or Zweigelt in Austria, or St. Saphorin in Switzerland.
A “Schorle” is generally fruit juice spritzer, thus “eine Apfelschorle” is an apple juice spritzer. If you want a wine spritzer, though, you’d order a “Weisswein Spritzer.”
Restaurants in German-speaking Europe don’t generally serve tap water. If you ask for “ein Wasser,” for example, you’ll get bottled water. For tap water, ask for Leitungswasser, but know that the server may get irritated by this request., Once you’ve ordered your drinks, you’re ready for the main event- your meal. Germany, Austria, and Switzerland all have excellent local cuisines that serve everything from Wiener Schnitzel to Maultaschen and Käsefondue. But if you’re not in the mood for typically heavier Germanic fare, you also have many options, especially in larger cities like Berlin, Vienna, or Zurich.


Most restaurants in larger cities and towns will have menus in German and English if you’re not entirely comfortable with a German menu. Likewise, most people in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland speak some English, especially in service positions. Don’t be surprised if your attempts to order in German are answered in English. Your server is likely trying to make you comfortable or try out their own English.
If you’re ready to order you can say either “Wir möchten bestellen” (We would like to order or “wir sind soweit” (we’re ready, which is less formal).
As you order each course, say “Ich hätte xx gern.” (I would like…) For example, if you want a small salad to start, you would say “Ich hätte den Beilagensalat gerne als Vorspeise” (I’d like the side salad as an appetizer, please.). For your main course you can say “Als Hauptgericht hätte ich das Wiener Schnitzel gern” (I’d like the Wiener Schnitzel, please).
Ordering dessert is formulated a bit differently: “Zum Dessert hätte ich den Schwarzwäldertorte gern” (I’d like the Black Forest Cherry Cake for dessert, please).
Know that some restaurants still allow smoking, though it’s becoming increasingly uncommon. If you want to smoke, ask “Kann man hier rauchen?” (Can I smoke here?).
If you need to use the washroom, ask “Wo ist die Toilette?” (where is the washroom?).
 If you’ve finished eating and you’re ready to pay for your meal, ask “Kann ich die Rechnung bitte haben?” (May I have the check please?) or say “Zahlen, bitte” (I’d like to pay, please.).

