 There are a few companies that offer web free hosting services and make it easy to quickly set up a simple website with your own personalized content. The tradeoff for this is typically a custom subdomain (containing the company's name) and significantly limited options for the look and feel of the site. Yola, Google Sites, Freehostia, and Biz.nf all offer some basic website design and hosting options for free. If you plan to post continuously or wish to have a site with a greater number of distinct pages (e.g. a blog), options like Tumblr, Blogger, or Wordpress may be a better fit. They offer more limitations on the look of your free web site but little to no restriction on the overall size.
Shop around before you choose. Different web hosts offer different features and all will limit the options in their free packages. Consider the features that matter most to you before signing up.
Free web hosting usually lacks a data backup plan so be extra careful about backing up your files.;
, Most services will require an email address and other verifiable identity information to get started. Some may require credit card information as well if payment is to be invoked automatically based on your specific usage, but this should be rare.


If you have a Google account already, signing up for Google Sites or Blogger will be as easy as signing in and then navigating to the correct page.
 Many (but not all) free web hosts also supply free domain names or subdomain names (URLs containing the company's name). Typically you will be prompted to determine a URL shortly after signing up and will first have to check for it's availability.


Choose your domain name carefully. While some hosts may allow for changes to your custom domain name in the future (subject to availability and typically adjustable through your profile settings) others may not.
 Free website hosts may not let you use fully customize the look and feel of your website but instead offer pre-made themes with customizable options. For many this can be a blessing, as these templates and tools allow for the easy creation of an attractive and professional-looking website.


You should be able to browse available templates and sample websites before signing up for a given service.

