 Though it may be fun to jump right into an essay without knowing exactly what you're talking about, the best thing you can do is to do your research first so you build a solid foundation for your thinking. Get the texts you need, take notes, and read them until you feel that you've mastered the topic and have enough information to write an essay or formulate an argument.


Make sure that the materials you use are credible and come from established professionals. Don't do your research on Wikipedia.
Take enough notes to be comfortable with the subject.
Be familiar with MLA or APA citation so that you can use it for your essay.
 Once you've done your research, you'll need to write a thesis statement, which will be the central argument or point that you'll be making throughout the paper. Though you can outline some basic ideas first or find several main ideas that stand out to you, you should not begin writing the essay without a clear idea of what your thesis statement should be. One example of a thesis statement is the following: "New York City is a better place to live than San Francisco because it has more diversity, more opportunities, and better weather." Here are the characteristics of an appropriate thesis statement:Clarity
Precision
The ability to be argued
The ability to be demonstrated
Detail
The use of the third person

, Write a thesis statement that makes an argument clearly and precisely and which can be argued. You can't write a thesis about how unicorns exist because you can't prove that, and you can't write a thesis about how smoking is bad for your health because that can't really be argued. Instead, pick an interesting, relevant argument to your subject matter and pick at least two or three specific details to help you argue your point. Here are some examples of different thesis statements:A thesis statement for an analytical essay:"The Great Gatsby's three central themes are loneliness, the corruption of wealth, and the loss of great love."
A thesis statement for an argumentative or persuasive essay: "SAT scores should not be used as a factor in college admissions because they do not accurately gauge intelligence and are socioeconomically biased."
A thesis statement for an expository essay: "Most high school students spend their time balancing homework, friends, and extracurricular activities."

, Once you have a thesis statement, you should create an outline that will serve as the road map to the rest of your paper, which will help you know exactly what to put in each paragraph. This will make your thoughts logical and organized and will keep you from getting overwhelmed or changing your mind halfway through the paper. The outline should include the introductory paragraph, the body paragraphs, and the concluding paragraphs, citing as much specific evidence as possible. Here's an example of an outline of an essay with the following thesis statement: "New York is the best city for young professionals because of its attractions, weather, and job market."Introduction: 1) hook, 2) three main points, 3) thesis statement
Body paragraph 1: attractions: 1) restaurants, 2) clubs and bars, 3) museums
Body paragraph 2: weather: 1) beautiful winter snow 2) pleasant spring 3) refreshing rain
Body paragraph 3: job market 1) opportunities in finance and business 2) opportunities for the arts 3) networking opportunities
Conclusion: 1) return to the hook, 2) restate main points, 3) state thesis

