 As soon as a burn occurs, stop what you are doing. Make the scene safe by shutting off any open flame or burner so no one else gets hurt. If there is a fire that is out of control, get out of the area as soon as possible and call emergency services.


If it is a chemical burn, stop and clear the area for safety. Remove the chemical from your skin if possible. Use a dry brush for dry chemicals, or rinse the burn under cool water.If it is an electrical burn, turn off the source of the electricity and move away from any wires.;
, If the fire is out of control in your home, call 911 to get the fire department to your area. Call poison control if you are unsure whether the chemical could cause other side effects. For an electrical burn, call 911 if the wire is still live, or if the burn was caused by a high-voltage wire or a lightning strike.If you are unsure if the wire is still live, do not touch it directly. Touch it with a dry, nonconducting source like a dry piece of wood or plastic.People who have suffered electrical burns should always seek medical attention, as the electricity can interfere with your body's natural electrical impulses and cause severe side effects., Look at the burned area of the hand to assess the damage. Note the placement of the burn on the hand. Look at the appearance of the burn and note specific characteristics. This will help you decide which type of burn you have. Burns are classified as first-, second-, or third-degree, depending on how deeply they have burned the skin. First-degree burns are the mildest type, while third-degree burns are the worst. Different methods are used to treat burns depending on their degree.If the hand burn is on the palm, you should seek prompt medical attention. Burns on the palm could cause long-term disability.If you have circumferential burns on your fingers (meaning the burns wrap around any or several fingers), seek prompt medical attention. This type of burn can restrict blood flow and in severe cases could require amputation of the finger if left untreated.