 Know who you are dealing with. Most parents get angry at a sign of disrespect, or if you grow angry at them for not immediately giving you what you want. Know your parent(s).;
, Do you have a tendency to get angry and yell? There is a possibility that you can get disrespectful or say something your parents claim is disrespectful. Work on avoiding these things from coming out while negotiating. This way you stay on the happy side. If you do accidentally slip up, remember to apologize immediately. This is going to require you to be in control of yourself and get rid of your pride.
 Make them say WOW, they have really matured. Don't fight with them, and every time it starts, if you accidentally slip up that is, remember that they are not worth it, but apologizing for your goal is.
 Get some background information on the topic, the good sides of it, and even some of the bad sides that you know won't effect your parents decision very much. Have explanations as to why they don't need to worry about these bad sides.
 Remember, be polite, but don't suck up right after you negotiate, try to suck up beforehand. Compliments on a mother's hair or a father's tie, how much you appreciate their hard work around the house, cleaning, or how hard they work at their job to give you the things you have. When you are negotiating, use your research well, word it in non-offensive ways, and be or at least act like you are understanding of your parents views.
 Ask them why, but be polite. If they say they don't need to explain themselves, tell them it makes it easier for you to accept it. If they still don't say, then let them know you respect their decision, and then walk away. You can use this, and spend more time coming up with good, positive counters as to why you should get what you want, and explain to them that you understand why they do not want you to get or do what you are negotiating. Also, suck up some more and do be on your best behavior. When negotiating, never bring up your old points, parents will keep them in mind. Be polite once again, and be respectful. Avoid the words but, calm down, and don't ever give them orders, avoid telling them what to do. Never get angry at them for their final decision.
 Also, suck up some more and do be on your best behavior. When negotiating, never bring up your old points, parents will keep don't ever give them orders, avoid telling them what to do.
 Keep on doing things to show them that you've earned it.
 Also show them how it might be worse for them if they disagree with what you are saying.

