 There is increasing amounts of evidence that suggests that meditation can help you to tackle stress, which could in turn help you sleep. Research shows that practising twenty minutes of meditation a day can reduce stress and cortisol levels.Start slowly and just try to incorporate 3-5 minutes at a time. Meditation can seem strange or alien, so it’s important that you don’t put pressure on yourself.


If you don’t feel like sitting cross-legged and reciting a mantra, you could try walking meditation.
While walking, concentrate on the feeling of your body walking,
Then focus on the feeling of your breath, and then the air and wind on your skin., Yoga can help you to relax your body and mind before you go to bed. Keep the routine slow and controlled, and don’t over exert yourself. A simple routine of five to fifteen minutes, with only simple poses, is all you should do.Some of the basic poses to try include:


Standing bends. Standing up straight, raise your hands above your head. Feel the stretch in your spine, and then gently bend down. Keep your back straight.
Child’s pose. Sit on your heels, and place your arms out either side of you. Lower your body over your knees and as you do this gently bring your forehead down towards the floor., One good way to try to relax your body and help you get to sleep is to practice some progressive muscle relaxation techniques. Lie in bed and then tense a muscle, contracting and flexing it, for around ten seconds. Don’t put too much strain on the muscle, but feel the tension building up. Release the muscle and relax. Now move on to the next muscle and repeat the process all over your body.


You can start from your feet and work all the way up your body. Finish by tensing and relaxing your face.
Try visualising the muscle that you are tensing as you go., Doing some deep breathing exercises can help you to lower your heart rate and relax. If you are struggling to sleep and are becoming anxious, deep breathing can help. The effects of deep breathing are often more psychological than physiological, but it can help you to calm your heart and breathing rate in times of stress or anxiety.


Breathe in deeply for three or four seconds, with your hand on your belly and try to breathe in and out. Breathe in through your nose and exhale out through your mouth. Feel your diaphragm move up and down as your belly rises and falls.
Breathing this way will stimulate the vagus nerve and the parasympathetic nervous system. By stimulating the PNS you will relax your body and lower your heart rate and anxiety.
 Sleeping problems are often associated with stress, anxiety and depression. If you are regularly having trouble sleeping, consider what other factors might be contributing to this.If you are particularly stressed out about an upcoming deadline, try to manage your workload and understand that’s normal to get stressed sometimes. Positive thinking can help you to be more relaxed and get a better night’s sleep.A stressful lifestyle can result in higher levels of cortisol in your body, which in turn can cause sleeplessness.If you have nightmares that disturb your sleep, these may also be connected to stress or emotional trauma., Ensuring that your bedroom is as calm and soothing as possible will help you get to sleep without any pills. Avoid bright colours on the walls, try not to have a TV or computer in your room, and make sure that it is dark. You can get some blackout curtains if there is light coming from outside your window, and if necessary, try wearing an eye mask.


The temperature of your room is also important. A temperature of between 60 and 65°F (16 and 18°C), is considered the ideal for peaceful sleep.
If it is noisy, try wearing ear plugs to block out the sound.
Having pictures of friends and family, or works of art, around your room may make you feel more relaxed and at ease.