 Senior dogs often have issues with controlling their urination and bowels. If they’re having frequent accidents indoors or dribbling urine around the house, it’s a cause for concern that needs to be addressed. Diapers might be part of the solution.Some dogs are only affected during their sleep. Check regularly to see if their bedding has been soiled since this can also be a sign of incontinence.;
, Even if your dog is not leaving puddles around the house, they could be dripping urine. Constant licking of their urethra area or skin irritation around it are also signs of incontinence.
 Not all incontinence is permanent; it may be a symptom of a temporary or treatable condition, like anxiety or a urinary tract infection. Or, it may be a sign of a more serious illness. Make an appointment with your vet to determine the cause of your dog’s incontinence and see if it’s likely to be a long-term issue., If your dog’s current incontinence is leaving a mess on their skin, it’s putting your pet at risk of infections and irritations. If that’s the case, using diapers is a good way to mitigate their risk of infection and keep them feeling clean and comfortable.This will also save you time since you won’t have to wash them several times a day.
 If your pet has diarrhea, diapers are not likely to be a good option for hygiene reasons. Diarrhea is messy and contains a lot of acid, which can burn your dog’s skin if you don’t clean it up immediately.
 Disposable diapers range from about $10 - $15 per 12-pack. Washable diapers can range anywhere from $7 - $30 per diaper. You are likely to need 2-5 diapers per day, which can be a considerable expense. If you can’t afford it, you may have to consider alternative options of dealing with your dog’s incontinence.In the long-run, washable diapers are more cost-effective. However, they’re also more labor-intensive since you’ll have to do a lot of laundry.
There are also other related accessories, like suspenders to keep diapers in place.
 If you use diapers on your dog, they will need to be changed often to prevent rashes, infections, and messes. If you or another carer are not going to be around to take care of your dog throughout the day, you may need to consider an alternative to diapers.If your dog defecates, someone should be on hand to change their diaper immediately.
If your dog is dealing with mainly urinary issues, you should still change your dog’s diaper and clean their genitals a few times a day.
 If incontinence is your dog’s only significant health issue, using diapers to make their old age more comfortable is probably a good idea. If diapers are the most convenient solution to your pet’s issues, then they’re also probably a good idea for you as a pet owner.On the other hand, if your dog consistently resists wearing diapers or doing so is significantly affecting their comfort and/or mobility, it’s probably not the best option for your pet.

