 Work with your doctor and a nutritionist to figure how many calories you burn and your daily caloric intake. If you burn more calories than you take in, you'll lose weight. On average, you'll need to burn 3,500 more calories than you consume each week to lose 1 pound (0.45 kg). Your guidelines might be more or less based on your height, weight, and lifestyle., Get at least 64 fluid ounces (1.9 L) of water each day. Green tea will help to stimulate your metabolism and keep you alert. As a bonus, both drinks are calorie-free. Add lemon to your water and stevia to your green tea. Both will add a fruity or sweet burst to your drink and also help to curb your appetite., Hormonal changes during menopause increase your sensitivity to simple carbs, which can wreak havoc on your metabolism. Pass on the sugar, baked goods, white bread, and white rice. Avoid processed foods and fast foods, which rely too heavily on processed corn and corn syrups., Complex carbs fill you up and give you energy.They also make great substitutions for simple carbs. Go for spaghetti squash instead of pasta. Eat brown rice or quinoa instead of white rice. Make your sandwiches with whole grain bread instead of white bread. Enjoy a bowl of cooked rolled oats for breakfast. Even potatoes can be a healthy option without the butter or other fatty spreads., They're nutrient-dense and will keep you full. Slice up a banana in your oatmeal for sweetness and potassium. Snack on grapes or berries if you feel a sugar craving. Toss mushrooms into your spaghetti squash to replace meat. Add garlic and/or onions to your meals to prevent inflammation.Load up on dark leafy greens like kale. They're an excellent source of calcium, which you need more of during and after menopause.Add them to your sandwiches and salads or sauté them with olive oil and garlic for a tasty side dish.
 As a rule, you shouldn't drink too many calories, which alcohol contains. If you have a family history of heart disease, one glass of red wine per day is fine, but let that be your limit. Avoid liquor, beer, and mixed drinks that contain added sugar., Protein keeps you full and promotes healthy muscles. However, too much animal protein can trigger acidosis, which can lead to osteoporosis.Instead of animal protein, opt for legumes like peas, beans, and nuts. If your grocery store has a bulk aisle, get your protein there. If you don't have access to a bulk aisle, buy packaged peas, beans, and nuts that don't contain added salt.


If you're not sensitive to soy, soybeans, tofu, and edamame are must-haves. These foods contain plant protein and mimic the effects of estrogen in the body. By eating these superfoods, you'll not only fight weight loss, you could also alleviate those hot flashes. Just stick to whole soy, instead of byproducts., Eating saturated fat adds unnecessary calories and increases your risk of heart disease and Type-2 diabetes. Avoid margarine, butter, shortening, lard, or any other foods that contain saturated fat. Substitute them with healthy alternatives like olive oil and avocado oil.