 Your bank or credit card company will allow you to change your contact information either through their website or over the phone. Use the customer service number printed on the back of your card to call your credit card issuer. If changing this information online, you will likely need to look for a section of the website marked “Change Address/Phone Number” or something similar. Use the “Help” or “FAQ” section if you can’t figure out how to do it. Bear in mind that you will need to have an online account already set up with your credit card issuer to change your address over the Internet.


Capital One’s option for changing your address can be found on their customer service page.Discover provides instructions for changing both your address and name on their site.American Express’ system for changing your contact information works similarly to Capital One’s.;
, Most websites that need your credit card information on file will have a “Billing” section where you can update your credit card info if necessary. Such changes can range from adding a totally new card to simply updating your current card’s expiration date. Either look for the site’s billing section or go to the “Help” section to find it.


When changing your payment information on iTunes, remember that if you have Family Sharing turned on you will need to have your Family Organizer update the information.Netflix allows you to update payment and address information on the same page.You can manage your Amazon shipping and billing addresses in between purchases or while you are in the process of making a purchase.If your account is disabled because your card expired, updating the card will generally cause your account to be re-activated.If you use a debit card for subscriptions, the process of changing them is the same as it is for changing credit card-related information.
 Most organizations that require your credit card to process recurring payments will have a hotline that you can call to change the information related to the card they have on file for you. In some cases these hotlines will operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In other cases they will only operate during business hours, such as 8am through 5pm, Monday through Friday.


Check the organization’s website for a help line. This information is usually listed at the bottom of the main webpage or under the “Contact” page.
 If you receive a confirmation of payment in paper form each month, your statement should include a section where you can update your credit card information by filling in the appropriate fields by hand. Fill out these fields and send the statement back through the mail.
 If you need to change your name for a reason such as getting married, you’ll need to file official paperwork with your state of residence before you can change the name on your credit card. This is because credit card companies will generally require official documentation such as a copy of your government-issued ID displaying your new name before they can make the change. The process varies by state, but generally you will need to file for a new Social Security card as well as driver’s license or other ID before you change the name on your card.Because the process of legally changing your name is different depending on the state in which you reside, you should contact your local court clerk to determine the specific requirements.In Virginia, for instance, you need to fill out official paperwork with the county court before going to the DMV and utilities to change the name on your official documentation.