 and bounces up and outward. However, there are acceptable variations on the standard tutu, as well, such as more flowing fabrics that simply seem like a ballerina ought to be wearing them. In general, tutus are short but they don't have to be; there are mid and three quarter length tutu options as well.


Tutus may be one layer or layered.
Tutus can be made from a variety of colors, or be one single color.
Tutus can be plain (just the netting fabric) or there may be embellishments, such as a ribbon border, some ribbon bows, beading, sequins, etc. The fancier it looks, the better it will be for evening wear, while less embellished versions are great for day wear.
Some tutus are even reversible (different color each way around), making them more versatile within your wardrobe.
Real ballet tutus are a bit full on for fashion wear. But there's nothing stopping you trying...;
, Visit fashion stores that carry skirts. Many of the younger-fashion oriented stores will carry at least one tutu, such as Claire's, Sanrio's Hello Kitty stores or your usual favorite fashion store.
 Traditional colors are white, black, pastel pink or other shades of pastel. In more recent times, tutus have branched out into other colors, such as hot pinks, neon greens, rainbow shades and more. When deciding on the color, be sure to consider your existing wardrobe and whether the color match will enable you to make use of your current clothes. If not, you'll be up for buying new matching clothing and accessories too, which can add up quickly.


If you're not sure, stick with black or white or silver/gold; these are nice and neutral and are easily paired with many other color schemes.
 The tutu is already providing sufficient bulk for your look, so it's good to keep the other items as fitted and small as possible. Let the tutu be the statement piece.
 For a more modest look with a short tutu, simply wear it over the top of your leggings or jeans. It spices up the usual and gives you a girly touch without having to bare the legs.


Wear skinny jeans; anything bulky or baggy will look odd and overwhelming. Consider matching the color, although blue or black denim are just fine with most other colors.
 Pair it with tights or bare legs. Add some flats and you're good to go.


During winter, a thin turtleneck sweater, chunky tights, short boots and a tutu makes a very original (and cute) statement.
 After all, the two have exactly the same origins––ballet––so it makes for a super sweet combination. Try to match or complement the tutu and ballet flats color wise.


For the ultimate "ballet-hits-the-street" look, wear a wrap cardigan, don some leg warmers and put your hair in a bun.
Shoes could also be heels but with the standard ballet shoe ribbons wrapped from heel right up your legs.
 Wear heels. Add your sunglasses and head out of the house, filled with confidence that you look chic.


Wear a denim jacket for the weekend.
Wear a suit jacket for work or more formal occasions.
 This is the ultimate in simplicity and yet, it's a color combination that rocks and you'll look amazing. Pair with accessories in the same color combination for a complete look.
 Wear the tutu with a camouflage tank top, combat boots and a studded belt. Gel your hair into a mohawk. This says "fashion statement plus"!

, This can be chunky jewelry, long necklaces, colorful ribbons in your hair, etc. Try on a few of your favorite pieces to see what looks best.


Girly wear such as pearl and ribbon necklaces can be a nice fit with the tutu skirt.
 There is no perfect tutu look; feel free to experiment with your own ideas, with the pieces you already have in the wardrobe and your own style. Ultimately, if you like what's staring back at you from the mirror, you'll feel comfortable.

