 There are several ways that players can be knocked out of the game. It’s important for you to know all of them to strategize your throwing game. These rules provide the foundation for the whole game of dodgeball!Players who are hit with balls are out. These balls can either be thrown directly at them or will be rebounded balls that hit them after bouncing off the walls, the floor, or another player.
Players who step out of bounds are out.
Players who throw a ball that’s caught are out.
Players who cross into the the other team’s territory are out.
Players who throw headshots are out.
Once you get knocked out, you go into the “queue” to wait to be brought back in when someone on your team catches a ball. The queue goes in order of elimination.;
, Even though dodgeball might look like a free-for-all, the best teams work together to make strategies for throwing. Number your opponents from left to right, starting with one and ending with six. Throw multiple balls at one player together to make it harder for your opponents to dodge your attacks.To organize your group throws, make your corner player the designated “caller.” They can pick a player to target and call out that player’s number. Everyone should wait three seconds and then throw at the targeted player together.
You and your teammates should target one player at a time for the best scoring results. If you start thinking too far ahead about knocking out multiple players, you’ll distract yourself from your immediate goal. Stay focused and patient. You’ll get them all in the end., You’re probably tempted to immediately go for the weakest links. This actually isn’t the best strategy. It’s better to go for the best players while you’re at the top of your game. It won’t be good if you have to deal with them at the end when you’re tired and dripping with sweat.To figure out which players are the strongest and weakest, scout out your opponents before the game. Observe one of their games if you can. If not, see if you can find any descriptions of their team online.
 The closer you are to the other side, the more accurate and powerful your throws will be. This will make them much harder to dodge. This is a bit of a dangerous strategy, however, as it also puts you closer to your opponents’ balls. Move fast, throw quickly, and get back to the wall.Be careful not to cross into your opponents’ territory. This will knock you out of the game., If you aim at the chest or mid-section, it’ll be much easier for the other team’s players to catch your balls. Go for below the waist, aiming especially for the shins. These throws will be almost impossible to catch. They’ll also force your opponents to jump, which could provide more opportunities to get them out.If you do aim above the waist, your throws need to be powerful enough to keep your opponents from catching them. Only go with this approach if you have an extremely fast and strong throwing arm.
 If you notice that one of the players on the other team is close to being out of bounds, take advantage! It should be the “caller’s” job to make the team target this player with a group throw. Your opponent could be overwhelmed by the attack and step out of bounds by accident. And then they’re out!, Throwing curve balls can catch your opponents off guard, making it harder for them to dodge your throws. Practice this throw by gripping the ball on the side and throwing it in a half-circle, rather than a straight line. Don’t break this move out in a game until you’ve given yourself plenty of time to perfect it.Try doing a wrap-around curve ball by wrapping your wrist and hand around the ball and letting it loose. This will take even more practice to master, but it should give you some extra power and curve on the release.
 Your opponents are at their most vulnerable right after they’ve thrown the ball. You’ve got a second or two when their attention still isn’t completely re-focused on dodging balls. Target these players.If they’ve just knocked out one of your teammates, this is a great opportunity for some healthy, in-game revenge.
 This fake-out should confuse your opponents, and whoever you target won’t be ready for your throw. Be careful with this move, though. Your throw might not be as accurate, since you won’t be looking at your opponent when you release the ball.This could also be risky because it may give your opponents the chance to take advantage of your divided attention. Even though you’ll still be looking at the other side, you’ll be thinking about where your ball is going to go. This could provide an opening for a sneak attack to catch you off guard.
 It’s against the rules, and it’s dangerous. It’s also a bad move, as it knocks you out of the game. Throwing a ball anywhere near the head or neck isn’t worth injuring someone, especially since it could lose you the game anyway.