 Within the first 5 minutes of your interview, the interviewer will form an impression of you. This first impression tends to stick and can be extremely difficult to change, especially in the very short time you have with the interviewer.


For example, if you come to an interview for a sales representative position but act all shy and timid, the interviewer will have the first impression that you are not as outgoing as you say you are.
At that point, no matter how much you give examples or try to explain your ability to do the job, the interviewer will still see you as shy and timid. Therefore, you want to try your best to be yourself and show off your good qualities that will help you fit in with the company and present yourself as the best person for the job.;
, If you practice interviewing and prepare answers to questions the interviewer might ask, you will feel more relaxed during the real thing. This is due to the fact that you will be able to easily answer questions without too much thought.
 Just being able to sit down for a few moments prior to your interview will allow your mind to relax and put yourself into “interview mode”.
 Being able to relax during an interview is the most important step towards being yourself. Being relaxed during an interview means not letting your nerves get the best of you, which can prevent you from portraying yourself in the best way possible.


Skilled interviewers will try to relax candidates by starting off with a little “chit chat” before getting into the main part of the interview. This is great for both of you because it allows you to gain rapport and speak more freely in the main part of the interview.
However, building rapport prior to the start of the interview and feeling comfortable with the interviewer is not guaranteed.
 Be confident and think positively. If you start thinking negatively, you will become more nervous. You have gotten this far, so now it is your chance to show them you are the right person for the job.


Remember to breathe and take your time with answering questions. Long deep breaths will help you maintain a calmer sate and help you think clearly when answering questions.

