 Are you interested in one particular issue, or are you planning to go on to become active in the community and are using the meeting as a stepping off point for a career in politics or civic participation?;
,, Follow the bi-play on the topic and ascertain who on the board shares your views, who is against your position and who can be persuaded.


If you are only interested in one topic, and you need to make an impact, you must know the topic as well as you can. One of the best ways to overcome fear is to be completely prepared.



If you are making a speech, and you are new at it, write it down, then practice it until you have every breath of it memorized.
, You will want to make eye contact with your audience and reading a speech from a prepared script is not the way to accomplish this. If you absolutely have to read the speech, build in stop points where you can lift your head to make eye contact and then go back to reading.
 Speak slowly, and with enough sound to know that the audience can hear you. vary tone and timing so as to keep yourself from speaking in a monotone and monotonous voice.
 No one wants to hear a long speech. Most boards limit the time for public comment, finish within your time and if you have more to say, tell the committee you will send the rest of your comments to them in the mail.
 Do not give a minute by minute description, it is boring.
, Do not ask the city council to fix something the school board should be on and do not ask the school board to debate a war resolution.
 Even then, leave it out and you will have a far easier time of it.
 If you cannot answer a question, tell the questioner you will submit an answer in writing after checking out the issue. DO NOT MAKE IT UP ON THE FLY. More importantly get back to the board with the answer as soon as possible.
 Do not leave until there is a break or the meeting ends unless you have a very good reason, You want to hear follow up and you may be called on again if a question on the issue you presented comes up.

