;
, We covered all of our floors with the rolls of plastic that you can get cheap at Home Depot. Once done, just roll it up and throw it away.
 This makes it a lot harder to scrape off. If it hasn’t, you only have to wet it lightly and it comes off like butter. If it has, you have to spray it heavily (we used our hose with a sprayer attachment) and soak it in order for it to come off. If you take a hand or pole sander with a really heavy grit sandpaper and quickly run over the ceiling before wetting it down it allows the water to penetrate into the texture a little better, making it come off easier.
 That stuff is nasty. We did the actual scraping with a few different tools. We used the widest hand trowels that we could find (metal work best). We also used flat headed shovels! They worked great because you didn’t need a ladder, the long handle was built in! On tough areas a ladder (scaffolding is safer) raises you so that you can get a better angle and clean more off quickly. There is also a tool that allows you to hook up a plastic bag for easy disposal and less debris on the ground.
 You have to use a pretty light touch and try to keep the edge level so that one end doesn’t dip into the drywall.
, Roll up the plastic with the chunks on it and toss it. Cover the floors with clean plastic again,just to protect floor.
, We did it ourselves with an airless gun and texture that you can buy at Home Depot. It looks like bags of concrete. Be careful not to buy the popcorn stuff again, we did that! We mixed it up and thought, "Hmm… this looks really chunky"?, and had to take it back! So, we sprayed the texture on with the gun and then knocked it down to match the texture on the walls with a trowel. It turned out pretty good. My friends hired someone to do their retexturing after they scraped.
,, You'll need at least 4 people tackle the task. A good estimate of time it should take to accomplish this is 5-6 days. (You can do all the scraping in one or two days, the retexturing in one day, the priming in one day, and the painting in another.)

