 Bronze knives may also be used, but other metals are likely to cause discoloration in the fruit. Sharp paring knives or Thai carving knives are ideal. The blade of a knife for fruit carving is often only 2–4 inches (5–10 cm) long, but ideally the handle is long and comfortable to hold.


Optionally, select additional tools for certain purposes. A zester or garnishing tool with a V-shaped stripe may be the most common of these, used to remove strips from the fruit., A melon provides a great deal of space to practice on, and the firm rind holds a shape well. If you are feeling more ambitious, you can carve almost any fruit. Firm fruits such as apple or pineapple are typically easier to carve than soft fruits, such as kiwis or grapefruit.


This method will assume you are using a melon, but most of it can be adapted to other fruits.
 Place the thumb of your dominant hand on the knife handle, right next to the blade. Put your index finger on the dull, upper edge of the blade. Lower your middle finger onto the side of the blade, opposite the thumb.Curve your fourth and fifth fingers around the handle, gripping it comfortably.
 Try to cut or scrape off a simple pattern, such as a heart or a circle, partially through the rind of the melon. Try to cut this to an even depth, without revealing the flesh beneath.
 Score the scraped surface into a grid pattern, without removing any rind or flesh. Through the lines in the grid, you may be able to see the attractive color of the underlying flesh., Carve around this grid or elsewhere on the melon, practicing smaller or more intricate designs. Designs with short, straight lines, such as a diamond pattern, may be easier than designs with curves.


It may take a significant amount of practice to remove the rind around a thin design without breaking it. Try to make sure the section of rind is cut fully through on all sides before removal. If you're having trouble starting the removal, stab the center of the section with the knife and pull gently.
 Angle the knife slightly while cutting, rather than pointing it directly downward, to create a different appearance. This results in a sloping appearance, and can create the suggestion of overlapping designs. For instance, a pattern of "Vs" cut out using this technique can create the appearance of flower petals.

