 A great place to look for accessories that suit your design aesthetic and make your environment speak for you is in your personal belongings. Look through your collections and keepsakes, as well as other objects that you've accumulated over the years.;
, When decorating with accessories, it is important to keep within the style constraints of your interior design. For example, to use accessories like a Victorian heirloom and a country craft in a minimalist, contemporary setting would be inappropriate and out of place. Your accessories should support their environment's aesthetic - not work against it.
 You may use accessories anywhere, including shelves, fireplace mantles, couches, tables, couches, floors, countertops, pedestals and window ledges. Creative display options like bowls, shadow boxes, trays and curios are interior design accessories in themselves.
 Small, singular objects may visually disappear in a room. Grouping adds weight and visual significance to diminutive interior design accessories. Adhere to the following guidelines when grouping:


Use symmetry appropriately. Even groupings and symmetry can look overworked, and generally give off a formal feel. When decorating with accessories in a more relaxed or informal setting, group in odd numbers, or asymmetrically.
Choose objects with a common design element. For example, if you choose to hang a group of family photos, then they should all have something in common, such as a sepia hue or identical framing material. Groups of random objects should be associated by either color, theme or size.
Stagger object heights. To create visual interest, group objects with differing heights: high, medium and low.
 Remember that contrasting colors will stand out and provide a visual pop, while monochromatic colors will blend in and create a soothing affect. Consider the overall aesthetic of your room and choose the colors of your interior design accessories accordingly.
 This creates visual interest. For example, group a blue glass sculpture with a blue pottery jug and a blue conch shell, or put a jacquard throw pillow on a silk-upholstered armchair.
 Too-large accessories or groupings will dominate a small space, while too-small accessories may disappear in an expansive space.
 After you place each additional accessory, step back and assess the arrangement for clutter. Regroup/replace items as necessary, until you are satisfied with the placement of your interior design accessories.

