 Are there stacks of pictures in a drawer that you want to do something with? Does your iPhone currently have over a thousand pictures of your kids? Do you want to commemorate your wedding anniversary by displaying your favorite moments? Or would you simply like to take on a project to satisfy your inner-creative? Figure out why you want to start a scrapbook and what it will allow you to do.
 Once you’ve figured out why you want to start a scrapbook, you’ll need to figure out how best to present your idea. Your scrapbook can focus on a particular theme. It can attempt to tell a story.Or it can simply unfold a set of events in chronological order.


Let’s say you took your first trip to Europe, and returned with hundreds of photos. You could choose to create a scrapbook that highlights each city you visited. European cities would be your theme.
Maybe during your trip you got lost and met a group of locals who decided to show you the best places to visit in their city, including inviting you to an intimate gathering. You could craft your scrapbook around that impromptu adventure, which means your scrapbook would tell a story.
Or maybe you don’t want to leave anything out of your scrapbook about your trip. You could organize and display your photos in chronological order.
 You can create your scrapbook the old-fashioned way: by hand; or you could create it digitally using computer software. Figure out your preference by asking yourself a few questions:


Which method would be easiest for you?
Which method would you most enjoy?
Do you want to be able to hold your scrapbook in your hand once it’s finished?
Would you like to give your friends or family members their own copy of your scrapbook?
Do you want to avoid the mess that comes with making a scrapbook by hand? Or do you enjoy the physical act of making crafts?

, Pull together the pictures you plan to use in your scrapbook. If you’re creating a bound scrapbook, then have your pictures printed if they’re not already. Organize your pictures either by theme, chronological order, or based on the story you’d like to tell. If your photos are on a computer, you can easily organize them by moving them into separate folders. If your photos are on your smart phone, first transfer them to a computer, and then separate them into folders.

