 The part of the egg that will work best in the mask depends on what type of hair you have. Crack an egg, and reserve the part that is the best for your hair in a bowl.If you have oily or greasy hair, use the egg white for your mask.
If you have dry or damaged hair, use the egg yolk for the mask.
If you have normal hair, use the whole egg for the mask.
If you have particularly long or thick hair, you may need to use 2 eggs for the mask.;
, You’ll have an easier time mixing up the mask if the egg is at least slightly broken up. With the part(s) of the egg that you need in the bowl, use a whisk to gently beat it.If you don’t have a whisk, use a fork to beat the egg.
 When the egg is slightly beaten, mix in 1 cup (237 ml) of milk and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil. Whisk the mixture until the ingredients are fully mixed.You can substitute coconut oil for the olive oil if you prefer.
 When the egg, milk, and olive oil are fully mixed, squeeze a lemon over the bowl once to expel a little juice. Stir the mixture well to incorporate the lemon juice completely.Be careful not to over-squeeze the lemon -- once is enough. The citric acid in the lemon can be drying, so you don’t want too much juice in the mask. If you have dry hair, you may want to omit the juice entirely.
 Once the mask is fully blended, start applying it to your scalp. Work it through your hair from the roots down to the ends, making sure that all of your hair is evenly coated., Because the mask is fairly thin, it may drip off while you’re wearing it. Place a disposable shower cap over your head to keep the mask in place, and allow it to sit on your hair for at least 15 minutes.If you don’t have a shower cap, you can cover your head with plastic wrap to help contain the mask.
 When you’re ready to wash out the mask, use cool or cold water so you don’t accidentally cook the egg and make it more difficult to remove. Follow up with your favorite shampoo to get rid of any lingering egg smell.Be sure to use a conditioner after shampooing your hair to keep your hair soft and shiny.
You can use the mask one to two times a month to moisturize and condition your hair for extra shine and smoothness.

