 If you aspire to manage a company or be the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of a company, then accounting experience is extremely valuable. Many corporate management schemes prefer or require an MBA.


You can also use your accounting BS degree to get another master's degree. For example, a good number of law students start out in accounting, and people who want to become teachers may choose to get a master's degree in education.;
, Starting and maintaining a small (or large) business relies primarily on the financial management of the company. If you have an idea or another skill to help you to start a business, then you can do your own bookkeeping, auditing and accounting, with a much higher chance of success than someone without financial knowledge.
 Many accounting students take this path. You can work for an accounting firm as you get your supervised accounting hours, and then 1 day you can begin your own practice.


To be a CPA, you will also be required to take a best practices examination. Each year your state may require you to take a certain amount of continuing education credits and pay a fee to remain certified.
Some CPAs can work seasonally or from home. After developing a list of clients, you may be able to do most of your work for the year in the first 4 months of a new year. In this case, you may need to work overtime during the tax season to make enough money for the rest of the year. If you work for businesses, you may have auditing work throughout the year, or tax filing work quarterly.
 When you get your accounting degree, you can specialize in auditing. Internal auditors are hired permanently or on a contractual basis by businesses to help them avoid tax mistakes, identify waste and create a more efficient use of money.
 Look into the Governmental Accounting Standards Board exam, if you are interested in working for federal or state governments, auditing their records and reducing waste. You may be required to pass strict tests if you want to be an auditor for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
 A good portion of today's accounting is done through software programs, such as Quick Books, Quicken and Peach Tree. You can get a job at an accounting software company, create, or innovate your own accounting software.


Companies who sell business-to-business accounting software are always on the lookout for outside sales representatives who are schooled in accounting and sales. They have the technical knowledge to explain why the program will help the business. Although outside sales work is usually based on a commission and a quota, sales representatives can make over $100,000 if they are successful in the field.
 After years as a CPA or working for a business, you may be able to teach accounting or business principles to others. Some people choose to give classes through Lifelong Learning centers, while others choose to teach for community colleges, high schools, or universities.
 This type of accountant uses technology and investigative procedures to mete out fraud and other illegal practices. A forensic accountant must be a skilled auditor and be aware of the legal and legislative practices in state or federal government.


You can specialize in forensic accounting when you are in college, or you can go back to school to study it. Some programs offer online degrees or certifications in forensic accounting. You will need to take classes in business, law, and investigative procedures, to be qualified. If you have any interest in criminal detection, then this is a great way to use an accounting education.
 Going back to school or receiving an online degree could be a way to get a promotion or make a lateral move into an accounting, auditing or forensic department.


Many companies encourage their employees to get more education to receive promotions. If it has not be suggested to you, you may want to speak with your superiors to see if going for an accounting degree is a good career move for you.

