 Before computers, cell phones, and TVs became common, people had to find fun things to do in their free time. Your grandma probably learned many seasonal crafts, like apple picking, making Christmas tree ornaments, making leaf rubbings, making daisy chains, and more. Try these with your grandma.You might start a conversation about seasonal crafts with your grandma by saying something like, "Before cell phones and TV, what did you do to pass time in the spring? Can you teach me springtime crafts?"
Seasonal crafts are especially popular around major holidays, like Christmas, Easter, Halloween, Independence Day, and so on. Try making holiday oriented crafts with grandma.
 Baking is an activity many grandmothers enjoy, and yours might too. As an added bonus, when you finish baking, you can look forward to a delicious treat. Ask your grandma if you can bake your and her favorite recipes together.


While baking, you'll have plenty of time to talk, but you can also groove to music at low volume. You could even alternate between your favorite albums and grandma's.
This is also a good opportunity to help grandma out. Often, you'll need special ingredients for certain dishes. While at the store, ask grandma if there are any heavy groceries she needs help with.
 Your grandma has had a long time to perfect her recipes and become a cooking pro. By learning popular family recipes, you'll be preserving your family traditions while having fun in the kitchen.


Small adjustments to recipes are often what makes them special. Ask your grandma what she does differently or adds to family recipes to make them taste so good.
You never know when a recipe and cooking lessons from grandma might come in handy. Your friends or significant other might be impressed by your skill in the kitchen.
If your grandma is a fan of cooking shows, you and grandma might have fun pretending that you are putting on your own cooking show as you make family recipes., Digging into the soil and working with plants has a relaxing and uplifting effect.Spending time with grandma in the garden might feel like work, but really you'll be creating something beautiful while you and grandma receive the benefits of working in nature.


If your grandma doesn't have a garden, you could buy her some potted plants and help her care for these. A small indoors herb garden can add color and life to her home while still being useful.
If grandma doesn't have space for potted plants, you might consider making her a living wall. This can be given as a gift, and then you both can enjoy caring for it together.

