 The size of the panel will correspond with the size of the finished shelf, so choose accordingly. You can either use a nice wood or plywood/MDF (medium-density fiberboard) and then apply paint or a nicer veneer later.









You should start with:

1 – 2×4
2 – Cedar Pickets


These boards are great, simple projects that work equally well will plywood, cedar, or nice sheets of maple or walnut.
When possible, use a table saw for clean, well-cut lines.;
, The first one will be cut into pieces and placed between your panels to create a hollow-core shelf that can fit over a shelf mount on your wall. The second will form the shelf mount itself. Note that the pieces forming the internal shelf framework will be placed narrow-side down within the paneling; this will add an extra 2 inches of height to your shelf.









The wood should be 1/2-1" thick.
This piece form the u-shaped frame of your shelf.
 The two shorter pieces need to fit the width of your wood panels. The longer piece fits between these two pieces and covers the width. After cutting, place the strips onto the panel as a "dry run." They should form a perfect frame around three sides of the panel.









To get a perfect diagonal joint, cut one end of each short piece and both ends of the long piece at 45-degree angles so that all three pieces can fit together to form 90-degree angles in the corners.
Leave the front strip as is and cut an inch off of both shorter pieces, enabling you to tuck them behind the longer one once placed between the panels.
Always err on the side of "too long" when cutting. You can always cut off a little more, but you can't add it back., Set one panel down, place the three strips on the panel to form three continuous edges (a u-shape). Then run a line of wood glue along the top of each strip and place the second panel on top. Use finishing nails or a nail gun to attach the top panel to each strip.









If using wood glue, you'll need to use clamps to ensure that the the board stays in place as it dries.
For thicker wood, or for a sturdier build, skip the nail gun and use a power drill.
 Flip the first panel, the one that is now attached to the shelf framework, to expose the bottoms of the wooden strips. Again, run a line of wood glue along the top of each strip, place the free panel on top, and nail it to each strip.
 The more time, the better. Keep the clamps on to ensure it dries well, then leave the shelf until it is hardened and you can move on. Take the clamps off when it is finished drying.
 Once you've finished building, take your sander and even out the entire shelf. This make it smoother and more receptive to finishing.
 If using veneer, be sure to keep the grain of the wood consistent. From here, leave the stain to dry as you move on to the support bracket that holds you shelf to the wall.
 Do not confuse this with the overall dimensions of the shelf; the mount you make to fix the shelf to the wall will fit inside this hollow.









This is why the shelf "floats." The hollow part of the shelf hangs on a hidden u-shaped mount attached to the wall.
 Cut the strip so that it could fit perfectly as the 4th wall of your little shelf. When done, gently test it by trying to fit the board snugly into your shelf. This will form the base of the wall mount.









This would should be at least 3/4" thick.
Some builders prefer to make this mount first. Then you can build the shelf around the mount, using it as a guide for measurements. Neither was is better, just personal opinion.
 These two strips are the "arms" that extend off the wall and hold the shelf up. They must fit perfectly into the hollow space or the shelf won't be flush. To find it the right measurement, simply measure the total width of the shelf and subtract the width of the thin strip of wood that is at the top of the frame.
 You are basically just remaking your framework, but a little thinner so that it fits inside the shelf. Using wood glue and a nail gun, create another u-shaped frame. Make sure you use a square edge to get the mounts perfectly 90-degrees. For bigger shelves or heavy wood, use a pocket joiner and power drill to create the mount -- it will be much sturdier.









For piece of mind, create a third or fourth support strip, identical to the two on the outside. You then end up with an E-shaped bracket that can old much more weight.
 Does it fit snugly inside the hollow shelf? If not, adjust it as necessary, sanding and cutting wood so that the mount fits as snugly as possible.









The wall mount will be hidden, so there is no need to polish or finish it.
 The best way to do this is to attach it directly to the wall studs within the wall. These can be located either with a stud locator or by knocking on the wall to search for places that don’t sound hollow.
 It should fit like a glove. You can either leave it sitting over the mount or take it back off, apply glue to the mount, and attach the shelf permanently.
 Note that the shelves can be different dimensions.








