 Many companies, such as banks, insurance providers, and utility companies include mandatory arbitration or mediation clauses in the contracts you sign. These provisions mandate that you cannot sue the companies but instead must resolve any dispute through an out-of-court method.


There is very little wriggle room to get out of a mandatory arbitration clause. Courts strongly favor them and will routinely enforce them.;
, You should take stock of the strength of your evidence, as well as what evidence the other side has. Some evidence has more value than other evidence. For example, proof that the defendant has admitted responsibility for your injury is very strong evidence.


Conversely, you should also make an honest appraisal of the other side’s evidence. Think about what kind of evidence would support their arguments. For example, if you are suing for being terminated from your job, identify errors you made a work which your employer could point to as constituting “just cause” for termination.
 You should attempt to find out what juries have awarded people who have brought similar lawsuits. If you are the plaintiff, you will want to know how much you could recover if you win. If you are the defendant, you will want to know the amount of damages you may be ordered to pay.


Search jury verdicts. Most databases, such as Westlaw, require a fee. However, you can still do internet searches. Using your favorite web browser, type in the kind of lawsuit being brought (“personal injury” for example) and search in conjunction with “verdict.”
No two cases are exactly alike, and the fact that one case resulted in a $5 million verdict does not mean yours will. Nevertheless, researching verdicts can give you a rough idea of the monetary value of the case.
 If you are nervous about appearing in court, you may want to consider working toward a settlement. In a settlement, you and the other party work toward a resolution that is mutually agreeable. Then you sign an agreement releasing each other for any liability.


To decide if settlement is right for you, look at how strong your case is. If you are the plaintiff and you have a strong case, then you will only want to settle for a high amount—preferably close to what you could get at trial. By contrast, if you have a weak case, you may want to settle even if you have to pay substantial damages.
 If you are a plaintiff, then you must find the appropriate court to bring your lawsuit. The law limits what “jurisdiction” (power) each court has to hear a lawsuit. Lawsuits may be brought in state or federal courts, depending on what law (state or federal) created the legal cause of action. Also, you must find the appropriate state or federal court to file in.


Generally, you should file a case that deals with state law in state court. State law cases involve the bulk of personal injury, breach of contract, divorce, and landlord-tenant cases. State courts almost always have the ability to hear a lawsuit involving events that happened within the state’s boundaries.Federal courts hear a more limited range of cases. Common federal claims include discrimination claims, unfair competition claims, as well violations of copyright and trademark law.Federal courts will also hear cases where the parties are from different states, provided that the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000 exclusive of costs and fees.If your case is filed in the wrong court, it will be dismissed. You can file again in the appropriate court provided the statute of limitations hasn’t expired., Once you have figured out whether to bring a case in state or federal court, you must find the appropriate venue to bring the case. For example, your state has a court in every county, but not all of them are appropriate venues for your suit. An appropriate venue is one in which:


the defendant lives or does business.
the contract was signed or was to be carried out.
an auto accident occurred.
other critical events leading up to the lawsuit occurred there., You only have a short period of time to file a lawsuit. The specific amount of time will depend on the kind of lawsuit you are bringing and the state you are bringing it in. This time limit is called the “statute of limitations.”


You can find statute of limitations periods online. In your favorite web browser, type your state, the kind of lawsuit you are bringing (e.g., trespass, breach of contract, harassment), and then “statute of limitations.”
Statutes of limitations begin running from the moment the alleged injury occurs. If you were in a car accident, the statute begins from the date of the accident.
Exceptions exist to the statute of limitations period. For example, if the plaintiff hit you with his car but an injury did not manifest itself until after the limitations period has ended, then the statute begins running from the date you first became aware of the injury. This is called the “discovery rule.”
Nevertheless, you should not count on the “discovery rule” saving your lawsuit. If you think you have an injury, file suit as soon possible in the appropriate court.
 To initiate a lawsuit, you must file a complaint. A complaint is a short and plain statement showing that the plaintiff is entitled to relief.It lays out the facts as the plaintiff believes them, the relief requested, and the legal theories that support granting that relief.If you are the defendant, then you must answer the plaintiff’s complaint. You should answer each allegation, numbering the allegation and then providing your response. You may admit an allegation, deny it, or state that you lack sufficient information to respond.Any admission made in the answer will be treated as a factual admission at trial, so read the complaint carefully and think before admitting to allegations.
There must be a “good faith” basis for filing a complaint (or any other motion in court). You cannot base a complaint on unsubstantiated gossip or speculation. You can be sanctioned if you do.
The court may have forms you can fill out for a complaint or an answer. If not, you may find a template or example on the web to use.
 You must file in the appropriate court. Some courts may require that you pay a fee, while others will not. The form you fill out should clarify whether a fee is required. If you have questions, ask the court clerk.


Some states require that you request a jury (if you want one) with your complaint. Often there is a box to check off. If you want a jury, then check the appropriate box and pay the fee.
The complaint or answer must be served on the other party. You must provide notice of any document you file in court, either by mail or by personal service (such as through the sheriff or a process server). Check your state’s law on service of process.
 Every court has rules for how to file documents, what must be included in documents, and deadlines. You must find the appropriate rules.


When your case is assigned to a judge, call the judge’s chambers. You can find the phone number through the courthouse directory. Ask what the rules are and where you can find a copy.
Once you get the rules, you should read them. Make note of deadlines and whether the judge wants copies of documents sent to her chambers.
 You must support your position in court with evidence. Evidence can take many forms: witnesses who saw an event and can testify as to what they saw; documents that support your position; or other physical evidence, like blood samples or fingerprints. Physical evidence is usually most applicable to criminal trials.


Identify who may have witnessed the incident that is in dispute. You should talk to them to see what they heard or saw.
If you have a contract dispute, then the contract itself is an important piece of evidence.
Communications between you and the other party also qualify as evidence. Any statement the parties make is automatically admissible in a lawsuit.
Store your evidence in a safe place, such as a home safe or a safety deposit box.
 You are able to request documents the other party has in its possession or control. You may file discovery motions in court requesting those documents.


You can draft discovery requests fairly broadly. For example, if you are suing to enforce a contract with the defendant because he did not build your garage, you can request any email he may have that relates to your contract. Although you can’t ask for “every email you’ve ever written,” you could ask for any email that mentions your name.
The other side can also request documents in your possession or control. Be sure to preserve anything that could relate to your case. If the court finds that you have destroyed evidence (such as deleting emails), it could rule against you without even holding a trial.
 Another way to gather evidence is to formally interview those who may have knowledge of the events that make up the basis of the lawsuit. In a deposition, a person testifies under oath to what he knows. As a party to the lawsuit, you can count on being deposed.


The purpose of depositions is fact-gathering. You are trying to find out if the person has relevant information and would make a good witness. Nevertheless, statements made in a deposition can be used in a subsequent trial. If you say one thing in a deposition and then another thing at trial, be prepared for your earlier statement to be used to impeach your credibility.
You can prepare for a deposition by reading the pleadings and motions as well as looking over any notes you made after the incident.
At the deposition, testify only according to personal knowledge and do not guess or speculate. If you do not know an answer, say so., Before trial, each party has the option of asking the court to decide the case in their favor. This motion for summary judgment argues that the other side cannot win because there are no facts that support their claim. As either the plaintiff or the defendant, you may file a motion for summary judgment.


You will not win a motion for summary judgment simply because you have more witnesses than the other party. Nor will you win because you allege that the other party’s witnesses are “lying.” It is up to the jury to decide who is telling the truth.
If the other party moves for summary judgment, you must argue that material facts are in dispute. For example, if the other side argues that there is no dispute that you intentionally hit the plaintiff’s car, you can argue that you dispute that. You are a witness, and your testimony that the plaintiff hit you must be weighed against the plaintiff’s evidence.
 Go back over your notes for any deposition you attended (or read the transcripts if you ordered them). Identify witnesses who can support your case. You should call these witnesses to testify on your behalf at trial.


You must summon into court any witness you want to testify on your behalf. You should get a summons form from the court. You must fill it out, stating the day, time, and location of the court where the witness is to appear.
Serve the witness with the summons. You should serve in the same manner that you served notice of your answer or complaint.
 Think about what information the witness will testify to. You can read their deposition testimony to remind yourself of what they know and identify testimony that you want to highlight.


Give your witnesses a copy of your questions so that they can prepare for them.
Also draft what you want to say. Because you do not have a lawyer, you will present your testimony in the form of a speech. Keep in mind the rules of evidence: you can only testify to events you have personal knowledge of, and you cannot offer expert testimony., The rules of evidence limit what type of documents and witness testimony may be admitted at trial. It is your obligation to object to the introduction of evidence. A judge will not object on your behalf.


Study in particular the rules against admission of hearsay evidence, the requirement that a foundation be laid, and the prohibition against prejudicial evidence.
If you are in federal court, you will use the Federal Rules of Evidence. These are available online.

Each state has its own rules of evidence. They are often hard to find. You might be able to secure a copy from a local law library.
In most cases, state rules are very similar to federal rules. If you cannot find a copy of state rules, read the federal. When you object, you do not need to cite a specific rule of evidence. It is enough to say, “Objection, Your Honor. Hearsay.”

, You always have the option to meet with the other party and discuss settlement. In fact, judges retain the power to order both parties to meet for settlement talks. Settlement can help you avoid a drawn-out trial and can provide closure.


To effectively prepare for settlement negotiations, you should decide on a minimum amount that you are willing to settle for. Then, when you make your first offer, give a higher number but not one that is absurdly high.Offer a number around 50% higher than what you would settle for.
Justify your high opening offer.If the other party pushes back on your high opening offer, say in return, “I am confident in the evidence I have prepared for trial” or “that number seems reasonable in light of the injury I have suffered.”
Be open to settlement talks at various points in the life cycle of a lawsuit. For example, the other party might approach you early in the case if you bring a harassment or workplace violence claim.Conversely, for other suits, a party may approach you for settlement only after its motion for summary judgment has been denied.
 If time allows, try to sit in on a case. Doing so will help familiarize you with your judge and the proceedings. Many counties have a hearing schedule posted in the courthouse or on their website, and you can always ask the clerk when a case similar to yours will be heard.
 If you are in civil or criminal court, you have the option of using a jury to decide your case. In criminal trials, the jury is typically 12 members. In civil trials, the number can vary by state, with juries of 12 or 9 being most common. In civil trials, jury verdicts do not always have to be unanimous.


A panel of jurors (maybe 12 at a time) is called up and questioned by the judge and attorneys. The plaintiff and defendant can each strike a juror for cause (such as admitting bias). You are also given a certain amount of “peremptory” challenges. Peremptory challenges are those where you do not have to tell the judge a reason for not choosing the juror.
If you are in small claims court, then the judge will decide the case.
You should try to screen jurors for bias against your case. First, try to get jurors talking by asking open-ended questions. This will make them more comfortable. Then, ask their opinion on topics that relate to your lawsuit. If you are suing a police officer for excessive force, ask about their opinions on the police.A juror who praises the police may not approach your case with an open mind.
Also ask about experiences. If you are suing a department store, ask prospective jurors if they have had good or bad experiences with department stores. Ask if they have worked at one.
Do not rely on demographics. The education, occupation, or marital status of a juror may be somewhat useful. But a person’s experience is much more important in shaping their worldview., An effective opening statement will provide the jury (or judge) with a sneak peek of what the evidence will show. You should focus on your key facts—those facts that are most persuasive in your favor.


You also should account for “bad facts.” A bad fact is something that your opponent will bring up to support his case. You can mention them early in your own opening statement to take the sting out of them.Be confident but brief. Jurors are paying attention to tone, words, and nonverbal behavior.Do not be fidgety or refuse to look at the jury.
 You will need to call witnesses and introduce documents into evidence. You should think about the most logical way to present this evidence. For example, you could introduce evidence chronologically. If you are suing about a breached contract, you could first introduce the contract, then offer a witness who can testify as to the quality of the goods you received, and then introduce evidence of your communications with the defendant.


You must always lay a foundation for any document or object that you seek to introduce, so plan witnesses accordingly. If you want to introduce a document or object into evidence, you need a witness to testify that the object is what you claim it is.You must also establish that a witness has personal knowledge of anything she testifies to. If you want a witness to testify that your neighbor’s dog barks all night, you have to establish that she was close enough to hear it on the night in question. You can elicit this information through questions: “Where do you live?” “Where were you during the evening of July 18, 2014?” “Did you hear anything?”

, You should be alert to the other side attempting to introduce evidence inappropriately. For example, they may try to draw hearsay evidence out of a witness or try to get a document admitted into evidence without laying a proper foundation. You should always object.


To object, stand up immediately after the question is asked and clearly state, “Objection, Your Honor.” And then state the reason for the objection: for example, “Hearsay.”
You must object in order to preserve an issue for appeal. Even if the other party admits inappropriate evidence and uses it to win, you have forfeited your ability to raise the issue on appeal if you do not object in a timely manner.
 You want to undermine the other party’s witnesses. You can do this in several ways: by impeaching them, by emphasizing limitations on their ability to perceive, or by eliciting testimony that they have been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude.You can impeach a party by introducing a prior inconsistent statement. If a witness testifies that she saw the green car hit the brown car, then she can be impeached if she testified in a deposition that she didn’t see which car hit the brown car.
You can also highlight omissions in the testimony. If a witness testifies that he heard an argument taking place behind a fence, then ask if he could see who was having the argument. If you are being prosecuted for assault, then the witness’s failure to see you punch someone is an omission you should highlight.
Evidence that a witness has been convicted of perjury or a felony is also admissible. These convictions undermine the credibility and character of the witness., The closing argument should sum up the evidence and explain how it supports your position. Be confident and look the jurors in the eyes.


After explaining how the evidence supports your case, rebut the other side’s evidence.Explain why their witnesses are mistaken or not credible; or, explain how the other side’s evidence actually supports your own interpretation of events.
Begin and end strong. Research reveals that people remember the first and last things that they hear.You should therefore begin and end with strong points by reminding jurors of the most persuasive evidence in your case.
 If you lose at trial, you may have the right to an appeal. You will have to draft a Notice of Appeal.


Many courts have a Notice of Appeal form. After the verdict, you can ask the judge or clerk if there is a form.
If there is not a form, then you should draft a Notice of Appeal. You will format it like every other motion: a caption, a title, and then state that you are taking an appeal. Here is sample language: “Please take notice that hereby appeals to the from the judgment entered .” Then add a date and your signature.
There are timelines you must meet to appeal. If you want to appeal, begin working on your Notice of Appeal immediately.

