 The best way to settle a debt is to offer the creditor a lump sum payment. They will be tempted to take available cash now rather than come up with a new debt repayment plan that you might stop paying. Accordingly, you should contribute monthly into a savings account to build up a lump sum.


If you’d prefer to make monthly payments, then you should consider something other than debt settlement.
Alternately, if you can’t save any money each month, then seriously consider filing for bankruptcy.
Probably the only way to build up a lump sum is to stop paying your unsecured creditors. Remember, they can call you and sue you for breach of contract once you stop paying. Your credit score will also take a hit.
 You’ll want to start the negotiation process by drafting a letter with your opening offer to settle the debt. Each creditor should get its own letter, and tailor the letter by including your account information.


Explain why you can’t pay the debt. Provide information about your monthly income and any adversity you have faced, such as job loss or health issues.
Clearly state how much you are offering to settle the debt. Start low. For example, you could offer to pay 30% of the value.
Mention you might be forced into bankruptcy if they don’t accept. Bankruptcy is your trump card. Your unsecured creditors will probably get completely wiped out if you file for bankruptcy, so they have an incentive to settle with you.Include a request that they report the loan as “paid in full” to the credit reporting agencies. Also ask that all other negative information be removed.Send the letter certified mail, return receipt requested.
 Your creditor will respond, either in writing or by calling. If they call, ask them to send any counter-offer in writing. It’s very easy for creditors to deny they ever promised anything orally, so always have a paper trail. Once you receive your counter-offer, analyze whether you think it is acceptable.


If the creditor won’t put a counter-offer in writing, then take very careful notes. Write down the name of who you spoke to, their job title, and the date and time of your call.If the creditor rejects any attempt to settle the debt, you can raise the amount you are willing to pay. Put this information in a second letter.
You also might decide to stop negotiating with a creditor. For example, a couple of your creditors might have agreed to settle your accounts. This should free up money you can contribute to your other debts. You might consider a debt management plan or debt consolidation for your remaining debts.
 Get your agreement to settle the debt in writing. Do not accept verbal promises.Instead, insist on a settlement agreement letter and read it thoroughly before signing. You want the agreement to state you are forgiven for the original amount of the loan.


If you need help understanding the agreement, then meet with a lawyer to review it together. There are many low-cost legal options for people without much money.
Always keep a copy of the signed letter for your records.
 Confirm that debt has been accurately reported as settled. You don’t want accounts indefinitely listed as in default or in collections. If you see an error, contact a credit reporting agency to dispute the item.


The account should ideally be listed as “paid in full.”

