 Control how many toys your child has access to at a time so your home is not overrun with toys. Ask your child to pick four favorite toys and then put the rest of the toys in a separate area, such as a closet, the garage, or the basement. Tell your child they can have access to the other gifts later. You may need to do this sneakily if your child is very young and does not understand the concept of rationing their toys.You can also try putting away presents that have just been unwrapped by their child for later, or leaving out only a few of their new toys instead of all of them. This way, your child can appreciate their new toys a little at a time.
 Another option is to rotate the toys so your child has access to a few toys at a time and gets to play with new toys on a regular basis. You may rotate their toys once a week or once a month. Set aside a certain amount of toys for play every week and keep the rest in storage. Then, change out the toys the following week. This way, your home is not overrun with toys and you can control how many toys your child has access to at once.If your child gets attached to a certain toy, allow them to keep playing with the same toy and rotate the other toys out. Try to keep it to only one favorite toy at a time. Otherwise, you may end up having too many “favorite” toys out at once.
 To cut down on the number of toys in your home, encourage your kids to share their toys with each other. Having your kids share toys will mean there are less toys out at one time and they learn how to play together. Tell your kids that they need to share certain toys, especially new toys, and enjoy the toys together or one at a time.


For example, you may tell your kids, "Let's share this new toy and play with it together" or "Don't fight over the toy, let's share instead."
Over time, you may need to give away toys that have been shared by your kids. Shared toys tend to get more worn out than other toys. When the time comes, switch out the toy with a new toy or a toy your kids already play with. Then, you can give the old toy away.

