;
, You could use a drum set, some shakers. The tempo should be upbeat, but not too fast. The song you are writing will most likely invoke emotions of happiness among listeners.
 There are buckets of songs out there that are written about love, longing, life... well actually, there are buckets of songs written about anything. It doesn't really matter if the topic itself is unique and indie. You just have to find a way to present it that is interesting and thought provoking. So choose a topic that is close to your heart and begin.


Brainstorm. Take a blank piece of paper and title it with the topic of your choice, then write down as many thoughts, lines, words and ideas that come to mind. A really important aspect to brainstorming for writing an indie song is to think of metaphors. Interesting, thought provoking and obscure metaphors will do.
The good thing about writing an indie song is that the verses don't need a concrete structure to be considered good. They don't even have to rhyme. Have a thesaurus handy to find interesting words you can use that have a nice ring to them. Instead of focusing on having a catchy chorus like in pop, make the chorus

, These will be guitars (either acoustic or electric; if you use electric, it's best that you don't use distortion), a nice but simple bassline, and the main vocals.


Another cool thing about indie music is that you can get away with using those $2 mini instruments that are most likely intended for a child. So feel free to use kazoo's, those little egg shakers, and even recorders to accompany the main tracks. And if your budget is especially low, go on ahead and just whistle the main melody of your song, it works just fine.
 You can go free verse, but try to rhyme. Your lyrics should be happy, and personal. A good way to start thinking of lyrics is to think of your childhood.


You don't even have to have a good voice, as long as your lyric structure is O.K. and as long as it sounds unique.
You should also have some back up vocals to accompany your voice. Something a lot of artists do is record their voice twice on two different tracks.
 Take out the unnecessary details that don't really fit until the writing flows. If taking out a line ruins the flow than replace it with a vague sentence such that doesn't mean much, but sounds like it could mean everything.
 Perfect the chorus, change the blank words to be stronger and make them more effective. Change any bland words such as walking to ambling or any other word you can think of. Add paradoxes and oxymorons to make your song more interesting.
 Instead of singing some lines, say them if they require emphasis.
 The instruments you choose have a strong effect on the mood of the song, so choose wisely.

