 This measure should only be taken if your counter top is already polished. Etching occurs when a substance corrodes your counter, leaving behind a very slight mark on it that often looks like a stain, cup ring, or small blemish.If you can barely feel the scratches in the surface of your counter, a polishing paste may be your best alternative.


Make sure your counter top is completely free of soap or any other cleaning agent you used to clean the scratch. These substances may interact with your polishing paste unfavorably.
Follow the directions on your polishing paste. Different brands will require different procedures for you to achieve best results.
Generally, you should use a small amount of polishing paste to begin with and apply moderate pressure when polishing. In most cases, you'll only need a little of your granite polishing agent to remove etching., Using a coarse grade sandpaper, steel wool, or buffing paper could result in damage to your granite counter top. As a general rule, to protect your granite, you should start with the most moderate grade available. In this case, you should use a dry piece of #0000 steel wool to buff out your scratch(es).Use moderate pressure when buffing and small, circular motions that centralize around your scratch. After several minutes of buffing, if you still notice no change in the appearance of your scratch, you'll have to make use of other measures.
NOTE: more aggressive buffing procedures, using specialty granite sanding tools, can be used to remove your scratch. However, if improperly or inexpertly performed, these methods can result in permanent deformation of your granite.
 Buffing can remove the top coating of your granite, which is also called the seal.You can gauge whether or not your counter top needs to be resealed with a simple drip test. Simply...


Sprinkle a few droplets of water on your counter. These should form water beads along the top of its surface.
Allow the water to sit for 10 to 15 minutes. If the water has spread or left a dark spot on your counter, it's time to reseal your granite., Your local hardware store should have a counter top sealer suitable for your granite. You should always follow the instructions that come with your sealer, but in most cases, to reseal your countertop you should:


Re-clean the area with a mild soap and water. Your hands may have transferred dirt, oil, or grime back to the counter top. Cleaning again will prevent these from being trapped beneath the seal. Allow the counter to fully dry before sealing.
Apply your sealer. In most cases, this will be done with a brush, though your sealer might recommend using a cloth for application.
Most sealers only require about 15 minutes before adhering to the surface of your counter. Then you can wipe any excess sealer away with a dry cloth, and buff the area with small circular motions using a microfiber cloth.