 Once you have determined what the problem is you can extend an offer to help. Make sure that your offer is genuine--do not offer to help if you are unable to or do not sincerely want to. Instead, extend an sincere and concrete offer of assistance.For example, your elderly mother might be having difficulty taking care of her home. Ask her if she would like you to hire a cleaning service or help her find an assisted care living situation.
 Being empathetic means that you try to put yourself in the other person's shoes. Once you know why this person is cranky, try to think about how you would feel in their situation. Then try to determine what would make you feel better.Elderly people are often lonely and this can account for their unfriendly disposition. Offer your company, and suggest an activity the two of you can do together, such as playing a card game.
 You might not be able to solve the other person's problem. Especially if you do not know the elderly person well, the situation might be out of your hands. What you can do instead is ask for assistance. Try reaching out to close friends or relatives of the elderly person to see what they suggest.
 Most cities have senior centers where older people can go for recreational activities. Other organizations, such as churches and libraries, also offer programs geared towards seniors. You could look up some local resources and provide that information to your neighbor or relative. This could be potentially very helpful and go a long way towards lifting their mood., It can be very draining to deal with a cranky senior citizen. The most important thing you can do is to remain positive. Remember that you are doing a good thing by being kind and helpful. Even if your help is not obviously appreciated, you are probably making an impact.Smile. When it is difficult to remain positive, try putting a smile on your face. Even if it feels false at first, the simple act of smiling will make you feel better and help you maintain a good attitude.

