 An outline is a useful way of focusing your attention on just the most important information. With an outline, you capture only the most important words, thus allowing you to retain what matters the most.


When creating an outline, make sure to put the information in your own words. This will make the information more meaningful and easier to recall. If you are copying someone else’s outline, also use your own words. Otherwise, you are likely to forget the information., It might seem like a waste of time, but rewriting your notes helps you to retain information. Why? The brain processes writing as a top priority, therefore allowing you to retain more information.Like outlining, make sure you take notes using your own words as well. Also, try and make connections to the information in your notes. For example, connect what you’ve read to something in your own life or to something you’ve read before.
 Remember how you used the sentence “every good boy deserves fun (or fudge)” to learn the notes EGBDF in music class? This type of mnemonic device and many others are useful in retaining information while studying.


Create acronyms as a way of retaining information. For example, the acronym H.O.M.E.S is used to remember the five Great Lakes (Huron, Ontario, Michigan, Erie, Superior).Use word and picture associations to recall what you study to connect new words and definitions to words and images that you can easily recall.For example, if you wanted to remember the definition of a waxing moon, you might picture yourself waxing your car, which increases the car’s shine. Therefore, a waxing moon is a moon whose illuminated surface increases., You probably recognize that you have a preferred way of learning. For example, you might prefer auditory learning activities such as listening to a lecture, or perhaps you prefer visual activities such as reading notes.However, the more senses you involve in learning, the more information you will retain.


When reviewing a concept, try to incorporate reading, writing, listening, and speaking throughout your study time. For example, if you were reviewing the parts of the body, you would not only read the definition and function of each part, but also draw a diagram and discuss the importance of each part with a study partner., Flashcards are an easy to make and an effective method for recalling and retaining information. They are also easily portable, so you can take them with you to review at anytime you want.


Create term flashcards by placing the term on one side and the definition on the other side. For math flashcards, write the math problem on one side with examples on the other. To study an illustration, on one side draw a picture with an arrow pointing to the area of focus, and the answer on the other side.