 And using 1337 text in your name is nooby too.
NEWB is a new player.
PWNR is a good player.
TK is when you kill a teammate.
SCRUB is generally for anybody who's not exactly new, but is worse than others on the team, or one who heavily abuses one weapon.;
, Quick matches are too easy and you do not get points., These will all be frowned upon. If you do steal a kill, apologize to the person you stole the kill from., The host of the server has "star" weapons. Star weapons are stronger weapons only given to special people in the server, which only apply to the Host of the server, and the leader in the gamemode Capture The Leader or Defender in Gears Of War 3.,: As the Gnasher may be useful, using it is considered "nooby". To not have a bad reputation, use the rifles, not the shotgun., This will be very helpful, as it is better to not be killed first.,, When you load and you hit the white, you get more damage.(Down people with sniper above the waist in one shot) Though, in Judgment Day, active reloading only reloads faster. It does not increase your bullet's strength. GOOD NEWS: OTHER GoW GAMES HAVE THIS!,,, The last thing you need happening is you asking your teammates what an active reload is! Learn the basics and try to beat it on Hardcore difficulty before going online. Playing Coop is a good idea too., You need to know certain flank routes, where the good guns are, and where to find good cover. A good way to accomplish this is to play player matches with friends from school. Ask them to give you a few pointers if they've had the game longer than you. But just keep playing and playing and you'll learn almost everything about the maps., It might be easy as heck in campaign, but online you get blasted away if you try it. Try to do it from behind an enemy for your best bet. Remember Chainsaw VS any gun = 80% chance you will die, and 40% chance you will kill them!, Pull it out when you see an enemy that is in both close and long range. Rushing in with the Retro Lancer is a good suggestion. Aiming is good, unless you are 3 centimeters (1.2 in) from the enemy. Always trade your shotgun for any weapon. You never know when an enemy is at long range, and you only have the digger., You may suck with a Torque Bow at first, but 100 kills later, you might love it. Always accept new methods and ideas your friends come up with., The last thing you want is a sniper hitting you in the face. Always have cover available within a few feet in case someone begins unloading in your direction. It's a good idea to blind fire from cover when someone is rushing you. This should kill them without exposing yourself., DON'T go as fast as you can to the map weapons. Although you may disagree, think about it. The enemy could have the same idea, right? WHAT if the best weapon is right in their base? And how many times have you seen a guy roadie run directly to your base, running past enemies, and picks up a weapon, only to be killed because he was the only one in there (except for the enemies) Try strategy, and use stealth to sneak up on enemies, chainsaw\slice n' dice\bash and pick up their weapons., Talk with your teammates. Tell them where you are going and try to come up with a plan. Always designate one person to watch the rear. Try to outmaneuver your opponent with pincer moves and flanking., This is a great way not to end up with a cap in your back. Roll away and to the sides of incoming fire.,, Only use it if you are surprising someone., Sometimes if you shoot your enemy in the stomach, it will down them, but don't depend on that. Most of the time if you hit anywhere other then the head your target will just roll into cover and regenerate their health., Melee with an equipped frag to "tag" someone. They will then blow up. Don't forget to dive out of the way so you don't die with them! You can do this in Judgement by holding the left bumper down then pressing the B button to "melee" with the grenade and "tag" an opponent or even a wall or any piece of cover., Better bullets give you an advantage over other people if they do not have the prefect reload., Aim at the head, and you can get a headshot. But when things get up close, it is a very effective melee weapon! Melee someone twice and they will drop to their knees. (Shoot them twice then melee for an even easier down!) Don't forget that after you melee someone, there's a split second that they won't be able to shoot. Usually the pistol is most effective at mid to close range., Just stop what you are doing and help your teammate. Not only will they be very thankful, but they also might return the favor in a later round., It may seem obvious, but knowing where every single weapon is definitely gives you an advantage over those who don't., Cover can make the difference between saving your life, or setting yourself up for an easy headshot. Some cover can be easily shot through for a quick headshot (like sandbags, or a Boomshield) so be decisive when picking your sweet zone., Using the same weapons all the time can be convenient on Horde or so, but if you are playing against some good Gears, they WILL learn your tactics. Be sure to practice with other weapons, and recycle tactics every now and then to make sure your head stays in the right spot, on your neck., They're most probably under fire, and saving you would be a mistake for both of you. If they're down, pick them up, but not always when it risks you dying, and THEN him again. Be smart., It will bring down your reputation.,