 Before leaving your home for your procedure, prepare it for your return. This can make recovery much easier, by ensuring you have what you need and have somewhere comfortable to rest. Talk to the medical professionals providing your procedure ahead of time for specific details.Ensure you have any personal items, including food, that you’ll need for the duration of your likely recovery period.
Don't forget things like soap, shampoo, and other bathroom essentials.
In addition to the supplies and medication prescribed by your doctor, get anything else that may help you recover as well. For instance, items such as icy hot can help soothe sore muscles. Just be sure that whatever you use is safe following your procedure.
Your recovery time frame is important. For instance, if you're expected to need a day or two to recover, prepare for three days just in case. If your recovery time may be a week, you'll need to stock your home more carefully.
 More specifically places items you may need in easy to reach locations in the room where you’ll be recovering. In rooms where you'll be standing, place items on surfaces between waist and shoulder height. In areas where you may be lying or sitting, place items on side tables within reach.If your bedroom is upstairs, and you’ve been advised against using the stairs after your procedure, consider preparing and stocking a room on a lower floor.
 There are all sorts of things that can help make your more comfortable. Depending on your procedure, certain movements and activities may be harder than normal, or may even risk reopening an incision, etc. Based on the location and type of the procedure you’re receiving, get items such as the following:A sponge on a long handle to wash yourself more easily in the shower.
A shoe horn with a long handle to help put on and take off your shoes.
A mechanical grabbing arm to reach things without moving or stretching.
 Depending on the extent of the recovery period, as well as the type of procedure you’re getting, your mobility and stability may be greatly hampered. Fortunately, there are a few easy additions to your bathroom to ensure your safety on wet surfaces.Add non-slip mats or decals to the bottom of your tub or shower.
Use a bathmat that has a non-skid surface on the bottom.
Place items in the shower where you will easily be able to reach them.
In some cases, things like support bars or shower chairs may be necessary to use the toilet or shower safely.

