 When you're in fifth grade, your friends can change sometimes. They can have a different attitude, or just act differently, but there's no need to get stuck on that. Just move on and make new friends; that'll help a lot.

Try to socialize with more people and make more friends. In 5th grade, you'll be expected to work/do projects with people you aren't friends with. You have to be open to this if you want to make it through group projects.;
, In the fifth grade, the drama starts, people are kissing, they supposedly have boyfriends, there are bullies, etc. Don't stoop down to that level. Stay with drama free people, and don't get caught up in it. Don't ask for the latest gossip, don't encourage a fight, don't start a fight, and don't start rumors. Stay drama free.

If your friends try to get you included in the drama, say no. Your real friends would care about your opinions.


You will not be treated like a little kid. Your teachers and other faculty will most likely be harder on you. You are held responsible frequently, and there are no excuses allowed.
You are more likely to get in trouble. If you get in trouble many times, or even excessively, people will assume you are a troublemaker. That's all there is to it, just do your best to act well, and try to become responsible enough to handle what is coming your way.
 If you aren't, you will most likely fail or do poorly in school. Have a folder for each subject.

On the front of each folder, write the time of each class, and days you go to it.
If you'd like, you could have a binder, but it's not necessary unless it's required on the school supply list.
You should have another folder for homework, have a notebook for each subject, notes, and an accordion folder. An accordion folder helps a lot, and often keeps you organized better than a binder.
You should buy a planner too, unless your school hands out planners to the students.
 Speak up, make eye contact and be friendly. You will be the likeable person that people want to be friends with.

Always remember to smile. Smiling can make you seem more approachable to other people. Chances are, they're just as nervous to be in fifth grade as you.
 Be sure to do your best on your homework, and your time.

Write your homework down in your planner, have a homework folder to put it in, and have necessary notes and books to study or help you with homework.
 Have extra notebooks, folders, pens and pencils or whatever you think you'll need.


Decorate your locker. Have a magnetic mirror, a pencil holder, and/or pictures. If you want, place your pictures in magnetic frames.
 It's not necessary to be a goody-goody, but stay out of trouble, and don't be a class clown.
 This is your last year in elementary school. Next year, everything will get harder.

This might also be your last year with your friends. Don't let small things keep you from being your best. Anything embarrassing that might happen will be forgotten.







