 The first thing you need to think about is exactly what kind of job in computing you want. Each job has its own special requirements, so you should assess your own skills and then decide which job might be best for you. Supply and demand is important too. Remember that traditional programming and help desk jobs are moving to places like China and India. However, new roles are coming up like Business Analysis, Testing and Compliance. Please see Types of Computing Jobs below for an overview of the most common types of computer jobs.
 You'll need to add a "Skills" section that lists all of the skills you've acquired with computers. You might also want to mention something about computers in an "Interests" or "Hobbies" section. Make sure your resume looks extremely professional and is free of grammar/spelling errors.
 This is a great way to get initial exposure to computer related jobs in your area. Companies often don't have time or willingness to advertise for or fill positions themselves, so they rely on staffing agencies to do it for them. Draft a resume, call your local staffing agency directly and tell them you want an entry-level position with computers.


Don't be picky about the job the staffing agency offers. If the rep offers you something, take it. You can always find something more rewarding and better paying once you have a bit of experience under your belt.
 The odds of getting a direct hire job without previous experience are slim. These jobs don't offer benefits, but do provide a steady paycheck.


After 90 days, you are NOT obligated to continue on with the position if you find it isn't a good fit. Simply let your staffing agency know and they will be happy to place you elsewhere. Once you have experience working for them and have gained a good reputation, it will be easier to get work elsewhere.
 Find out where the computer guys (or girls) hang out. You'll be surprised how much info you can get just by talking to people in the field. You might also find that it's not your cup of tea.

