 If you're having trouble thinking up all the things you'll need for your trip, go through a regular day and write down the clothing and packable items you use. This is best done a couple of weeks in advance. That way, you'll have time to remember if there's anything you may have missed.You'll probably find yourself modifying the list when it comes time to actually pack. This is perfectly normal. A list should only be used as a general guideline to ensure you don't forget anything essential until it's too late.



Clothing. The majority of the space will be tops, although you should bring at least a few sets of pants. Bring lots of socks and underwear, as they don't take up much space. An extra set of shoes is a luxury, but best done without for the sake of space.Toiletries. A toothbrush and toothpaste are essential. Other toiletries, like shampoo, are optional, and can be picked up at your destination. Be wary of the TSA regulations on liquids. Liquid containers can only be 100 ml max per item. Any larger liquids (like shampoo) will be confiscated, so it's better to buy small containers specifically designed for air travel.Electronics and entertainment. A vacation is easily improved by having a book or two to bring along. A laptop, music player and multi-use charger will all come in handy for an extended vacation. If you're travelling abroad, a digital camera (or phone with cam capabilities) will prove useful as well.Identification. Bank cards (including a credit card for emergency situations), photo ID and a passport are necessary to bring along whenever you're travelling abroad. Consider holding onto them in your jacket. That way, if your luggage is stolen, you'll at least have your ID. You should have some of the local cash in your wallet as well., Clothes are arguably the most important and space-consuming thing you'll bring with you on your trip. Unlike a weekend trip, you won't be able to pack a fresh set of clothes for each day you'll be abroad. Bring along a few tops, and at least two sets of bottoms. One pair of shoes will usually be fine. If you're fashionably inclined, try to choose clothes that will be versatile and fit the other clothes you're bringing.You won't have the liberty to pick and choose as you would at home, so be smart and tactical when it comes time to choosing your clothes.


Don't forget to bring clothing that relates directly to the activities you'll be taking part in. This could mean items as diverse as your possible destinations. If you're going to Las Vegas for example, a set of dress shoes will befit your trip to the casinos.
Pack your clothing into rolls to maximize on space. This will also minimize the defined creasing of regular folds in luggage.
 If you have an idea how long you'll be staying abroad for, check the local weather predictions. Instead of packing to suit every possibility, you can judge from the weather forecast what you'll most likely need. Not having to provide for every possibility will free up a lot of travel space.


Apps like Weatherbug are available to use if you want weather updates on the go.
 Toiletries (toothpaste, a hairbrush etc.) are often taken for granted in the course of a morning routine, but you'll quickly miss them if you forget anything. Toiletries should fit into a small countertop bag. The more space-consuming toiletries you use on a regular basis, like shampoo, can be downsized easily enough. Squirt some shampoo or conditioner into a smaller container to save up on space.


It is important to note that certain liquids like shampoos are not permitted in carry-on bags for flights. It's a good idea to keep this in mind when you're organizing your luggage.
 If you're going to be on the plane for a fair amount of time, some entertainment will vastly improve your experience. A fully charged music player and a couple of books are perfect. A laptop may take up a fair bit of space in your luggage, but it more than makes up for it in its uses, and it'll give you a chance to stay up to date while you're away on your vacation.


Entertainment is particularly important if you have children coming on the trip with you. Children have a tendency for restlessness on longer trips, and should have something available to distract themselves with in the car or plane.
 By the end of a two week vacation, every piece of clothing you'll have brought will have been used multiple times. This is perfectly okay; reusing clothing (preferably after a thorough washing) is a good way to maximize on your luggage space. However, you should take care to bring more clothing depending on the length of time you'll be away.


Most hotels will have some kind of laundry service available to those who need their clothes cleaned. In this and most other cases, you can clean and reuse clothes for multiple days of your vacation. Bringing along a fresh set of clothes for each day of a two week vacation would be unreasonable.
 Instead of cramming everything you need into your suitcases, you can buy a new set of non-essential items when you reach your destination. Things like toiletries can be easily purchased somewhere else in the world, and most hotels will provide some sort of basic complements in the form of shampoo or toothpaste. Take a look at your baggage, and try to imagine what things you could reasonably find a matching pair of once you land. Provided the item in question is cheap enough, it may be worth the space you save.

