 Wear well made designer clothing, any clothing that you wear should be of good quality, well ironed, and clean. Prefer pink, tan, white or black colors.;
, Gold, apparently, has a wealthy aura. Owning one decent piece is better than a box full of junk pieces. Earrings should be little gold or silver studs, or maybe precious gems. Use real pearls; these are the only acceptable sort for the wealthy look.
 Being fashionable is a must. Try to read more fashion magazines to learn what kinds of clothing go well together and how to put together a classy outfit. Be sure to create your own fashion and have your own style, because it's not right to wear something that just isn't you. It's often better to have a basic personal style than to always be chasing the latest "fad" look.
 Remember to always be clean: run a comb through your hair, keep your nails dirt-free and neat, brush your teeth and bathe/shower. When spraying perfume, be sure to use just enough, but not too much. Excessive use of perfume isn't attractive and does not improve your hygiene, despite popular belief. Being clean is important; being grubby isn't classy and isn't pleasing. Never have greasy hair. It is gross and very trashy.
 Aside from good hygiene, you have to dress classy/posh. T-shirts and sweatpants will not cut it. A golf shirt and plaid shorts will work at the least, or something from an exclusive designer. If you cannot afford a lot of designer clothes, get some "minor designer" clothing. Some examples are Isaac Mizrahi, Mossimo, etc. A bit cheap sometimes, but some will work.
 Yes, wealthy girls can be their parents' "little princesses" but outside of one's own home, putting on a "baby voice", pouting and making puppy eyes, or downplaying your intelligence just makes you appear a little bit socially awkward and incapable of acting mature in social situations.
 Wear Lacoste polo shirts, Tommy Hilfiger sweaters, Calvin Klein jeans and Burberry scarves. Don't try to show to others that you wear expensive clothes. Rich people don't do that. Most of them buy designer clothes because they like them, not just for the label. Also, buy a Louis Vuitton purse. If you cannot afford it, buy a cheaper one. Avoid knock-offs.
 It is a must. Use big words. Rich people are often well-educated and thus have good vocabularies. Learn a new word every day like "aberrant," "culpable," or "capricious." Having a vocabulary like this apparently increases charm and wit, which can be considered a must in higher circles.
 However, not much is needed. Look for ways to get money. Post adds on a neighborhood website offering babysitting and pet sitting. If you have a lawnmower, offer to mow people's lawns or rake leaves. Do something to get money whether that is simply asking your granny or you having to work for it.
 Go shopping. Go to outlet malls where clothing is a bit cheaper than at the retail stores. Tommy Hilfiger, Abercrombie and Fitch, Armani Exchange and even Dolce and Gabbana clothing can be purchased for a lower price. Also, check wholesale stores that sell gently used clothing for a much cheaper price then at the actual store. Check tips for a minor addition to this section).
 Spend less on trendy pieces. Do not wear a lot of logos. Rich kids don't need to wear logos to prove that they can afford expensive pieces. This is why you often see them in ripped jeans.
, Work really hard at your schoolwork and make sure you get grades no lower than 'B+'. If you do, pout and kick up a fuss (but not to the teacher!). A 'C' is unacceptable!

, Like cute little sandwiches, a little cupcake with white frosting, celery sticks with the tips curled, baby carrots, a little drink bottle with orange juice. On Valentine's Day, maybe have a little box of chocolate to share with your friends. If the box is ordinary, decorate it with a big bow or some lace.
 Convince your mum to dress elegantly. Some good wardrobe basics would be a Louis Vuitton handbag, a Burberry scarf and a pair of pearls or diamonds. Also, convince your dad to dress well. Some good choices would be Lacoste/Tommy Hilfiger/Nautica polo's and 2 or 3 Pierre Cardin jackets. An Armani suit would also be good. If you can't afford all these, just convince them to look elegant.
 When friends come over, make your ordinary house look 'rich' by printing poster sized pictures of famous paintings, or you and your family dressed in beautiful clothes, or your parents' wedding and frame them. Then hang them up. On your desk keep all your things neat and tidy. Have a pink or white bedspread, and for your computer, put a cover, (pink or white), over it. The house should be tidy.
 As clichéd as it sounds, learn about wines and cheeses. Learn how to pronounce words like Béchamel and Beaujolais. Learn good table manners. Otherwise you will look like a complete fool at dinnertime. Read etiquette books (American Girl is good).
 Having a coffee or tea at hand also makes you look rich.
 Most people will be jealous if you have money and no worries in life. Get good grades, look nice, act nice, and always enjoy yourself when you're out. Never tell people about "bad things" in your life, this will make people think they are better than you if they have something you don't. If someone has something you don't have or is going somewhere nice, than don't act like it is a big deal, just stay cool, make it seem like it is something normal in your life.
 If someone is bullying you in any matter, you do not put up with it. It is disgusting behavior, and you don't let anyone walk all over you. This is the time to unleash the nasty.
 People will respect you. Good posture is always a must.

