 In the packing industry, the right size box for china and glassware is often called a "dish pack" barrel, or dish barrel.It is important to keep the size compact because packing too many pieces in a single box makes the box difficult to move, and provides a temptation for movers to put a larger, heavier box at the bottom of a stack when loading into trucks, which can mean that your best china ends up sitting under too much weight.;
, The box must be crowded with peanuts or foam., (Avoid printed newspaper as the ink will rub off on whatever is wrapped with it and will not wash off of items with a porous surface.) Wrap each piece separately. If you wrap more than one item per sheet of paper, be sure that no china or glass areas come into contact with other glass or china. Ensure adequate layering and excellent padding around each item - this isn't the time to skimp on wrapping materials.
 Arrange the wrapped items in the box, with cushion foam or scrunched-up paper placed between each piece. Ensure that the sides of the objects being packed are at least 1" (2.5cm) away from the edge of the box. Certain items require special attention:


For plates, place them on their edge, as they are much stronger packed that way, making certain they do not touch the bottom. Put scrunched up newspaper at the bottom of a box carrying plates, and then slide cardboard, bubble wrap, or foam between them. It is recommended to wrap each plate in a few sheets of paper to keep them well padded and to prevent them from coming into contact with each other.






Wrap the lids of items such as sugar bowls, teapots, and casserole dishes separately from the main portion. If the lid is very small, gently tape it in place after wrapping both pieces so it will not be lost. Then wrap the item as a single unit.






Make a set of inside spacers from cardboard to keep your glassware separated. Doing this can save them from being broken. Also, heavier glasses should be packed on the bottom, with lighter, more fragile glasses placed on top.
 This will prevent the items from moving around or shifting inside the box.


Check for movement. If there is any movement, add more stuffing to prevent it.
If you are using a shipper such as FedEx or UPS, use double boxing with packing peanuts to fill empty space between the outer and inner boxes.
 Even if the lid has a special shutting mechanism, it pays to tape over it to prevent accidental opening during transit. Write "FRAGILE" and "THIS WAY UP" on the sides and top of the box. It is also a good idea to note the exact contents of the box, such as "glassware", or "china plates", etc.


Check for the potential for indentation. If the box can be compressed in any way from items placed on it, this pressure can damage the contents. If you can press the lid in, add more stuffing to stop it from being compressed.

