;
, Push back diabetes by sustaining a low carbohydrate diet, and even cure Type 2 by weight loss, diet and exercise; hopefully it is not too late:



Heredity - Genes pass from one generation to another. If a mother has diabetics then there is 2 to 3% greater chance for her child -- but if the father is diabetic, the risk is more than the previous case. If both parents have diabetes, the child has much higher risk for diabetes.

Age - Increasing age is a contributing factor; although this disease may occur at any age, but 80% of cases occur after 49 year years of age. Age decreases all systems from functioning as well as when younger.


Stress - Stresses of physical injury, disease and of emotional disturbance are frequently blamed as contributing causes of the disease:


High blood pressure - Gradual damage by your resting systolic pressure being above 130 mmHg for borderline diabetics or more. Non diabetic health allows 140 mmHg as normal.

Complications of viral infections - Virus can infect, "settle in," and damage the pancreas while, also, confusing the auto immune system into disorder, considering the body as the enemy.
 101cm);
Women - waist size below 38 inches (approx. 96cm).
,, Some viral infections may damage the pancreas including mumps, rubella, cytomegalovirus, measles, influenza, encephalitis, polio or Epstein-Barr virus.
 ("The food will be there tomorrow!") And, if you're taking insulin and believe, "I have to eat more!" (near bedtime), then:Ask your doctor how to adjust your dose of the medications to not need and not eat that "heavier, late-night snack". A Mayo Clinic article asks and answers, "Are late-night snacks a no-no for people who have diabetes?" -- "Yes!"Hungry after dinner -- these "free" foods have few, if any, carbohydrates and calories, so "one" of them won't cause weight gain or increased blood sugar. Choose a "free" food, such as:A can of diet soda,
A serving of sugar-free gelatin,
Five baby carrots,
Two saltine crackers,
One vanilla wafer,
Four almonds (or similar nuts),
One piece of gum or small hard candy...



Give your body the free snack, so that your nerves, liver and the digestive system has time to finish work, and to rest and for general recovery, from the sugar that would be produced by "overeating", causing overwork of your digestion while asleep; so sugar is less elevated in the blood, and to stop fats or sugars being processed all night in the liver (allows in-digestion to clear, as well), etc.
 If you must get up and go on limited sleep, do not automatically eat a full breakfast meal when you have not had enough fasting time (including sleep), but again eat a free food snack to carry you until about 10 to 12 hours or so since last evenings dinner (supper) -- letting your body continue to use the sugar already in your blood, instead -- "Caution: snack as needed for preventing diabetic hypoglycemia" following your doctors instructions. A healthy, fasting time is important, if it works for your level of diabetes.


For difficulty going back to sleep, try: deep breathing (counting the seconds for each slow breath to occupy your mind) -- or use sleep aids. So, if you need help to sleep after a short interrupted sleep, then consider the following in some combination: (1) Taking calcium, magnesium and vitamin D3 in one tablet, plus B-vitamins, omega3 or omega3-6-9 which can all work for improved relaxation! (2) Eating a "small serving of low caloric salad or protein food", such as plain turkey or chicken, or almonds, walnuts, pecans, sunflower, pumpkin seeds, pistachios, red peanuts with skins-on (those seeds and all nuts have essential oils, too!). Protein originally causes less elevation of blood sugar, but the protein can gradually change to sugar as required. (3) Taking (a) valerian, a relaxant herb that reduces aches and pains, and (b) melatonin, a hormone, that regulates sleep or other herbs that you may use for sleep. If you wake up too soon, drink water and only consider taking another dose of sleep aids, if four hours have passed since you last took them. (4) Using a PM pain reliever, or the antihistamine that causes drowsiness that does not raise high blood pressure (HBP), as little as $4 for 100 (as Equate brand 'Chlortabs'): it is chlorpheniramine maleate -- also, as 'Chlortrimeton' and 'Corcidin-HBP'. (Do not use any sugary liquid antihistamine, cold med or PM pain reliever "syrup".)

