 Look at the number of "feet" displayed on a scale of 1 to 10 at the bottom of the screen. The higher number of "feet", the harder the song will be.
 This is rated in beats per minute, or BPM. The higher the number, the faster the song will be. Determine what speed you are comfortable with. Some songs change tempo during the course of play. All of these factors are displayed on the screen where you select songs. BPM does not change the level of difficulty. It may however change the way you must read the notes.
 If you pick the same song every time, it usually annoys other players. Only do this if you are new to the game. To really improve once you start playing Light/Basic (yellow) and Standard/Difficult (pink) difficulty, you should play a larger variety of songs to learn new patterns.
 Once you've gotten that down and you've moved to Light, you can begin to actually dance along with the beat before you finalize your song selection.
 This is very important. The tutorial shows the character standing on the middle (metal) platform, but to play any song harder than about 3 feet, your "ready" stance should stand mainly on the Left and Right arrows. The game does not penalize you for stepping on an arrow if there isn't one on the screen; with this posture you'll be much more prepared for the arrow patterns.
 A lot of beginners will use one foot(usually their 'bad' one) only for one arrow. For example, a right-handed(or footed) beginner would use their left foot only for pressing the left arrow. Don't do this! I have seen this many times and it makes them look stupid! You must learn to use both feet on more than one arrow. It can save energy(when going Up,Down,Up,Down etc.) and WILL help a lot when you play on harder levels.
 For instance, suppose you are given the steps "Right Right Right." The best way to do this is to keep your weight on your left foot, while tapping the right button three times with your right foot. This avoids the common beginner mistake of shifting one's weight onto the right foot after the first step, causing one to have to hop to hit the right button again, and often being thrown off balance. Similarly, suppose one is given the steps "Right Left Right." This is best done by "walking" on the arrows, shifting your weight to each step as you hit it. This avoids the mistake of keeping your weight on the right arrow the whole time, which would make it easy to tap the left button but would force you to hop to hit the last right button. So if you were given "Right Right Left Left Right" and you started with your weight on your left foot, you should do the following: tap the right arrow, step on the right arrow (shift weight), tap the left arrow, step on the left arrow (shift weight), and step on the right arrow. Most of the beginner songs consist of steps that can be done by some combination of "walking" from arrow to arrow, and tapping an arrow if that step is repeated, and these are the techniques you need to learn before you can do harder songs.
 It's a great way to see how much you've improved! Then, after playing the game for a solid time, tape yourself again. When watching the beginning tape, don't criticize yourself. Watch the new tape and you'll see how far you really have come!

, It may look good if you are playing a home game, but at an arcade, you get 3 tries. Playing the same song 3 times in a row will just show people you want to only show off! Step outside your comfort zone! If anybody teases you, ignore them. They were beginners once too, or they haven't ever played it! Never underestimate DDR. It's far from as easy as it looks!

