  If you aren't a musician who uses guitar stings or other metal strings, than try to find one or ask a local music store if they have waste strings around to give you.  Although guitar strings are relatively inexpensive, it never hurts to get your materials for free!;
,  Look at the following pictures to get an Idea of what you can do with different strings.  Nickel wrapped strings have a great look, but bronze strings (acoustic guitar) provide a vintage look.  You have strings that wound, and strings that aren't.  Those strings that are wound can be unraveled and re-wrapped to create customer designs. For this ring there is no needed to unravel a string yet, however you want to use a strong sting so I recommend the Low-E string (Also 6th or 42-56 gauge) of an acoustic or electric guitar.
 Cleaning may be necessary, also sometimes heating the material and letting it cool slowly (annealing) is needed.
 For a size 9 ring I know the circumference is 48.7mm so I can round up some to adjust for the wire's thickness in order to get the desired length. On this ring design we want the two ends of the wire to overlap so you will want 4/3 of the desired ring circumference.
 Pinch the end of the wire and pull it lose from the core. Repeat on the other side. Remove the amount of overlap you will have to make the ring the correct length (will be 1/4 of length or 1/8th off each end = 8mm)

, Choose whatever color you are interested in. I used 4 beads and started by adding them to each side. Make sure the beads have large enough holes to fit 2 core wires in it. I added my first bead and strung only the core wire through it. I threaded the core wire and the unwrapped wire through the second bead and pulled it tight, bending the unwrapped wire away to keep them from falling off.
, Bend the wound run of wire into a ring shape, and then feed the core wire through the beads.
 Use the winding wire; make a full rotation and pull tight with pliers(without breaking wire, just make a tight even wind). Then pull it to the next gap in-between beads, and then repeat the full rotation.
, You want this ring to never move, because you made it to a size specified so it would fit.
,, The ends of the wrapped wire may be exposed and sharp, you may glue this part in place and/or sand it to get rid of sharp edges. Also use your pliers and or fingers to bend the ring into a round shape.

