 Using lukewarm water and a face wash designed for your skin type (e.g. oily or non-oily skin), gently wash away dirt, grim, and other pollutants from your face. You don’t want to use water that is either too hot or too cold as this may shock your pores rather than clean them out. Pores don’t dramatically open and close like we once thought, so lukewarm water is the best.Don’t over-wash your face either. When you wash your face more than twice — normally once in the morning and once at night, your skin gets stripped of too many essential oils, which causes your sebaceous gland to start creating oils.;
, This can irritate the skin, so even after the pimple is gone, it can leave a large pore, or even worse, a scar. Either let your pimple run its course or have a dermatologist take care of it for you.
 If you don't, it will produce more oil which will clog your pores and make them look bigger. If you have oily skin, get one specifically designed for oily skin. Emollients or moisturizers are great for maintaining healthy skin, but too much of a good thing can lead to clogged pores. Use the recommended amount and adjust if you have dry or overly oily skin., Make sure your exfoliant contains salicylic acid. It will come in a gel, a liquid, or a pad form. Gentle salicylic exfoliation can remove excess skin cells from your face, stopping them from building up in your bore and expanding it further. It will exfoliate the inside of the pore itself, which will allow the oil to flow from the gland to the surface without engorging the pore.


Since aging is often a factor for pore size, salicylic acid also helps to reduce wrinkles and builds collagen, thus giving your face a youthful appearance in addition to minimizing your pores., Retinol contains a heavy dose of vitamin A and will continue to exfoliate your skin from within at night. It’ll unblock pores and reduce oil secretion.Retinoids can also help reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles. If you think you need a higher level retinoid for your skin, you’ll need to get a prescription from your dermatologist. This being said, you can purchase many different retinoids at the pharmacy.