 This trail includes several great stops at several historic places in the city. Boston is a deeply historical and relevant city in American history (especially during the American Revolution) and there are many sites throughout the city that celebrate this fact. Some historical sites in Boston include the home of Paul Revere, the site of the Boston Massacre, Old North Church and Boston Common.


The Freedom Trail is a great way to see a lot of Boston's historical sites as well as the city of Boston. Two and a half miles, it includes sixteen historical attractions and can be done in one day. For more information, visit thefreedomtrail.org.;
, John Hancock Building is New England's tallest building ,, During the April 2013 Boston Marathon, a bombing occurred. Visit the memorial that was inspired by this bombing., Although it's been nicknamed as "Boston's Big Dig", it's prominency is just as important as the Big Dig in Europe. It can be traveled over by car.,, Boston has several well-known art museums located throughout the city. These include the Museum of Fine Arts, the Institute of Contemporary Art and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum.
 The North End is the Italian part of the city, with many cafes, restaurants as well as historical sites. This is a good place in the city to find something to eat and learn some history as well.
, Fenway Park is the home of the Boston Red Sox and Red Sox Nation. The oldest baseball stadium in the nation, Fenway is the best spot in the city if you are a fan of baseball and sports. Tours are available of the park.
 Boston Common is the oldest city park in the United States and is fifty acres in size. Whether you stop to rest, visit the visitor center, or just take a stroll, visiting Boston Common is a nice way to end or begin your day in Boston.
 These can be boarded in/near Boston Common., Boston has a growing food scene on the national stage, including chefs like Barbara Lynch and cuisines such as Chinese and Southern American.
 Boston is a great children's city with many of its attractions being family friendly or more suited for children. Attractions for children in Boston include the Boston Children's Museum, the New England Aquarium and the Museum of Science in Boston.
 Boston-Logan International Airport is a major airport in the United States, with JetBlue, Delta and US Airways carrying out major operations at the airport. Logan also has major European airlines and most likely travelers will find the airline/airport they need to get to from Logan. Logan is also considered one of the easiest airports to get to in the country, with multiple ways (including water taxi) to access the airport.