 Yes, you should act confident around others if you want to be perceived as hip. But genuine confidence is at the heart of true hipness. People aren’t born naturally confident – it takes effort. “Fake it til you make it” is more than a pop culture reference – there is truth in the sentiment.


Want to look hip? Then act like you already are.Stop seeking approval and validation from others and act the part that you want to be.You’ll find that what were once forced actions become second nature.
Confidence does not mean arrogance.You aren’t better than anyone else. But deep down have a profound understanding that you are an awesome person with unique talents who has a lot to offer the world.
 The more obscure the better, not because you want to look cool, but because you care about pursuing what’s new, fresh and underappreciated in music. Start following music blogs and put more emphasis on listening to music in your spare time.


Being cultured musically does look hip to others – but it’s also actually hip, and it always has been.
Many people theorize that the origin of the word “hip” is deeply rooted in the American jazz culture of the 1930s and 1940s.If it spawned the meaning of the word, it’s probably safe to assume that it is and always will be hip!

, Maybe reading isn’t your favorite pastime, but make an effort to familiarize yourself with the great literature in history and keep tabs on current respected authors. At the very least, do a little internet research about the nature of these subjects.


Being culturally “in the know” is an essential part of being hip, and that means knowing about good literature.
Don’t know where to start? Try researching the Beat Generation of the American 1950s. The Beat Generation was a social and literary movement defined by the members’ alienation from conventional society. They most certainly had an interest in what was considered hip at the time – in fact, they defined the very idea of hipness back then., It’s something you hear all the time, but what does it really mean to be yourself? Start with being aware of the quality of your thinking.Replace your negative thought patterns with positive ones. You can’t be who you truly are if your head is filled with negativity about yourself.
Additionally, follow your intuition. When you align yourself with your intuition, you are respecting your own authenticity to the core – the ultimate state of hipness.

