 Try to understand where your parents are coming from. If you are trying to be sneaky because your boyfriend is significantly older, abusive in any way, or could have any other negative effects on your well-being: reflect on the reason why you're trying to keep him from your parents. Decide if it is really worth it. If your boyfriend is a genuinely good guy, then your parents might be acting unreasonably.Is your boyfriend a bad influence, or involved in gangs/drugs, or very controlling or cruel to others? Your parents may just be concerned about you spending time with someone that they don't trust.
Consider any religious or cultural differences that might be driving your parents' decision. It may not be fair of them to impose their beliefs and values onto you, but it may be hard to go completely against the grain until you're supporting yourself.;
, People love to talk about other people, and news may travel quickly through your school, church, or community. Be very careful who you tell, and make sure that they understand the gravity of the situation. If your friends tell their parents, then their parents might tell your parents. If your friends tell their friends, their friends might tell their parents, who might in turn tell your parents. Don't underestimate the power of gossip!


Tell your friends that your boyfriend is a secret. Ask them explicitly not to tell anyone, and make it very clear that you're serious.
 Avoid lying. Just tell the truth about things that don't relate to your boyfriend. If your parents ask you what you did at school today, and you were ditching P.E. to be with your boyfriend: you still don't have to lie. Don't mention P.E., and tell them what you did in science, history, and math.
 If you act strangely or differently than you usually do, they might begin to suspect that you're hiding something. Try to keep a level head, and don't let anything slip. If your parents keep a close eye on your activity, they might notice when you start acting different.If you're texting constantly, talking on the phone more often than before, or spending a lot of time on social media, your parents might start to wonder who you're always talking to. Be more discreet, or be ready with a good excuse!
If you're staying out late at night, or even coming home late from school, your parents might notice.

