 Open a new web browser tab or window and visit pinterest.com. Click the “Login” button to access the login page, then enter your registered email address and password into the fields. Click “Sign in” to proceed.;
, Click your name on the top right side of the screen once you are logged in. Once you do this, all your boards and pins will load on the screen.
 This is near the bottom of the screen. Clicking it will cause a window to pop up where you can add information about the new board.
 The top box of the pop-up will say “Name.” Click inside the box and name your first board based on the style of fashion, e.g. “Summer ’15 Men’s Shorts.”

, You should add all information that is related to the style or creator. It would also be a great idea to list where they can find the items.
 Click the drop-down menu and look for either “Men’s fashion” or “Women’s fashion,” depending on who the clothing line is intended for.
 Look towards the bottom of the screen and click the “Create” button, this will make your new board pop up on your list of boards.
 Hover your mouse over the plus sign on the bottom right side of the screen. A menu will pop up from the sign. Click “Upload pin” from the menu.


Select the red button that says “Choose image” to open up your computer picture browser, and find the first image you want to add and click it. A list of your boards will appear.
Click the board that you just made, and the image will be pinned to that board.
You can repeat these steps for as many boards and pins that you need to get your Lookbook up and running.
 If you find that you would like to add other people’s pins to your Lookbook, you can! All you have to do is repin it. First, search for the image you want to repin using the search bar at the top, like “Dress pants.”


Locate the pin, and once you find it, hover your mouse over the image. At the top of the image, you will see a red button that says “Pin It”; click this. A small pop-up window will appear.
Now, most pins that you will repin will already have a description in the box to the left of the pop-up. If you want to add something to this, or if you want to completely change it, just click the description box and edit the text.
When you’re done, select your Lookbook board from the list on the right by clicking the “Pin it” button next to the board of your choice. The user’s pin will be added to your Lookbook board.

