 Each state has a law that governs the types of claims for damages that can be filed against the state government.


Some states may have limits to damages in certain circumstances. For example, if your car is damaged by a pothole in Michigan, the state awards damages only for damages beyond the amount paid by your car insurance company.You also must be aware of the deadline to file your claim. Claims for damages are governed by a state statute of limitations, and the time you have to file against the government often is far shorter than it is for claims against private businesses or individuals.For example, in Michigan you have only one year to file a claim for property damages against the state, and only six months to file a claim for personal injury damages.Many states have laws that limit state government liability for torts, particularly liability for damages or injuries that occur as a result of negligence in maintaining state government buildings or property., State law regarding claims for damages can be tricky, and usually requires you to act fast if you want to receive payment for a valid claim.


The state may have separate deadlines for filing a claim or for filing advance notice of a claim or intent to file a lawsuit for a claim. An attorney experienced in claims for damages against the state will be able to advise you when your deadlines fall and what notice is required in your case., Before you file your claim, make sure you have any necessary documents or other supporting information and evidence.


Typically some form of documentation is required to support your claim for a specific amount of damages. For example, if you are claiming the state is liable for damages to your car, you should include an estimate for the repair. Some states such as Tennessee require you to get two estimates to submit with your claim., Many states have an additional requirement that you send notice of your claim to each government employee or agency potentially responsible before you file your actual claim.


States dictate specific information that must be included in the notice, including the date and time of the incident, the location of the incident, and your full legal name and contact information.Often you also must wait a period of time between 30 and 120 days after sending notice before you take any further action on your claim., Most states have a standardized form you can fill out to file a claim for damages.


Some states such as Michigan require your completed form to be signed in the presence of a notary.If you don't know where to find a notary, call your bank – many offer notary services free of charge to their customers. Otherwise you may be able to find a notary you can use for a small fee at private businesses such as check-cashing companies.
While some states require a particular form to be used if you want to file a claim for damages, in other states you may file a claim for damages in any written notice as long as it includes necessary information such as your name and contact information, and the specific details about your claim., Typically you must file your form with the state agency responsible for your damages before you can take any other action against the state.


For example, if you wish to report vehicle damages caused by a pothole on a state trunkline in Michigan, you must file your claim with the Michigan Department of Transportation.Typically you must file your form in the state office located in the county where the damage occurred.If your state holds hearings, you will be sent a notice with the date and time for your hearing once it is scheduled., If you are not satisfied with the way the state agency handles your claim, you may have the ability to file a lawsuit in state court.


Some states only review claims below a certain amount. For example, if you allege damages of more than $1,000 against the Michigan Department of Transportation, you can recover only by filing a lawsuit.Many states require you to file a notice of intent to sue before you file your lawsuit. Additionally, there may be a special court with exclusive jurisdiction over claims against the state. For example, in Michigan you must file a claim against the state only in the Court of Claims in the county where the damage occurred.Some states may have different procedures depending on the amount of your claim. For example, claims under $1,000 against the state of Kentucky are reviewed by an investigator in the state Board of Claims office. Dismissed claims can be reviewed by the full board at your request; however, decisions of the full board are final. Claims over $1,000 can be appealed to the district court.When you file your lawsuit, you typically must pay a filing fee with the court ranging from $300 to $600.If you cannot afford the fees, you can apply with the court for a waiver.

