 Attachment styles are often formed from infancy to two years of age. The type of attachment style you developed is based on how you were taken care of as a baby. Ask those around you about your primary caregiver during this time. Those answers can clue you in on your attachment style.


Ask people who were around you during this time how the caregiver responded to your needs and if they were consistent in doing so. The type of interaction you received during those first two years paved the way for your attachment style., Think back to how your parents treated you. Ask yourself if they were always around, nurturing you and providing for you, or if they were withdrawn or unreliable. The way they interacted with you likely had a huge role in your attachment style.


For instance, if your parent made you feel safe and secure, you likely have an attachment style that is healthy. If they made you feel unsafe or were inconsistent in their giving, you may have an attachment style that errs towards the unhealthy side., Depending on what attachment style you have, and the level of severity of your emotional and relational experiences, it may be best to seek individual profession help from a therapist. If you are an adult who has never addressed any past issues with prior relationships (even those as a young child), you may benefit from effective therapeutic treatment.

Treatment will allow you to fully explore your childhood and life experiences as related to any losses you may have had, or exposure to trauma from abuse or neglect. Therapy may help you gain closure of past experiences, and develop healthy coping skills so you can improve your attachment style to one that is more secure.
 You can likely determine your attachment style by inquiring about your behavior as a baby. Ask someone who was old enough to remember how you responded when you were away from your parent. Their response can give you an idea of what attachment type you are.


For example, ask if you cried a lot when your parent left and how your behavior was when they came back. Did you stop crying when they returned, or did you push them away? Did you even notice when they left and came back? Their answers can shed some light on your style.