 General Educational Development (GED) certificates will also be sufficient to continue toward a social work degree.;
, Your score on the SATs, ACTs or A Levels will determine the universities or colleges where you will be accepted.
 This is the most direct way to licensure and entry-level positions within the field.


If you want to be a clinical social worker, you may want to choose a school where you can receive a master's of social work after you finish your bachelor's degree. A graduate degree is necessary to pursue this track.
 Your schooling should also include internships or practical application of your skills. Some jobs may require 1 to 2 years of experience in a social work setting.
 If you want to work in the health care sector, school system or a clinical setting, this is a necessary step. You can also return to pursue a MSW after working in the field.
 Contact the Association of Social Work Boards, at aswb.org, to find your state's requirements.


If you are looking for non-clinical work and your state does not require licensing for this level, you can start to look for entry-level work. You may be able to apply for an optional state license to further your credentials.
If you are looking for clinical social worker jobs, licensing is required in all states.
 You may also need to show you have completed 3,000 of clinical experience and submit letters of recommendation to be given a state clinical social worker license.



If you have an MSW, you may want to get a credential from the National Association of Social Workers (NASW). There are 3 options through this organization.
If you are not a clinical social worker, but you want to specialize in a particular field, such as social work with children, the elderly or another area, there are several specialized social work institutions that give voluntary certification.
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics expects the demand for social work jobs to rise by 25 percent until 2020, a rate that is faster than average.
 Social work jobs are available through federal and state agencies. You may need to relocate to be a viable candidate at the state offices.
 Each state requires its clinical social workers to earn educational credits to keep their license.
 You may be able to increase your salary and specialize further by looking for jobs that have more responsibility.
 After a decade or more of social work and a specialization, you may be able to move into private practice. People with management experience, project leadership and an MSW are especially qualified for this job transition.

