 You can't write something you know nothing about. Find what kind of Thrash Metal you like best whether it is the heavier form (Slayer, Evil, Testament, etc.) or the somewhat softer form (Metallica, Megadeth, Anthrax, etc.) and choose which one you would rather play. There are actually many forms of thrash. These forms are blackened thrash (Sodom, Toxic Holocaust, Venom, etc.), crossover thrash or a combo of thrash and hardcore punk (Municipal Waste, Anthrax, DRI, SOD, Nuclear Assault, etc.), death/thrash (Kreator, Slayer, Morbid Saint, Possessed, etc.), melodic thrash (Overkill, Havok, etc.) and technical thrash (Metallica, Kreator, Destruction, etc).;
,, Thrash Metal is a real fast genre of music so learning alternate picking (picking up and down quickly) is essential. Also power chords are also a large part of Thrash Metal so get used to using them.
 The main step of writing Thrash is just like writing any other form of music and that is determination. You usually aren't going to write the best Thrash Metal song in one night so work at it. Work with notes, power chords, etc. to give you some sort of idea.
 Doing so sometimes can give you ideas of your own.


Do not copy other bands' riffs at all. First of all, it doesn't help you out learning to write your own riffs by just copying everyone else all the time, and you could also run into some copywriting problems.
 Sometimes you have to throw out riffs completely because either they sound too much like another bands riff or because they just don't sound good. Be open to improvement and don't be afraid to change something.
 Listen to their suggestions and ideas and see if any of them work.
 Double picking is mostly used on an open note, especially the Lower E, so use this in your riff to make it faster and more ferocious.
 Some are slow and chugging-sounding so use this other form of riffs in your music as well. Don't be depressed if your riff doesn't sound good when played blistering fast.
 Only use other bands' riffs as a template if you are beginning to write. When you write a lot of riffs you will develop your own style of playing and then you don't have to rely on other bands' material. Also, don't be afraid to be unique. It is often the most unique thrash bands that are the best.

