 Explain to your child that every phone has a unique number, and placing calls requires knowing this phone number. The way this phone number is entered will vary slightly depending on the phone.Allow your child an opportunity to enter phone numbers on their own. Remind them that when they’ve entered a phone number properly, they will hear a ringing sound when they place the phone’s earpiece against their ear.
 Once someone on the other end of the line picks up and acknowledges the call – usually by saying “Hello?” – your child should respond. How your child responds depends on who answers.Tell your child that if the person they wish to speak with answers, they should introduce themselves. If the person who answered is someone who would immediately recognize their voice, they might just say, “Hi, it’s me” in a casual way.
Teach your child that if the person who answers would not immediately recognize their voice, they should introduce themselves more fully. For instance, they might say, “Hello, my name is ,” then communicate their message.
 If the person your child wished to get ahold of is indisposed, they might be able to leave a message. This could occur through an automated feature or through an intermediary.Explain to your child that if nobody answers the phone when they call, or if someone answers who they do not wish to converse with, they can leave a message.
For instance, your child might leave a message along the lines of, “Hello. This is . Please return my call when you can. My number is . Thank you.”

, When your child is learning to place calls, they should also learn how to contact emergency services. This process varies by location. For instance, in the U.S., they should dial 911. In the U.K., they should dial 999. Identify the process for contacting emergency services in your area and teach your child to do likewise.Share with your child the situations under which it would be appropriate to place an emergency call – that is, if there is a fire, if their parents or someone else is unconscious, or if an intruder is in the house.
Additionally, to prevent confusion, provide them with a few examples of occasions when it would not be appropriate to contact emergency services – that is, when they’ve spilled their juice or when they’ve lost their favorite toy.

