 There are two types of thyroid patients. If your metabolism is too slow because your thyroid is not producing enough thyroid hormone, you suffer from hypothyroidism.If your metabolism is too fast, however, your thyroid is overactive and producing a surfeit of thyroid hormone. Only your doctor can help you determine if you have hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism, and whether boosting your metabolism as a thyroid patient is safe.If you are a thyroid patient with this second type of thyroid disorder (known as hyperthyroidism), you should not attempt to boost your metabolism, since it is already in high gear. Further metabolism boosts could complicate your condition and cause damage.
Only attempt to boost your metabolism if you are a thyroid patient with hypothyroidism.;
, The typical treatment for hypothyroidism – regular ingestion of the thyroid hormone levothyroxine – will boost your metabolism. Talk to your doctor about whether you might be able to receive levothyroxine and thereby boost your metabolism.Levothyroxine may cause heart palpitations, insomnia, shakiness, and an increased appetite.
You will need to take thyroid hormone at least a week or two before you notice your symptoms start to decline.
You will likely need to take levothyroxine for the rest of your life.
 Synthetic thyroid hormones are preferred by the medical community. But there are also natural sources of thyroid hormone made from pig gland extracts. Like their synthetic counterparts, they are available only with a prescription.The main difference between these hormones and the ones manufactured synthetically is that these contain triiodothyronine as well as thyroxine. The synthetic version contains only thyroxine.
Don’t confuse these natural extracts with glandular concentrates available in health stores. Glandular concentrates are not regulated by the FDA and their efficacy and purity cannot be guaranteed.
Be sure to talk to your doctor about starting a new supplement. They can recommend the best time to take your medication to promote metabolic health.

