 During your period, you may feel more tired than you normally do. Pain and discomfort from cramps and bloating can make it more difficult to sleep, while fatigue actually lowers your pain tolerance.Try to sleep at least eight hour during the night and take a nap during the day if you need to.


Light exercises, like meditating, practicing yoga, and stretching can help you to sleep better.
Your core body temperature rises during your period, making you feel warmer. Feeling warm can make sleeping difficult so keep the temperature in your bedroom between 60 and 67 degrees Fahrenheit, or 15.5 to 19 degrees Celsius., Most women prefer not to wear tight, close-fitting or otherwise uncomfortable clothing while they have their period. You should wear what you feel most comfortable in when you have the opportunity. Women who are bloated might prefer to wear looser tops or pants with an elastic waistband.
 During your period, you should wear underwear that you don’t mind getting messy. Even when you use the right feminine hygiene products, you may leak onto your underwear. Some women like to have a few pairs of underwear that they only wear during their periods. You may be more comfortable wearing full coverage bikini briefs, rather than thongs, during your period, especially if you are wearing a pad.


Try to get cotton underwear for your period. Not only is it comfortable, but it may be able to reduce your risk of yeast infections.Stains are less noticeable on darker colored underwear.
Your underwear should be cotton, which allows the area to breathe and is gentler on the skin., Periods can add to your stress and be an inconvenience. Give yourself time to unwind after a day out and find quiet space to just gather your thoughts and feelings. Find ways to relax and to take your mind off any pain or discomfort that you may be feeling.


Do the things that make you happy. For instance, listen to your favorite songs and artists and have a dance party in your room.
Find activities that you find relaxing or soothing, like meditating, writing in a journal, drawing, listening to soothing music, or watching television.
Aromatherapy may also help you relax. Try using sage, lavender, or rose essential oils.
 Hormonal changes can affect your mood during your period. For instance, you may feel sad, anxious, or irritable about situations that normally don’t impact you. Be aware that if you are feeling upset about something, your emotions might be related to your hormones rather than how you truly feel. You may want to avoid making big decisions during this time, or avoid confrontation.


You can write down your emotions each day during your period to see if you notice that you feel sadder or more anxious during this time.
If you are experiencing extreme mood swings or have any thoughts about harming yourself contact your doctor immediately.You may be suffering from a condition called Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder, which can significantly impact your mood.
 Pads should be changed every three to six hours and tampons should be changed every four to six hours. Never leave a tampon in for longer than eight hours; this increases your risk of developing Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS). You can leave a menstrual cup in for more than twelve hours, and this is the most environmentally friendly option. Changing your feminine hygiene product can help you to feel fresh and more confident that you won’t leak.


You may need to change your feminine hygiene product more frequently if you have a heavier flow or if it is the first few days of your period.
TSS is a serious and life-threatening bacterial infection. If you begin to have a rash that resembles a sunburn, especially on your palms and soles, a high fever, low blood pressure, or begin vomiting contact a medical professional.