 The damage can occur over time or within just a few hours, depending on the cause. Some possible reasons for feather damaging include:Boredom. If the bird doesn't feel mentally stimulated, it will grow bored. Picking at its feathers is a form of distracting itself, much as when a human bites at their fingernails out of boredom or frustration.
Diet. If the bird isn't getting a nutrient-balanced diet, it may resort to feather plucking.
Stress. A person, pet or habitat could be provoking the bird to feel stressed. Lack of exercise, overly large or small perches, noisy or busy cage location, lack of chewing toys, lack of exercise, etc., can lead to the bird being stressed. You should move the bird to a calm, quiet and low-traffic room.
Illness. A medical condition or disease can cause feather plucking or loss such as French Moult.;
, It is important to rule out an illness before assuming the feather-plucking behavior is caused by boredom, diet or stress. Moreover, unless you are an expert, it can be difficult to diagnose a bird's illness.
 A failure to eat food or drink water is a very concerning sign, and the bird should be seen by a veterinarian immediately., This may be accompanied by huddling low on its perch, puffing up the feathers or breathing heavily. In addition, the bird may show some of these signs:Weakness
Sitting in a corner of the cage or low in the cage
Falling off its perch
Continuous feather ruffling
Failure to preen itself
A lack of activity or a strange new posture
Walking in circles
Having seizures or trembling
Sleeping a lot
Changes to its singing, or a lack of singing
Hanging from the cage by its beak rather than perching.
 A normally placid and happy parakeet may suddenly start to snap at you or behave aggressively if it feels pain or is ill., Birds cannot sweat and must use other ways to dissipate heat from their bodies.Signs that your parakeet may be too warm include:Panting (rapid breathing or more breaths per minute than usual)––this is a very serious sign of overheating that needs immediate veterinary attention, first by phone, then by a visit
Spreading its wings out
Hot feet
Flared and red nares (nasal opening)
Hot beak
Note that these symptoms can also be found if the bird has a fever or respiratory distress, so it's important to seek help from the vet immediately.
 Signs that your parakeet may be too cold include:Fluffing out its feathers
Huddling or scrunching over its feet (to keep them warm)
Sitting in a corner or finding a hiding spot (possibly to get away from a draft).
 If there is a change in the color, consistency or quantity of the urine, then the bird may be ill. This also applies to its droppings.If there is a bad odor in the cage, either from urine, droppings or another source, assume that the bird is not well., If you see discharge from the nostrils, or crusted areas, the bird is ill.,, This usually signals illness. If regurgitating the budgie may shake its head side to side and expel whole seeds. If vomiting the head will appear wet and may include mucous and seed., If they look sunken, droopy, cloudy or have changed color, these are signs of poor health or an illness. A healthy parakeet will have clear and alert eyes., Use your usual bird-experienced vet to diagnose and treat the bird's illness.
 Be prepared to call if you're not sure about anything or if changes occur that worry you.
 Avoid situating the bird anywhere with drafts, noise or bright light. Keep human and pet traffic to an absolute minimum.


Remove distractions from the cage, such as toys, mirrors or bells.
Ensure that the bird gets at least 10 to 12 hours of sleep. This may include making the bird's resting area off-bounds to all household members.
In some cases, it may help to increase the humidity in your home. Talk to your vet about this; it can assist with improved breathing if the bird is congested, but the vet must okay it first.
 This can be helped by feeding the bird foods with a high moisture content, such as leafy greens and fruit, provided the vet has said this is okay first.If it is okay to give fruit, float a piece of grape or apple in the bird's water. This can encourage the bird to drink, as well as take the piece of fruit.
 Recovering birds often do well on a diet high in simple carbohydrates because these are easy for the bird to digest.Your bird's vet should give you appropriate suggestions.

