 Once you find out your partner is married, you may not be prepared to be with them moving forward. Be honest about how you are feeling and acknowledge the reality of the situation. You may not feel you can trust your partner anymore and do not feel emotionally prepared to be with a married partner. Discuss how you are feeling with your partner so they know where you’re at. Use “I” statements when you do this.


For example, you may tell your partner, “I can't handle being with someone who is married,” or, “I feel as though the trust between us has been broken.”

, Let your partner know that your relationship is over. Be as gentle and firm as you can, as you do not want to give your partner false hope about the situation. If your partner tries to convince you that you can still be together, remind them about how you feel and what you want. If you do not want to be with a married partner, be clear about this.For example, you may tell your partner, “I do not want to be with a married partner. I think we need to separate,” or, “I am no longer comfortable in this relationship. I think we need to end it.”
It is fair to give the other person time to tell you why they think you should stay in a relationship, but don't let them go on and on. Once they've said their piece, move on and do not engage in further discussion on the matter, even if they pressure you.
 Let your partner know that you will need some time apart from each other. Be clear about keeping your distance from each other. Tell your partner that you will decide when and if you will speak to each other again.


For example, you may tell your partner, "We need space away from each other. I will let you know if and when we can talk again. I need time away from you."

, Once you and your partner separate, keep your distance from them. Agree not to contact each other for awhile and give each other space. Remove the person from your social media and do not respond to their calls or messages.If you see the person on a daily basis at work or school, agree to keep your distance and not talk or interact when you can avoid it. Doing this will allow you both the time you need to move on from the relationship.
Remember that it is nearly impossible to immediately transition from being partners to being friends. While you may decide to be friends eventually, it is essential that you keep your distance and do not contact each other. You need time to heal and resolve your feelings, which may allow you to change the dynamic of the relationship to one of friendship.
You may also be tempted to jump into another relationship to try and forget about this person. Try to avoid this, instead allowing yourself time to heal on your own.

