 While many gardeners choose spring for time to move and divide plants, it can have a negative effect on the plants, especially in hotter climates. It's preferable to divide hostas in the late summer and early fall, roughly 4 weeks before first frost. Hostas are fairly tough plants, though, and can be divided at any time during the growing season if you carefully replant, water, and mulch the divided clumps. Tamping down the soil around the root ball so that the plant can't be easily dislodged will insure greater success.;
, Often, if the clumps are large (say about 25cm/10 inches across at the base), you will find it easiest to use a fork with flat blades and a spade or shovel. If the soil is very light and humus-y, and the plants are smaller, a long-bladed knife, preferably with a serrated blade, will work well. A hacksaw is very helpful if the clump is very large. Some folks like to have a garden hose handy, or a large bucket of clean water.
 Once you have cut a circle around the clump, slide the spade underneath the clump and lift it out of the ground, or pry the clump from the ground with the fork.
 Also wash the plant if you are unsure of how the individual plants are growing and you don't want to slice one in half (particularly if the hosta is a slow-growing expensive one). Do not worry about damaging the roots with the water, because hostas' roots are tough.
 To remove a stem from the crown, use a back and forth pulling motion and not a side-wise motion (hold the core plant in one hand, and grab the stem in the other, rotate the stem-holding back and forth), work the stem back and forth until the rhizome comes loose or breaks from the crown. The rhizome will break at the appropriate point. Even if you lose some of the plant stems, you'll still have enough of the rhizomes to produce a healthy new clump.
 You can cut the clump in various sizes, such as simply in half, into thirds, or quarters.
 Try to keep as many roots and leaves as possible, by making cuts through the crown but not into the roots. Start by cutting the crown in half, if you are really careful you can navigate around the stems; if the clump is really large, sometimes it is just easier to cut in half without much concern that you cut a few stems in half, because the clump is such a monster anyway.
 In this case, hold each half in one hand, and gently rotate the halves in opposite directions, then rotate back and forth each time applying a bit more pressure and simultaneously exerting pressure to move the halves away from each other. If you can't pull it apart then make the cut deeper.
,,, Do not think that a small piece might not grow. It's amazing how resilient these plants are and you might as well plant the little pieces alongside a larger plant.
 If you can not plant them right away, place some moist dirt or peat moss on the roots and put them away from direct sunlight, deep shade is good in hotter climes.
 Do not leave the plants in water for more than a day, the roots will begin to rot.
 If you have washed the roots or the roots are not holding much soil, make a good size hole and spread the roots out in a fan. Replace the soil, pressing firmly with the heel of your hand around the plant, and water the plants well so no large air pockets in the soil exist.
 deeper) and water in well.
