 This will allow you to get a taste for the plot, to know the story and to even decide whether it's deserving of being transferred to the stage.;
, This time focus only on the characters. Are these characters going to turn into good characters on stage? Are they believable, enjoyable, interesting, etc.?


Create a "cast" of actors/actresses that would be good with the roles. These could be people you want to work with and know already, or maybe even actors you know from real celebrities if you're going to pitch the play more widely.
 Are all of the props doable within your budget or within the realm of stagecraft? In particular, make sure the book isn't totally outlandish or only in the realm of screen special effects. While you can make people fly in plays as well as many other things, it's a little harder to make lightening fly from their hands or have them rescue people in distress from skyscrapers. If you're interested in transferring a more fantastical book, you may want to try making a film instead.
 You may need to add some lines, as books can get away with explaining things without a character talking about it, but try to make it sound natural.


Don't quote the book exactly. While you want to make the play as close to the real story as possible, don't just take the dialogue from the book and stick it into your script. Often this won't work well and you will need to be more creative to bring the dialogue to life.
 We see it in the movies all the time and plenty of people hate it, but this is what makes a book adaptation more interesting than just a retelling of the book. If you're writing a play out of a classic that has been turned into a play, film, or musical many times before (e.g. Alice in Wonderland) you can make more changes than if you were making this play out of a really modern, new book (e.g. the Twilight series) and even add characters.
 If you are planning on making this a public performance, many people will be unhappy if their favorite characters are acting in ways that they would never act. Read the parts in the book where the character plays a large role and see how they deal with events. This way, you can make them react to your own events in a way that isn't completely unbelievable.


Avoid creating Mary Sues.
, Keep in mind that if this is a very obscure book that only you and a few friends know about, you should be listening to what the friends who have not read it have to say because they represent the main portion of the audience. Likewise, you would do the opposite if the play is based on a very popular book like Harry Potter.
 Obviously, include a copy of the play for the author to read through. Also explain whether you're performing it as an amateur or whether you have wider commercial intentions, as this will affect the author's decision. If they say yes, congratulations! You are a playwright!

,,