 Maintaining your health is important, particularly if you suspect that you might have a CREB protein deficiency. Cognitive or psychological issues (e.g. anxiety) may be due in part to a lag in CREB protein activation, and can be treated with medications or targeted therapies. Visit a doctor if you experience memory, learning, or concentration issues, or if you want more information about boosting your CREB protein levels.CREB protein levels are typically measured by way of a Western blot test, which is performed in a laboratory using a cell or tissue sample. This test can be ordered by your physician, or requested at a private laboratory.Contact private clinics or laboratories in your area for price quotes for a Western blot test.;
, The body’s production of CREB protein depends on the healthy functioning of the metabolic energy cycle. To keep this cycle running at peak capacity, eat a balanced and low-fat diet that is high in nutrients. It is equally important to eat at regular times of the day to keep your metabolic activity in check, which you can facilitate by keeping a food diary.Keep your metabolism on track by eating meals and snacks at the same time every day.
Opt for snacks and meals that contain fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein (e.g. a turkey sandwich on whole grain bread, with an apple and carrot sticks on the side).
Stay away from high fat, processed foods (e.g. fast food fare like hamburgers and fries).
 Exercise creates a molecular response in the body that can increase the activation of CREB protein.Aim for 150 minutes of moderate exercise every week, or 75 minutes of vigorous physical activity. Moderate exercise may include things like walking or swimming, while more vigorous exercise could include running, jumping rope, or taking a spin class.For instance, go for 30 minute walks five days a week to get moderate exercise.
For an example of a more vigorous exercise routine, do 25 minute sessions of jump rope three times a week.
 Your Circadian Rhythm is an internal process that regulates when you feel sleepy and alert during the day, and at what times you sleep. Maintaining a healthy rhythm is key to regulating your eating habits and giving your body enough energy for exercise. Keep your Circadian Rhythm in check by:Keeping a consistent sleep schedule (i.e. going to bed and waking up at the same time every day)
Steering clear of electronic devices close to your bedtime, which simulate daylight and adversely affect your body’s sleep instincts
Exposing yourself to bright light in the morning to wake up (e.g. opening the blinds, going outside for walk)
Avoiding all-nighters

