 Showering doesn’t have to be a hassle. In fact, it can be quite a pleasurable experience. Turn the water up nice and hot and delight in the sensation of the tiny streams prickling your skin. Breathe in the steam and feel its warmth spread through your body. Take your time. It’s about enjoying a moment of leisure as much as it is getting clean.


Showering serves as a time out from the rest of the world, giving you a chance to be alone and get some much-needed peace and quiet.
Try not to overdo it—too much time in a hot shower on a regular basis can strip your skin of the healthy, natural oils it needs., Stock up on musky soaps or silky body washes, fragrant shampoos and face scrubs or a fluffy new loofah. You’ll hardly be able to wait to take a shower if you’re excited about pampering yourself. When you use these types of products, you’ll also feel totally refreshed once you leave the shower, which can make you look forward to the next one.Change up the scents and formulas of your bath products every few weeks to keep them from getting old. For example, you might use a fresh-smelling floral body wash during the summer, then switch to an evergreen fragrance for the winter months.
 It’s no fun at all to climb into a shower covered with mold or soap scum with a weak trickle of water pouring out of the shower head and hair clogging the drain. If your facilities are in need of a deep cleaning, it can ruin much of what’s rewarding about bathing for you. Give everything a good wipe down and see if you can still resist that spotless, inviting shine.To prevent mildew and keep your bathing environment sanitary and inviting, aim to clean your shower every 2-3 weeks.Mix up a quick, organic cleaning solution using two parts white vinegar and one part warm water. Add a few drops of your favorite essential oils for a more pleasant scent., Make bath time more entertaining by playing a few of your favorite songs and cranking up the volume. Listening to music will give you something to focus on other than the tedium of lathering, rinsing and repeating. You can even have your own private dance party or sing along as loud as you like—as long as the other people in the house don’t mind.Invest in a watertight phone case or some waterproof speakers that you can bring into the humid bathroom with you.Put together a special playlist to queue up while you’re showering, complete with hits like “Splish Splash,” “So Fresh, So Clean” and “Wade in the Water.”

