 There are two different kinds of ribs: baby back (or loin-back) and spare ribs. Baby back ribs are smaller, usually 2-2.5 pounds per rack, more tender, and more expensive. Spare ribs are larger, usually 4-5 pounds per rack, less expensive, meatier, fattier, and more flavorful.When choosing a spare rib, look for evenly spaced fat. Don't choose a spare rib that has a large fat deposit in one place. Even marbling yields better flavor. For baby back ribs, it should be the same size along the bone with a even marbling of fat.Most people prepare St. Louis style spare ribs, which are just spare ribs with the ends and other gristly bits chopped off.When you buy spare ribs, you can ask your butcher to make them St. Louis style for you.;
, Rinse the ribs first, getting rid of any extra meat, fat, or bone particles. Then, turn the ribs over. Slide a dull knife or your fingers under the membrane and pull it back where it connects to the bone. Lift and loosen it until it tears. Pull the membrane away from the bones until it is completely removed. Trim the fat away from both sides.Removing the membrane will allow the ribs to tenderize.Some people, however, claim that the membrane doesn't make the ribs less tender and even prefer the ribs cooked with the membrane still in tact.Try cooking both ways to choose for yourself.
 Salt is important when making perfect ribs. The salt amplifies the flavors, helps the meat retain moisture, and helps you gain the crust on the top of ribs (called bark).Use 1/4 teaspoon of salt per pound of meat. Leave the salt on the meat for at least 1-2 hours.
 Most spice rubs are a mixture of spicy and sweet flavors.Traditional southern spice rubs include smoked paprika, chili powder, brown sugar, black pepper and salt. Mix the spices together in a small bowl.


Spice rubs are extremely versatile. Choose flavors that suit your palette. You can add paprika, chili powder, brown sugar, cumin, dry mustard, garlic powder, onion powder, cayenne pepper, red chili pepper flakes, premade Cajun seasonings, cinnamon, nutmeg - just about anything you prefer. Decide if you want a sweet or spicy rub, and adjust the amounts of spices accordingly.
You may prefer a marinade instead of a spice rub. These marinades can include mustard, liquid smoke, apple juice, hot sauce, or ketchup. Most traditional recipes tend to favor spice rubs over marinades.
 Make sure to coat both sides of the ribs, pressing the spices into the meat with your fingers. Don't coat the ribs so thickly that you can't see the meat through the spices. When you've coated your ribs, wrap the ribs in plastic wrap. Place them on a cookie sheet, then refrigerate for 12 hours.


Try brushing on a layer of vegetable oil before you rub in the spice rub. This helps the spices absorb into the meat better, and it helps the meat crisp into that desired "bark" on the outside of the ribs.
 The next day, get the grill ready about an hour before you plan on cooking the ribs. Allow the grill to heat before you begin, aiming for a temperature of 225 degrees Fahrenheit.


The secret to grilling ribs is indirect cooking. If you have a charcoal grill, place the charcoal on one half of the pit, so that your ribs can be cooked by indirect heat on the portion without the briquettes. Place a water pan directly above the heat source; this helps the smoking process by keeping the meat tenderized. Cook your ribs under the exhaust vent, which should be open.If you have a gas grill, turn on only the outside burners; this leaves the center burner or two unlit so the ribs can cook indirectly. If you have two burners, only light one. You will cook the meat on the side of the grill that does not have the burners on. Your dial will probably be set at 175 degrees. Use a cooking thermometer to monitor your temperature to ensure a steady 225 degrees. Let the grill warm up slowly; never turn the grill on high heat. You can place the ribs on a cooking rack and place a pan of water underneath the ribs to help keep them moist.
 When your grill has heated to 225 degrees, place the ribs on the side of the grill that is not directly above the coals. Allow them to cook for 2 to 4.5 hours, depending on how big your ribs are. Baby back ribs will need less time than spare ribs.


There are different ways you can cook ribs. You can stack ribs, placing two slabs on top of one another. You need to rotate the ribs at least twice, switching the placement of the ribs. This should be done every 40 minutes or so.You can also use a rib rack. When using a rib rack, add at least 30 minutes to your cook time due to how close the ribs are when cooking. You can also cook them by laying them out flat. If you only lay one slab of ribs on the grill, there is no need to flip them. Just switch the placement of the slabs, moving the one closest to the coals or burner farther away while moving the one that was far away closer.Add pre-soaked wood chips to the barbecue pit along with the charcoal if desired. Hickory, mesquite and other chips will create a smokier flavor in the meat.
To get the smoky wood chip flavor with a gas grill, place wood chips in a smoker box. If you don't have a smoker box, make a smoker pouch out of aluminum foil and place it on top of one of the burners. Turn that burner on maximum heat and close the lid before you place the ribs on the grill. When the chips start smoking, turn the burner down and place the ribs on the grill. Make sure the temperature is 225 degrees.If you don't want to add a pan of water under the ribs, spritz the ribs with apple juice or apple vinegar with every half hour to help retain moisture.
 Slather barbecue sauce on them using a brush. Opinions vary on when you should add the sauce. Some suggest adding sauce after an hour of cooking,while others say do it during the last fifteen minutes. If you do it during the last fifteen minutes, move it over directly over the coals so the sauce can caramelize.Don't over-sauce. You want to enhance the flavor, not cover up the taste of the pork and the spice rub. If you want more sauce, add it at the table. Use one or two coats of sauce, no more.
 Allow them to set for 15 minutes. Separate the ribs with a knife and serve.

