 You can use deductions, exemptions, depreciation, and tax breaks as long as they are legitimate, and you follow laws, rules, and regulations. For example:


Bloom Energy intends to develop smaller units for individual homes in the near future, but right now (beginning in 2010) big companies (including Google, Walmart, eBay and California's PG&E) have been trying out BloomEnergy electrical energy boxes installed with huge incentives from Federal and some U.S. state government subsidies. The "Bloom Energy Server" is commonly referred to as the "Bloom Box" and is a "solid oxide fuel cell" (SOFC) made by Bloom Energy, of Sunnyvale, California, that can use a wide variety of inputs (including liquid or gas as gaseous hydrocarbons produced from bio sources) to generate electricity on the site where it will be used using air and gas to react with special coatings on thin metal plates to produce electricity. Wikipedia: "Bloom Energy Server";
, These incentives probably will not last forever: once the green energy movement picks up full stream, the incentives will become unnecessary.



Get brochures, bids, advice, specifications of equipment.
 There are plans available for building a home made turbine generators and solar generating systems with battery storage, etc.
 While you may have to take a risk, the green technology may pay for itself, and then some.
 Consider producing green savings, generating power or direct energy by various alternatives, if you find the right program and equipment.



Solar energy can be used directly, or to generate electric power by:

Making hot water directly from the sun; store hot/warm water to help heat your house at night.

Removing heat from your roof (helping you air conditioning) while making hot water.


Use solar arrays, stationary or directional regulated electric panels to store electricity in batteries for electric lights, electronics, motors, etc.


Wind -- installing large wind driven generators for electricity can cost a fortune.

Some wind generators are too large and noisy, as well as unsightly to neighbors to be used near other persons' residences.


Wave energy -- harness the sea with a wave-powered generator, with a power line to shore,
Geothermal -- air conditioning and heating based on water wells heated and cooled by the earth.
Fuel efficient engines in vehicles -- save money.
, Check for local restrictions and prohibitions of using some green tech by your city, county, your deed or owners association rules.
 Starting such a company is risky, but the rewards can be significant or even lucrative. Get training manuals and videos from suppliers of equipment.
 There may be several companies that install some green technology (such as HVAC: heat, ventilation, and air conditioning). The best of these companies and the ones with the largest projects may have literature and videos and possibly training.

