 Tableau offers a 14 day free trial of their product. It is completely free all you have to do is download it. You can import your own data to work with in this product, I show you how in later steps, or you can use the data they provide. Their data is already in the free trial when you download it.


Go to http://www.tableausoftware.com/.
Click on the Free Trial tab on the upper right side of the page.
Choose the Tableau Desktop option to download (click Start Now) at the bottom of the page.
Save File when the pop up appears with the save file option.
Execute the file you just downloaded.
Run file when the pop up appears with the run file option.
Click the View License Agreement and read the document that downloads.
Click in the small box to indicate that you have read and accepted the terms and conditions of the License Agreement.
Click the Install button.
Click the Agree or Yes button when asked if you wish for Tableau to download software on your computer.
Click the Start Trial Now when the Activate Tableau pop up appears.;
, When you register for Tableau you can use their learning tools on the Tableau website. They offer many great free videos as a way to learn their tool. They start at the very beginning and get fairly in debt into the tool. Also you cannot use the free trial if you do not register.


Fill out all of the text boxes. They are all self-explanatory except the following:

Fill in the organization you work for in the organization text box. If you do not work for an organization put self-employed.
Fill in your job title in the job title text box, if you do not have one enter self-employed.
Choose your department in the drop down menu for Department. If you do not have one or the one you work in is not listed, choose other.
Choose the type of industry you work for in the drop down menu for Industry. If you do not work for an industry or the industry you work for is not listed, choose other.


Click register when you have filled out all of the parameters.
Click continue when the pop up informs you that you have registered successfully.
 Save your Excel File to a known location. This step is if you want to use your own data in the free trial of Tableau. Again, you do not have to if you just want to practice a little with the tool because they offer their own data.


Save the excel file you wish to upload into Tableau somewhere on the same computer as the Tableau trial you just installed.
 This step is useful if you have closed Tableau. Tableau should automatically open when you download the free trial, so if you have not closed it you can skip this step. You can come back to this step after you close Tableau.


Open the start menu on your computer.
Type in Tableau in the text box at the bottom of the menu screen and hit enter.
Click the continue trial button in the pop up.
 This step is to connect to your excel file. This is the step where you browse for you excel data file. As you can see, Tableau can connect to many forms of data, including many different types of databases. Although connecting to any of the types of data is similar, this is specific for Microsoft Excel.


Click the Connect to data option on the left side of the Tableau screen.
Click on Microsoft Excel from the list on the left side of the screen.
Locate your saved data in the directory from step 3.
Click on your file and click open.
 This is a convenient way to make changes to the name of your columns. Many times in your raw data, the column names are not reader friendly and this offers a simple and straight forward way to change them. It also is a nice and simple way to change the data type of the column.


Hover over one of the column headers which are located in the center of the page.
Click the drop down arrow that appears on the upper right corner of the column header when you hover over the column header.
Click on rename if you would like to rename the column.
Click on Hide if you would not like the data column to be on the worksheet.
Click on the icon on the bottom left of the column header.
Choose which data type you would like that column’s data to be.



Click the Go to Worksheet button in the middle of the page

, This worksheet is what will be imported into your dashboard. You will be moving the metrics to create the charts and graphs you want. Metrics are the specific types of data like inventory or sales. They can be different from your raw data because they can be a result of performing a function on your data, like a sum or total. The basic metrics when you start a worksheet are located on the left side of the page.


Choose which metrics you want for columns and rows.
Drag the metric for column from the list of metrics on the left side of the page onto the columns bar on the top of the page.
Drag the metric for row from the list of dimensions or metrics onto the row bar underneath the columns bar.
Drag more rows or column metrics if desired.
Drag a metric to the colors square on the left side of the main sheet area.
Choose the graphic type from the choices listed on the right side of the sheet.
 If you want to create more than one worksheet within your project, Tableau makes it very simple to do that. Clicking any of the tabs at the bottom of the worksheet will provide the same menu.


Right click on the tabs located at the bottom of the worksheet.
Choose the new worksheet option.
Clicking the tab with the mini graph instead of right clicking is another option.
Clicking the Worksheet tab at the top of the page and choosing New Worksheet is another option.
 This is where you are going to actually create you dashboard. It is based on your worksheet and you can make modifications within the dashboard view. This option for dashboard is in the same menu as the new worksheet option when right clicking any of the tabs at the bottom of the worksheet.


Right click on the tabs located at the bottom of the worksheet.
Choose the new dashboard option.
Clicking the tab with the four grids instead of right clicking is another option.
Clicking the Dashboard tab at the top of the page and choosing New Dashboard is another option.



Choose which sheet you want on your dashboard
Drag the worksheet from the left side of the screen onto the dashboard

, There are lots of options that you can do with a dashboard, but two of the very basics are described below.


Click on Dashboard on the left hand side of the page underneath Layout.
Choose the device you wish to display your dashboard on from the size dropdown menu on the right side of the page underneath Dashboard.
Click on a bar or line in your chart. This highlights that car or line for added emphasis.

