 Since your focus will be on your studies and other aspects of your college experience, your recovery may not be your main priority. However, you should keep your recovery as your first priority. Keeping yourself healthy will lead to better performance in your classes and an overall healthier, more positive experience.Maintain your mealtimes and healthy food choices. Manage your food consumption as you did before you went to college. You may need to make sure you eat enough calories or limit your portions.
Continue any treatments agreed upon by you and your treatment team.
See your counselor or call your doctor if things start to get too difficult for you to handle.
 It is important to keep your stress under control to manage your eating disorder. Try to develop some stress relief techniques that you can incorporate into your daily life and set aside at least 15 minutes to relax every day. Some things you might try include:


Meditation.

Yoga.

Progressive muscle relaxation.

Deep breathing exercises.
Taking a long, relaxing bubble bath.
Making a cup of herbal tea.
Calling up a supportive friend or family member to chat.
Engaging in a favorite hobby, such as knitting, painting, or reading.
Writing in a journal to express your feelings., Moving to college gives you freedom to live in environments you’ve never experienced before. This can be very exciting, but if you have an eating disorder, it may present problems. You should think about your eating habits, your triggers, and your eating routines as you decide where to live.Most colleges offer dorm living. You may also have the option of living off-campus or in campus apartments, or even living in a sorority or fraternity house. Decide how each of these will impact your eating routine and management.
Dorms usually don't have an easy way to cook your own meals, but you can eat at the dining hall or in the student center. Off-campus living allows you to be able to cook your own meals, but it may be easy to skip meals, purge, or binge eat.
Sorority or fraternity living and dorms put you around people that may make it easier for you stay on a regular schedule and refrain from purging.
College housing may put you in contact with people who diet, drink alcohol, or have unhealthy eating habits. Make sure to adopt healthy habits for yourself.
 A large part of the college experience is socializing. You will be hanging out with old friends and making new friends while you are there. You need to make sure that you end up with friends who respect your situation and your choices. Find friends who make you feel good about yourself, your body, and your self-esteem. There may be people you interact with in college who make you feel like you need to stop eating to change yourself, or that stress you out until you want to binge eat. If you find yourself with these people, distance yourself.
You may be pressured into doing things to fit in, which may be harmful to your progress. You should be prepared for these situations. Come up with a mantra or technique to avoid temptation if it arises.
Take a friend with you to parties or other situations where you think you may face peer pressure. Having a trusted friend with you can help give you support so you can make healthy choices.
Make positive, healthy friends who don’t put you in situations where you are tempted or may participate in unhealthy behavior. Join a club or try new activity where you can meet people. For example, if you like writing, join the school paper.
 One way to keep yourself healthy and safe is to be able to identify your triggers. Make a list of what triggers your unhealthy eating habits. This might be stressors, certain feelings, or situations. Just being able to know your triggers is one step in dealing with them.


Avoid the triggers you are able to. This might be unhealthy social situations or certain activities.
For example, you may end up in a group of friends who decide to go on a strict diet and start working out to get ready for summer. This may trigger you. To cope, you can tell your friends that talking about those things triggers your eating disorder and you would appreciate it if they did not talk about it around you. You may distance yourself from these friends and spend time with friends who don't do things that trigger you.
For those things you can’t avoid, like class, exams, or people, you should figure out how to cope with those things. For example, you may come up with a semester organizational plan to help you manage your time, or interact with people in small groups at campus activities instead of parties.
 Just because you have an eating disorder doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy your college experience. You should enjoy yourself by making friends, trying new things, and participating in activities. Do things that make you happy and try not to focus on food and your appearance all the time. Instead, stay positive about your progress, your schoolwork, and your activities.


For example, join clubs and campus organizations, take yoga classes through the college, read new books, go to movies and concerts with friends, and go hiking with a group.

