 Some stress can be a good thing; it encourages us to work harder and perform under high pressure situations. But too much stress can begin to hurt our health and make it harder for us to perform.


A good sign that you have become overly stressed is that you can no longer bounce back. It makes sense to be stressed the night before a test. But, if you are still stressed when you come back home to spend time with your friends, then you have a problem.The most commonly reported signs of excessive stress are headaches and stomach pains.Other symptoms include fatigue, constipation, nervousness, diarrhea, inconsistent sleep patterns, neck cramps, sweating, absence of appetite, indigestion, heartburn, irritability, difficulty concentrating, and feelings of inadequacy, guilt, helplessness, and failure.;
, You should take some time off to try to rethink the way that you look at your situation. Try to find a more positive way to look at your situation.If you are struggling with AP classes, for example, remember that you are still a high schooler dealing with college level work. You aren’t struggling at college, you’re excelling at high school.
If bad grades get you down remember that it is only one assignment and that you will get a chance to make it up. Focusing on the negative will only keep you down and prevent you from excelling in the future.
Talk to the school counselor if you believe that your grades might be too low for you to meet you life goals. The counselor can tell you whether you are on track. If you are not on track, the counselor might be able to give you some suggestions as to how to catch up. Alternatively, the counselor can also point you toward other career paths commensurate with your interests and abilities., Talking to your parents might be the last thing most of us want to do in high school, especially if they are contributing to our anxiety. Sometimes, without meaning it, they put pressure on us to excel and push us further than we can manage. Hopefully, if you mention how you feel to them, they will adjust the way they talk to you.Without this outside pressure, it can be much easier for us to develop a healthy outlook on school work.
If our parents are aware of how we feel, they can become important partners in coping with stress. Parents can help us fix our schedules. Furthermore, getting them to commit to a quite household during homework time can make it easier to concentrate on finishing our assignments.

