 Don’t put all your eggs in one basket. Divide your money and hide it in multiple places on your person. Ensure that you will still have cash on hand, even if you fall victim to pickpockets, by:


Separating your smallest bills into the wallet that you will use most frequently, since this will be on display the most often.Keeping larger bills in a more secure holder, like a money belt or a hidden pocket in your underwear or first layer of clothing.
Hiding emergency funds in an unlikely container of little apparent value, like a mint tin or a box of feminine hygiene products.Carrying a change purse for coins, to be kept in a separate pocket from your wallet.;
, Plan your day before heading out. Decide how much cash you will need to cover that outing, with perhaps a little extra to cover unforeseen expenses. Whether you’re taking cash from a larger money roll that you keep with you, or withdrawing money from an ATM for each outing, don’t bring more than you expect to spend.Use your plan for the day to decide how to divide and store your money on you, as well as which denominations to carry, if possible.
For example, say you plan on traveling by both bus and taxi throughout the day, with a stop at a crowded market for shopping, and dinner at a fancy restaurant afterward. In that case, consider keeping coins for your bus fare in your change purse, small bills for taxi fare in your wallet, and large bills for shopping and dinner in your money belt.
 Avoid using your back pockets.Keep your wallet, change purse, and any other holders front and center, where you are more likely to spot thieving hands. If the only other option is the side pockets to your pants, use those. Otherwise, favor:The inside pockets of your jacket or coat, preferably with your jacket/coat zipped or buttoned up for double protection.
Pockets that can be closed with zippers, straps, buttons, ties, or, even better, a combination of them for extra security.
“Smart” pockets sewn into the front of specially designed underwear, shirts, or other clothing worn close to the skin.Wallet chains for any money holders that you keep in easily accessible pockets.
 Whenever possible, refrain from counting it where others can see. When you divide and hide your money before heading out, memorize how much you have where. Keep a mental tally from then to minimize the need to recount what you have left as you spend it. Additionally:Fight the urge to touch your money holders in order to double-check that it’s still there. This may seem counter-intuitive, but continually touching your hidden wallet will show prying eyes exactly where to find it.
Use private moments like bathroom breaks to get money ready for your next transaction. For instance, if you just had lunch before heading to a museum with an entrance fee, transfer money from your money belt to your wallet now so you don’t draw attention to your belt later.
Check yourself out in the mirror before going out. Look for any obvious bumps through your clothing that might betray where your money is held. Do what you can to minimize or hide these, like using a thinner billfold or draping a scarf over your clothes to obscure it., Contact your bank and credit card companies before you go traveling. Inform them that you will be using your debit and/or credit cards in new location, just to make sure that your cards aren't denied when you use them yourself. Additionally:Also ask them how to report a stolen or lost card from that location, since their contact information in one area may differ from another.
Sign up for text and/or email alerts for your debit and credit cards. This way you’ll be notified about each purchase made with them, which is a good idea in case they're stolen without you realizing it.
 Remember: don't keep your all eggs in one basket. Hold your credit cards in a more secure holder (like your money belt or a separate wallet held close to you), rather than the wallet that you use the most often to handle small bills. Store your bank and credit card companies' contact information separately from the cards themselves. Ensure that you can report stolen cards as soon as possible.


If you expect to use plastic frequently, consider using store-bought pre-paid debit cards instead of your personal accounts. Keep these in the wallet that will be on display the most often, and your personal cards in a more secure holder. This will help minimize your loss if your wallet is stolen.
With personal cards, choose only one or two to bring with you. This will also reduce your losses in the event of theft. This could apply to each outing or even the whole trip itself.

