 You know that reward system we talked about? Well, implement it. Implement it as often as you dang well please. No one said you can only reward yourself when you hit your long-term goal. How about the short-term? Set up small rewards, too, such as buying yourself a book or an accessory.


It's usually a bad idea to use food as a reward. You can still have a treat once in a while, but building it into your reward system can promote unhealthy behavior patterns.
 Now that your body is a lot more active than it used to be, you're going to need ample time to relax. Take a bit of time out of your day for you. Take an extra long shower or shove in that power nap. It's well-deserved.
 When you're having a particularly hard time getting up and going, these pictures will be used to remind you of the work you've done. Take a picture of yourself at day 1 and subsequently every week. How is your body changing?


Once your progress gets noticeable, you may want to consider posting these photos in your room or around your home. It'll keep it fresh in your mind that you've done all this work -- why sabotage it now?!

, Just like how you should mix up your workout routine, as soon as you become an old pro at this healthy lifestyle thing, consider adding on a new habit. Try experimenting with a week of vegetarianism, taking a vitamin, or picking up an outdoorsy hobby. This new you, what might they like to do?


If you're not already, start cooking. Not only will you be bettering the lives of your friends and family, but you'll gain a skill set and make healthy eating a lot more accessible.
 This should almost be higher up on the page. Know that you will have setbacks. This is inevitable and happens to everyone. The only thing you can do is get back up. If you miss a day of working out, that's better than missing two! Don't beat yourself up, just start fresh the next day.


It's much harder to work up to a point than it is to fall back. Missing a week of working out could put you back to where you were two weeks ago. Keep this in mind when you're thinking about spending the morning in bed. What will the repercussions be in a few days?

, This sure involves a lot of writing, doesn't it? This doesn't necessarily have to be its own book -- this could be a section of your (b)log, too. Just make sure whatever it is you're writing has a portion dedicated to how awesome you're doing. It'll feel so good when you can add to it.


When you feel like you haven't had a successful day, keep looking. What temptations did you pass up on that you could've given in to? Think about what you didn't do in addition to what you did do.
 Rocky had his theme song (you caught that, right?) so why shouldn't you have yours? Everyone needs something to get them into the zone. What's your signature jam?


Take the time to find 15 or so songs that really get you going. Having a playlist that amps you up in a matter of seconds will get your whole workout off on the right foot.
 The time has come! That pair of pants is off the door, your goal weight is reached, and your old-you clothes are no longer of service. Donate them to charity in an act of altruism and hubris. Congratulations!


You can donate your clothes to a worthwhile organization, but can you also donate your time and knowledge to others? You probably know at least half a dozen other people who are currently struggling through the same thing. How can you help?

