 If the engine is already cool you can begin work on your car.
 Make sure your battery is disconnected before performing any work on your electrical system. You don't want a shock or even worse to fry your on board computer because of a shock. That would cost much more money., You will need to remove this cover. It consists of 3 - 5 little bolts around the top and a jubilee clip which needs to be loosened up before removal. Release any hoses that are attached to this cover to allow the cover to be removed completely., You should see 4 spark plug holders. You will see the ignition coils placed inside these holders. Don't pull them out of the holes just yet. You will need to unplug them from the ignition coil pack first as they wires are far too tight to just pull them out as they are.*Remember which order they go in as the wire may be too short at certain points., Now that they have been removed you will want to get your spark plug socket removal tool. You may want to use a long magnetic tool as it's a lot easier to get them out with one. Fit your socket tool over the spark plug and turn counterclockwise. At first it might be a bit hard to turn you may require a long cheater bar to help with this process., Once there off check the quality of the spark plug. Compare it to your new spark plugs to make sure you have the correct item., On modern spark plugs the gap has already been set and you can just pop them straight in., Now one by one gently place your spark plugs into your car engine head. Make sure they are tighten up to the correct torque to get maximum performance from your spark plugs. You can check your car owners manual on how you can do this., Check each ignition lead manually to see if they have no wear or tears in them if they do they will need to be replaced. Replace each on that is due for a change., Make sure you have not lost your bolts and re attached your cover, If all is done correctly you it should start perfectly first time and you should see a better MPG.