 Place a Frisbee down on a piece of colorful cotton fabric. Use a dressmaker's chalk or pen to trace around the Frisbee, ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) from the edge., Measure around the Frisbee and add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) for seam allowance. Draw a rectangle on the fabric that is 3½ inches (8.89 centimeters) wide and whatever the Frisbee's circumference is (plus the seam allowance).You can draw the rectangle on the same piece of fabric, or use a different color/pattern.
 The circle will make the top of the Frisbee and the rectangle will make the inside hem., Fold the narrow ends of the rectangle together, right sides together. Sew along the edge using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance., This will make it easier to insert the elastic later on. If you'd like to, you can topstitch both of the hems down close to the seam. This will add an element of design and keep the hems from fraying., Working your way around the loop, fold one of the raw edges in by ¼-inch (0.32-centimeter). Press it flat with an iron as you go. When you are done, fold the edge in by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) and press it with an iron once more. Make sure that you are folding towards the wrong side of the fabric., Try to sew as close to the inside, folded edge as you can so that you'll have room for the elastic. Leave a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) gap between the start and end of your sewing so that you can insert the elastic.

You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting one.
 Turn the circle so that the right side is facing you. Make sure that the wrong side of the loop is facing out, then pin the remaining raw edge all the way around the circle., Use a ¼-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance and a matching thread color. When you are done sewing, consider cutting notches into the seam. This will make the cover lay more smoothly after you turn it inside out., Frisbee, then cut some ⅜-inch (0.95-centimeter) wide elastic according to that length. Use a safety pin to thread the elastic through the opening in the hem. Remove the safety pin when you are done., Overlap the ends until the loop rests neatly against the circle. Sew the ends together using a straight stitch. Trim off any excess elastic, if necessary.

Don't make the elastic too tight. You want to be able to stretch the cover over your Frisbee.
Don't make the elastic too loose, or the cover will fall off.
Give your Frisbee a nicer finish by tucking the elastic into the hem, then stitch the 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) gap shut.
 At this point, your cover is complete, and ready to be slipped over a Frisbee. If you want to, press both sides of the cover with an iron first, before slipping it over a Frisbee.