 Rabbits need up to 3 hours a day where they can run about and stretch their legs. If you allow your rabbit the space to roam around your house, this doesn’t need to be structured playtime, which can be easier on your time., Rabbits are curious and friendly, and you can do a lot to encourage your pet’s activity by getting down on its level. Get down on the floor with your rabbit and its toys. The rabbit will explore around you, and may even follow you as you roam around your house., If rabbits are given regular free range, especially indoors, they may get comfortable in particular places and spend too much time relaxing there. If you are worried about your rabbit settling, pick it up and move it to a different part of your house. The rabbit will get a little bit of exercise hopping back to the preferred location.


Alternatively, you can confine your rabbit for a few hours, limiting the space it can move around in. That way, when you remove the barriers and let it free, your rabbit will be more likely to explore the parts it couldn’t go before.You can also take some of your rabbit’s favorite toys and move them to different areas. Your rabbit will want to track them down, and maybe bring them back where it thinks they belong.
 Just like in humans, rabbits that don’t get exercise will suffer from various health problems. If you notice your rabbit suffering from some of these concerns, you may need to take some time to get your rabbit exercising. You should also consult with your vet to see what else you should do to help your rabbit.Problems include:


Obesity. Without exercise and a good diet, your rabbit will gain weight, which will add stress to other parts of its body, including the cardiovascular system and the pads of its feet. Your rabbit will even find it difficult to groom itself effectively. Keep an eye on your rabbit’s weight, and make sure it is getting a healthy diet of grass hay and fresh foods.
Behavioral problems. If your rabbit is not getting enough exercise, it may also become bored and unhealthy. Look out for signs that your rabbit isn’t healthy such as lethargy, aggression, chewing cage bars or its own fur, or destroying parts of its cage.

