 You can show some skin, such as a cute cutout dress in the back. Never, under any circumstances wear anything that causes you to question whether or not this could be too form fitting and ladies you know what I mean. When you leave one of them out, cover the other! If you are going to school that day and you have the dreaded gym, lean more toward the easily worn clothing (skirt, tee-shirt). cute flats with some pastel colored jeans looks so much cuter and less trashy than wearing the mini-skirt with heels.;
, That doesn't mean you have to hang around with them every waking moment, but you should do your best to be civil and nice. Even to people that are rejected by others. And take it from me (yes I'm a teenager as well)! People will admire the more you include others if that "other" happens to be the "loner" of the grade. I have done this before and after the first few times it becomes easy. For example: compliment a bagging lady at your grocery store, a girl with a cute bag at school, or (if you happen to be a boy) you noticed a kid has some new shoes that you like.
 Always know what sort of events are going on during the day, and dress correctly. It's better to be prepared for possible issues that might pop up.
 You can act classy by being polite to everyone. You should never ever be rude, this includes people you don't even know (sales clerk, cashier) You can, of course playfully tease your close friends, but only in a joking way, and make sure they know that you are just kidding. For example, my best friend gives "the finger" to my guy friends, but promptly blows a kiss to them afterwards. Speaking of blowing kisses... cute and sexy! Also, kisses on the cheek are always sweet.
 I know, this sounds like a lecture, but you can honestly get away with so much more if you just help out when you can and talk respectfully to them! Get on their A list, and they will be way more willing to help you out when you need it too! If you can't stand your parents, just consider it practice for your acting career!

, With your close friends, you can get touchy! Link arms with your best friend, Everyone likes to be touched! However, there is a limit to being "too touchy". Don't be all over anyone, it gives people the wrong idea, and makes you look like trash. Also, try to keep personal displays of affection to a minimum (holding hands is the farthest you should go in public).
 Yeah, in Gossip Girl it sounds all fun to do whatever you want and not give a care. This can lead to major problems though! Have your fun, be impulsive and spontaneous, but remember that the things you do now might affect other things in your future!

, Make a signature for yourself, or make multiple things become a signature of you! Have a scent that you always wear, a style of earrings that you are never seen without, or a playful wink whenever you are teasing someone! Anything you love can become your signature!

, Try EVERYTHING! Dabble into acting, modeling, sports, whatever! Every time you try something, you are forming a well-roundness that will make you seem really worldly and smart. And speaking of smart, really work on school. It makes you ever so much more intelligent, and everyone loves smart people. Read a lot, learn a new language, watch the news. Then you will have something to talk about with EVERYONE, I promise! And develop your skills! If you are good at something, pursue the heck out of it! Becoming amazing at lots of things is very classy.
 This one is easy, I promise! Just make people laugh, make eye contact with everyone you meet, be engaged by others and be engaging: talk a lot, laugh a lot, smile a lot! Everyone will just be d-r-a-w-n to you!

, This one is easy too. Remember that you are a beautiful person no matter what you look like! First of all, make sure your skin is healthy and clean. If you have acne, try to clear it up with creams or other products. Use make up to enhance your natural beauty and show your creativity. Eat one serving of nuts or seeds everyday. These foods really give skin a glow. After just a couple weeks, skin will be smoother and softer, and glow like you have a personal light shining on you at all times! For makeup, keep it minimal. Pale eyeshadow in natural colors (cream, vanilla, coffee, gold) is all you need for eyeshadow, while you can either leave lashes thick with mascara or plain. All lips need is a little chap stick or lip gloss. Make sure when you wear lip gloss that its not too thick, all you need is a SMALL dot spread all over lips, so they look moist and dewy, not drenched.
 Eat veggies, lots of fruits, and a balance of other foods. Exercise by doing what you love to do, be it running, yoga, or playing sports! Find something you love and do it!

, Earning your own money is classy and sophisticated, but as my best friend said, "My only job is to be witty, charming, talented, classy and beautiful." If that's the only job you want, that's FINE - you have plenty of time to get one later!

