 Some dogs are nervous about car travel because they feel nauseous and associate journeys with feeling ill and travel sickness. Recognize the signs of motion sickness, the most obvious of which is heavy drooling. Strings of saliva hanging from the dog's lips is a sure sign of motion sickness. In addition, all dogs react differently but some hang their heads and look troubled, others may try to pace, and some will whimper.


Those dogs who suffer from motion sickness will need medication to travel well. You will need to speak to your vet about a safe medication to counteract the nausea. It might be that the dog always needs medication for long journeys, but you may well be able to retrain it to accept short journeys without illness.
 Do not shout or chastise the dog if it vomits. It cannot help being sick and being chastised only adds to its apprehension and increases the trauma of the experience, which will make it even more anxious.


If you know your dog gets travel sick but have to make a journey, such as to the vet to get travel sickness meds, then seat it on a puppy pad so that the mess can be easily cleaned.
 It usually helps a dog if it can see out of a window. If you have a toy or small dog, consider getting a travel pod which raises it up off the seat in a safe way, so it can see out. For medium sized dogs, have a certified crash-tested harness and seat the dog on a back seat so it can see out. For large dogs, consider putting the dog in a crate, so they are safe and can see out.You can also put a blanket underneath where the dog will be sitting. It should be a blanket that the dog uses regularly, so its smells will be familiar to the dog.
 Avoid using human anti-motion sickness medications unless you have checked it out with your vet first. These are not approved for use in dogs, so the side effects have not been fully tested, and the possible reactions with other drugs is unknown. On a practical level, dogs metabolize drugs differently than people, so there is a distinct possibility that those human drugs won't be effective.


The best medication for motion sickness is a prescription drug called Cerenia (maropitant) which is available as an injection (given by the vet) or tablet. Both forms work for 24 hours. This medication is superior to others because it acts on the nausea center in the brain, and switches off all feelings of nausea and sickness., Some owners find giving their dog Bach flower remedies, commonly known as Rescue Remedy, helps, but this is anecdotal. This is a liquid and you place a few drops on the dog's tongue.The Bach flowers are dissolved in alcohol and one possible explanation that some dogs seem to benefit is that they are given the equivalent of a small alcoholic drink.

