 If your tan is even but too deep or orange-colored, then your removal method will be a little different than if you are dealing with streaks. We'll cover overall tone in the next section if your self-tanner has left you looking less "ooh la la!" and more "oompa loompa." But for now let's concentrate on those patches and unfortunate streaks.;
, It purportedly gets rid of freckles, right? If it can get rid of permanent marks on your skin, it can definitely get rid of temporary self-tanner. It's best for that random streak, on your palms, or little places you just got a little over-zealous with. There are two ways you can get your lemon on:


Combine a couple tablespoons of lemon juice with baking soda to form a paste. Slather it over the affected area, leave it on for a few minutes, and wash it off while gently rubbing.
Cut the lemon in half and rub one section over the affected area. If it's really bad, it may take more than once, but you should see improvements just about automatically.
 Those little crevices between your fingers? A self-tanner's nightmare. To get at those little pesky nooks and crannies, try whitening toothpaste. It has the same bleaching agents in it as everything else, which work on your teeth and skin.


This obviously works best for small, confined areas. Put a dab on your finger and massage it into the area. Scrub it off and assess your results, repeating if necessary.
 Acetone is known as nail polish remover, by the way. Take your cotton ball, saturate it, and rub it over the area. Use this method sparingly, however; the stuff can be quite hard on your skin if used unyieldingly.


If you do go this route, be sure to moisturize afterward. Your body will be craving the hydration after being exposed to either of those two products.
 Choose a time when you are free to soak for at least 1 hour. The more recently you put on your self-tanner, the better; it's a bit harder to take off when it's set. Consider this an excuse for an hour of me time!


This part is totally optional. Soaking for longer can loosen your self-tanner's jaws, but exfoliates and toners work by themselves, too.
 If you don't have one, you can make one yourself! The sugar beads lift up your top layer of skin, greatly reducing that unfortunate color you've acquired. And it leaves your skin silky smooth!


Use an exfoliating mitt to expedite the process and double your efficacy. A pumice stone is generally to hard on your skin, so it's best to stick to the mitt or your loofah.
Then apply a gradual self-tanner, if you'd like. You know, one of the kinds that is purposefully slow-going. It can help even out what's left of your original experience.
 The longer you can keep it on the better, but aim for at least 10 minutes. 30 if you can tolerate the boredom of just standing there! This is a good method if you're just too dark or too orange, as it will reduce the difference between your natural tone and your tanned tone overall.
 These will be your biggest priorities, since they can't be easily covered with clothing. They are also resilient areas that are not prone to irritation when a toner is used.


If you have a toner with alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs) or beta hydroxy acids (BHAs), use it. These acids tend to be very effective at correcting skin discoloration.
 Yep, there's definitely such a thing and they generally cost around $15. They come in the forms of pads or creams and are pretty self-explanatory.


They'll be effective, but not necessarily any more so than the stuff you already have in your bathroom/kitchen. Only shell out the bills if for some reason you feel compelled to.
 You should notice significant improvement, but if you still see some discoloration or streaks, continue with regular baths, baking soda scrubs and lemon juice and toner applications. No self-tanner is that permanent; it'll just take some diligence!

