 Studies show that spending time outdoors, surrounded by nature can be beneficial to your mood. Find a local park, forest, or green space where you can spend at least 20 minutes. Take a walk, read a book on a park bench, or simply sit and enjoy the birds and flowers. You will feel more relaxed and satisfied after your encounter with nature.
 It is easy to get into a bad mood when you are low energy and hungry. If you start to feel down, eat a nutritious snack that will elevate your mood and give you energy. Almonds, yogurt, fresh fruits and vegetables, and whole grains are good choices to keep you happy and energized.Resist the urge to eat so-called "comfort foods."Many of these comfort foods might taste great, but they only provide short bursts of energy and satiation. This means that you are more likely to experience an energy crash later, which might bring your bad mood right back., Staying up late and getting a poor night's rest can increase the likelihood of bad moods. In general people are happier when they go to bed early and maximize the amount of time they are awake when the sun is out.To make sure of that, you should:


Make sure your bedroom stays cool and dark at night
Use a white noise machine to cover up ambient sounds
Avoid naps during the day
Stay away from caffeine, alcohol, and large meals in the afternoon and evening hours
Give yourself time to wind down and relax before bed
Avoid electronic screens right before bedtime

, Raise your heart rate with vigorous aerobic exercise for 20-30 minutes at least three times a week. For example, you can jog, swim, bike, or participate in an aerobics class. You should also make some time to exercise when you begin to feel a bad mood come on. Exercise releases endorphins and serves as an effective distraction from distressing things.This will help elevate your mood in the moment, and regular exercise can reduce the frequency of bad moods.


Be sure to consult with a physician before beginning an exercise regime to make sure you are staying safe and healthy.
 Car commuting daily leads to bad moods and feelings of anger. If you live close to your office, consider walking or biking to work instead. You will feel more energized, healthier, and have fewer bad moods.
 People are more likely to experience a bad mood when their minds are allowed to wander. Resist the urge to laze about every day: keep your mind and your body occupied. Concentrating on any task will help stave off bad moods.