 Another way you can act when your partner finds out you self harm is to check in with them on a day to day basis. Try to have a meaningful conversation with your partner at least once a day and let them know how you are doing. If you are having a bad day, be honest about this and let your significant other know. If you are having a good day, tell your partner and celebrate this together.


For example, you may tell your significant other, “I had a bad day today and I need some support” or “I’m feeling good today and I appreciate your support.”

, Though you may struggle with your tendency to self harm on a day to day basis, try not to keep your habit from your significant other. Often, you feel a sense of shame when you self harm. But hiding it from your partner will only make your relationship more difficult and push your partner away. Being honest about your self harm and talking about it will show your partner that you are not keeping any secrets from them.For example, you may say to your significant other, “I self harmed today because I wasn’t feeling good” or “I self harmed today because I felt triggered.”
Don't be surprised if they ask you to pull up your sleeve or pant leg to see if you have done more self harm. Remember that they care about you, so it's normal for them to be worried about your safety.
 Part of working through the issue with your partner is accepting their encouragement and support. Your partner may suggest that you talk to a mental health professional or your doctor if your tendency to self harm gets worse or becomes more frequent. They may also encourage you to build your self-esteem and confidence so you can stop self harming. Try to be open to their suggestions and not get defensive or angry at them.For example, you may say to your significant other, “Thank you for always encouraging and supporting me. I appreciate you” or “I appreciate your support and encouragement. Thank you for listening and being there for me.”
If your partner suggests that you stop self harming and you are not ready, tell them that you need more time. Be honest about where you are at and let them know putting pressure on you to stop will not help the situation.
You may say, “I need more time. Please respect my decision” or “Putting pressure on me will not make this better. Please respect my choice.”
If you do want to stop self harming but don't think you can, be honest with your partner about it. You could say, "I really want to change this part of myself, but I don't know how to stop." Be ready to accept professional help after you talk to your partner about wanting help.

