 Express your style and be yourself. Be generous, but don't let people take advantage of you. Some people need to be put in their place; so if someone messes with you, tell them to back off. Be very social and make plenty of friends.;
, It's not hard to learn how Bright Kids talk and text. Don't use abbreviations on Instant Messengers. A few exceptions include "g2g" or "ttyl", but that's about it. Don't be lazy with your typing.
 Dye your hair different colors of the rainbow. Red, purple and blue are popular. Why not venture? Green and bright orange aren't very popular, but look great, too! Wear skinny-legged jeans in creative colors (avoid blue, black or white) and neon shirts. Wear plenty of bows, write on your bookbags and send people little messages written on your hand.


You can dye you hair platinum blonde or jet black if you're not comfortable with something from the rainbow.
 That's how you can attract more people. Emo, scene, and goth are becoming dated, so we have to spring the world with a new genre!

, Plastic necklaces, rainbow socks and ripped shorts with hanging chains are cool finds. Wear funky sunglasses or Shutter Shades (worn by Kanye West).
 If you want to be a ghetto rainbow, listen to Hip-Hop, Rap, and R&B. Genres for preppy rainbows include, but are not limited to, Sugar-Pop, R&B, and Country. Alternative and Heavy Metal are popular among regular Bright Kids but can be favorites to all types.
 Basically, they listen to music, dance, and are very social. But above all things, Bright Kids love the Internet. Especially social networking sites such as Facebook, Myspace, Bebo etc. Texting, writing poetry and recording original songs to be uploaded. Going to concerts is a popular activity as well.
 Not only are they fun, but they make you look cute whilst playing them in public and they're easily decorated.
 Hang around clubs and meet other Bright Kids! Buy bracelets that are colorful and/or made of candy and trade them around; like Kandi Kids do.

