 For example: Don't build the market or the mills at the front or in the middle of the map. Build it in the centre of your village or behind it. When the enemy attacks, your resource-places should be in a safe place. Build all your military buildings in the front so you can pump out troops fast in case your enemy attacks or you want to attack fast. This structure is one of the most important things in the game.;
, Place those at points that need a little defense. Like outposts or just some villagers who need to be defended. They can also build towers. You should also place towers in front of your city because they will help your troops to defeat the attacking enemy. Just build towers everywhere where you think this place needs a defense but not a whole army.
 If you have walls, the enemy can't walk in without destroying something first. Walls will stop your enemy and will give your troops which are defending a short amount of time to reach to the action.
 Because some enemies try to sneak around with their troops to avoid a big fight between your main troop and his main troops (which is clever by the way, you should do that too). When you have your troops at home, don’t let them stand around near the barracks where they came out. Spread them near the walls so the most important places of your village will have a defense when the enemy destroys the wall. Where the enemy attacks you send your troops. But also here, don’t use all the defensive troops to fight against the enemy because good players will attack at two spots and you will have to fight at two points at the same time.
 Many people use the fort to pump troops out near the enemy. Which is very good, but you can also build barracks or stables with two villagers. The fort is very good to push enemy troops back because it does huge damage to infantry. Try to spread your defense-troops near the fort and all along the wall. It is very important to spread your army. Try to have crossbows for defense because they can shoot through the wall and do very good damage against attacking infantry.
 I recommend you to first set up the defense-line and afterwards you start attacking. Most of the time the big troops fight in the middle, then it depends on how good the army is. If you also want to learn how you can build a very effective army you can read my guide to: "How to Build a Good Balanced Army in Age of Empires 3"

