 The beginning of spring is the best time to plan how you'll enjoy the rest of spring. Whether it's gardening, spring cleaning, learning something new, having a makeover, organizing renovations, or another activity suited to a season of renewal, planning for it will help you to make the most of the spring months.


Spring is the ideal time to set the pace for the coming warm months, including any transitions or transformations you're hoping to make.
If you want to take a summer vacation, start planning for it now if you haven't already started.;
, This age-old tradition of clearing away the cobwebs of winter will give your house a fresh beginning for the warmer months ahead and make the house and surrounds more inviting and enjoyable for you and your family and friends.


Spring is a great time to do thorough cleaning because many of us have pent-up energy to expend after being cooped up for the winter. Spring cleaning isn't as mundane as routine cleaning because it's about making space, clearing out things, and even redesigning your home.
Check that you have all the cleaning supplies you'll need. Look closely at brooms, brushes, mops, and sponges to see if they're still in good condition or whether its time to replace them.
Have all your cleaning solutions ready. If you're making your own cleaning solutions, check out wikiHow's suggestions under Home cleaning preparations.
Wait for the first few warm days of spring and get started. Clear the trash and clutter, sweep down cobwebs, dust everything, and donate or dispose of anything you don't need in the house anymore.
Don't forget the garage, car, any out-buildings, and garden sheds.
Clean out your computer files and emails. No time like springtime to get rid of your digital mess too! The less cluttered your digital life, the more time you have to enjoy the days of spring.
For more ideas, read How to spring clean.
 This is a good time to sit back and assess the strengths and weaknesses of your current living space and to reach a decision about whether or not it could be improved through a change in decoration styles or additions through decorations.


Redecoration doesn't have to mean the entire house. Perhaps sprucing up your bedroom or your living area will be enough of a new direction for you and/or the family this year.
Renovations can take time to plan and get consent for. The earlier you start thinking about them, the better
If you find your house is too small or big, or that it's not meeting your needs and you don't want to renovate, Spring is usually a good time to place your house on the market and to find a new one.
If you're not sure whether it's better to move or renovate, read How to decide whether to move or renovate to help you make the decision.
 As well as spring cleaning the house, car, and garden, consider spring cleaning your health as well.


Winter is a time of eating more than during the rest of the year and if you've slipped into eating habits that aren't as healthy as they could be, Spring is the time to mend your ways and to begin eating healthy, fresh foods again. Improve your nutrition intake and feel your energy levels soar again.
Spring is a wonderful time to make dietary changes because there are so many delicious baby or young vegetables, salad vegetables and fresh fruits available. Make the most of these foods while they're fresh, as they taste best when young and will enthuse your taste buds to want more!
Eat seasonally and locally. Put your body and appetite on the same seasonal schedule as your local environment -- and help out your local farmers at the same time.Consider detoxing your body. Some people enjoy going on fasts as part of a detox but you should always run going on a fast by your doctor first, just to be sure it's safe for you.
Improve your sleeping schedule. If you've been getting into poor sleeping habits over winter, spring is a good time to fix your sleep schedule to restore your energy. Read How to sleep better for more ideas.

Have a massage, or book yourself into a day spa for a full day of pampering.
 It could be as little as a new hairstyle or as big as a whole wardrobe change but spring is a perfect time to consider personal appearance changes.


Over the winter your hair has been hidden under hats and scarves, and spring might reveal a hairstyle you're just not happy with. Talk to your hairdresser about options that will bring you up-to-date and feeling good about how you're looking again.
Check through your closet. Are your spring clothes in good condition and still wearable or are they looking decidedly old or perhaps even "last season" if you're very fashion-conscious? If you're ready to change your wardrobe, spring is the perfect time to do it.Use a short break or a weekend to clear out the closet entirely and to only put back the things you really love wearing. Everything else can go to charity or the rag bag (or pet's bed) and then you have an excuse to do some shopping for a few new items that will blend in well with the clothes you've kept.
Now is an excellent time to discard outdated makeup. Makeup wasn't made to last, so throw out anything that's old, caked up, or obviously in bad condition.
Read the fashion magazines and websites to find out what's in season. You don't have to buy everything; just purchase a few items that will give your current clothing a spring fashion edge. And read How to create a fashionable spring wardrobe for more ideas.
 Listen to the birds sing and nest, look out for animals with their young, and watch the plant life around you emerge, shoot up, and finally start to blossom. The world around you is starting fresh; so can you.


Every week brings subtle changes until suddenly it seems as if spring is in full bloom around you. Set yourself a goal of noticing all the little changes that get spring to this point.

