 Many people already have a computer at home. If not, you do not need a top-of-the-line expensive computer. You can get started with a basic computer that will cost you less than $800. As long as you can run Windows and some word processing software and have 256 MB of RAM you should be fine!;
, If you will be transcribing digital audio files that you must download over the Internet then a high speed connection is a must! Cable and DSL internet packages are getting cheaper every day, and it is well worth the money to get connected if you are serious about a home transcription career.
 Many computers come with either WordPerfect or Microsoft Office. You need to have and be able to use one or the other of these word processing softwares, and it will make you a more flexible and attractive transcriptionist if you have and can use both.
, This is the crucial piece of hardware for digital transcribing and you will probably have to order it online. It will cost about $80. If you are a serious transcriptionist you will have another pedal as back up because if the one you're using breaks you do not want to be out of commission while you're waiting for the next one to come in the mail! The makers of Express Scribe also sell foot pedal hardware (https://www.nch.com.au/cgi-bin/hw.exe?class=FP ). I use the VEC USB pedal, which is the best product if you have a USB port. If you have a very old computer that does not have USB ports you may have to get a pedal that connects with a serial connector.
 Get the very best headphones you can afford. Believe me, you will make the money back in increased efficiency. (If you will be using a notebook computer to play digital audio files you will also need a good set of external speakers to "boost" the audio volume and quality -- plug your headphones into the external speakers.)

, Even if you start out small, workflow software can save you time, keep you organised and prevent human error, for example it can do all your invoicing automatically, and help you to receive huge sound files. The two main providers are Winscribe (http://www.winscribe.com/) and ScribeManager (http://www.scribemanager.com/). In addition, it may be useful for you to install text expander software to quickly type common words and phrases, such as FastFox (http://www.nch.com.au/fastfox/).
 One of the largest companies that accepts applications from freelance transcribers is Way With Words. You can also try FindTranscriptionWork.com (http://www.findtranscriptionwork.com/), which is a free site listing medical, legal and general transcription jobs. You can also list your resume there for free.

Don't forget to check in with small business in your area. A lot of them are always interested in having transcribers and editors join their remote freelance transcription team. It's a win win situation.