 The quickest way to start volunteering is to go to the candidate’s webpage and sign up. A lot of campaigns even allow volunteers to phone-bank remotely, so you can get started almost immediately.If primary season has passed and you don’t live in a swing state (a competitive state), then remotely phone-banking might be the only way you can actively volunteer.
Don’t be the person who signs up to volunteer and gives no contact information. The campaign has to be able to contact you in order to schedule for events.
 The most basic way to volunteer is simply by showing support--advertising which candidate has your support. There are several ways you can do this, including wearing a t-shirt, putting a bumper sticker on your car, putting a yard sign in your front yard, or sharing news stories, memes, and campaign ads on social media.


These are the easiest ways to volunteer, but make no mistake, they are also the least effective. Yard signs don't even move the needle by two percentage points, bumper stickers do even less, and "sharing" things on social media is mostly preaching to the choir. These things might make you feel better, but they don't do much else., If you want to help in a more hands-on way, go to a campaign office in your area. If you live in a swing state, there’s probably going to be a campaign office nearby. You should be able to locate one on the candidate’s website. If you live in a non-competitive state, there will probably only be offices there during primary season., No matter what you do for the campaign, the campaign will typically need to give you minimal training before you get started. Schedule a time to come in and get trained.Campaigns need people to convince other people to vote for them, which means that the primary volunteering needs are in door-to-door canvassing and phone-banking. There’s not too much envelope stuffing that goes on anymore.
 If you want to really help with the campaign, pitch in where you’re needed. If the campaign needs people to phone-bank one week and needs people to knock on doors another week, be flexible.Although campaigns can seem chaotic, there’s a method to the madness. Local campaign staff often have directives from the higher echelons of the campaign directing them to make calls to build enthusiasm for certain events or knock on doors to get out the vote.
 Volunteers can be very unreliable. They show up late, not at all, or on a completely different day than they said they would. Presidential campaigns are major undertakings--a mass movement constructed in a manner of months--reliability is key.


In fact, this is so common that campaigns have a term for it—the “flake rate.” The flake rate is about one in three in a conventional campaign, meaning that one out of three committed volunteers will not show. Just be considerate. If you won’t show, call and let someone know.