 You can find them for free on the internet and students can complete them in ten minutes.  The questions are simple enough for most students to complete on their own. The benefit of researching your class this way is that you will identify kids of every learning style, not just auditory.;
, If you don't want to assign the test, you can simply observe your class and try to figure out the auditory learners. Watch for kids who:


talk a lot
pay close attention to lectures
do not take detailed notes
doesn't always look at you, but still follows lessons
reads slowly, or even mouths words
does not learn well from reading
enjoys discussions and asking questions

, A lot of auditory learners appear to be misbehaving in class, simply because you can't see listening like you can see watching. Maybe the kid who talks over your lessons is really a bored auditory who wishes you didn't rely so heavily on PowerPoints. If your current teaching style is visual, auditory learners may not respond well. A learning style could be the reason behind your trouble-makers.
 When a student asks for help, make note of what is helpful. Try explaining with a graph or chart. If the child seems confused, try explaining with words or activities. The kids who understand verbal explanations more than others, are the auditory students. Sometimes it's hard to tell exactly what works for specific students. In these cases, simply ask. Do they want you to talk them through it? Would they rather you draw a graph? Students will probably be happy to explain what they need if you ask in a casual way.
 They need different things to be successful. Do not require auditory students to take extensive notes. The act of writing will not help them remember and it will be hard for them to study them later. They may take in lectures best without even looking at you. That's okay! They're still listening. If they are talking over you, it may mean you're not giving them enough time for discussions. Most of the time, auditory students are not trying to be lazy or mischievous when they do these things. They simply do not benefit from visual teaching.
 Taking notes is a frustrating and often futile method of retaining information for auditory learners. They will do better if they are able to study through hearing. Try to emphasis points not just through bold text in your slides, but with your voice. If you incorporate charts, explain them. Talk auditory students through graphs and maps. Your goal is to create a lesson that will make sense when played back as a voice memo.
 If you teach with a textbook, give students the option to have a reading group in the hall (or a corner of the classroom). Allow them to read aloud to each other. If you cannot trust students to do this responsibly, read the textbook out in the corner yourself. You don't need to do this every time you assign a chapter, but the information being read is very long and important, it's important to go over things in a way comfortable for auditory learners.
 Auditory learners make connections when they are able to talk through concepts with others. If auditory learners are not given time to discuss things they don't understand (or things they understand well enough to teach others), they will grow bored. This may lead to talking out during class. There is nothing disruptive about a quiet, focused, discussion in the back of the room. If students know they will be able to talk later, they will be less likely to disrupt your lesson. Some students like to talk just to socialize. Auditory learners really do learn this way.
 They will need extra help if you plan to go over graphs or maps. For visual learners, these are immediately clear and helpful. For auditory learners, however, these are things that need to be explained. Do not rely wholly on visuals to explain another concept. It is harmful to auditory students to assume that visuals are helpful to everyone.

