 Most of the time, it's easier to study if you feel pressured without feeling panicked.;
, This will help you to know what to expect and stop yourself from being caught off-guard. Find out what time it begins, where you have to go, what to bring, how it is scored, etc. Remember that there is no longer a penalty for wrong answers. Keep in mind that you do not need a 100%, or even an 85% to get a five.
 Go through old tests, notes, and the textbook briefly to pinpoint areas of both strength and weakness.
 During that time, turn off distractions such as your TV, social networks and cell phone.
 This will help you to further pinpoint places you need to work on and the places you can spend only a little time on. While you take the test, place tick marks next to the questions on the answer sheet that you are unsure of, but don't skip any. Take your best guess.
 Learn why you got the question wrong.
 Put a tally mark underneath each topic every time you get a question from that topic wrong. This will help you to see more clearly which areas need work.
 Start off with some of the easier topics (the ones where you got the least questions wrong) to get your brain going, but don't spend too long on those. Once your brain gets focused on the topic at hand, start working on the more difficult subjects.
 With the test only two weeks away, doing short drills multiple times a day can be one of the most helpful things you can do. See below for suggested drills.
 Like before, try to simulate the test conditions. Work at a desk with bright lights, don't take breaks in the middle of a section, time yourself, and tell the people around not to disturb you. If possible, do both the multiple choice section and the essay section in the same day, taking a 5-10 minute break in between.
 Use the same methods as before - keep track of which topics you are frequently having trouble with, and understand why you got each question wrong.
, Stick to the things you need to know.
 Make sure you have all the materials you will need for test. Remember to have non-mechanical, number 2 pencils, an eraser, pens for the essay section, and a calculator if you are allowed one. Also bring a snack, bottle of water, and your ID.
 Don't stay up too late, but don't try to throw off your sleep cycle by getting 12 hours of sleep, either.
