 When Jesus died on the cross, He broke the power of sin and death.


On the cross He said, "It is finished." What he meant was that the price/wages for sin is finished, and that any human who puts faith in Him will not longer be a slave to sin/death. The power that sin had over a Christian, before they came to know Christ, has been conquered and finished by Jesus. The thing we have to do is put our faith in him and believe He is the Son of God. "If you confess with your mouth, and believe in your heart that Jesus is Lord, you will be saved."
You may have a head faith, but make sure your heart/innermost-core believes, too, as in you fully trust God, and would do anything for Him, etc. Once we believe deep in our hearts, we become his child, and He sets us free from anything and everything. There are countless testimonies of people coming to faith in Christ and then no longer having any desire at all for drugs or alcohol, etc.;
, Jesus changes lives, and if you are his child/brother, He has changed your life. The Bible says, "If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has gone, the new has come!" Live out what is already true of you. You are free! You are a new creation. It's true. If you really believe it, it will be more accessible and real to you.


Jesus said in Mark 11:23, "Truly I tell you, if anyone says to this mountain, 'Go, throw yourself into the sea,' and does not doubt in their heart but believes that what they say will happen, it will be done for them." Believe that you are free of a mountain of fear, anger and doubt -- and you will be. Amen.
 2 Corinthians 10:5 says, "We demolish arguments and every pretension that sets itself up against the knowledge of God, and we take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ." Amen.


Don't let your mind run wild and think about just anything. "Listen to and think about what you are saying and thinking about", and control what you are speaking or thinking about. Joyce Meyer always says that we need to talk-to/discipline ourselves a little more, as "self talk". We need to put ourselves on time-out sometimes, or tell ourselves that certain things are not okay to do or to think. Tell yourself to stop or to go. This is called self-control.
Learn to control your own mind with your own thoughts. One thought replaces another. "Take captive every thought, and make it obedient to Christ." Don't let yourself think anything that Jesus Christ/God would not approve. Guard your mind. Subject your thinking to the law of God and the teachings of Christ, always, always. Don't get lazy about this. Every single thought, you have to force it to be in line with "whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable--if anything is excellent or praiseworthy--think about such things." That is the only way to truly be free in your mind. Amen.
 Paul says in Romans 8,"Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ Jesus the law of the Spirit who gives life has set you free from the law of sin and death."


We are no longer under that law as Christian, because Jesus has saved us. That does not mean the law is not important anymore, it means that now we follow the spirit of the law as opposed to the letter of the law. As Jesus said, "All the law and the prophets are summed up in this one commandment, 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'" As long as you are doing that, you are following God's law.
Since Jesus died for us, we are set free from "the law of sin and death." There is now no condemnation, because Jesus paid the price in full for us. Through him, we are justified and righteous in God's eyes. So, don't let anyone try to condemn you about anything. Only God is your judge, not people, and He says that the Redeemed are justified and that you can be so free.
The movie "The Great Debaters" has a comical scene about this. Denzel Washington keeps asking his debate team, "Who is the judge?" And they respond "God is the judge" -- and not people. Always remember what that entails.
 At least not in the sense that the world defines what "nice" is. This realization can really be very freeing.


The Bible says that we are to "hate what is evil." You can't hate something, like pornography for example, and be nice about it at the same time can you? No. Look at the character of Jesus; He was not "nice" about half of the time that He was here on earth.
For one, everyone knows about the time when He cleared out the temple with a whip. He was a carpenter, and very tough. When it came to his enemies, the Pharisees, Jesus was extremely bold, confronting them, and insulting to them as "serpents, hypocrites and whitewashed tombs, full dead men's bones". Yes, we are to love our enemies, but we are by no means supposed to let them walk all over us. Yet, Jesus said

"If they sue you for your coat, give them your shirt, also. If a soldier asks you to carry his load for one mile, carry it two. Give to him who asks, and do not turn away from him who wants to borrow..." (Matthew 5:40--42).
 He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies." That's direct and confrontational, and it's not very "nice" is it? But He was without sin.


Therefore, know that it is okay to stand up for the Truth as a Christian and not be pushed around by others. Don't let other people try to dominate and control you in Christ. Jesus has set you totally free, that includes freedom from the attempted domination of any other person.
 "People can only have power over you -- if you let them." So don't let anyone have power over you to control you. Yes, you are free from the absolute control by anyone. But, you are to give submission, freely "as unto God" which is your duty. "Submit" means to "set yourselves below," pay attention, listen, be observant. "Obey" means do what is instructed or asked of you rightly. Know that, "Whatever you do or refuse wrongly, to the least of these, you do it as to God." Be submissive thus unto:


Fellow Christians: "Submit yourselves one to another in the fear of God." (Ephesians 5:21).
Authority: "Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves:…" (Hebrews 13:17).
Bosses: "Employees/Servants, be submissive to your masters with all respect, not only to those who are good and gentle, but also to those who are unreasonable." (1 Peter 2:18).
Husbands: "Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church,..." (Ephesians 5:22).
Elder: "Likewise, you younger, submit yourselves to the elder. Yes, all of…" (1 Peter 5:5)

, Anarchy is unruliness, not being subject to authority. Freedom means you are out of the "condemnation that is due to children of disobedience", and free from rebellion which is "sorcery/witchcraft". You are free to listen and to learn.


Listen to those of lesser station, when they have the orders that you need.
Take the advise of an experienced worker. A fool refuses good counsel.

