 Jeans or shorts are the basics and that's probably what everyone else will be wearing. Make sure nothing you wear is too short or tight, as you don't want to be mistaken for a groupie. Skirts are acceptable, but it all depends on the show and how brave you are. If you do wear a skirt, make sure it's not a micro-mini and wear opaque(solid) tights underneath to avoid any peeks at what you don't want to be seen. T-shirts of any kind are the best to wear, and maybe a tank if you're up for it.;
, Flip-flops, sandals, heels, and huge boots are a mistake. Wear some sort of sneakers (i.e. Vans, Converse, Nike) to not only protect your feet, but keep them from hurting by the end of the night. Remember that you'll be standing up for four or more hours (depending on who you're seeing) and you don't want blisters later on.
 If you want the best vantage point at the venue, don't arrive half an hour before the show begins. Since there aren't seats, it's a first come, first served situation. If you're a real stickler about getting right at the stage, get there about six to seven hours early. Really. And don't be that person who pushes through to the front when everyone else has been there the whole day. You'll just get screamed at and told to go to the back.
 Make sure wherever you are in the crowd that you keep your feet a shoulder's width apart. That way, you'll have a little space for yourself and won't get off balance when the crowd moves. Plus, if a friend has to go to the restroom, you can leave a little room for them without being obnoxious.
 If someone pushes, kicks, or elbows you, keep a cool head. Though it may be a knee-jerk reaction to retaliate, don't. You can get kicked out or start a brawl that no one wants to happen. And be sensible about it. If you can tell that they're not doing it on purpose, don't get angry. They might be distracted.
 If you've been there for hours keeping your spot and someone comes and stands about an inch away from you(because this will definitely happen, especially with younger ones and people who are new), kindly ask them to either move to the front or to the back. Most likely, they'll realize they're being rude and move on. If they don't, don't shove them, just speak with a firm, authoritative voice.
 You know that there are people at the show who have been to 20+ concerts and know the rules. Be respectful and don't act like you deserve the best spot. If someone asks you to to move for a real reason, not just because they can't see or something that they can adjust, be courteous and move.
 Nothing is worse than Paul Bunyan over there blocking your vision. If you are standing behind someone extremely tall, either move or politely ask them to move if you can't. And if you are the really tall person that blocks people from seeing the stage, move to the back or to the side.
 With whatever is happening onstage, don't get distracted by your surroundings. You came there to have a good time and to see some bands you love, so enjoy it and have fun. Keep your eyes on the band playing and follow according to what they're doing and what the rest of the audience is doing. Even if you're not a huge fan of one of the opening bands and are only there for the headliner, don't be rude and just stand there. Try to be involved as much as you can.
 Remember that a General Admission show is bound to have its ups and downs and changes. Things can happen, things can go wrong, people can get injured. Stay aware while you're in the crowd and watch out for yourself as well as your friends. If you can see that they're getting pushed around by someone, help them out and they'll do the same for you. Also, be courteous to the bands. No matter if this is your first time or not, never do anything to make their night uncomfortable. Remember that they're here to have a good time, too, not just you. Plus, they want to you to have a good time and get engaged in what's going on onstage.
