 During the birth and the few weeks following, you should place the mother dog and the puppies in a different room away from other pets. You want to make sure to keep the mother calm so she doesn’t get upset or nervous.Place the mother and the litter in a room where you can easily keep an eye on them, but where people will not be walking through all day. Keep the door closed or use a baby gate to prevent other pets from visiting.
 Within the first 48 hours, you should schedule a veterinarian visit. The vet should check the mother to make sure she is okay, and also check the puppies to make sure there are no problems or abnormalities.After this, you should make sure to have the puppies seen regularly by the vet. Talk to them about how often is appropriate for the puppies to be seen.
 You should keep an eye on the puppies during the first couple of weeks to look for any problems. If you spot a problem early, you have a higher chance of the puppy making it. You should look for:Inability to nurse.
Weight loss or no weight gain.
Weakness.
Drop in temperature.
Dehydration.
Incessant crying.
Diarrhea or vomiting.
Lack of interest or care by the mother dog.
 One of the biggest problems that puppies face during the first few weeks is getting too cold. The mother will help keep the puppies warm, but you should make sure the room is at least 75 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit for larger litters.You can use heating pads and heating lamps if the temperature isn’t warm enough in the whelping box. Use caution with heating pads because the puppies can get overheated, burn, or even cook if the heating pad is too hot. Heating lamps should be at least five to six feet away from the dogs so as not to overheat them.
You can also buy a whelping box from a pet store, but they can cost around $250.
 The puppies should sleep and stay together, close to the mother. However, sometimes a puppy will get pushed out of the rest of the litter. This may be because the mother dog knows something is wrong with it, it has become chilled, it is too small, or for some other reason. Watch for these puppies that have been pushed aside.If the puppy is cool, warm it up before placing it back with the rest of the litter.
If the puppy keeps getting pushed off the mother’s nipples, manually put the puppy by the mother’s nipples so it can feed.
Contact the vet if you believe something is wrong with the puppy and that’s why the mother has pushed it away.
 Most mother dogs will have no problems providing milk for their litter. However, sometimes, the mother can stop producing milk. If the puppies are trying to nurse but start crying, there may be a problem with the milk. Milk should flow freely if you squeeze the mammary area.In some mother dogs, the mammary glands may get infected, causing the milk to have blood or pus in it. If this occurs, contact your vet.
If there is a problem with the mother’s milk, your vet can suggest supplements to help stimulate milk production. If this doesn’t work, you will have to hand feed the puppies formula.
 When the puppies get around two weeks, you should clip their nails. They can get really sharp, which can scratch the mother and lead to infection. Clip just the white tips, and make sure not to clip too short.You can use regular nail clippers to clip the puppies’ nails.
 The mother dog will keep the puppies clean while she is nursing them. However, you should still keep the blankets or other materials they are lying in clean. The puppies will be urinating and defecating with the mother dog’s help, and with a large litter, this can cause a mess.When the puppies get old enough to walk around, you need to keep the area clean to make sure they don’t step in their waste. This can lead to infections.

