 Soft hues, like baby blue and buttercup yellow, are subdued and classy, which work well for the preppy style you are trying to achieve. Bright colors, like hot pink or neon orange, can be equally lovely but will work against this style trend.;
, Think roses, daisies, tulips, and daffodils. Garden flowers create a feminine ambiance that works well with this style. Orchids and other tropical flowers give off an exotic feeling that may clash with the preppy style, however.



Look for a well-fit blouse made from soft, draping material that lightly falls over your body without clinging to it.
Blouses with frills or ruffles are especially feminine and may complement this style nicely.
You can either opt for a small floral print or a large one.



Look for a knee-length skirt and avoid anything shorter.
Pencil skirts and A-line skirts flatter most body types and have a classic appeal that may help you create a preppy look.
For skirts, larger prints are often more flattering than small prints.



Opt for a conservative style like a sheath dress that goes down to the knee.
You have a little flexibility with the neckline, since scoop necks, boat necks, and v-necks all work well, but it should not plunge too low or reveal too much skin.
Also opt for dresses with sleeves or thick straps and avoid halter or strapless styles.
However, if you find a halter neck dress that has the perfect print, wear a cropped sweater or a plain crop top over the dress to be comfortable with the outfit.
Both large and small prints can work well, depending on your figure.
 If your outfit is composed of solid colors, a fashion scarf is a nice way to add a bit of floral pattern to your look. Scarves made from sheer materials have a delicate, feminine appearance and may work better than scarves made from heavier fabrics.
 Look for a long strand of pearls with a flower clipped to the side or a delicate daisy pendant. Rose-shaped earrings and bracelet charms are another unobtrusive way to introduce flowers into your jewelry.
 You can either opt for a cloth flower hair clip or a headband with a floral element attached to the side.


Alternatively, you may also find vintage style hats—like a straw summer hat or bucket hat—with a flower pinned above the brim, and many of these will also work well.
 Try canvas flats with a floral print or leather flats with a cloth flower pinned at the toes. Avoid heels, since these often clash with the preppy style.

