 Many riders wish to get a set of spurs just for the sake of having them. Spurs should only be used on a trained horse, which has learned leg commands. Many younger riders invest in a set of spurs, (Dummy Spurs), as their legs do not reach the horses side, or their leg muscles are not yet strong enough to apply force. Spurs do hurt and/or irritate the horse. The use of spurs might look and sound cool and exciting but they poke the horse and may eventually cause them to use bucking as a habit even if you just use your legs without spurs.;
, Many styles of riding, such as Dressage and Western, incorporate the Spur as part of the compulsory Dress Code, meaning that you are not demanded to wear or use them. For English, the spur is generally 'slim line' and is close contact, allowing for precision movements and accurate departure without the cues being noticeable. In Western, the spurs are much bigger to allow to fit around a Western Boot, they are also longer to allow for accurate movements due to the position of the riders leg in a Western Saddle. The Rowel at the end of the Western Spur also provides in many cases, a softer spurring, as it rolls rather than jabs the horse.
 If you were riding in a Dressage Test and your spur shank was too small, the horse wouldn't be able to feel the spur or your leg. In turn, the constant kicking would make the horse sore, and deaf to the leg. With a too-long shank, the spur won't touch the horse in the correct position, and will cause undue pain.
 If you're competing in a Western Class as a show, you will notice that many of the riders have flashy spurs. Shiny silver and gold that jingle and jangle. There is no need for a lot of noise in a spur, though it's a personal choice. Compare this to Dressage Riders, you will notice that the spurs often are longer for the advanced riders, and the top riders also have a Rowel on their English Spur. In all cases, refer to the rules of the show and if unsure, contact the Show Office for guidelines and restriction on spur size and shape.
 A Spur should fit snug around the heel of your boot, and should sit on the heel lip or the Spur lip depending on the type of boot you are wearing. Generic sizes are available ranging form child, youth, ladies and men's. Child's are made for small feet Whereas men's are made for size 11 and larger feet. Don't think just because you're a lady with a small foot, that your spur size will be a youth. The size will also depend on where it should sit and the length of the shank, as many spurs the shank increases as the spur size increases. When buying a set of spurs, the saddlery will help you choose the right size.
 Shank Shape comes into play when you ride Western. When you sit in a Western Saddle your leg is pushed forward and out. Whereas if you sat in an English or A Dressage saddle, your leg is almost flat against the horses side. This will determine whether or not the spur will need to be straight or curved and to what degree. Western spurs already are curved and you can buy them in varying degrees. It is best to ride your horse with no spur and get a feel of where your leg is in reference to the horses side and how he is traveling. A general guide is if you can feel the horses side then a short shank with a lesser degree of curve is needed, as you are less able to feel the horses side, a longer shank and a higher degree of curve is needed. English spurs already have a slight bend, allowing for close contact, these spurs do not come in varying degrees.
 In Australia for Pony Club, the spur shank should not exceed 30mm and must not be under 7 mm in width at point of the neck (Ref: PCA Rule Book). In Western shows, the regulations are different, as the Horse Welfare Officer will deem any cruel spurring or in-humane spurs illegal, and elimination may occur. All of this depends on society, organisation and rules of the Association.
 Straps come in various shapes and sizes depending on the use of the spur and the event it is being used for.


Many English Spurs have two types of straps; Leather vs. Synthetic. Both straps are good, and it all depends on what type of riding you are doing. If you are doing low level dressage or Pony Club etc, then a synthetic strap would be best, they are all weather durable and you can chuck them around in your tack box without having to worry about oiling them. If you're riding higher level dressage, show riding or hunter classes, then leather is probably the best choice. They have a classier look and often are more likely to match the colour of your boot, as they come in tan, brown and black. Like all things leather, regular oiling is needed. Leather however are less weather resistant, and if left un-oiled or left in the sun, can become dry and brittle. The spur will also wear more under the sole where the boot will rub against the spur, causing it to become thin in time.
Western spur straps are much larger and bulkier looking than English straps. And often they have more detail to the design. Generally a Western strap is leather, though you can by synthetic straps. They have a bigger buckle compared to the English spurs, and often sizing is limited Whereas English straps can be used on children through to men sized boots. Western straps come in varying colours and patterns. They don't have to match your boot colour; patterns can vary from thatched to woven leather and from silver studded all the way to fancier straps with crystals and gems. They require oiling and will need to be well taken care of, as English straps are generic, whereas Western spur straps are few and far between and only specialty saddleries stock them.

