 The L.A./Orange County bus system is an intricate network of lines that runs all over the city and surrounding areas. It's usually possible to find a bus that will take you to nearly any Los Angeles neighborhood. Despite the time required to ride, bus travel can save Los Angeles residents or visitors a lot of money.


Make use of available metro bus discounts. The Los Angeles Metro bus system offers discounts to seniors and others, as well as a "metro to muni transfer" ticket and a Metro Day pass for under $10. These discounted ticket setups can help you get where you want to go, from the San Fernando Valley to downtown, without spending a boatload of money.;
, The Los Angeles Metrorail, or subway system, can also take travelers all over the city, but with much less flexibility than the bus system. Although it can be difficult to get to specific points on the Los Angeles rail system, many of your trips can be made cheaper and easier by finding the stations that work best for your long-distance trips.


Evaluate the different possible destinations for the Los Angeles Metro rail system. For example, the Metrorail line will take you up through Hollywood and out to various parts of the San Fernando Valley. In the southern part of the city, a lateral line runs all the way from Redondo Beach in the west to Norwalk in the east. Look at these destinations and see if they can form a part of your travel plans, where you can get where you're going for less money by using this public transit system.
 Lots of Los Angeles commuters and others are able to set up situations where they ride with a neighbor to save money and conserve energy, as well as free up space on those very busy Los Angeles freeways.
 Another strategy for Los Angeles, where the sprawling metropolitan area makes it hard to get around, is simply to live in the communities where you usually go for work or errands. Living within your suburb or community is a popular way to cut down your overall costs and free yourself up for a less hectic daily lifestyle.


Research a local L.A. community. Those who look into practical living in auxiliary Los Angeles areas are often surprised by how well some of these neighborhoods and municipalities are set up. Many of the smaller Los Angeles communities are perfect for this kind of local strategy, and those who live in picturesque spots like Pasadena or other canyon areas often end making their rounds in their own immediate areas, rather than trekking all over the city regularly.
 If you do need a personal car for all the travel that you do around Los Angeles, buy a safe and reliable but inexpensive older model. This helps to keep insurance costs down. Also look for a fuel-efficient vehicle to save you money at the pump.

