 You need a machine that uses the Texas Instruments (TI) 1394 Chipset. Nearly all of the manufacturers of Firewire Audio Interfaces clearly state that their hardware ONLY works well with this chipset. All of the other chipsets out there (VIA, NEC, Ricoh, JMicron) seem to have problems ranging from audio dropouts, digital errors, software crashes to full blown system crashes and the infamous "Blue Screen of Death." Macs ships with the TI 1394 chipset as do some of the "workstation" classes of laptops by HP. Dell uses the Ricoh chipset which is seriously problematic if you actually want to use the firewire port to transfer audio data. If you already bought a notebook computer that has a problematic 1394 chipset, you may be able to Disable it in the Device Settings area of your control panel and purchase an ExpressCard 1394 with the TI chipset. I have been told that this only works is you have an Intel ExpressCard bus. (Thanks to ADK Pro Audio);
, Make sure that the hard drive that comes with the machine is at least 7200 RPM. Laptops are designed to minimize power consumption, which means that the preference will be for slow 4200 or 5200 RPM hard drives. This helps the battery last longer, but means that the drive probably can't keep up with your audio streams. No matter how fast your internal hard drive is, you should have your programs and operating system on one disk and your audio files on a different disk. Some laptops will allow for a second internal drive, which is great. Most people however opt to use an external hard drive either through USB 2.0 or through a firewire bus that is different from the one you are running on your audio interface.
 Current laptop processors range from the low-end AMD Sempron to the high-end Intel Core2 Extreme. The laptop market does not have the same diverse selection of processors as desktops, but purchasing a laptop with a low-end processor will slow down your encoding times. Look for a multi-core processor such as the AMD Athlon X2 models, or the Intel Core Duo and Core2 Duo/Extreme models, as most professional audio recording packages should support multi-threading. The speed of a processor is much less relevant than its architecture. For example, an Intel Pentium M 2.26GHz CPU will actually be slower than an Intel Core 2 Duo 1.8GHz, due to the architecture difference.
 You should be able to set up the laptop to run off of wall power and not battery power, if possible. Audio streaming requires lots of hard drive spinning and tons of processing power. These all take lots of power. When you run off of the battery, you are simply not getting enough power to do get your machine to perform. Set your Power Options to Maximum Performance. Make sure that you never let the machine turn off your hard disks, too. Most laptops have a "4-Pin" 1394 or Firewire jack. These do not send power out to the external devices. So you will need to power your firewire devices with an external power supply. Only a "6 Pin" 1394 jack will send power to the device, but laptops aren't designed to power additional devices. They simply don't have the power to spare. So even if you have a 6-Pin jack, be sure to power your external firewire devices with their own power supplies.

