 Some cameras are stationary, but others move to pan a wide view of a location. You'll have to study the camera to determine the range of its view if you're going if you're going to sneak by it without being seen.


Some cameras will be oriented at a single important point, like a corner, door, or entrance of a walkway. These may only narrowly focus on that point. Others may focus on a wide/long view, like down a hallway or even the side of a building.
In many cases, there will be other items in the environment, like boxes, chairs, tables, and so on. You might be able to creep behind these to hide from the camera., If you've noticed the camera is angled downward, you may be able to pass by undetected by giving it a wide berth. If the camera is pointing in the distance, you may be able to creep close to the wall outside its view. Planning possible routes before attempting to sneak could reveal even better paths for you to take.


It may help to draw potential routes past the camera on a piece of paper to evaluate your options. Make a simple drawing of the environment, shade the likely area of the camera's vision, and draw lines to represent possible unseen paths you can use.
Some cameras may have be equipped with wide angle lenses to give a broader view. To account for this, you should make the suspected field of vision for the camera slightly larger than you originally think., You might feel silly flattening yourself against the wall at the base of a camera to inch past it without being seen, but if even a piece of clothing or a limb is caught on film, you could be busted. For this reason, you should always give potential areas of the camera's vision as much cushion space as possible.


Before sneaking, you may want to imagine the view from the camera's perspective as a final check to see if you've overlooked something.
When sneaking behind objects, like desks and chairs, try to stay as close to the item as possible. This will cut down the angle of visibility of overhead cameras.
If sneaking behind objects, like desks and chairs, mind that gaps don't give you away and make yourself as small as possible to prevent a limb or piece of clothing from getting caught on camera., When coming home, especially after a fun time with friends, it can be easy to forget the camera and pass by it like you might normally. You'll have to creep by the camera in the same fashion you did while leaving for there to be no trace of your passing.

