 Good housekeeping is a must when it comes to being neat and tidy, and the kitchen is one of the places that should be kept clean to keep out bugs and maintain a clean food prep area. Bacteria grows on counters when they are not kept clean, which can make you sick if you prepare meals on them.Put things back where they belong. If you have bags of chips by the microwave, put the bag of chips in the pantry. If you have spices laying around your counters, put them up in the shelf along with the sugars and starches.
Wipe off the counters and sweep the floors to clean up any crumbs. You don’t want bugs crawling around.Wash the dishes. Dishes piled in the sink instantly makes the room look messy and it’s also unsanitary.Take out the trash and recycling. Again, you don’t want stinky smells or unsightly creatures crawling around your kitchen area.
Wipe down the stove and refrigerator.
Organize your fridge by putting the butter, bread, and eggs on a shelf. Place the yogurts and leftovers on the top shelf, and put the milk and juice on the middle shelf. That way, you can find things easily because it's in the proper place.;
, If you wear shoes and socks in the house, you’re tracking dirt through your home. Even if you’re just wearing socks, you can still track dirt attached to your socks through the house.Vacuuming and sweeping also give you a chance to move any obstructions in the halls and make you notice how many misplaced items are on the floor.Vacuum or sweep room by room. Pick up any items on the floor and place them in a basket or container.
Once you’re done, walk around each room of the house with the basket and put the items back where they belong. For instance, any cups or plates in the basket should go back to the kitchen. Any shoes in the basket, should be put back in the closet.
 Dirt, grime, mold and even bacteria can build on bathroom tile and around the toilet bowl, so it’s important to clean the bathroom regularly. Spray your bathroom toilets, tile and bathtub with your favorite bathroom cleaner. Then, get a scrub brush and clean away and the dirt and grime.Wipe down the counters and place items back in the medicine cabinet or in the drawers.
Attempt to group things by category as you put them away. For instance, group all the curling irons together and put them in one place. Put all of the toothpaste and toothbrushes in an area. , Tidy the room by picking up items and putting them back where they belong. Pick up the misplaced items on the floor and put them back where they belong. Make the bed. Put shoes back in the closet. Pick up the pillows off the floor.
 Don’t let trash pile up around your home. It leads to bugs, bad smells, and it definitely makes a room look untidy. Go around to all the waste baskets in the house and empty them in a large waste bin. Then, take out the trash.

