;
,, With a pastry blender or fork, crush the butter until it forms tiny balls with the flour. Then slowly add the water.
 Split the ball in half and wrap one of the piece in plastic wrap. Place the wrapped dough in the refrigerator.


An alternative is to wrap both of the dough balls and refrigerate them for 30 minutes before proceeding to the next step.
 Some people prefer to place a layer of plastic wrap on top of the dough as it's being rolled so that it wouldn't stick to the rolling pin. ,, Fit it into the pan, pressing it against all the sides.
 Leave about 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) of extra dough over the pie pan.
, Peel and slice the apples into pieces about 1/8 of an inch thick or chop them into 1/2" cubes. Put them into a large bowl and mix with sugars (white and brown), salt, lemon juice, flour, nutmeg and cinnamon. Drain apples for 20 minutes and then heat the liquid produced along with 3 cubes of butter in the microwave until it's reduced to third of its volume and becomes thicker (prevents a soggy crust).




Sliced top. Gently fold it in half and make 4 to 5 half inch long slices along the fold and 4 slices in the center of the folded piece. These will allow the filling to breath and not break through the sides. Unfold the top crust set it aside.

Lattice top. Cut the rolled out dough into as many 1" wide strips as it will yield.
, There should be enough filling to fill the entire pan and stack up above the edge at least an inch in the center.
,



Sliced top. Lay the sliced top crust over filling. Cut off the excess edges with a butter knife. Take both thumbs facing each other and place them over the edge. Push thumbs down and towards each other. Do this around the entire pie to seal it.

Lattice top.
Place the pastry strips across the top of the apples in a criss-cross pattern, then weave them together to create a lattice effect.
Cut off the overhanging excess pastry and press the edges down into the rim as previously described.
 This will help to brown the crust. Dust cinnamon and sugar over the top crust for an extra touch.
 Turn down the oven to 375ºF (190ºC) for 45 minutes.


Remove when top crust is golden brown.
,