 Most brands of pick are sold by thickness: they are often labeled "thin", "medium", or "thick", accompanied by a millimeter measurement. Most plastic guitar picks are available in sizes ranging anywhere from 0.4 millimeters (mm) to 3 mm. Try starting out with a medium pick, between 0.60 and 0.80 millimeters thick.Thin picks usually range from 0.40 to 0.60 mm. They are best-suited for acoustic strumming, and other situations when you want a treble-heavy tone. Thin picks are often used to fill in the rhythms and mid-range in rock, pop, and country songs; however, they lack the heft for rock rhythm and lead.
Medium picks range from 0.60 to 0.80 mm. This is the most popular pick thickness: it's a good combination of stiffness and flexibility that works equally well for acoustic rhythms and powerful leads. Medium picks aren't ideal for zingy strumming nor powerful lead lines, but they are versatile.
Heavier picks--really, anything thicker than 0.80 mm--generate a heavier sound. At the lower end of this range, you’ll still have enough flexibility for crunchy rhythms, but you’ll also have the firmness you need for full-bodied chord arpeggios and fat lead lines. At the thicker end of this range, above 1.5 mm, you'll get increasingly cleaner, mellower, warmer tones. Your sound will become deeper more bottom-heavy: the thickest picks, from 1.5 to 3 mm, are used by jazz and metal guitarists.
 Most cheap guitar picks are made from plastic, and this should suit your purposes at first while you pin down the basics. Don't worry if you wear down the edges of a plastic pick; just use another pick.You may also find heavier rubber or metal picks that are designed for practicing or for specific styles of playing. Consider using a metal pick for a higher-pitched sound, or a rubber pick for a thicker, heavier sound.
If you aren't sure, try out a few styles of pick before you commit. You can find guitar picks at most music stores, certain music-culture boutiques, and online. Try out friends' picks and note the thickness, brand, and material. Figure out what works for you: a pick is personal choice.
 Banjo players don't use traditional guitar picks--they use finger-picks (different from plucking with bare fingers) that clip to your fingertips to facilitate plucking. If you're using banjo finger-picks, consider visiting a banjo technique website or asking around at a music store. In general, banjo finger-picks slip over the tips of your index, middle, and ring fingers, with a sharp fingernail-like "pick" curving backward from the pad of your finger over your fingernail.
 Many guitarists find it easier, at first, to use a plastic pick. The tips of your fingers may grow raw if you try to pluck or strum without a pick, but you may find that finger-picking greatly improves your range and speed when playing complex melodies.


If you try to play with a pick and then switch over to finger-picking later on, it may take you anywhere from a few weeks to a few months to regain the level of dexterity that you're used to. Consider starting out with finger-picking if you think that you'll switch at some point.
Use the pads of your fingers to pick upward (high strings to low), and use the nails of your fingers to pick down (low strings to high). Use several fingers to strum for a fuller sound.
Practice, practice, practice. If you are committed to learning to finger-pick, don't "cheat" and use a plastic pick. Take every opportunity that you can to improve your technique. Play riffs and songs slowly, all the way through, and build your speed.
When you become quicker and more confident in your finger-picking practice, try plucking two strings at once--or even three. Use your fingers to develop complex melodies.

