 Most people don't respond well to being criticized often or over unimportant matters. The first rule of tactful criticism is that criticism should be rare. Pick your battles carefully.If you give people negative feedback too often, they may begin to feel like you are going to criticize them no matter what they do. The result can be that over time, people may begin to ignore your criticisms.For example, if you think someone's wardrobe choices are unflattering, it's probably best to just keep that opinion to yourself, unless you see the apparel choices he or she is making affecting his or her personal or professional life in important ways. By contrast, if someone you know often makes jokes that are offensive or hurtful to yourself and others in their social circle, this might be an issue you want to bring up.;
, Before bring up the issue, spend some time thinking about what you want to communicate and what outcome you hope your criticism will achieve. Make sure you feel calm and collected before raising your criticism.


Get emotions under control before criticizing someone. Being emotional can decrease your ability to be tactful and make the other person feel attacked., To avoid embarrassing or upsetting the other person, be thoughtful about when and where you choose to offer your criticism. Never criticize another person in front of others.Use common sense and avoid criticizing someone during a time that he or she is likely to be stressed out or upset about something.You want your criticism to be received as calmly as possible.
Although it may seem like a good idea, avoid using email or other forms electronic communication to deliver criticism. This may be easier for you, but it also raises the likelihood that your words or feelings might be misunderstood by the other person., Before you criticize someone, try your best to understand the other person's perspective on the issue. If possible, bring up the topic, and listen to what he or she has to say about it before being critical.


Listening before you speak will allow you be couch your criticisms in terms that show you recognize and appreciate the other person's feelings and perspectives.For example, you might ask your friend who has been making offensive jokes, "Do you ever worry about how some people might respond to your jokes?"

