 Eating food that was grown or raised as close to your home as possible is important for a variety of reasons. Locally-grown food doesn't require as much gas to arrive in your town and end up on the shelves in your grocery store. The closer to your home it was grown, the more environmentally friendly it is.Farmer's markets are a great place to find local foods. Most foods available in farmer's markets were grown within a 50-mile vicinity.
Some grocery stores have a section devoted to locally-grown foods. Look for foods that were produced in your state, or better yet, within 50 miles of your town.
Look for foods that were produced on small farms, rather than manufactured at factories.
 When it comes to eating local, you can't get much closer to home than your own yard. You can grow a lot of different vegetables in a relatively small space. Earth Day falls during the perfect time of year to plant a garden. Try clearing a bit of grass away and planting a few different varieties to try out during the summer.



Squash is a great choice, since one plant produces enough to feed a small family for several weeks.

Tomatoes are popular among novice gardeners.

Beans are relatively low-maintenance.

Herbs take up very little room, and can be grown in pots.
Don't have space for a garden? See if there's a community garden in your area where you can start using a plot.
 Most meat is manufactured in an industrial setting under conditions that pollute the environment and are cruel to the animals.Mass-produced meat is normally pumped full of hormones, making it unhealthy for humans to consume. Eliminating meat from your diet is considered a great way to do your part to help the environment. Why not make April 22 your first meatless day?


A vegetarian diet is free of meat and fish, while a vegan diet is free of all animal products (including eggs, honey and dairy products). Choose the diet that works best for your health needs.
If you don't want to give up meat entirely, consider buying your meat products only from local farms where you know how the animals were treated. Look for farms that allow animals space to roam and feed them healthy food., Pre-made, processed foods require preservatives and a lot of packaging to keep them from going bad before you eat them. Check out the list of ingredients on items like frozen dinners, packaged snack foods and other common grocery store items. They likely contain extra sugars, chemical flavorings and other ingredients that aren't good for the environment or our bodies. The solution is to buy foods in their natural form and cook from scratch.


Even if a product is labeled "natural," check the ingredients. If you see words you can't pronounce, you probably don't need to eat it.
Not sure you know how to cook from scratch? Start with easy dishes like omelets, casseroles, smoothies, or steamed vegetables. Once you learn some basic techniques, you'll be able to cook more and more dishes from scratch.

