 A U.S. Geological Survey map is standardized map created by the National Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program under the U.S. Department of the Interior. You can find these maps at your local libraries or obtain them from surveyors or other commercial dealers., These measurements are often in the corner of the map. Beneath the title you may also notice how far the map covers. For example, a map may say that it's a 7.5 minute map, which means that the area the map shows is 7.5 minutes of latitude and longitude., Depending on the scale of your map, it may take some time to find your location. Note the city, town, or specific point on the map that denotes your current position. Once found, mark your location. The map legend will tell you the scale of the map so that you may quickly estimate distance relative to known landmarks if you do not know the name of your city. This may help you find your location more quickly.


Depending on what you’re trying to locate, make sure you’re using a map with an appropriate scale. If you want to find how far a state is from your own, you would want to use a map of the United States rather than one of the world.
 Measure from your location outwards from the map to the straightest numbered line of latitude or longitude. The map will be divided into both vertical and horizontal lines to represent the measurements of longitude and latitude. The 4 corners of your map will display the coordinates of both the longitude and latitude fully written out. Only the final two digits will be shown for all other points in between.Your map should have the lines of latitude and longitude forming a grid and dividing it into cross sections. A map ruler is easy to use and can be purchased at an outdoor supply store or online. Make sure that your map ruler corresponds to your USGS 1:24,000 scale map series.Measure latitude first. The lines of latitude will be north and south parallels to your location. Place the zero end of your map ruler on the southern parallel. The next parallel to the north should be touched by the 2 ½ minute end. One edge of the ruler will be marked in minutes and seconds while the other edge is decimal minutes. Make sure to use the correct edge that corresponds to the coordinate format of your map. Slide the ruler to the right -- or to the west -- until it touches your location. Mark how much distance is between the southern parallel to your location. Add this to the latitude of the southern parallel to get the latitude of your location.To measure the longitude you must place the ruler diagonally on the west and east meridians with the ends of the 2 ½ minute ruler touching both meridians. The lines of longitude on your map will be the east and west meridians of your location. You must measure diagonally because if you measure horizontally, the ruler extends past the grid because the meridians of longitude grow closer as they move from the equator. Move the ruler vertically until you find your location making sure to keep both ends of the ruler on the meridians at a diagonal. Record where your location is -- in minutes and seconds -- west of the eastern meridian. To find the the longitude of your location, add your measurement to the longitude of the eastern meridian., The standard procedure is to write the latitude first, followed by the longitude, with both written to as many decimals as possible. The more decimals you are able to achieve, the more accurate and precise the location.


When writing down your coordinates, you may format latitude and longitude in three different ways:

Degrees (d.d°) - 49.5000°, -123.5000°
Minutes (d°m.m') - 49°30.0', -123°30.0'
Seconds (d°m's) - 49°30'00"N, 123°30'00"W



When dealing with latitude and longitude, the North - South and East - West designators are removed and replaced with negative values for points south of the equator.