 Your family and friends back home will be dying to know all about your travels. Keep them in the loop by posting photos and writing updates about where you’ve been. Be candid in your impressions of your travels. Ask them about life back home so that you can stay connected to the people who know you best.If you’re not keen on social media, you could always use email or snail mail. Everyone loves getting postcards from exotic places.
Staying connected with your core group of friends and family back home can stave off loneliness when you’re out traveling the world.
 Even the most introverted introvert eventually hankers for some conversation. If you get lonely and starved for human contact, you can always “fake it ‘til you make it.” Plus, traveling should be a time to try new things and branch out. You might find that you’re glad you moved out of your comfort zone – even briefly – and chatted up a local or a fellow traveler when you normally might not.Nobody knows you while you’re traveling, so you can pretend to be more outgoing than you are – the people you meet will just chalk it up to you being a weird foreigner if your act doesn’t convince.When dining out, talk to waitstaff about what locals do for fun in the area. Explain that you’re from out of town.
Look up local events like concerts and public lectures that might prove good opportunities to meet others.
 When you’re traveling the world, you’re bound to meet all sorts of people no matter how introverted you are. In your hostel or tour group, you’ll meet others like you who have their own interesting adventures behind them. You can easily strike up a conversation that requires little effort on your part by asking these fellow travelers to regale you with their escapades. For example, when you’re settled into your bus to take you from Thailand to Laos, ask the person next to you, “So, how did you like Thailand?” or “What was your favorite thing about Thailand?”Interacting with people in this way can help you meet your personal quota of socialization for a given period.
 Don’t make a big effort to change yourself or pretend to be outgoing if you really aren’t. You should feel totally comfortable sitting alone on a train or boat, booking a single room, and dining by yourself.Be honest when analyzing who you are as a person.
Don’t pressure yourself into traveling if you don’t want to.
Accept yourself by saying to yourself, “The world is full of many different types of people. My introverted nature is not hurting anyone, so I feel comfortable being myself.”
It’s okay to make yourself available for conversation, but know when you’ve had enough interaction for the time being.
 You should never feel guilty just because you are not outgoing. Don’t let anyone make you feel about traveling the world as an introvert. For instance, if someone asks why you’re traveling by yourself, just say, “Well, I’m kind of an introvert.”If you meet people who want to do something with you, don’t let social expectations and pressure dictate your response. Instead, be honest – whether that means accepting the invitation or declining it.
If you decline an invitation and the person wants to know why you don’t want to hang out, just say, “I’m a bit tired” or “I’d prefer to spend the day alone.”
Instead of feeling ashamed or embarrassed for not wanting to socialize, switch your frame so that you feel embarrassed for the person trying so desperately to get you to socialize with them.
Some people will have a hard time understanding that you don’t want to socialize. Just stand your ground and don’t let them get to you.