 Or use your garage. Make sure you plan ahead to move your items out of the garage that are not to be sold. If you don't have a large enough yard, or your parents say no, ask your friends if you can have it at one of their houses. Make sure your friend has their parents' permission too, no matter which house you set up at.;
, Start going through your clothes, drawers, closet, and under your bed. Gather everything you don't want anymore. When searching through your clothes, if you haven't worn something in 6 to 12 months, you can get rid of it, because you probably won't wear it again. Have your friends do the same thing.
 Have them put these things in a central box or place for you to sort later.


If they want money too, arrange a commission for your effort.
You might even want to ask your neighbors for things they no longer want. Let them know it's for your yard sale.
Give people a good reason for wanting to raise money, such as saving for your summer trip or wanting to buy a laptop for school, and they may be even more helpful in donating items.
 Have the yard sale from 7:30 AM.-2:00 PM or whatever time is the usual time that people in your area have yard sales.
 Make your posters large and bright so people will see them. Each of you take a few, and hang them around your neighborhood. In addition to making posters, see if you can go to your local newspaper, and put an ad for your yard sale inside the paper.
, Be sure to have coins for customer change. Most people arrive early with $10's and $20's, just make sure you have coins as well as $1's and $5's for the customer's change. Make sure you have somewhere safe to put your money. Get a box with a lock. Each of you should have your own box.
 If you want to sell an old bikes, try to clean it up a little bit. Nobody wants to buy or even touch items that are dirty and covered with mud. Check every item and make sure that they are clean.
 If you are selling any CDs or video games, make sure they work. If your CD skips a lot, it is not recommend to sell this item at your yard sale. Same for videos games. Have a radio outside so your customers can check the quality of the CDs.
 Be sure to have bags, boxes and extra newspapers for packing items. Each friend should have their own things on their own table, so that they know how much money they are making. Make your yard sale look very presentable by having clothes racks for clothes and such so it doesn't look like you're selling a bunch of junk.
 Instead of just selling your old stuff, sell cups of coffee, lemonade, bottled water, too. You can also make a few new craft items, such as friendship bracelets.
 Many people are scared of pets or have allergies. Keep your pets inside the house or put them in the backyard. Ask your neighbor or friends to watch your pet while you have the garage sale.
 Please try not to talk on your cell phones with your friends during the sale. It can be considered extremely impolite and you may lose your sale.
 Nobody is going to buy something from you if you look unfriendly or mean. Have a warm smile! Be careful of your body language. Use an appropriate tone while speaking to others. Look approachable. This will make your customers feel more welcomed to your Yard Sale.
 Accepting checks are risky to your yard sale. Cash is the safest way to sell your items. Someone could easily give you a false check. Accepting cash will avoid future complications.

