 If you're travelling, be it on holiday or for work, or you're just nomadic, take advantage of this. You could find something unusual that isn't available in the location the person/people you're shopping for can get. If you're going somewhere iconic or with an interesting history/culture, get something special, made in the town/city/country that you're in. Don't just buy an average 'quick-fix' present or a souvenir made in China- while you're wandering around, see if you can luck out at the local markets or shops. Is your friend or really a food lover? Find a local yummy that you can only get there. Little sample jars of preserves/jams/marmalades make a cute, interesting and unique present.;
, When you're travelling, it can be hard remembering to find presents. Let alone remembering you might need to post them in time to reach your loved ones. So think ahead- make a list of the people you're intending to give gifts to. Jot down a couple of ideas or maybe just things they always like (i.e. Joyce loves crafty things and jam, Henry loves sci-fi stuff and little Jess adores animals, while John's been looking for some new tunes). Just like most people prefer picture postcards while you're away to a flood of photos when you're back, your loved ones will probably appreciate that little bit of thought more than an average, get-it-anywhere present. Knowing the type of things you want to keep an eye out for means you can see if your next location has some awesome markets you'll be there for, or is renowned for its food/wine/chocolate/teddy bears/fossils.
 You might need to post your pressies to have them arrive in time. Or, you may need (or choose) to carry them back with you. If this is the case, and you'll be flying, remember to make sure you're not buying anything that's prohibited on the planes. You also need to ensure you're not buying anything that's prohibited through customs, if you're on the road overseas. Otherwise, don't leave shopping until the last minute- gander around, but remember your postal due dates (check average postal times- the local PO will be able to help). Don't forget- if you're posting, pack well! There's nothing more disappointing than sending an awesome treat to have it pulverized in the mail and unrecognisable on arrival.

