 After a breakup, it's OK to treat yourself a little. Not only will this make you feel better, it's also good for resisting the urge to spend time with your ex. When you're at home feeling down and starting to think that a reunion would be a good idea, divert your attention to something you know you love. Basically, you want to replace one "addiction" for another, healthier one.For example, you can try putting on your favorite music, baking your favorite pastry, or playing your favorite sport. With luck, you won't be thinking about your ex for long.
Consider relying on portable distractions when you get wistful for your ex outside of the house (like, for example, on the train). Playing music, movies, or games on your phone, or putting a good old-fashioned book in your backpack, can be very useful for this.
 Spending time with your most trusted friends is a fantastic idea after a breakup. However, some topics of conversation aren't very helpful. Try to avoid talking about boys when you're hanging out. Your ex is especially off limits, but boys and romance in general should also be avoided. Hearing your friends talk about their partners can make you miss your ex, even if he has nothing to do with these people.


This can, understandably, be a little awkward to bring up. It's OK to say something like, "Hey, do you mind if we don't talk about boys tonight?" Your friends should get the idea, but if they don't, you might follow up with something a little more pointed, like "I'm just trying to get my mind off the subject."
Watch out for what is known as the "white bear" example, though. (The name comes from the idea that if someone tells you not to think of a white bear, the first image likely to pop into your head is a white bear.) If you make too big a deal about not talking about your ex or boys/relationships in general, you may inadvertently steer the conversation that way., Though it may not seem like it at first, being without a partner can have some major benefits. Keeping these in mind will make getting back with your partner seem much less appealing.Here are just a few things the newly-single you can be happy about, guilt-free:


You now get to spend more of your money on yourself.
You now have time to pursue more of your favorite hobbies and interests.
You no longer have to do things that you don't like just to make your partner happy.
You don't have to hang out with any of your partner's unappealing friends.
You are now free to pursue other, even better guys.
 Breaking up can leave you feeling depressed and sapped of energy for a while. As soon as you can, take the opportunity to get up, get out of the house, and start being active in all of your favorite ways. Physical exercise is especially valuable as it has proven anti-depressant effects.However, almost any sort of activity is a good idea. Simply venturing outdoors and doing something can make you feel better.Keep your mind and body busy by volunteering, tackling a home improvement project, or some other tasks that force your mind away from your ex. Eventually, by giving your mind other options to focus on, the urge to think about your ex will diminish and vanish.
 Even if you broke up on good terms, your ex isn't the only good guy in the world. There are good people everywhere, but it's up to you to meet them! Don't let yourself get into the mindset that your ex was the only one you can ever love. As soon as you feel those familiar "sparks" with someone new, you'll realize just how wrong you were.You may be concerned about getting into a "rebound" relationship, perhaps with someone who isn't as good as you deserve or someone who is too much like your ex (and acting almost as a replacement). You may want to take some time before getting involved with someone else, but that doesn't mean you can't look! Have fun "scouting" the area before you decide to wade back into the dating waters.

