 If you are using a relatively new Bic lighter, the problem likely lies with your technique rather than with some malfunction within the tool. Work on your hand placement. Make sure that you are striking the spark wheel quickly and powerfully enough to generate a spark. Check that you are holding down the ignition button and not just letting it go.


Bic lighters should still work in somewhat rainy and windy conditions. If you are having trouble flicking the Bic, however, try cupping the lighter with your hand or otherwise blocking the wind so that it cannot steal away the flame. Create a dry space with still air.
 This will make the lighter somewhat less "safe," but it will make it easier to light. You won't need to apply so much force to create a spark. Many Bic owners make a practice of removing the safety band as soon as they buy a new lighter.
 If the lighter doesn't light, check to make sure that there is fuel in the tank. It will be obvious with a transparent lighter. Hold an opaque lighter up to a light source. With a darker colored lighter, hold the top some distance away from your ear and tap it a few times. Keep your thumb on the lever and away from the striker wheel so you don't set your head on fire. You should hear a fairly strong hiss.


If the lighter is out of fuel, throw it away. Disposable lighters are not meant to be refilled.
You should be able to get up to 3,000 lights from a full-sized Bic lighter.
 If the lighter has fuel but still doesn't light, then the problem may be with the striker. Cheap lighters and Bics that have been used extensively will fail after a while because, while it still produces a visible spark, it's not dense enough to light the butane.


If the Bic is still producing a spark, you can hold the striker wheel down hard and very slowly turn it, grinding a little bit of flint off the stick. When the striker is hit full force, it should scatter and ignite the flint, which should be enough to light the butane. Be careful: the bits of flint can scatter and land on skin or clothing. The likelihood of burning yourself is very small, but still existent.
If the striker produces no spark at all but there is still butane in the tank: put the tips of two lighters together. Hold down the ignition button of the first lighter to release fuel. Then, use the striker from the other, functioning lighter (possibly one that has run out of fuel) to light the first.

