 Getting in touch with your spiritual side is a terrific way to start your day. Simply sitting in quiet and speaking with your higher power, chanting, or just breathing can set the tone for a peaceful and engaged day.


Whether you believe in a higher power or not, you can use your words and your thoughts to attract the kind of day you desire. Repeat affirmations such as “Today I can handle any challenges that come my way,” or, “I am feeling capable, healthy, and calm today.”, Clarify how you want to feel, think or act as you start each morning. You might choose a word or phrase that relates to your goal or ultimate purpose for the day. Then, you might take time to repeat or reflect on this word as you shower, brush your teeth, or dress for the day.


For instance, if you are trying to limit distractions that lower your productivity, you might repeat the word “focus” in the morning and throughout the day., Spend a few moments in the morning writing down your thoughts, feelings, observations, or objectives for the day. If you are the creative type, you can select a prompt to write on for a specified period of time. Or, you might merely free write about whatever is on your mind when you wake.


In addition to being a wonderful practice to help you unload all that’s tugging at your brain, journaling helps lower stress, increase problem-solving skills, and bring about awareness to your thoughts and emotions., What better way to set the tone for your day than telling the universe all that you’re grateful for. In life it’s easy to fall into negative thinking traps concerning all that you wish you had or everything that’s going wrong. Being intentional about practicing gratitude in the morning builds a mentality that shifts your thoughts in a positive direction.


When you wake up, speak aloud or write down three things you are grateful for. In a matter of days, you’ll start to notice how the list seems to grow and grow as you become more attentive of all the wonders in your life.