 The dip and kick exercise can be done on a park bench or table at the playground. This exercise can be punishing for your triceps, as well as working your thighs and your core.Find a bench the right height that when you sit on the edge, you have your feet flat on the ground and your knees are at 90-degree angles. Press your palms into the bench on either side of your body, lifting yourself up slightly off the bench. Pick one foot up so you're holding it slightly off the ground.
Lower yourself by bending your elbows to 90 degrees, pulling your knee close to your chest as you do.
As you straighten your arms to raise back up, kick your foot straight out in front of you. Complete 10 repetitions of this exercise, then switch sides and do another 10 repetitions with the other leg.
 As a kid, you may have enjoyed racing other kids from one playground apparatus to another. There's no reason why you can't continue to do this, and sprinting among the playground equipment adds a cardio interval to your overall workout.For example, if you were previously doing upper-body exercises on the monkey bars, you can sprint from the monkey bars to a bench on the other side of the playground. Run as fast as you can, tag the bench, run back to the monkey bars and tag them, then run back to the bench.
Once you've scoped out the playground and mapped out your routine based on the equipment available, you can work in these sprint bursts to get from one apparatus to another.
 Provided the bench is strong and stable enough, you can work jumps into a regular squat to add explosive movement and a touch of plyometric exercise to your workout, building fast-twitch muscle fiber.Check the playground for platforms that you can jump up on, or use a sturdy park bench if no one is using them.


To start, stand a couple feet away from the bench and jump up onto it. This is an exercise similar to box jumps that you'd do in a gym. Aim to land softly, and step back down carefully rather than jumping back down off the bench.
Try to do this exercise as quickly as possible, doing as many as you can do in 30 seconds.
You can progress to jump squats, in which you lower into a squat and then jump onto the bench.
This exercise works best, and is safer, if you're on relatively level ground. However, you can also try doing jump squats onto the swings if the seats are flat and sturdy enough. Just hold onto the swing chains and jump up onto the swing seat. Then step back down and start over.
 Any of your basic body-weight exercises, such as planks and lunges, can be done anywhere you've got a little space. A playground or park can provide the perfect space to fit these exercises into your routine.Standard body-weight exercises can work as filler if you're trying to design an interval-training workout, especially if there are kids running around on the playground as well and you need to time your access to the different equipment.
For example, you might do swing rows for a minute, then do a lower-body exercise such as lunges, then move to a whole-body or core exercise such as planks or clapping planks and do those.
Working different muscle groups at a time allows you to decrease your rest time between intervals, making for a quicker and more efficient workout.

