 Some women don’t get the “baby blues” but instead get the “baby pinks.” This can include a period of intense elation and feeling overjoyed in the first days of having a baby. While there is nothing clinically wrong with elated feelings, sometimes this elation can change into negative behaviors.


This period of ecstasy can be followed by feeling irritable. You may notice your behavior becoming very bizarre, such as thinking you has special powers or abilities. You may think you can read your baby’s mind or have special abilities related to your baby. You may not feel a need for sleep for several days or may talk excessively.These are manic symptoms.;
, Mania is a part of Bipolar disorder. These behaviors will appear out of the ordinary and may affect daily functioning. You may interact with your baby in odd ways or not be able to take care of it. Manic behavior can include:Feeling unusually high, jumpy, or wired
Feeling highly energetic despite not sleeping much
Having racing thoughts
Having racing speech
Impulsivity
Irritability, feeling “touchy” or sensitive
Engaging in risky behaviors

, Hypomania is a less severe form of mania. This kind of euphoria can include feeling energetic, productive, and high, yet you can get on with daily activities without disruption.Hypomania may lead to mania or to a depressive episode, so it’s important to monitor any changes to your behavior.


You may notice feeling high to a point that it feels out of the ordinary, but still can function and get on with your day.
If you are noticing (or someone else notices) odd behavior after giving birth, do not be alone with the baby. Call for help or go to the emergency department.
 Depression is a part of Bipolar disorder. Depression can affect your mood, behaviors, and activities. You may feel too tired or exhausted to take care of your baby, or feel distant from it. Depression is diagnosed by having a combination of the following symptoms:Feeling, low, down, or sad
Sleeping too much or too little
Eating too much or too little
Feeling tired
Thinking about death or suicide

, Sleep deprivation can trigger symptoms of mania.New mothers may experience a sudden lack of sleep due to their new baby. Especially if you experienced changes in behavior previously due to lack of sleep, you may also experience negative behaviors as a result of lack of sleep postpartum.


If mental health problems have arisen due to lack of sleep in the past, be aware of how a lack of sleep affects you now.
 People with Bipolar disorder are at a higher risk for suicide. The risk for suicide is higher when there’s a history of drug or alcohol abuse or a personal or family history of suicide.Some warning signs of suicidal behavior include talking about death or suicide, feeling hopeless or helpless, and acting recklessly. For example, you may put yourself and/or the child in danger.


If you are suicidal, do not be alone with the baby. Remove any dangerous items (such as guns, knives, or other weapons) and remove any pills from the home. Go to the nearest emergency department or ask someone to call emergency services for help., While most women experience some degree of euphoria within the first few weeks of childbirth, women who experience hypomania tend to experience it from day one as opposed to day three or four. Hypomania may include a distinct period of euphoria or irritable mood for at least three to four days. Unlike mania, the symptoms may not interfere with daily functioning and impairment may not be noticeable. In hypomania, psychotic symptoms (such as hallucinations or delusions) are not present.Ask yourself (or someone close to you) if you’ve experienced manic or hypomanic symptoms.


Hypomania is often a precursor to Bipolar disorder and it’s important to take these symptoms seriously.
 Bipolar symptoms such as hypomania typically peak within the first few weeks after childbirth.You may have noticed strange behavior after the birth of the child and assumed it was due to stress or life changes. Yet, think about if there was any unusual or strange behavior, when it started, and if it has continued.


Ask yourself when the symptoms began. If hypomanic symptoms started to appear shortly after childbirth, it may be a sign of Bipolar disorder.
 Even if postpartum Bipolar disorder is misdiagnosed as postpartum depression, it’s unlikely that the Bipolar symptoms will go away indefinitely. It is likely that Bipolar symptoms may re-emerge within the first year after childbirth.If you had questions or doubts of postpartum Bipolar disorder but did not receive a diagnosis, be sure to check with your mental health provider.


If symptoms begin to emerge within the first year after giving birth, see a mental health professional. You may wish to recount events or behaviors right after childbirth and how they are similar or different to your current symptoms.
 Bipolar disorder tends to run in families. There's a higher risk of developing Bipolar disorder if a parent or sibling has Bipolar disorder. Ask questions about family mental health and any history of Bipolar disorder.This could include grandparents or cousins, aunts, and uncles as well.
If you have a family history of Bipolar disorder, it does not mean that you will have Bipolar disorder. Most people with a family history will not develop Bipolar disorder. It just increases the risk the having Bipolar disorder.
 It may be helpful to gather information about how other women in your family have experienced the postpartum phase. Ask aunts, cousins, sisters, and other members of your family about their postpartum experiences. You may also ask the fathers and men of the family to recount what it was like for the women postpartum. If hypomania is common in the family, it may increase your risk of postpartum Bipolar disorder.


It may be sensitive to ask these questions to the family. You can say, “My (or my wife’s) behavior has changed a bit since giving birth. Did something similar happen to you or your wife? What was that like?”

, It’s important for new moms to discuss any previous history of Bipolar disorder.Any mental health problems should be discussed with the provider, including depression, Bipolar disorder, anxiety, etc. If you’ve experienced previous episodes of Bipolar disorder, it can increase your chance of experiencing postpartum Bipolar disorder.


Having a manic episode or previous diagnosis of Bipolar disorder should be clearly communicated with a medical or psychological professional. Discuss all mental health concerns prior to delivery if possible.
 Only a professional can diagnose Bipolar disorder. This includes a psychiatrist, psychologist, therapist, or general practitioner trained in mental health. It’s important to receive a diagnosis of Bipolar disorder in order to treat the symptoms. Without treatment, Bipolar disorder tends to get worse and symptoms become more severe.There are also different types of Bipolar disorder. A mental health professional will help you determine which type of Bipolar disorder is present, which will affect treatment.


Treatment of Bipolar disorder includes therapy, medication, lifestyle changes and social support.
Most people work with a therapist and a psychiatrist.
 Stress can trigger Bipolar disorder in people who are genetically vulnerable. Giving birth and becoming immediately responsible for a life is a major stressor, and this experience may trigger symptoms of Bipolar disorder.Be aware of how you generally handle stress and what ways you cope.


Be aware of any other stressors you are experiencing, which may include moving, the loss of a loved one, or getting married. Find ways to cope with this stress, such as engaging in relaxation exercises. Check out How to Relax for tips on relaxation.
 Bipolar I disorder is characterized by at least one manic episode. This manic episode can cause significant impairment and changes to functioning, which may require hospitalization. Sometimes the mania may include psychotic symptoms, such as delusions or hallucinations. Either before or after the manic episode, you experience either hypomanic of major depressive episodes.The mania may include a period of at least one week of excessive energy without the need for sleep. Other symptoms may include rapid speech, abnormally elevated mood with impaired judgment, reckless spending, and elevated sexuality., Bipolar II disorder includes a pattern of depressive episodes and hypomanic episodes. The hypomanic episodes are not as severe as the manic episodes experienced in Bipolar I disorder.You may not need immediate hospitalization, but the hypomania may affect functioning and daily living. Hypomanic episodes must last at least four days and depressive episodes must last at least two weeks.The hypomanic symptoms are less severe than manic symptoms, yet still may include irritability, inflated self-esteem, distractibility, talkativeness, and racing thoughts.
 Bipolar disorder NOS is diagnosed when symptoms are similar to Bipolar I or Bipolar II disorder, but do not meet the criteria for diagnosis. The symptoms may not last long enough or be severe enough for diagnosis. Yet, you clearly exhibit symptoms in line with an experience of Bipolar disorder.Bipolar disorder NOS may be considered during postpartum, especially because symptoms may not exactly express as Bipolar disorder or meet the time frames for a Bipolar I or Bipolar II diagnosis.

