 You'll need a clock that measures seconds for these tests. They're intended to measure problem-solving and adaptation to the environment.;
, Let the dog smell a large towel or a small blanket. Toss it over the the dog's head, covering it completely. Start the stopwatch and see how long it takes your dog to get free. Write down the score:


30 seconds or less: 3 points
31–120 seconds: 2 points
Tries but doesn't succeed within 120 seconds: 1 point — and take off the towel for him!
Doesn't try to get free: 0 points.
You might want to practice tossing the towel over a chair beforehand. It should land in one, smooth motion., Show the dog a treat. While the dog is watching, put the treat on the floor. Lay the towel over it. Start the stopwatch and see how long the dog takes to reach the treat:


30 seconds or less: 3 points
31–60 seconds: 2 points
Tries but fails within 60 seconds: 1 point
Doesn't try: 0 points

, For this test, you need a gap low to the ground, that the dog can reach with its paws but not its muzzle. A couch might work, or you might need to make one yourself out of a pair of books and a wide plank. Weigh down the top of the plank so the dog can't easily knock it over., Place a treat underneath the plank or couch, while the dog is watching. Push it far enough underneath that the dog can't reach it with its muzzle. Encourage the dog to get the treat while you time it:


Succeeds within 2 minutes (using its paws): 4 points
Succeeds within 3 minutes (using its paws): 3 points
Fails within 3 minutes, but uses its paws: 2 points
Fails, only uses its muzzle: 1 point
Doesn't try: 0 points

, The next test is designed to challenge the dog's memory, not its problem-solving skills. To do this, the dog needs to understand what's going on. Put a treat underneath a plastic cup, then tell the dog to find it. Lift the cup to show the dog where it is. Do this about eight or ten times, until the dog learns that treats go underneath cups., Place three plastic buckets or cups upside down on the floor, a foot apart. Put a treat underneath one of the cups, while the dog is watching. Lead the dog out of the room for 30 seconds, then back. Urge the dog to find the treat.


Checks under the right cup on the first try: 2 points
Finds it within two minutes: 1 point
Doesn't find it: 0 points

, Add up all your dog's points and see how it did:


11–12 points: Canine Genius
8–10 points: Obedience School Honor Student
4–7 points: Just an Average Rex
1–3 points: I'm a Barker, Not a Thinker
0 points: You might have just tested a mop.
 This is no time to be an impartial observer, your dog's college admissions are on the line! But seriously, if the dog isn't interested, she won't even try to complete the challenges. Encourage the dog with gestures or smiles, keeping it interested but not so excited it forgets what to do.
 The dog has to cooperate to be tested. Pick a special, smelly treat to bribe it with. Soft, smelly treats are best, since the dog will notice them and eat them quickly. Cut them into small, pea-sized pieces if you plan to do all of these tests at once.


Pieces of hot dog, cooked chicken, or cheese are all good options.Use a dry, non-smelly treat when you're testing memory.
 This test works best if the dog spends a lot of time with the person testing him. A dog might not live up to its full potential if it's been living with the test-giver for less than three months., A puppy under one year old probably won't be as "smart" or obedient as an adult dog., Tell the dog to stay while it watches you "hide" a treat in a box or under a table. Once it finds the treat, hide the next one in a harder to find location. As your dog gets better at this, you can hide the treat while the dog isn't looking, and put it behind several barriers., This is a great way to challenge your dog. It works best if you've clicker trained your dog with several tricks already. Use the clicker and say "new trick," then reward it for any trick it does. Repeat immediately with another "new trick" and only reward it if it does something new. Keep going until the dog runs out of tricks or gets confused., You can't always be around to tutor your dog. Give it some homework in the form of an interactive dog toy. These have treats hidden inside that won't fall out unless the dog solves a puzzle. Some of them even have an electronic voice to give commands, although be careful giving those to dogs with a constant chewing habit.

