 Developing a positive attitude will lead you to happiness and success:


Look at the bright side of life.
Choose to be and stay optimistic.
Focus on your good qualities and give yourself a pat on the back.
Have faith in yourself.
See problems as challenges and opportunities.
Say "I can" more often that "I can't"
Choose positive-thinking friends.
Read inspiring stories/quotes,
Repeat affirmations that inspire you and motivate you.
Learn to master your thoughts.;
, Think of other times when you have experienced a similar difficulty that resulted in a positive outcome. Ask yourself what you did then that made that difficult situation turn OK for you. What specific things did you say or do to successfully overcome the same obstacle that you are facing again today? Remember your previous solution.
 There is always a way out of a difficult situation, and you always have options, even if you do not know what they are when things suddenly go wrong.


Take some time to sit down, relax, and brainstorm for possible solutions. This will help you feel less trapped, stuck, or overwhelmed; these are what most of us feel when we start to believe that we do not have options to remedy our problems in life.
Reducing these common emotional responses will help you to think more clearly and choose a solution!

, After you have brainstormed for exploring various remedies for your problem, choose one solution. choose the solution that sounds most effective to you (select only one). Keep in mind that you are one step closer to resolving your difficult situation.
 Be proactive and actualize your solution. By actually doing something about your problem instead of staying stuck in the disappointment, fear, or overwhelming mindset of your problem, you will begin to feel more hopeful and optimistic about your solution!

, Stay focused on your solution and avoid dwelling on your problem. your solution will most likely create joy, and your problem would most likely create unpleasant emotions that will be counterproductive to maintaining a positive attitude or resolving your problem. Stay focused, and do not lose hope.
 Avoid telling yourself negative things like "This is useless", "There is no hope" or "I'll never get through this". When you tell yourself negative things, it creates negative thinking - and negative thinking creates negative attitude. Instead, tell yourself positive things like "I'm gong to get through this" or "There is no problem that I cannot handle". Maintaining a positive attitude all the time can be a difficult task. But don't worry you can surely have it if you believe in yourself!

, For one week treat every person you meet, without a single exception, as the most important person on earth. You will find that they will begin treating you the same way!

, Our attitude is the primary force that will determine whether we succeed or fail. The pessimist sees difficulty in every opportunity ; the optimist finds and opportunity in every difficulty.

