 Catch your cat in a good mood, or a sleepy mood. Wait until your cat is holding still, and take his or her measurements. If your cat is hyper, play with him for a while and gradually calm him down. For example, let your cat chase a toy for a while, then let him catch the toy.


Feeding your cat might calm him down.
If your cat will not hold still, try pinching the scruff of his neck with a binder clip.This will not hurt your cat, and it is likely to calm him.
Different strategies work for different cats. Do whatever your cat needs to calm down.;
, Take a measuring tape. Measure from the base of your cat's neck to the base of your cat's tail. Record the number. If you have no measuring tape, procure a string and a ruler. Measure with the string, then lie the string along the ruler and record its measure.
 Do this while your cat is lying quietly at full length. Start the measuring tape in the middle of your cat's back. Slide it under your cat, then wrap it around the largest part of the cat's belly. If you are making an outfit with a harness, wrap the tape measure firmly, but without squeezing. If you are making clothes that cover the belly, leave a little room so your cat doesn't feel squished.
 Depending on the design of the outfit, you might want to measure the length of the legs or the circumference of the head. Measure your cat's legs while he stands. Try to avoid dressing your cat in anything that will squeeze his neck or obstruct his hearing or vision. Turtlenecks are not recommended.


If your cat wears a collar, measure the collar instead of your cat's neck.
Cats generally are distressed when their ears are covered, so reconsider the hat., Buy pet clothing from an independent designer or a trustworthy pet accessory retailer. Opt for outfits that have been cat-tested and cat-approved. Avoid outfits with small or dangling pieces. The outfit's description should include measurements: make sure they match the measurements you took, and opt for a looser fit over a snugger one.Buy an outfit made for a large doll only if it will accommodate your cat's neck and limbs without squeezing.
 Cut out your cat's outfit from a pattern designed specifically for cats. Check the pattern against your measurements. If it is too small, discard it. Add 1 inch (2.5 cm) to every measurement to avoid creating a snug outfit that will rub your cat's hair uncomfortably.Pick a soft cloth that does not smell strongly. If you can, let your cat play with it before you sew it. If the cloth smells familiar, your cat will be less disturbed by it.
If you cannot find a good pet costume, you can try adapting an outfit designed for a large doll.
 Try the outfit on your cat to see if your cat will tolerate it. Make sure the costume does not obstruct your cat's vision, hearing, or movement. Clothing that covers the ears, falls in the eyes, or blocks the legs will cause your cat a lot of stress. Do not tie anything around your cat's neck, as this can choke it.


Remove any small or dangling parts of the outfit, as your cat may chew and swallow them.