 You want to establish your identity and intentions to the unknown caller without giving too much information, but you also want to put them at ease. However, you also need to confirm who they are whether it’s a business contact or person you met informally at a party.


If you met the person briefly try then you can introduce yourself by describing those circumstances. If you encounter a secretary or some other agent first then you might mention these circumstances so they can pass that along to the target person.
For example, you can call and ask "I met Mr. Doe at yesterday's business luncheon and would like to speak with him again." Or if you get the person directly say, "Hello Ms. Jane, I met you at the lecture on the way out and would like to speak with you further."
If you are calling someone you didn't meet then use what you can learn in context. For example, if you are calling someone at an electronics department store you might start by telling the receiving caller: "Hello, I am interested in your latest deals on blu-ray players."
Or if you are calling a professional at their home, a professor from your university but not one you have a class with, you can try something such as: "Hello Dr. John, I attend the State University and would like to consult with you on a matter."
Upon calling someone you met in an informal setting you should still use your first name, but perhaps without titles.;
, You don't want to offend a stranger by being rude or wasting their time. So be courteous while in conversation and when scheduling calls and return calls.Call during the day--preferably around the middle of the afternoon or early evening.
Try not to make a call during nighttime or dawn when you are likely to disturb a person's sleep and/or morning routine.
Pay attention to any specified hours the caller may leave in automated messages or credentials.
 You don't want this to be the last call to the person whether you know them only a little or not at all. But you also want however they remember you to be positive.Use language that evokes the senses such as visual imagery or describes vivid events. However, you don't want to be crude.
For example, you could be calling a new business contact to help recruit customers for your flower shop. You could start by asking, "Wouldn't you like your clientele to invest in the smell of roses, and see the color of lilacs?"
You could be calling a person you met at a bar and want to describe how you met by reminding them of the “smell of alcohol” or “smoky atmosphere.”

, Give the receiving caller something to look forward to. This is good to establish a longer lasting professional or personal contact if you don't know them very well or at all.Set up a time to call your new contact perhaps even at regular intervals to keep the relationship going.
Do this early, but once you have a conversation going when you can find a convenient break point.
For example, you could be talking for a few minutes about your respective professional interests, and then say: "Oh by the way, I would like to set up a business call again next week." Proceed accordingly.
For a personal call you could try waiting until you’ve established a rapport with the caller before asking them for further contact. See the later section on personal calls.
 This involves listening at least as much as talking.Ask light personal questions, but don't pry. For example, you can start with some simple domestic questions such as "How is your family" or "I see you like the local sports team." In a personal setting you can ask about common interests.
Taking some interest in the contact personally without pushing to the point of making them feel like you are violating their privacy is a good way to run the first few calls.

