 If the thought of having to say no to someone or of being in a situation where you say yes out of guilt causes you to avoid some people and situations, then you might be too nice for your own good.


For example, if you avoid going to an event at your child’s school because you know the teacher will ask you to help with something you don’t have time for, then your niceness is interfering with your life. It is important to learn how to be assertive and say “no” in these situations so that you can do the things you want to do.
 Just because you are being nice to someone does not mean that he or she will return the favor. However, if people in your life have shown that they really appreciate your efforts and make a point of paying you back when they can, then this might be evidence of an equally kind relationship.To determine if you are giving without receiving, look at how often people thank you or pay you back for all of the nice things you do for them.
If a person does not thank you or pay you back in equal ways, then he or she may be taking advantage of your kindness. You may need to learn how to be more assertive with this person and say no to the next request.
 Low energy can indicate that you are doing too much, which is a common problem with people who are too nice. You might be saying yes to every request you get and doing more than you have the time or energy to do.If you often feel tired and drained of energy, think about what your schedule is like. Are you often running around and doing things for other people? If so, then it might be time to cut back on these favors and give yourself some rest.
Try saying something like, “I can’t continue to help you in this way. It is wearing me out and affecting other areas of my life.”

, Being accommodating to other people all of the time can take a toll on your stress levels as well.If you often feel stressed out because of the things that you do for other people, then you might be going above and beyond in a bad way.


Try using some relaxation techniques to get your stress under control, such as deep breathing exercises, meditation, or yoga.
Doing things you enjoy can also help to get your stress back under control, such as exercising, making time for a favorite hobby, or listening to music.
 You might be incredibly kind to other people, but not so nice to yourself.You might berate yourself, discount your needs, and wear yourself down physically. Try to start being nicer to yourself, such as by doing things like:



Setting healthy boundaries.
Making sure you get enough sleep.
Preparing healthy meals for yourself.
Giving yourself enough time to groom yourself.
Dressing yourself in clothes that fit you well and make you feel good.
Saying nice things to yourself rather than beating yourself up for mistakes.
 A big part of being too nice to other people is never saying “no” when they ask you to do things for them. Doing this shows that you place more importance on other people’s needs than your own needs. To change this pattern, try to get into the habit of putting yourself first and saying “no” more often.The next time someone asks you to do something that you do not want to do or don’t have time to do, try saying something like, “No. I can’t help you with that.” Or you can say, “No. I don’t have time to do that.”
Keep it simple when you say "no" and don't make excuses for why you are saying "no." You have the right to tell people "no" and you don't have to explain yourself.
To feel comfortable saying “no” to people, you may also need to work on being more assertive. You can learn these skills with some time and effort.

