 Cataracts develop over time and the key is to treat them early. As a dog owner, make sure to inspect your dog’s eyes on a regular basis. Look for any indications of a cloudy appearance or a color change. If your dog already has cataracts, watch to see if the impacted area grows or changes in shape.You may also notice other physical signs of cataract growth, such as loss of balance. Your dog may appear a bit clumsier and could run into furniture.
If your dog has diabetes mellitus, then keep an eye on their diabetes-related symptoms. If you notice that your dog is losing weight or experiencing more frequent urination, then take them to a vet.;
, A vet is the only person who can truly diagnose a dog with cataracts. Your vet will likely inspect your dog’s history. They will also ask you about the symptoms that you’ve observed thus far. They will perform an extensive physical exam on your dog as well, focusing on the ocular region.Depending on what the vet sees, they may also order a series of tests and bloodwork. Before a surgery is scheduled, your dog may get an ultrasound of its eye area too., Talk with your vet before giving your dog anything. But, it may be helpful to offer your dog some additional nutritional support to help it fight off the development of cataracts. You can add oral antioxidants to your dog’s food. You can also mix in healthy oils, such as cod liver oil. Under your vet’s supervision, you can also add in herbs, such as bilberry.Bilberry is believed to assist in eye strength by developing a link between the eyes and the liver. Human pilots have been known to take bilberry supplements.Making healthy changes to your dog’s diet in general may slow the process of cataract growth as well. For example, use a food processor to liquefy green vegetables and mix them into your dog’s food., Once your dog’s been diagnosed with cataracts, you may want to start experimenting with canine massage and acupuncture therapy. Your vet may be able to suggest a reputable therapist. Ask the acupuncturist to focus specifically on the areas of the body associated with vision problems.This type of touch-therapy is not a good option for dogs that suffer from anxiety. The process of massage may be more stressful to them than soothing.
 Once you’ve noticed the cataract and taken your dog to the vet, then you’ll need to consider how to proceed. Your vet may ask you to observe your dog’s eyes for a certain period of time and to write down any noticeable changes. Also, whether you choose surgery or not, you will want to get used to paying attention to the condition of your dog’s eyes., Surgery is currently the main treatment option for dogs suffering from cataracts. However, the surgery is invasive and requires an extensive recovery. Most vets will only recommend that healthy and young dogs go through the surgery. The surgery can also be costly, starting at around $1,000 and going upwards depending on the care that is needed.The ultrasound tests that the vet performs will also need to show that your dog is a good candidate for surgery in the ocular region. Your dog’s retina (rear eye area) must be healthy. In dogs with good health, around 90 percent recover their vision post-surgery., If you leave your dog’s cataracts untreated, then it is likely that their vision will continue to deteriorate. They may lose their vision entirely due to the development of glaucoma. The cataract may also start to shift position in the eye, causing a great deal of pain. Whether you choose surgery or not, it is important to develop an observation and treatment plan for cataracts.Part of the treatment plan may be discussing the eventual need for pain medications with your vet. It is good to plan ahead and keep these in stock in your house in case your dog goes through a particularly bad spell.

