 This kit is something that anyone living in a volcano zone should have prepared at all times.The kit should include a first aid kit, food and water supplies, a mask to protect against ash, such as one used when mowing lawns, a manual can opener, a flashlight with extra batteries, any necessary medications, sturdy shoes, goggles or other eye protection, and a battery-powered radio.


Make sure that everyone in your family knows where the kit is kept, and can easily access it in an emergency.
A flashlight, phone charger, and radio combined as one, that runs on both solar power and hand cranking is the ideal item to have ready in your house for any natural disaster event. Pack this if you have one.
 As well as a more general emergency kit, you should be sure to put one together that includes items specifically for your car. This kit should combine general emergency supplies including food, a first aid kit, sleeping bags, blankets and spare batteries, with items to help keep you on the road. Make sure you have a map, as well as booster or jumper cables, a fire extinguisher, and some tools.


Try to make sure you have a full tank of gas. If you don't have access to a car, consider asking a neighbor or friend if you can make an arrangement with them to share a car.
Be sure to speak to the friend or neighbor in advance and don't wait until the evacuation is under way.
If you don't have transportation arranged, speak to local emergency services staff during the evacuation.
 One of the main health dangers of a volcanic eruption is the potential of volcanic ash to damage your respiratory tract. The ash can travel for hundreds of miles on the wind, and is most dangerous for young infants, older adults, or those with pre-existing respiratory illnesses.If you think any member of your family is at a heightened risk, you can consider buying an air purifying respirator.


The N-95 disposable respirator is recommended for use by the government, and can be purchased at local hardware stores.
If you do not have a respirator, you can use a simple dust mask. This might help ease the irritation if you are only exposed to the ash for a short time, but does not offer the level of protection that a respirator does.
If there is volcanic ash in the air outside, stay inside as much as possible to avoid the worst effects.
 Make sure you have all the possible means of receiving updates from the local authorities in good working order, and ready to go. Use your radio or television at home to listen for volcano updates or evacuation notices. Listen out for disaster sirens, and familiarize yourself with what they sound like so you know what to expect. When a volcanic eruption occurs, you'll need to listen for the sirens to go off.

