 Many dogs, especially if they are older, do not show outward signs of an ascarid infection. If you have a puppy, though, you will probably notice if he has ascarids. A classic symptom of an ascarid infection is a pot belly.The harmful activity of the ascarids in the intestines causes the pot-bellied appearance.;
, As parasites, ascarids rob your dog’s body of important nutrients.A severe ascarid infection will cause stunted growth, weight loss, and a rough and dull hair coat., An ascarid infection may cause digestive upset, such as vomiting. Four- to six- month old puppies with a severe ascarid infection could vomit up a large mass of ascarids, each one being several inches long and moving around—this could be a very distressing sight to see!Ascarid infections can also cause chronic diarrhea in puppies.Ascarids are solid white or brown with round bodies.If your dog vomits up ascarids, contact your veterinarian with how best to dispose of them.
In severe cases, a large mass of ascarids could block part of the intestine, leading to digestive upset., Taking a close look at your dog’s feces may not seem very pleasant, but you may be able to see ascarids in the feces.Unlike in the vomit, ascarids exiting the body through the feces would likely be dead.If it doesn’t make you too squeamish, place a small portion of the feces in a sealable plastic bag to take to your veterinarian. Your veterinarian would examine this fecal sample for ascarids.
 Other than noticing the obvious symptoms of an ascarid infection, your veterinarian will take a small portion of your dog’s feces and use fecal flotation to detect ascarids.For this test, your veterinarian will need a fecal sample from your dog. The fecal sample will be suspended in saline and then spun down using a centrifuge. The eggs then float to the top of the saline where they are concentrated and easier to detect.
 Ascarid medications work by killing either the adult ascarid or ascarid larvae (developmental stage before adulthood). Because of the complicated life cycle of ascarids, both larvae and adult ascarids may be present in your dog’s body at the same time. For this reason, your dog may need multiple treatments to eliminate all the ascarids.


Although many ascarid medications target the adult worms, some of the newer medications kill the larvae., Deworming your dog is just like it sounds—getting rid of the worms. There are many deworming medications available through your veterinarian; he or she will decide which one will work best for your dog. Dewormers are given by mouth.If you have a litter of puppies with ascarids, treat all the puppies and their mother at the same time.Over-the-counter dewormers are available, but you should use only what is prescribed by your veterinarian. Dewormers can make your dog very sick if you give him the wrong dosage., During the ascarid life cycle, some of the larvae can remain dormant in the body, then ‘wake up’ and develop into adults. Some of the larvae in your dog’s body may have been dormant during the first round of treatment. To target these larvae, you will need to go back to your veterinarian in 2 to 4 weeks for another round of treatment., Preventing an ascarid infection can be just as simple and effective as treating an infection. Monthly preventatives are available by prescription. In fact, many heartworm preventatives also contain ingredients to prevent ascarids.Make sure not to forget or miss a dose—this could increase your dog’s likelihood of an infection.


To help you remember, give the preventative on the same date each month and mark this date on your calendar.
 If you are a dog breeder, deworm your puppies every 2 weeks, starting at 2 weeks of age and ending at 8 weeks of age. Since mothers can transfer ascarid larvae through their milk, treat the mother at the same time as her puppies.Treating pregnant female dogs with either fenbendazole or ivermectin can prevent transmission of ascarids to puppies., Ascarid eggs that exit your dog’s body through his feces can survive in the outdoor environment. They are very hardy—not only are they fairly resistant to heat and humidity, but they also stick to various surfaces.Ascarid eggs pose a health risk for dogs and humans (particularly children), so the sooner you pick up your dog’s feces, the better.


Wash your hands thoroughly after throwing away your dog’s feces.
 During your dog’s first year of life, he should receive 2 to 4 fecal exams. After the first year, he should have yearly fecal exams.The combination of a monthly preventative and regular fecal exams will help keep your dog roundworm free.
 Wild rodents can carry ascarids. If your dog catches and eats a rodent, he could get an ascarid infection.If you have a backyard, closely supervise your dog when he goes outside to make sure he is not hunting for small rodents. You may want to keep him on a leash in the backyard so he can’t run off suddenly., Without rodents in and around your home, you won’t have to worry much about your dog hunting them. Seal any possible paths of rodent entry into your home, including floor vents, under and behind kitchen cabinets, and the basement.You could also set up traps to trap mice and rats. In addition, you could get rid of any potential rodent food sources, such as bird feeders and compost bins.If you prefer, contact a pest control service to keep rodents out.

