 Cowboy boots come in countless styles, which is great for finding the pair that’s just right for you, but can make the search rather daunting. Begin by deciding which of the two common categories of boot style best fits your needs:Traditional Boots are designed for daily utilitarian use on places like a farm. These boots are designed to be broken in and worn every day.
Fashion Boots are the type one might usually find in high end retail stores. These boots are designed to look a certain way, but you may compromise longevity for style.;
, Cowboy boots come in a number of materials, each suited for a different purpose. Some are well suited for hard work in muddy fields, while others may not be able to get wet. It’s important that you choose a material that will suit your needs while wearing the boots.Traditional leather cowboy boots can be extremely tough and long lasting, but you can also find very soft leather that requires more maintenance.
Alligator and snake skin are both common materials to make cowboy boots out of. They aren’t necessarily any tougher than leather, but can make for a great fashion statement.
Artificial materials are often extremely resilient to moisture and offer fashions not commonly found in traditional leather boots.
 Cowboy boots come in every color of the rainbow, so having a color in mind will make shopping for your new boots much easier. Most traditional leather boots come in black or brown, but fashion boots come in many materials that allow for different colors and color schemes.Black and brown boots will allow for the most matching wardrobe options.
Bright colors are a great way to set you, and your boots, apart from the crowd.
Boot covers are available at many retailers, allowing you to cover much of your boots with a different color or design.
 For men, it may be fairly easy to match your cowboy boots to an outfit, but it can be slightly trickier for women. With so many variations in cowboy boot fashion, finding the right cowboy boots to match your wardrobe may take a little patience.Nearly all styles of cowboy boots will match well with blue or black jeans, but keep the type of jean in mind. More formal jeans may need a more formal looking cowboy boot that uses solid colors and a material that doesn't draw unnecessary attention.
Depending on the length of the your dress or shorts, you may want to choose a cowboy boot that stands lower on your leg. This can give an elongating effect to your legs and even make you seem taller.
High or low standing boots look good with skinny jeans or leggings and are wide enough around the leg to easily go over thin clothing.
Neutral colored boots are easiest to match to various clothing items, so look for black, tan, brown or beige for maximum versatility.
 While there are many styles of cowboy boots to choose from, the classic western style of boot is often what people think of when they imagine cowboy boots. These boots will usually stand about 12 inches tall on your leg and the design is simple and straightforward.There are Classic Western Style boots and Classic Western Style work boots that look similar but are manufactured differently.
Western Style Workboots have a different heel that their traditional counterparts in order to make them more comfortable to be worn while standing for 12-14 hours per day.
Shortie Boots are also Classic Western in style but only stand about 6-10 inches up the leg. These boots can also be purchased in work boot trim.
 Roper Boots are the common choice among people that work at the rodeo. They are similar in many ways to Classic Western style boots but are designed to be more practical for the type of work many people find themselves doing around cattle.Roper Boots are lighter weight and have a wider sole than most Classic Western Style boots.
Some Roper Boots have a rubber sole like sneakers to help grip while working.
 Buckaroo boots are designed for show. These boots often have decorative stitching and other aesthetic flare to draw attention to the styling and workmanship of the boot.


Buckaroo boots are not designed to be particularly durable, but rather to be a fashion statement.
These boots tend to stand 14 inches tall on your leg.
 Riding Boots are not always thought of in the same vein as cowboy boots, as they are commonly worn in English riding circles. These boots have a similar cut to the varying styles of western cowboy boot, but lack some of the ornamentation.Riding boots come from the same lineage as western cowboy boots. Early cowboy boots were based on the classic Riding Boot design.
These boots look plain compared to most cowboy boots, making them easy to identify.
 The Stockman Boot is designed to work hard and look good doing it. These boots combine many of the elements one might find in no nonsense Roper Boots with some of the flair often found on Buckaroo Boots.


Stockman Boots have rubber soles, shorter heels and a wider toe box than many Classic Western Style boots.
These boots often have detailed and colored decorative stitching.
 The socks you wear can have a significant effect on the fit of your new cowboy boots, so take that into account when trying your boots on for the first time. Make sure to wear socks similar to those you intend to wear regularly in cowboy boots.Choosing socks that reach your pant leg or even the full height of the boot can prevent skin irritation from the boot rubbing on your bare skin.
Pay attention to the thickness of your socks when determining if a boot is loose or tight.
 The ball of your foot should be situated at the widest point in the boot to make sure your boots won’t cause any undue stress in your feet.If you place the ball of your foot in the widest portion of the boot and your heel is not near the back of the boot, you will need a smaller size.
If your toes and heel make it difficult to place the ball of your foot in the widest portion of the boot, you will need a bigger size.
 It’s important to make sure you have sufficient room for your toes and that your heel doesn’t slip around as you walk. Even if you have the ball of your foot placed properly, some styles of boot may limit toe room or fit on your foot in an odd way.You should have about a thumb width of space between the end of your toe and the tip of the boot.
Your heel should not slide up and down at all in the boot as you walk, this could cause blisters and make wearing the boots painful.
 Wearing boots that are too narrow for your feet can cause pain simply by wearing them, and would certainly causes issues if you intend to work while wearing your boots.Look down while wearing the boots. They should be snug, but you should be able to see the stitching on the outsole of the boot on either side while they’re on.
If the boots are too wide, that looseness could also cause your heel to rub, creating blisters.

Women’s Cowboy Boots are typically sized in A, B and C widths, while Men’s Cowboy Boots are typically sized in B, D and EE widths.
 While cowboy boots that fit well should be comfortable right out of the box, they will grow more comfortable as you break them in by wearing them. Leather boots eventually take on the shape of your foot and can become extremely comfortable.


Wear your boots often while standing and walking to break them in quickly.
Breaking in boots can cause blisters, so be sure to take good care of your feet and wear fresh socks when wearing your cowboy boots.

