 Generally, a mild cleaning solution will do. For instance, you can add a dash of dishwashing soap to 4 cups of water (about a liter). Mix it up, then dip your rag in it to wet it.Skip bleach solutions, particularly on stainless steel.;
, Using the dampened cloth, rub down the outside of the machine. If there are particularly dirty areas, concentrate on rubbing those areas down. Dip back into the solution as needed. Don't forget to rub the faucets, as well.You can also gently clean the spouts this way., Rinse out the cloth, or get a clean one. Dip it in clean water, and wring it out a little. Wipe down the machine to help remove any soap you've left on it. Rinse out the rag as needed, so you are able to remove as much soap as possible., Once you're done rinsing it, use a towel to dry it off. It's not a good idea to leave water on it, as it can grow bacteria. Plus, you definitely want the machine to be dry before plugging it back in., To keep the dispenser looking nice, you can apply a small amount of stainless steel polish to the outside. Rub it in to the steel, following the direction of the grain., If the reservoir has a drip tray, take it apart to clean it. Drain any water in it, and wipe it down with soap and water. Rinse it with a clean rag with clean water. If the tray is removable, you may be able to take it to a sink to clean it., Before cleaning, make sure the unit is unplugged from the wall. Also, allow the unit to cool for at least an hour. You don't want to mess with hot water and hot parts when trying to clean the inside of the unit., If it has one, remove the bottle from the machine. If it's empty, set it aside. If it still has water in it, place a cap on it while you're working on the machine so it doesn't get anything in it., Peer inside the reservoir to see if it has water in it. If it does, drain the water out using the spigots. It can help to tip the dispenser over a sink if possible. If not, just have something below to catch the water.Some dispensers may have a drain at the rear. Remove the cap to use it., Some units allow you to remove the reservoir for cleaning. You'll likely need to remove a cover and undo some clips to take it out. Lift it out gently, and take it to the sink, making sure to not spill any remaining water.You may need to remove other items before the reservoir, such as a filter or collar.Some units will not allow you to remove the unit. Often, they recommend pouring boiling water in the unit to sanitize it.Other times, you may scrub it with soapy water, then rinse it with clean water while it's still in the dispenser., Add either soap and water or diluted bleach (1/4 teaspoon of bleach per gallon of water). Clean out the inside with the solution, getting in all the corners. Rinse it with clean water., Once the reservoir is clean, wipe it dry. You may need to clean some places inside the machine, such as the intake openings, but it depends on your machine. Return the reservoir to the dispenser., Most of the time, your machine will say what type of descaler is best to use in your machine. Stick to that type, as using another kind could damage your machine. Check your manual for more information.In some machines, you may be able to use a solution of half white vinegar, half water.Also, check to see if your machine has a descaling cycle.
 Usually, you can descale the reservoir while it is inside the machine. Drain it of as much water as you can. Add the descaler with the appropriate amount of water requested on the package. You'll likely need to let it sit for a little bit, so read the package to make sure., To rinse out the machine, run the water plus descaler through the machine. Make sure to have a bucket underneath to catch it as it comes out of the spout. You can run it hot., If you can, take the reservoir out to rinse it with clean water. If you can't remove the reservoir from the machine, run clean water through the machine several times until the water is clean again.