 Are you an elusive back? Or a power back? Now every back has their advantages and disadvantages. For example a power back will be able to break tackles much easier than an elusive back but an elusive back will be less likely to get hit and run a fair amount faster than a power back. Your body and natural abilities should help influence your choice. If you are naturally fast an elusive back would be best for you but if you find you're strong and powerful the power back might be your best choice. However, not everyone fits strictly into one of these categories. If you are about equal in terms of speed and strength, you could be considered a balanced back. If you are the more balanced type, make sure you stay well rounded.;
, Many believe speed is the biggest quality for an elusive back and while speed does make a huge difference, it is second to agility. Working on your agility will allow you to move out of the way of multiple defenders when they're coming at you. You will find most during most rushes you won't reach your top speed instead you will be constantly trying to avoid defenders by changing directions and faking them out. Working on your agility will help make this task a lot easier. With all this said working on your speed is still necessary but not as important as your agility.
 Most power backs are used to run through holes to gain the first down as opposed to running on the outside like an elusive back. Working on your strength and explosiveness will help you take on defenders. Focus a lot of your working out on legs. Most people hear strength and immediately run to the bench press. Although this will help your strength don't spend too much time on it, focus most your workouts on your legs and core.
 Many teams rely on their backs often whether to get the first down or the touchdown you will be running plenty. Running frequently will help you achieve a better stamina level.
 Working out plays a big role in becoming a better running back but practicing is mandatory so you can get the feel of your position for games. With scrimmages you will understand better on what you must do during the game as well as off the game. If you find you are not quick enough during scrimmage chances are you're not going to be quick enough during a game, so you can incorporate exercises for quickness during your workouts.
 Common routes for running backs are sweeps and drives up a hole. A sweep is a running play where the running back receives the ball whether by pitch or hand-off and runs along the line of scrimmage. A drive also referred to as a dive is a play where the running back runs into pockets opened up by linemen. Most power backs will be tasked with a dive play and elusive backs are more likely to be tasked with a sweep

, It sounds cheesy yes but it's most important. If you're not having fun playing then being a running back is probably not for you. You might want to try other positions or a whole new sport in general.

