 This should be one of your biggest priorities when planning a move. When finding a new home, there are a lot of factors to consider. First, choose a location. Do you want to live near work? Near where you socialize? Figure out what is important to you. Next, choose what sort of home works for you. Are you an apartment person? Or do you need a house?At this point, you will want to decide whether or not you want a roommate. This option can be really great for those people on a budget. If you have a friend who also needs a place to live, this could be ideal. If you find a roommate another way, make sure to use common sense and be safe.
One way to find a roommate is to ask around and use your connections. Post a notice on your social media sites, and send an e-mail to your co-workers, asking if they know anyone who might be interested.
You can also use the internet to find a roommate. Make sure to use a reputable website, and be very thorough and specific when posting what you are looking for. Make certain to meet any potential candidates in person, in a public space. Take a trusted friend with you so that you can get their feedback., Your parents have likely supplied everything you need. When you prepare for your move, make sure to think about the everyday essentials you will need. Sure, you'll need furniture. But don't forget things like soap, drinking glasses, and cleaning supplies. Make a thorough list and hit the store!Walk around your parents' house and make a list of essential items. Don't forget to pack/purchase things like light bulbs, a plunger, and a can opener.Make a list of items you will need for each room in your new place. This will help you to stay organized.
You can save a lot of money when outfitting your new place if you are resourceful. Ask friends and family if they have any furniture, dishes, etc. that they are not using. Hand-me-downs are great when you're starting off!
Go thrifting. Thrift shops and consignment stores are great places to stock up on essentials for your new place. Kitchenware are often especially inexpensive here.
 Once you find a place to live, ask your landlord which utilities you are responsible for. Contact providers in your area and set up accounts. You will want to make sure that your water, electricity, gas, and heat are all ready to go the day before you actually move in. You often have to put down a deposit if you're a new customer - factor that into your budget. Another service that you'll need is movers and transportation for your things. If you have a lot of strong friends and know someone who's truck you can borrow, make sure to ask for help and schedule your move in accordance to their plans.
Hire movers. This can be expensive, but it can also make your move much easier. Contact at least two different moving companies in your area and ask for quotes. You'll also want to read customer reviews online., Spend some time walking around your new neighborhood. Make sure you know the location of the closest grocery store, pharmacy, and gas station. Take some time to figure out where the nearest park is, and explore the neighborhood restaurants. Have a friend go with you to make this even more of a fun adventure., This step is really important when you're preparing to move. There are lots of businesses and agencies that need to know where you are in order to provide services. Your first stop should be the post office, where you can fill out a form authorizing that your mail go to your new address. Spend some time thinking of all of the other organizations that need to know that you've moved. Make a checklist of places to notify, including:Bank
Workplace
Doctor's office
School
Insurance companies

, You need an ID that reflects your new address. Take care of this after you have officially changed your address, as you might need proof of your new address to make this change. Most DMVs will accept a utility bill in your name, but check on the specific requirements for your state.

