 Consider the following factors, and determine which are the most important to you:


Low up-front costs
Good neighborhood
Flexibility to relocate
Low monthly rent
Good management and maintenance
Amenities (swimming pool, sauna, laundry hook-ups or utilities)
Square footage
Appearance, interior and exterior
Proximity to work, public transportation, shopping, highways, etc.;
, Record the name of the complex, the full address, and the phone number. Leave room for notes. You can do this on paper or in a spreadsheet program. It's important to start off organized because if you're exploring several complexes at once, it's easy to get confused ("Which one had the double sinks in the bathroom? Which one was right by the highway? Did I visit this one already?"). There are many ways to find apartment complexes you might like to live in:


Drive around the area you're interested in. If driving slowly, put on your hazard lights, as speeding along and then making a sudden turn into a complex that just came into sight can be dangerous. Stop and look for a phone number, or if it's convenient, go directly to the rental or leasing office if they're open.
Pick up a local rental guide.
Visit websites which advertise apartment complexes and listings.
 These questions should cross out several of the complexes on your list. In the notes section of your paper or spreadsheet, write the date that you called. If the apartment is not what you're looking for, jot down why (e.g. "no pets" or "no apartments available").


Give the person the information they need: When you want to move (e.g. "between March 1st and 15th"), what you're looking for (how many bedrooms?), and your price range (e.g. less than $800). If you have a pet, include this information early on.
If they have anything available that meets your needs, ask if you can make an appointment to visit and see the apartments they have available. Sometimes, the unit that meets your needs will not be available for showing until close to your move-in date. If this is inconvenient, ask if they can show you an apartment like it, and request a floor plan of the unit in question. You can also ask to see the outside of the unit, which will give you an idea of the kind of view you'll have and what your neighbors might be like.
Try to schedule apartments that are in the same area at around the same time. If you're not careful when planning this, you might end up going back and forth from one end of town to the other between appointments.
 Get driving directions in advance and give yourself enough time to find the complex (especially if you're in an unfamiliar area). Dress to impress, preferably in an outfit that screams "I am responsible and trustworthy". Be courteous and friendly. If the manager of the property thinks highly of you, they might go the extra mile to get you the unit you want or facilitate the application process.



Is the landscaping neat? Are the lawns and hedges trimmed? Or are there weeds growing out of the cracks in concrete?
Do the neighbors take good care of their apartments? People who don't are more likely to be inconsiderate. Some red flags:

junk on the balconies or front door
blankets on the windows instead of curtains
loud barking
non-handicapped vehicle in a handicapped spot


Where would you be parking? Does the lot look crowded? Will you have a hard time finding a space? Is the parking well-lit at night?

,


Does it smell funny?
Privacy?
Doors work?

, If the community is gated, you can still see how well-lit and crowded the parking lot is, and whether people are throwing parties or being loud.
,,