 In order for it to be rolled properly into a cone, there must be one long side, and two shorter sides of equal length. The bigger the triangle, the bigger your cone will be. Take care to make your measurements and cuts as accurate as possible.


Slight errors can make your cone lopsided, or, worse still, too short to tape around.
Similarly, you can make the same process work with a half-circle. A half-circle will result in a smoother top.If you don't want to make measurements yourself, triangle templates are available. Make sure you're using a template with one long side and two shorter sides of equal length., With your other hand, bring the other corner and roll it overtop so that it wraps around the other corner. When this is complete, you should have a general shape of a cone in place.


If you're having difficulty rolling the corners together, it may be that you didn't cut your triangle out wide enough.
The far corners are the opposite ends of the wide triangle.
Hold the first corner roll in place while you roll the other corner.One hand should be used for each corner.
 Tighten the rolled folds as necessary. If you think you rolled the two corner folds unevenly, feel free to try again.


If there are excess lengths of paper jutting out from the cone shape, it may be that your original sheet wasn't an even shape. If this is the case, you can keep moving forward by cutting off any excess with a precision knife. So long as you have an even base for your cone, people won't be able to notice mishaps you had in the process of making it.
It's a fairly quick process, so it pays to do it a few times until you get it right.
 Excess flaps of paper should be folded into the cone. This makes the cone look smother, and also helps the folds hold their form. If the rolls have been done correctly, there should at least be a triangular end that should be folded inward.If for whatever reason you don't have enough paper to fold over, you can get over this issue by running a strip of tape across the base, from the outside to the inside of your cone.
Try squeezing or loosening your grip on the cone if the folding slot isn't apparent enough.
 Although folding your loose edges should stabilize the cone's shape, taping the seam inside the cone will help ensure it holds. Take a strip of tape and line it up along the seam. If you think there's still a risk of it falling apart, take additional strips and line them across the top and middle of the seam. With taping done, you should have a functional cone.


The loose edge can be taped down as well.

