 This is instead called clapping. To perform a true high five, you'll need someone who's willing to join in your celebration. Ideally, you'll want someone with good upper body strength and strong forearms.


For the best high fives, you'll also want a great cause for celebration. It's difficult to replicate the spontaneous energy of true celebratory joy in a sterile "practice" environment, so look for opportunities to vanquish foes or do cool skateboard tricks wherever you go.;
, To put maximum power into your high five, you'll want to have sturdy posture. Plant your feet firmly on the ground about shoulder-width apart, keep your back straight, and roll your shoulders back as you puff up your chest. This strong stance allows you push off the floor, transferring power up through your body and into your wrist for an ear-splitting result.









Bad posture won't just make your high fives weaker - it'll also make you look worse. If you're slumped over with your gut hanging out as you go in for a high five, your friend will be able to tell that your heart isn't in it and will have ample justification for aborting the high five.
 High fives are primarily acts of celebration, but they're also cause for celebration in and of themselves. There is absolutely no reason why you shouldn't be smiling as you high five. Being able to high five is a great honor - never take it for granted with a half-hearted smirk.









The sole exception to this rule is that in the few seconds after your hand makes contact with your partner's, it's acceptable to wince in righteous pain.
 Start to move toward your partner. As you take your first few steps, bring your dominant hand back as if you're about to throw a baseball. Your hand should rest in this "cocked" position with its palm open roughly behind your ear.









You may twist slightly at the waist and/or lean back slightly for added power.
 When you're a few feet from your partner, let loose with all your might. Snap your hand forward at maximum velocity, swinging your shoulder, leaning forward, and twisting slightly. If you hear a loud "crack" before your hand makes contact with your partner's, don't worry - this is your hand breaking the sound barrier. Aim square for the center of your partner's palm - he or she should do the same.


If you're having trouble hitting your partner's hand, try focusing on his or her elbow as you swing. Seriously, try it - it works wonders.
 With luck, your palm should meet your partner's so that both are roughly vertical. The resulting sound should be a quick, sharp "smack" that may reverberate for a moment or two (depending on the acoustics of the room you're in). Revel in the satisfaction of a job well done.









You'll know you've given a great high five if everyone around you immediately turns to stare with an annoyed expression on their face. Ignore these people - they are known as "haters" and are expressing their annoyance only as a way of masking certain deep-seated insecurities.
 Congratulations! You have just successfully given your friend the best high five possible. To increase the emotional resonance of your high five, shout out the words "Yeah!", "Yay!", or "Whoo!" with your partner. It's up to you!


Other good choices:

"Hell yeah!"
"Alright!"
"Cool!"
"Radical!"
"Right on!"
"Hip!"



