 Ask for assistance in finding a suitable garment that will be both comfortable and stylish for swimming and relaxing in. Consider accessories such as towel wraps and sarongs to accompany the outfit for modesty and skin sun-safety.;
, A hat should be able to keep the face safe from excessive sunshine, be a good fit and not blow off easily. A wide-brimmed hat with a tie or elastic would be ideal. Plain for men, floral or patterned for women.
 A good quality pair of sunglasses is vital for being outdoors, especially to help avoid eye damage that could lead to cataracts, etc.
 Find a sunscreen suitable for senior skin. Check about allergies and any special skin issues before purchasing. You could also consider accompanying the elderly recipient to see a dermatologist for advice.
 A cover-all at the beach is an excellent idea to prevent sun damage. In addition, a beach tent can provide a place out of the wind, which can be especially handy when simply sitting at the beach observing, or caring for grandchildren spending time at the beach.
 Fold-up chairs for the beach are an ideal item of beach gear. These come in a range of types from sitting upright to lounging, so be considerate of the elderly person's capacity to get up and down from lower levels.
 Large, soft, and comfortable beach towels are always a great idea for beach activities. Consider adding a tote bag for carrying the towels.
 Consider the sorts of things that the elderly recipient enjoys doing and try to match their interest with some items that will help them to pursue this at the beach. Examples include something to listen to music with, books to read, a laptop cover to prevent sand damage, exercise gear, flip flops, snorkeling gear, craft items, etc.
 Often there are things we take to the beach that can make the day more pleasant. Consider putting a kit together that consists of such items that your elderly recipient can grab and go. This could include: pre-folded towel, sunscreen, wipes, folded chair, snacks, hat, sun visor, pen and notepad, sketching items, etc.

