 You will need a 6B pencil, which is used for shading in extra-dark areas. You will need a hard 4H pencil for softer shading. Know that the harder the pencil, the softer the line will be. For hatching and cross-hatching, you will need a 2H pencil. For mid-tone areas, use an HB pencil.;
, Draw the first eye in the shape of a tilted almond. Be sure to leave space in-between, though, for the puppy’s muzzle. Next, sketch the second eye in the same shape on the opposite side; try and make them match. Now draw a circle in each eye for the eyeball. Then draw a smaller circle inside each for the pupils.At this point, everything is sketched in very lightly using a 4H pencil, which is one of your softer pencils.
Shade the pupils in with a 6B pencil. This will make them really dark. Only use this pencil for dark areas; otherwise it’s too hard to erase when you need to.
 Sketch it in the shape of a roundish-looking heart. Make it about the same size as one of the eyes. If you realize later that it’s not exactly where it should be, you can always redraw it later.
 Make it in the shape of a half-open circle with the open part on the top. Leaving it open will allow you draw the rest of the muzzle. Leave plenty of space around the nose that you just drew above.
 On one side of the half-open circle, start drawing a long, oblong shape. It will come up along one eye. When you reach the top of the head, cross over to the other side and back down. It will connect to the other side of the half-open circle.
 Place them directly over the eyes. You want them to tilt down towards each other. They almost look like two puffy clouds.
 Take a look at where the eyes are to determine where to start to draw the head. You don’t want it too close to the eyes or too far. When you’ve sufficiently visualized where to begin, start to draw the head.
 The top of the heart shape will be the top of the puppy's head. The bottom of the heart will be the chin. You want the bottom to be soft, though, not pointy.


It’s fine to use multiple, sketchy strokes for this rough draft. In other words, if the lines overlap, it’s okay.
 Starting at the top of the head on one side, draw a puffy, oblong shape (almost like a half-donut). The bottom of it will stop at about the same height as the nose. Sketch the other ear.
 To hatch, you simply draw small lines closely to each other. To cross-hatch, go over these same lines but in the opposite direction. They will look like tiny patches when you’re finished., Shade it in with hatching and cross-hatching strokes, leaving a few white areas. With the same method, shade in the top part of the heart-shaped head. For the right ear, just shade in the left-third of it and finish with a few curvy, soft lines in that area.
 Shade all around the eyes as if the puppy is wearing a mask. If you look at real puppies and dogs, they usually have a mask, too. Mix the area up with some hatching and some cross-hatching strokes.


Visualize how hair grows in a particular area, and sketch in the same direction. A 2H pencil works best for this.
Use soft, light strokes when shading. For extra-dark areas, use a 6B pencil, which is very soft.
For any shapes that you think are off, this is the time to redraw them.
Add your own unique touches now to turn it into the world’s cutest puppy.

