 Position the vehicles so that the batteries are as close together as possible, but make sure the two cars do not touch.;
,, Set the parking brakes, and switch each car into park or neutral (for automatic or manual transmissions, respectively).
 The cables leading to the positive battery terminal are almost always red. If you're in doubt, the battery itself has a "+" and "-" sign to mark the positive and negative terminals.


Check the terminals on the battery for corrosion before jump starting. If you notice any corrosion on the terminals, clean them and then try to start the car once more before proceeding with the jump. The battery may not be dead it just may have a bad connection.



Leads on jumper cables are normally not the exact same length to prevent them from touching. If they are the same length, make sure they have not been modified in any way or damaged.
 Make sure the clamp is securely attached to the battery terminal.


On some vehicles, you may have to remove a plastic cover from the positive battery terminal before you can make this connection.
 Again, make sure the clamp is securely connected and won't slip off due to vibration in the engine compartment.
, Attach the other black clamp to an unpainted metal surface inside the engine compartment on the vehicle with the dead battery — the farther from the battery, the better.


An unpainted bolt on the engine block is ideal. Remember, the clamp must be able to "bite" securely onto the object in question and hold in place, even if the engine vibrates.
You can, theoretically, connect the second black clamp to the negative terminal on the dead battery instead. But this produces a spark, which could ignite hydrogen fumes from the battery.
Check to make sure no part of the jumper cables — or tools, or battery covers — dangle into the engine compartment, where it might foul belts, pulleys, or other moving parts.
 Run the RPM up to about 3,000 as you attempt to start the car with the dead battery.

Negative terminal (black clamp) on the donor battery.
Positive terminal on the donor battery.
Positive terminal on the previously dead battery.

