 Realize that casino poker can be "no limit" (NL) and have extreme risks. Also, you have to chip-in/pay to play, and the price goes up as the number of players dwindle in the tournament. But "friendly" poker can have the expected outcome go wrong and cause you to lose your stack, (to say nothing of ruining your credit, when borrowing to pay gambling debts) and possibly lose face/your-reputation! By betting money into a pot that you know you're not likely to win, you're taking big risks (and, if you fold your bet/wagered money stays in the pot). On the other hand, sometimes opportunity strikes and looks so winnable, and the other players so "bluffable", that it seems worth such risk. Have your limits, strategy and backdoor. It is worth understanding from the outset that bluffing is a lot less common than shown in movies; in most cases especially with a large table of players, you do need to have good cards because someone at the table will often want to play to a final showdown since someone will have good cards in that large pool of players.


In tournaments avoid bluffing someone with a shorter stack who will be looking to get more money by betting strongly/and even going all in -- and, also, you avoid deeper stacks that can afford to "look you up" (call your bet/bluff). Medium stacks are the ideal target because they are less desperate, and more likely to play conservatively and fold when you bluff strongly; so, you win more often there.

Bluff not only when it's worth doing so, but also when the stakes are high; bluffing works well in high stakes when you have a middle or better stack, and the pressure's on all the shorter stacks to catch up to the leaders or fizzle, and they may go for bust with a weak hand, hoping to bluff-out anyone with a medium or bigger stack!
Talented poker players acquire their skill from thousands upon thousands of hands of experience; such as playing for practice online. If you continue to play poker with discipline and an open mind, your chances of bluffing successfully should increase consistently. A good bluffer has a constant attitude, either a fun personality or a never changing poker-face, and "makes the attitude seem real".
The successful bluff is one where nobody knows you bluff, because all the opponents fold/give-up before the last chance to bet, and you win the pot by default. If there is a showdown (where you must show your cards), you will be shown-up as a bluffer, if you are seen betting big with a weak or trash hand. You normally only want to get into a showdown when you have pretty good cards, except getting caught once may be okay; so, be ready to use your backdoor (so fold), before the showdown when you have a weak/or trash hand!;
, "Tells" are important - they're the analyzing side of playing poker. Not only does a good knowledge of tells tell when someone else is bluffing, but knowing common signs of bluffing will help you to try to avoid your own unconscious giveaway signs. And listen to other's advice about when they say that they think you're bluffing; being consciously aware of your subconscious tells can be used to your advantage by acting "bluff" tells when you want someone to think you're bluffing, but you actually have a great hand!


Watch how chips are put down. They can be placed down gently, counted down, banged down, slid forward, etc. If a player bets his chips very strong and far away from himself, it can mean that subconsciously their chips are going away from them, like they might be bluffing. On the other hand, a person betting closer to themselves can subconsciously mean that the money is expected to be coming back to them.
Watch the body language. Look for eye twitches, lip movements, scratching, flaring nostrils, holding of breath, and hand movements (such as covering parts of the face, differently than usual). All of these things can indicate bluffing.
Shaking is considered to be a sign of strength, expecting to win a pot.
When your opponent acts really strong they are likely weak/and bluffing. Staring you down whilst you act, splashing the pot, or faking a big smile when a certain card hits are all common signs of bluffing.
Watch other players to learn the tells when they're bluffing. Learn good tricks from those who bluff well.
 Keen instincts and sharp intellect must be combined with the ability to show no inconsistent emotion, or reveal nothing other than casual, fun involvement in the game. Look carefully at the corner of your two hold cards slowly/casually, keeping them face down, where only you can possibly see. Don't spill any information; so, keep your face "deadpan," and wear shades to have the eyes as expressionless as stone and restrain blinking and shifting nervously when you see your cards -- and when the community cards are dealt each time. Avoid expressing approval or disapproval as if seeing good/bad cards (act the same way all the time as part of your poker face) - this is crucial if you're playing face to face.


Consider using props/concealment. Cowboys in the Wild West used to use their hats to cover their faces. In the age of televised poker, novelty props such as crazy hats, spooky glasses, and fancy wear can turn a player's chosen image into a big business affiliated product.
A beard, neck scarf, hoodie and sunglasses can work to cover your face, and neck. Not only the face but the neck can show tension or relaxing, a change in the pattern of your breathing or blushing/flushing.
 If you bet pre-flop, you may seem to represent a pair or other good cards in your hold, and get players to commit or fold their hold cards. Then you can raise on the flop to press those who are still left to bet/commit or fold. If you are playing too loosely, trying to look strong, you can seem false/like you are bluffing. So, don't bet pre-flop very often or you won't look real.
 Your chances of successfully bluffing are greater with fewer opponents because you have fewer people to drive out of the pot. Bluffing one or two players is more profitable/workable than bluffing-out three or more players.
 Do not bet too much, and don't raise an already large bet. If you think someone else probably has a great hand, fold, and play another hand later, as a path of escape/concealment.
 Making a reasonable bet, as it goes around the table for everyone to either bet or fold, makes you seem real. Be seen holding good cards at showdown, win or lose, or occasionally turnover your good cards when people suggest they think that you win by bluffing. So, build a reputation of consistently betting good hands to make your opponents believe that you probably have another pretty good hand when you are betting moderately. So, they think that you are logically trying to get as many chips into the pot, out of their stacks as you can. It takes guts to carry out the consistent pattern to set up a few good bluffs, because you could be up against a better hand, but if it's done right it can work pretty often, with luck, and if you stay alert enough to know when to fold to save your stack.
 This one must be powerful and intimidating. When the opponent checks, and then it comes to you, you can place a large bet to get the opponent to call or fold. If a player bets in front of you, there are two things you can do. If s/he bets small, your making a significantly larger bet might push him/her to fold. However, if the opponent makes a large, bluff-like bet, your best chance to bluff would be to call (less risk) -- or go all in, especially if you have a lot more chips than the other player. Consider, it is better to push all-in by betting than by calling, since you want to look strong to have more impact. The best feeling in poker is deciding someone is bluffing and taking down a large pot with a bluff of your own, causing the first bluffer to fold, and no one ever knows whether either or both of you were bluffing.


The turn card is also very important. If you bet big on the turn when you've been betting moderately earlier, players can be more intimidated. If you think you've actually won the hand on the turn card, you may even want to just check, and then bet like crazy on the river. People are more likely to make/call a big bet, if you checked before, thinking you might be weak/bluffing. This works even better, if you've been (accidentally?) caught bluffing earlier.
 Though, doing nothing special is likely to win a hand when everything is going right. Still, experienced players, can win pretty often when nothing is going right by representing (as if) having the goods, by playing, but not by lying. If you are seen as being a consistent liar, people will ignore your bluff, and few (or no one) will be scared by your bluff. Play "tight"/seeming real, conservative (not loose) most often, then go strong, convincingly at the opportune moment; so your opponent gets "that sick, losing feeling" -- believing you have another good hand, fearing and avoiding a big risk, and so they fold (that's how a bluff can work). No matter how much advice you've followed from this article, a sudden river (5th Street) bet will not tell a cohesive story on its own, to lead people to believe the suggestion you make.


For example: Let's say you raise pre-flop, and then bet hard again on a flop of 9-3-J. Your opponent might have thought you were representing a pocket pair (a pair in your hold) by the pre-flop bet -- and now think you probably have a pair of 9s or Jacks on the flop because you bet. But if instead, the turn brings a 3 and you bet again, your opponent could be scared that you are on trip 3s, if you hadn't raised pre-flop, only to turn around and bet hard on 3s, a "bottom pair," on the flop. A savvy opponent, with a made hand, could simply call your bets/bluff and rake in the pot. Pay attention to the sequence of cards (to represent a possible straight), suite/color (a possible flush) on the flop and watch how the betting unfolds. Try to represent having a certain/specific hand by having an attitude, good reputation, and being consistent with your betting pattern.
Make a bluff when cards are dealt that will possibly have weakened your opponents hand. If your opponent has called on a J-7-2 flop and the turn brings a 7, then this is not a good time to bluff as any pair your opponent may hold will still be as strong as before but he probably doesn't have trip 7s. If instead of 7 the turn comes down a K, then it is not looking so good now because some one (maybe you) may have paired Ks on the flop; so they are more likely to fold Js or 7s, if you betted/bluffed as if you may now have a pair of Kings. Then if they fold, you take the pot without a showdown. But, if instead of K the turn were any lower number card, then their possible pair of J or 7 would still be looking pretty good to your opponent. And, if you bet after seeing a weak turn card, they won't likely fold, because of your playing on the weak turn card is not scary to anyone. You need to decide to fold, if your opponent raised here or for sure on the River, if you're cards are a weak or trash hand, to avoid being caught.
 After the river bets (and, oops!, opponentdidn't fold), don't show your "iffy" cards. Say, "Let's see your winning cards," and when the winner turns over his cards, just chirp, "You win!" If he insists to see your hand, "No, let's see you hand; I think you got it."; you won't need to prove anything about your story.

You insist, "You got it. You win" They win by default, anyway, if you "discard the cards face-down" without showing how relatively weak or strong you were. Just, chuckle, and leave them guessing, trying to never show a shaky hand...
But, if you had a nice hand/not good enough. You could after moderate resistance, finally, show them, "See, it was good, okay?" That's fun and proves you are betting strong, maybe.

