 If you see a tiger shark, you will know it by the distinct shape of its nose. The snout on a tiger shark is wide and blunt.It is also short. The nostrils are quite wide, almost in line with its eyes, which are on opposite sides of its body.When a tiger shark raises its head, you should be able to see a frown because the lips come inward a bit, slightly exposing the gums in a perpetual grimace.;
, Tiger sharks grow to become some of the largest sharks in the world. Large species can get up to as long as 20 to 25 feet (6 to 7.5 meters) and weigh about 1,900 pounds (900 kg).However, many remain under 15 feet (4.5 meters) and less than 1,800 pounds (800 kg). Baby tiger sharks (called pups) are born between one and three feet long (40-90 cm) and grow fast the first few years of their lives.
Pups potentially double in size their first year.
 Color is important with tiger sharks because their name is derived from the stripes visible along their backs (there are often spots of the same shade). The shark itself is usually gray and the vertical stripes are darker, close to black. However, the stripes usually fade in older adult tiger sharks.Tiger sharks can also be blue or light green. Their underbellies are usually white or light yellow., Aside from its stripes, a clear indicator you are observing a tiger shark is its distinctive head shape and dorsal fin location. Tiger shark heads are large and shaped like wedges, with the blunt nose and wide nostrils on the end. The fins are long, especially the upper tail. The dorsal fins are close to the tail, a placement that is unique to tiger sharks., Finally, tiger shark teeth are distinctive. They are large and curved with serrated edges. There is a notch on the outside edge of each tooth. The teeth are the same on the top and bottom. They get progressively smaller the closer they get to the corners of the mouth.When they eat, they shake their heads back and forth so that the teeth produce a saw-like motion, making use of those serrated edges.
The jaws are quite powerful.