 Speak to your child as much as possible. Talk to your child throughout the day and tell them what is going on and what they are going to do next. Narrate simple activities like changing a diaper or eating a meal.For example, say, “Now we are changing your diaper. Up you go on the changing pad. Ok, let’s take off your pants and get rid of your stinky diaper. Off it goes! Now we are wiping your bum so it’s nice and clean. On with the new diaper and we’re just about done! Here are your pants and you’re all set.”

, Some blind children may repeat things that were just said or say things you’ve heard previously in relation to a familiar topic. Echolalia is a common phase for babies, and especially for blind babies. To help build their skills, use concrete experiences to help solidify words and meaning for your child. While echolalia does pass, you can help your child respond better.For example, if you ask a question and your child repeats it, model how to respond. If you ask, “Would you like to read a book?” and your child repeats it, follow up by saying, “Yes, I would like a book, please.”

, It can be hard for a blind child to understand the words you, me, he, she, etc. If your child is struggling, make some changes to your own speech. For example, instead of saying, “I’m going to make breakfast” say, “Daddy is going to make breakfast.” This simplified speech can help your child recognize who is talking and who is involved.Use your child’s name instead of saying ‘you.’ Say, “Did Ariel put on her jacket?” or, “Can Rafael come to the dinner table, please?” This helps them visualize objects and people better rather than trying to relate to vague commands or concepts.
 Blind children often ask excessive questions as a way to stay engaged or make sure someone is still nearby. However, excessive questioning is often socially inappropriate. If your child asks excessive questions, gently know that it’s not appropriate. If your child wants assurance that you are there, have them express their feelings instead of asking questions.For example, they can say, “I want to make sure you haven’t left,” or, “Please don’t leave without saying goodbye.”

, Some toddlers gain language in spurts while others show slow and steady gains. Some children learn words one by one while others put phrases together more quickly. Whatever your child’s abilities, recognize that differences are normal and okay.Some blind children may experience some speech delays. Keep watch for things that make your child very different from their peers.
 If you’re wondering if your child is delayed in speech, get an evaluation. Your child may qualify for speech therapy services. If your child isn’t speaking or is speaking minimally by age three, you may want to see a speech expert. Some problems to look out for include confusing gender, mispronouncing vowels, and only speaking in one-word answers.Talk to your child’s pediatrician if you have concerns. If your child is in school, talk with their teacher or school psychologist.

