 One of the big differences between shelter and breeders is the age of the dog when you take him home. While shelters do have puppies, born to pregnant dogs that were abandoned, by far the majority of the dogs they have are adults. However, the reverse is true for breeders. They are in the business of selling puppies, and their adult dogs are rarely for sale as they are either pets or breeding stock., The advantages of a puppy are that you have the dog from a young age, which gives you the chance to mold its young mind. It allows you to properly socialize the puppy, by exposing it to all manner of different sights and sounds.You may also feel you will bond better with a puppy, as you have been involved from them being very young.
 The downside of a puppy is that they are time consuming, messy, and liable to wake you at night. A puppy isn't house trained, which means you will need to take the puppy outside every half an hour during the day.


The puppy may also wake in the night, cry, and need to go to the bathroom, all disturbing your sleep.Puppies love to chew, so nothing in the house is safe unless it's hidden away and out of reach. They are also very energetic and easily bored. This means you need a lot of time to play with them and keep them amused.If you aren't sure you have the time and energy to cope with the difficult puppy phase, then consider adopting an adult dog from a shelter.
 There are disadvantages to choosing a dog from a breeder beyond those associated with adopting a puppy. These range from logistical problems, such as you will have to get the dog all of its vaccinations and medical procedures, to ethical problems, the strongest of these being that with the number of homeless dogs out there it is debatable whether we should bring more into the world by choice.


Another example is that purebred dogs often have health problems that they inherit. These depend on the breed, so you should do some research about common health problems in the breeds you are considering.
 To begin with there are no nasty surprises with the size and coat type of an adult shelter dog. Be aware that puppies grow, so what looks like a cute bundle of fluff at 8 weeks old could grow into a huge adult dog that you weren't expecting.Adult dogs are often already trained and housebroken, so all you need to do is show the dog the ropes in your home, such as where the toilet spot is, and then reinforce the training the dog already has.You should also have a good idea of the temperament of an adult shelter dog, as they usually undergo substantial behavioral assessments prior to homing. Shelters have protocols for testing out how dogs react to strange dogs, strangers, cats, and whether they are nervous or confident. From this they are skilled at matching dog to potential owner, so that you don't end up taking home an unsuitable dog. It is in the interest of the shelter to get this right, as a poor match means the dog coming back into the shelter., Shelter dogs are usually checked by a veterinarian prior to homing, to make sure they have no major health problems. Contrast this with a pedigree pup from a breeder. Unfortunately purebred dogs tend to have associated health problems, such as heart disease in Cavalier King Charles spaniels, and hip dysplasia in Labradors.


These health problems often don't appear until the pet is a young adult or middle aged, meaning your beloved pedigree pup leads a shortened life.Another advantage of an adult shelter dog is they are vaccinated, dewormed, microchipped, and desexed. You do pay an adoption fee to the shelter but this is a fraction of the cost of all these procedures added up, let alone a fraction of the cost of a pedigree puppy.When you adopt a shelter dog you will sign an agreement to bring the dog back to them. This is a positive bonus, as it gives you peace of mind.Breeders, however, are often reluctant to accept puppies back, because the older the puppy is the more difficult they are to sell. While there are excellent humane breeders out there who take total responsibility and will accept puppies back, there are also many breeders who run their establishment as a business and a returned puppy is a drain on resources.
 The downside of adopting a shelter pet is that you don't know their previous background, so the dog may have hidden behavioral issues that only show up when a trigger occurs. With a breeder dog, because you have the pup from a young age, you can control their exposure to unpleasant experiences and help build a confident, well-adjusted dog., When you home a shelter dog you are potentially saving two lives: that of the dog you bring home and that of the dog who moves into their empty kennel at the rescue. However, buying a breeder dog is encouraging dog overpopulation because breeders create new life in order to sell it like a product (albeit this is done in a hopefully caring and responsible way).