 Like wood, stainless steel products also have a “grain.” When you clean, polish, or sand stainless steel, you always need to work in the direction of the grain. To identify the direction of the grain:


Look closely at the stainless steel door. You will see tiny brush strokes—these brush strokes indicate the direction of the grain.
Note if the grain (brushstrokes) is moving horizontally or vertically.;
, When removing scratches from stainless steel, it is important that you begin your work on a clean surface. If sanded or buffed, excess dirt, grime, stuck on materials, and loose materials left on your fridge could cause further damage to your door. You may clean the door with a polishing cleanser powder, such as Bon Ami, Comet, or Ajax.


Wet the entire surface of the fridge door with water.
Sprinkle a gentle polishing cleanser powder onto the wet door.
Dampen a clean sponge. Move the sponge across the surface of the door in the direction of the grain to combine the product with the water.
Rinse the fridge door with water.
Pat it dry with a clean microfiber cloth., Cleaning vinegar is 1% more acidic than traditional white vinegar. The additional acidity allows this mild, yet powerful, cleaning product to cut through greasy fingerprints with ease. Prior to removing any scratches, use this product to cleanse the surface of your fridge door.


Pour the cleaning vinegar into a small bucket.
Wet a clean cloth with undiluted cleaning vinegar.
Moving in the direction of the grain, wipe down the surface of your fridge door with the damp cloth
Wiping with the grain, remove any excess vinegar with a dry cloth., There are several products on the market designed specifically for cleaning stainless steel. Select a product that you are comfortable using to remove dirt, oil, and stuck on materials from your fridge door. Before applying the product, always read the directions listed on the cleaning product.


Be sure to note any recommended safety precautions, such as wearing gloves., When applied with a little elbow grease, gentle polishing cleaners can buff out hairline scratches from your stainless steel fridge door. These cleansers, such as Bon Ami, Ajax, Comet, and specially formulated stainless steel cleaners, come in both a powder and a cream form.


If you are using a powder form, mix the product with water to form a paste.
Apply the paste or the cream to the hairline scratch with a damp cloth or sponge. As you rub the paste or cream into the scratch, always move in the direction of the grain.
Occasionally wipe away the cleaning product with a clean damp cloth and inspect the scratch. Continue to apply the cleaning product and buff the affected area until the scratch is no longer visible.If the scratch remains, try to remove the scratch with a mildly-abrasive product, like whitening toothpaste.
 Unlike gentle polishing cleaners, whitening toothpaste is mildly abrasive. If the gentle polishing cleaner did not remove the scratch, try to treat the marred area with a whitening toothpaste.


Coat the bristles of the toothbrush with the whitening toothpaste.
Use the brush to apply the toothpaste directly to the minor scratch. As you work to buff out the scratch, always move the toothbrush in the direction of the grain.
Periodically remove wipe away the toothpaste with a wet rag and assess the scratch. Wipe in the direction of the grain. Continue to apply the whitening toothpaste to the scratch until it is no longer present.
Once the scratch is gone, wipe away the toothpaste with a clean, damp rag.
Condition the area you cleaned with metal polish or olive oil., If the scratch in your refrigerator door is deep, it is possible to sand out the prominent gash. Always contact the manufacturer to determine which grit is acceptable to use on your fridge door.


Wet the scratched area with a sponge or cloth saturated with water. Throughout the process, keep the surface wet.
Wet a piece of sandpaper with water. Throughout the process, make sure the sandpaper remains wet.
Move the wet sandpaper lightly over the scratch in the same direction of the grain. Feather out from the scratch to blend in the affected area.
Once the scratch is removed to your satisfaction, wipe the area with a wet rag in the direction of the grain.
Pat the area dry with a microfiber cloth.
Condition the treated area with a metal polish or olive oil.
You may use a chloride-free paste In addition to water, If your fridge door is severely scratched or has multiple scratches, you may want to consider purchasing a stainless steel scratch removal kit. These kits are sold at home repair shops and online. The kits typically contain a sanding block, three abrasive pads, a lubricant, and an instructional video.


Always read and follow the instructions provide by the product’s manufacturers.
Affix the finest grit sandpaper to the sanding block. Coat the sandpaper with the sanding lubricant. Sand the affected area in the direction of the grain.
If the scratch is not vanishing, affix the next coarsest sandpaper to the sanding block. Coat the sandpaper with the sanding lubricant. Sand the affected area in the direction of the grain.
If the scratch still remains, affix the coarsest sandpaper to the sanding block. Coat the sandpaper with the sanding lubricant and sand the affected area in the direction of the grain.
Once the scratch vanishes, use the same grit sandpaper to treat the entire stainless steel door in the direction of the grain., If you are not a diy-er or your fridge is severely damaged, consider hiring a professional stainless steel refinishing and polishing company to complete the work for you. A professional repairman will be able to assess the damaged fridge and provided you with a variety of repair options. If the scratch or scratches can not be buffed or sanded out, the repairman may suggest refinishing, or sanding, the entire fridge door., If you have exhausted all potential repair options, consider replacing the fridge door. Contact the manufacturer to inquire about the availability and cost of a new fridge door.


The only way to repair dented stainless steel is to replace the part.