 Do a slightly curved line at the top, but start it where you want the ears to be. So don't make it too far back, or too far forward. Then kind of swoop it down just a little bit, then flatten it out for the top of the muzzle.;
, Starting right from where you left off with the last step, make a short line vertically down, but sort of slightly curve it up and then back down to the right to make the top of the mouth.
 Starting under the top lip, draw a little line that goes a little ways behind the last line you drew for the top lip. Then curve it in a shallow bowl shape. Think of that line as making the lower jaw U of a horse, just not so dramatic.
 Starting from the beginning of the very first line you drew at the top, make half diamonds that kind of curve inward on both sides. Add a small shadow like point behind the first ear to make the second one.
 Starting from the back of the first ear, draw a line that curves inward to a little bit past the lower jaw point.
 Starting from the end of the back of the head line, curve it inward again, then a curved line going outward after that, then a larger curved line that curves inward to the point where you want the tail to start.
 Starting from the bottom of her back, draw a line to as long as you want, then do a sharp curve inward and then back again along the first line to make it look like a tail.
 Make a curved line in towards her back but then curve it back out to make a big proud chest.
 Draw a mostly straight, but slightly curved inward line all the way down to her tail.
 Starting from the opposite side of the last line you drew, draw a barely pointed triangle bit pointing outward, but missing one side.
 Starting from the "triangle piece" just draw a slightly slanting line that goes inward and down to her tail.
 Starting from your choice of area from the tail, draw a line up, then curve it sharply back down, but not all the way down. Make it go to about a quarter of the line starting from the tail.
 Draw a curved line in her head in any place you choose. Your pick!

, Draw a curved line going the opposite direction attaching to both sides of the top part.
 Start from the back of her neck, and go straight across to the other side. Then go back to the back of the neck a little bit farther down than the last line. Go slanted downward from there.
 Make it as simple or complicated as you like! Or copy the above picture!

, Just draw four lines on the desired area of the tail to make it look like she has three rings on her tail.
 Just draw two loops coming off of her ear.
 Make the jewelry gold, and her eyes green. But you could also leave her white, or choose your own colors! But she is always a black cat.

