 The grunge style is made to look as low maintenance and comfortable as possible, and the same feel translates to the makeup. Pair a little bit of brown or dark eye shadow with thick eyeliner and mascara. You want it to look kind of like a messy smokey eye, but you don't want it to look bad. You can also not wear makeup all together.


You can top this off with a dark color lipstick if you want to add another layer to your makeup. Liv Tyler often topped off her cropped top, floral skirt, and ripped tights combination with a deep red lip., Grungers know how to rock dyed locks. You can either dye all of your hair or just some towards the bottom. Try dark red, maroon, ash blonde, brown, or caramel. You can even go pastel pink, purple, or blue. Just make sure the colors aren't too vibrant.


Gwen Stefani dyed her hair blue, pink, and orange. Angela from My So-Called Life dyed her hair maroon as a first act of grunge rebellion.Make sure it looks messy and natural. Don't straighten your hair. You don't want it to look like you tried to fix your hair too much. The messier it is, the grungier you will be., No grunge outfit is complete without a great pair of combat boots. Buy them in black, maroon, grey, or brown.You can even buy a patterned pair. They make every grunge outfit look more comfortable and casual. Pair them with a band tee, a floral print skirt, a flannel around your waist, and a pair of holey tights to have the ultimate grunge outfit.


The most popular boot brand was Doc Martens. Girls were seen all over popular culture wearing these iconic footwear. Actresses like Liv Tyler and Winona Ryder wore them and Angela and Rayanne rocked them on My So-Called Life. Even 90s cartoons grunge style icon Jane Lane wore them on Daria. No grunge girl's wardrobe is complete without them.If you don't like the combat book style, you can also wear a pair of chunky shoes such as Mary Janes or a pair of canvas shoes such as Converse. Kurt Cobain was known for wearing Converse and Drew Barrymore often wore them with her baggy, ripped jeans., A great way to accessorize any grunge outfit is a beanie. Actresses such as Drew Barrymore popularized these accessories by topping off their plaid shirts and ripped jeans with a beanie. Pick out a black, grey, brown, or dark red beanie to wear. You can wear your hair up or down with the beanie. It looks great with most hairstyles.If you aren't into beanies, try a bandanna. They have a similar grungy feel but come in more colors and designs. They are also more comfortable to wear in warm weather.
 Accessories can add some interesting flare to any grunge outfit. Liv Tyler and Gwen Stefani could rock a well placed necklace or earrings. Try a black braided tattoo choker, a large simple cross necklace, or large chunky earrings. You can also pick up a few silver and colored band rings to wear, layering a few on each finger.

