 To make sure that the oven is hot enough to bake the popcorn chicken, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). Next, grease a wire cooling rack with nonstick cooking spray and place it on a large baking sheet., Add 2 cups (473 ml) of low-fat buttermilk, 3 smashed garlic cloves garlic, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried basil, 1 teaspoon (1 g) of dried oregano, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of dried thyme, ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of cayenne pepper, and kosher salt and pepper to taste to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined.You can adjust the amount of seasonings in the buttermilk mixture to suit your tastes.
 Once the buttermilk mixture is fully combined, add 1 ½ pounds (680 g) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts that have been cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) chunks. Stir the chicken in the mixture so it’s fully coated and allow it to sit for at least 30 minutes.If you plan to marinate the chicken longer than 30 minutes, cover the bowl with plastic and place it in the refrigerator.
 After the chicken has marinated for 30 minutes, drain it well. Add 3 cups (102 g) of crushed potato chips to a shallow dish, and work in batches to coat the chicken with the crushed chips.You can use any type of potato chip that you like for coating the chicken. Plain potato chips work just fine, but a flavored variety, such as sour cream and onion or barbecue, can be especially tasty.
 After all of the chicken is coated with the potato chips, place the pieces on the cooling rack on the cookie sheet. Next, drizzle ¼ cup of melted, unsalted butter over the chicken., Once you’ve drizzled the chicken with butter, place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Allow the chicken to cook for 20 to 25 minutes, turning them approximately halfway through.The chicken should be crisp and golden brown when it’s finished baking.
 When the popcorn chicken is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Transfer it to a serving dish, and serve while it is still warm.</ref>http://damndelicious.net/2016/08/07/baked-popcorn-chicken/</ref>

If you like, you can garnish the chicken with some chopped parsley.
You can serve the popcorn chicken with the dipping sauce of your choice. Barbecue and honey mustard are tasty options.

