 An MX-5 is required to provide the necessary donor parts. A crash damaged/insurance write-off will usually provide the cheapest option. Check the list under "Strip donor vehicle" to ensure the donor has all the necessary parts in un-damaged state. The kit provided by Westfield was originally intended for an NA model (pop-up headlights). Later models (NB and NC) can be used although some additional modification/steps will have to be made.
 The following items are required:

Engine and Gearbox - complete with inlet track & exhaust manifold and lambda sensor
Airbox and air flow meter and both pieces of pipe work and retaining clips and Airbox mounting rubbers
Complete wiring loom, Ecu, fuse boxes, dashboard switches, clutch pedal switch, sensors and relays (NOTE: Label every connection when disconnecting for ease of reconnecting)
Instrument panel cluster
Upper steering column including steering wheel, crash pad, indicator stalks, ignition barrel and key and top and bottom cowl
Lower steering column (needs to come to WSC for modification)
Diff and Casing complete with rubber mounting bushes and buffer plates
Rear uprights, hubs, discs and calipers including top upright rubber bush still fitted
Handbrake lever and cables, compensator and all fittings including retaining spring clips
Steering rack track rod end joints and nuts
Front uprights, hubs, discs and calipers
Wheels and tyres and wheel nuts
Propshaft (needs modifying but not by WSC)
Driveshafts including joints, lock nuts and hub nuts
Front bottom ball joints including castle nuts
Horns;
Cooling Fan
Side Repeaters
Fuel filter and bracket
Carbon Canister, pipe work and mounting bracket
Catalyst converter
Interior mirror
Screen washer bottle and pump
Battery and mounting tray including clamp and fixings
As many nuts, bolts and fasteners as you can save

,, There are a number of options available. The following are recommended for new builders:

Powder coating chassis
Exterior panels
Fit riv nuts
Chassis stands.
 Unless you have a lot of storage space it is recommended you do not collect the outer body. If the full kit is being collected, a van will be required, e.g. Transit. If the kit is being collected without the outer body, a large estate with roof rack can be used., If the chassis was ordered without the powder coating option, the chassis will be in bare steel and will require painting with a good exterior metal paint.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,