 Heat the butter in a saucepan over medium heat until the butter melts. Add the scallions and flour. Stir the mixture and cook about 2 minutes until the scallions start to soften a bit., Slowly add in the milk while you whisk. Keep whisking and cooking until the mixture thickens up and the flour dissolves. There shouldn't be any lumps.
 Stir in the diced ham and take the pan off of the heat., Whisk the mixture very quickly while you add the egg yolks. Make sure they are completely incorporated.
 Put the pan back on the stove over medium heat and add the mustard, sage, salt, and pepper. Stir well till the mixture is combined. Set it aside to cool completely.To speed up cooling, spread the mixture on a baking sheet.
 In one bowl, whisk the egg and water. Set it aside. Set the breadcrumbs aside in another bowl.
 Place the oil in a large pot on the stove and heat it to 375 degrees.You really need to have a deep-fry thermometer to gauge how hot the oil is. Your croquettes may not cook evenly if the oil is too hot or not hot enough.
 Using a spoon or cookie scoop, scoop 1 tablespoon of your cooled ham and cheese mixture. Shape the mixture into a 2-inch oval. Repeat this with the rest of the mixture.Dust your hands with flour to make shaping easier. Floured hands will keep the mixture from sticking to your hands.
 Take an oval and completely cover it in the whisked egg. Then place it in the breadcrumbs. Roll it around so the croquette is completely covered. Place it on a baking sheet lined with wax paper or parchment paper. Repeat this for the rest of the croquettes., When your oil has reached 375 degrees F, carefully lower 3 or 4 croquettes at a time into the oil. Do this slowly or the temperature of the oil will drop quickly, making them cook unevenly. Fry the croquettes for 1 or 2 minutes, or until they're completely golden brown.


Fry the rest of the croquettes and let them cool off a little bit before you serve them. Keep checking the temperature of the oil as you fry the other batches of croquettes., Remove the cooked croquettes with a slotted spoon and set them on paper towels to cool a little. Then serve them. 