 That way, you’re always prepared — and you can help out a friend who isn’t.


You can also consider using menstrual cups, which are inserted into the vagina and collect blood at its base. They can last up to 10 hours, and you won’t be able to feel them. Though they aren’t as popular as tampons or pads yet, they are just as safe.
If you have periods and you think that your period is going to come today (according to your period cycle), it is always better to put on a pad or pantiliner just before going to school, just to avoid worries.;
, Though there’s no shame in having anyone see your sanitary supplies, you can find places to stash them if you’re concerned about that. For one thing, you can put them in your purse, but if you can’t carry handbags in school, you can cleverly place them in your pencil case, tuck a pad into the pocket of your folder or binder, or even place a tampon down into your boots if you have no better options. If you think of some “hiding spots” in advance then you won’t be so nervous when that time of the month comes.If you have a locker, use it. This will also be an easy place for you to keep your supplies all year long instead of having to bring them when the time of the month comes.
 It's unlikely that you will leak through your underwear and pants, but being prepared with an extra pair of underwear and pants or leggings in the event of an emergency will help you avoid worry. Just knowing that they are there if you need them will keep you from worrying about having your period or having a leak.


You can also bring a sweater or sweatshirt to wrap around your waist, just in case.
 If you have your period or are experiencing PMS, then you may want to add some extra chocolate to your diet. Studies show that chocolate alleviates some of the symptoms of PMS, and besides, chocolate is delicious. Having a little chocolate can make you feel more stable emotionally, in addition to giving you a tasty treat.
 If you tend to suffer from menstrual pain such as cramps, bloating, nausea, or any of the other symptoms that may accompany your period, then you can carry around some medicine just in case. (Just make sure your school allows it.) You can use Tylenol, Advil, Midol, or another form of over-the-counter medication that works best for you. You don’t have to take it when you get your period, but having it on hand will help you feel better if you’re feeling less-than-great.


Make sure to talk to your parents and a doctor before you take any medication to make sure it’s right for you.
 Your period may not be quite regular yet, but it can help to start tracking it so you know just about when to expect it. Not only will this keep you from being surprised in school, but it can also lead you to take precautions that can keep you from having an emergency, such as wearing a pantyliner the week you’re expecting to get your period, just in case you get it a bit early. If you haven't started your period yet prepare for the first time, in case it's at school.


The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long, but can range from 21 to 45 days in teenagers and young adults. Mark the day your period starts on a personal calendar, or use a mobile app that helps you track your period, such as Clue, Period Tracker Lite, My Calendar, or Monthly Cycles., Menstruation often causes side effects such as cramping, bloating, acne breakouts, and breast tenderness. If you’re experiencing one or more of these symptoms than usual, your period may be on its way.When you notice symptoms like these, it’s a good time to double-check your supplies. Make sure your “emergency” pads or tampons are in their proper places, and restock your supply of pads/tampons and pain relievers at home.
Wear dark clothing when you expect your period draws near. That way, if you do get any unexpected bleeding, the color will help mask it.
 This allows you to assess the situation in private and find the supplies you need to make it through the rest of the day. As soon as you suspect your period has started, discreetly ask your teacher for a pass to the restroom.


Try approaching your teacher while the rest of the class is busy working. You can explain the situation directly if you feel comfortable doing so, but if not, you could also get the message across with something along the lines of, “I need to visit the restroom; it’s a girl problem.”, If you’ve suddenly found yourself with your period and have no supplies, then don’t be embarrassed about going to your friends to ask if they have any pads or tampons you can use. If they can’t help you, try asking one of your female teachers for help (just know that women no longer need to use tampons or pads after they go through menopause, which happens around the age of 45-50, so you may not want to ask your older teachers).


You can even go to the front office to ask for extra supplies, or ask them to call your mom if you really need help. Don’t be afraid to go there if you really have an emergency and can’t get help anywhere else.
If you need more help, consider visiting the nurse. The nurse or school counselor can explain the ins and outs of menstruation if this is your first period, or help you obtain feminine products and a change of clothing if needed., If you have no better options and find yourself in the bathroom with the new arrival of your monthly visitor, then your best bet may be to make an emergency pad. All you have to do is take a long piece of toilet paper and wrap it around your hand at least ten times until the pad is thick enough. Place it, lengthwise, in your underwear, and then take another long piece of paper and wrap it around the pad and your underwear another 8-10 times, until the pad is securely in place. You can repeat this one more time with another piece of toilet paper. Though this isn’t nearly as good as the real thing, it will do in a pinch.If you have your period but it’s really light, you can also make an emergency pantyliner. Just get a length of toilet paper about as long as the panty line of your underwear, fold it over itself two or three times, and place it in your underwear.
 If you have one available, wrap a spare T-shirt, jacket, or sweatshirt around your waist, especially if you suspect menstrual blood has leaked through your clothing. This should help hide any dark stains until you can change clothing.


If this is your first period, keep in mind that first periods generally aren’t super heavy, so it’s possible that you’ve noticed before the blood has leaked through your clothes. That being said, it’s still a good idea to take care of the issue as soon as possible to limit the risk of any embarrassing leakage.If you discover that blood has leaked through your clothes, change into your gym pants (if available) or ask the school nurse or counselor to call your parents for a change of clothes. Don’t worry about classmates pointing out your sudden wardrobe change; if anyone questions it, you can casually tell them you spilled something on your pants and leave it at that.
 Though it may sound counter-intuitive, staying hydrated will keep your body from retaining water, which will make you feel less bloated. You should carry around a water bottle or make sure to hit up the water fountains between classes as much as you can. Aim to get at least 10 8-ounce glasses of water throughout the day. It can be tricky to drink a lot during school, but you can make sure to drink extra glasses before and after school.You can also try to incorporate foods with lots of water in them into your diet to make sure you stay hydrated. These foods include watermelon, strawberries, celery, and lettuce.
Minimize your caffeine intake, taking it easy on caffeinated soda, tea, or coffee. This can make you dehydrated and can actually make cramping worse.
 If you want to deal with your period in the best way possible, then you should avoid eating foods that cause bloating. The biggest culprits are fatty foods and carbonated foods. This means you should skip out on those french fries, ice cream, or hamburger and soda at lunch and focus on healthier wraps, salads, or turkey sandwiches. Replace your soda with a water or an unsweetened iced tea and you may feel better.Fatty foods make you retain water, which makes you feel bloated.
You should also avoid whole grains, beans, lentils, cabbage, or cauliflower., Though you may feel like the last thing you want to do is go to gym class, it’s been proven that exercise actually makes you feel better when you’re on your period. It’s been shown that aerobic exercise makes your body pump more blood, which lets it release endorphins to counteract the prostaglandins in your body, reducing your cramps and pain. Don’t be tempted to sit in the bleachers with a frown on your face, and get out there instead.


Of course, if you’re really feeling terrible, you may need to take a break from exercise on a given day, but you’ll be surprised by how much better you feel.
If you skip gym because of your period, you’ll be singling yourself out and calling attention to yourself, instead of doing what everyone else is doing and taking your mind off of your pain.
 Before you start your school day, you can make a plan to hit up the bathrooms every 2-3 hours so you can change your pads or tampons if your flow is heavy, or just make sure that everything is in working order. You may be nervous about leakage, and just having confirmation that everything is fine can make you feel better. Though you won’t need to change your tampon every 2 hours, you can aim to change it every 3-4 hours if you have a heavy flow; if your period is lighter, you may be able to go up to 5 or 6 hours but this is not recommended because it can lead to Toxic Shock Syndrome. Also, to avoid this make sure to only wear the lowest absorbency you need.


Taking bathroom breaks every 2-3 hours will also help you relieve your bladder more often. Relieving your bladder when you have the urge to use the restroom can help relieve the cramps associated with your period., When you’re in school, you should make sure to dispose of your pads and tampons in a sanitary way. Avoid flushing tampons in the toilet, even if you do that at home, because you don’t know how strong the pipes are in your school and you don’t want to cause a flood. Try to use the bathroom stalls with little bins in them; if you have those, you should still try to wrap up your tampons and pads with their original wrappers or toilet paper so they don’t stick to the side of the bin.


If you’re not lucky enough to have a trash can in your stall, just wrap them up with toilet paper and throw them in the trash outside; don’t be shy about it, and remember that all girls have to dispose of their sanitary napkins.
Always make sure to wash your hands after you’ve changed your pad or tampon.
 Though it’s unlikely that you’ll have a leak, you may want to wear darker clothes during the week of or before your period, just to keep yourself feeling secure. You can wear darker jeans or a darker dress just so you don’t have to worry about checking your backside or asking your friends to check for you every two seconds. Plan a few days of wearing cute, darker colors if that makes you more comfortable.


That said, don’t let your period keep you from wearing your cute new outfits. If you want to wear something light or pastel-colored, do what you want, knowing that there’s really nothing to worry about.
 Remember to treat them how you would like to be treated, even if they were rude, and to not be mean or insensitive back. If they persist, contact a trusted adult. Try the following responses in the meantime:

"I'm really not in the mood. Could you please stop that?"
"I really need my space right now. Can you please stop that?"

, If in class, a good option is to be excused to the school nurse or calmly explain your situation to the teacher and leave to your locker and the bathroom. Some good explanations without going too in-detail are below.

"I'm having a feminine moment, can I please use the washroom?"
"Aunt Flo has given me a visit. I would like to be excused from class for a few minutes."
"I'm having a feminine emergency... you know."

, Whether you’re one of the first girls in your grade to be getting your period or one of the last, many girls will get their periods eventually. There’s no need to be embarrassed about something that affects many women out there, and which is a natural part of growing up and having a more mature, changing body. Your period is a sign of fertility, and you should be proud about it, not embarrassed. Don’t let anyone tease you about it or let anyone make you feel anything other than proud about your period.


Have a chat with your other friends about it. You’ll feel better knowing that you’re not alone in your feelings.
 A lot of people worry about their periods “smelling” or people being able to tell that they’re on their period. However, your period itself will not smell; what you may smell is the smell of a sanitary pad absorbing blood after a few hours. To counteract this worry, you can change your pad every 2-3 hours or wear a tampon. Some people like to wear scented tampons or pads, but this smell can actually be more powerful than the smell of unscented sanitary napkins, so this can even irritate the vagina. But still, you can decide if this is right for you.


You can try out a scented pad or tampon at home before you decide whether or not you’d like to use them in school.
 Your period shouldn’t be a secret or something you’re embarrassed about. Though you may initially be shy about it, it’s important to tell your mother or father about it as soon as you’ve gotten it. Your mother or another female in your family can help you get the proper supplies, make you feel comfortable, and help you avoid having to sneak around with your period. Remember that many girls have to go through this and tell your parents when it happens; the sooner you tell them, the better you’ll feel.


Your parents will be proud of you for telling them. Your mother may even shed a few tears.
If you live alone with your dad, you may be a little shy about telling him. But once you do, it’ll make things a lot easier, and he’ll be glad you were honest and open.
 If you're asking to use the restroom to a male teacher, or boys to hear, you can say that you urgently need to pee, or something else if you want (you don't want to be embarrassed in front of them). If you’re having an emergency or just know it’s time to change your sanitary napkin, then you shouldn’t be ashamed to ask to use the restroom. If you go into school with the mindset that it won’t be hard for you to use the restroom if you need to, then you’ll feel much more excited to go about your day. Ask your teachers if you can use the restroom in class with confidence, or even talk to your teachers about it in advance if that makes you more comfortable.Be aware that your teachers and administrators should be more than prepared to help you with this problem. You need to keep reminding yourself that you’re not the first one to ever have to deal with their period in school!

