 It is located in Raton Canyon, to the right of the Great Ocean Highway. It shows up on your map as a black and white checkered flag. To start the race, press right on the directional pad if you’re playing on an Xbox or Playstation console, or the E key if you are playing on PC.


You will be driving a Sanchez dirt bike for this race.
Use Franklin’s special ability during the sharp turns, which are indicated by three arrows on the checkpoints.
Of the 24 checkpoints, the sharpest turns are at the sixth and eighth checkpoints.It is also helpful to use the handbrake while taking sharp turns.;
, For this race, you will be driving a Patriot. There are 16 checkpoints, and the sharpest turns are located at checkpoints two, five, and six. Utilize Franklin’s ability and drift around those turns (by using your handbrake) to gain the advantage against your opponents.
 This race only takes place between 8pm and 3am.You’ll drive an ATV through the 32 checkpoints. There aren’t many sharp turns for this race, but there are many forks which can lead you astray, so you will need to pay attention to the navigation on your radar.
 This race is almost the same as the first race, but backwards. The trail is slightly different and has 22 checkpoints instead of 24. There is a very narrow area which can be difficult to squeeze your ATV through, but it can be made much easier by using Franklin’s ability.
 This 23-checkpoint race does not have any sharp turns, but there are a couple of obstacles to watch out for. At the fifth checkpoint, you will be in mid-air after driving up a ramp. Since you’ll be in a Sanchez dirt bike, you will need to make sure you stick the landing. In between the seventh and eighth checkpoints, use Franklin’s ability to avoid hitting the telephone pole.
 This race has 32 checkpoints and a couple of sharp turns at checkpoints six and twenty-four. You’ll be driving a BF Injection, and you will need to use Franklin’s ability to make sure you don’t crash into the wind turbines, and to stay on course as the track becomes narrower toward the end.

