 Think about why you are flying alone without your parents, siblings, or relatives. Are you wanting to fly with your friends? Are you wanting to visit a parent or relative who lives in another state or country?


Traveling alone no matter what age can be difficult. It means that you don’t have a familiar face to guide you if something comes up.
Figure out if you are really wanting to travel alone, or just not with your parents. Those are two different things. If you are interested in traveling with a sibling or friend, your parents may be less worried than if you were traveling without those supports.;
, After you’ve talked with your parents about your reasons for traveling alone, it is important to give reasons why you are ready. Think about these ways to convince your parents that you are ready:


You’ve traveled by plane many times before, with your parents, other relatives, or other adults before.
You have shown yourself to be a “good traveler.” You handled yourself well in the past, despite flight delays, cancellations, long stretches of waiting, or navigating through big airports.
You enjoy traveling. Traveling by plane doesn’t make you feel sick, anxious, or overwhelmed.
 Show how you have been responsible at home and at school as an indication that you will be responsible when traveling alone. When talking with your parents, avoid complaining, whining, or upsetting your parents. Show them you are becoming a mature young adult.Sometimes the way you approach a difficult subject likely traveling alone requires delicacy and maturity.
Parents always worry, but they are more likely to worry if they feel you are not yet responsible or mature in handling yourself independently.
Avoid acting like you know better. Show them that you are mature in the way you respond to their concerns.
 If you've travelled many times before, you can talk with your parents about the steps involved when preparing to travel, navigating an airport, and sitting through a flight. Show them how you are already skilled as a traveler.


Walk them through the steps of arriving to an airport, getting your plane tickets, checking bags, going through security, finding your gate, waiting for your flight, and finding your seat on the plane.
Have a question and answer session with your parents about how you would troubleshoot any issues that could arise if there are delays, flight changes, or other problems.
If you are a visual thinker, consider drawing a cartoon or chart about the steps you would take when departing from an airport, being on your flight, and arriving at your destination.
 Parents naturally worry about their kids, no matter what age. It can be hard for a parent to let go of their worries. By listening attentively to their opinions on the matter, they are more likely to see you as understanding of their concerns.


Be aware that they may have valid concerns.
Provide acknowledgment that you understand their concerns. Consider saying, “I really do understand your concerns.”
By listening to their specific worries, you may be able to identify what the biggest hurdles are to convincing your parents. By focusing your energy on addressing those biggest hurdles, then you may be able to soothe their fears.
 Note that at age 15 or older most airlines will allow you to fly alone. If you are under 15 years old, you may need to find out how your age affects whether you can fly alone.Different airlines have different procedures and regulations in place. Always check with the airline that you’re planning to travel on.
If you are 15 or over, talk with your parents about how you may be able to fly alone without supervision as an “unaccompanied minor.”
If you are between the ages of 12 and 15, there are different procedures in place based on the airline. Some airlines do not require you to register as an “unaccompanied minor” status when you are 12 and over. Check with the airline.
Children under the age of 5 cannot be unaccompanied. An adult must be present. In a few cases, someone who is at least 12 years old or older (such as an older brother and sister) can accompany children under 5.
 Generally, if you are age 5 to 11, you will need to be identified as an “unaccompanied minor” by the airline, and an additional fee will be charged in order for the airlines to provide “supervision” while you are on the flight.You will need to be registered as an "unaccompanied minor" under all circumstances if you are younger than 12 years old and traveling without an adult.
There may also be “unaccompanied minor” regulations in place for teens, ages 12 to 17, if traveling internationally.
Once you are over 12 years old, there are few “unaccompanied minor” restrictions if you are traveling on a domestic flight, particularly if it is a non-stop or direct flight.
Talk with your parents about how you can still be supervised by the airlines as an "unaccompanied minor" if you are over 12 and traveling alone. Airlines generally provide “unaccompanied minor” options even for teenagers. This can provide further reassurance to your parents.
 Your parents may be hesitant still to allow you to travel alone, but consider talking with them about traveling with someone they know, such as an older sibling, an adult relative, or a family friend.


Depending on why and where you’re traveling, you may be able to find someone to travel with you. Even if they aren’t your parents.
Talk with other relatives or siblings about your plans to travel.
Let’s say you want to go to a summer camp with your friend, and your friend and your friend’s older sister will be flying to the camp. You could talk with your parents about how you want to fly to camp, but also mentioned that you will not be alone. You will have your friend and an older sibling. They may be more willing to have you travel if it is a group.
 Explain to your parents that you understand their concerns. Ask them if they would be willing to call the airlines customer service to get more information about restrictions, regulations, and supports that the airline has in place.


Remind your parents that many children fly solo each year. The airlines are equipped to handle travel needs of children, with or without parental supervision.
 There will not be someone watching you at all times, but you will be monitored more than if you were traveling with your parents or other adults.A flight attendant will be monitoring you during the flight.
The airlines will ensure that you are picked up by the approved person on the “unaccompanied minor” form.
This process provides additional reassurance and safety. Remind your parents that this provides peace of mind that someone is watching out for you, even if you are traveling alone.
 Talk with your parents about who will be there when you get to your destination. Provide them with reassurance that the person at the other end is responsible and can handle any issues that may arise.


If your parents know the person, such as a relative, then consider talking with that relative about how you would like to travel alone. See if they can provide reassurance to your parents.
If your parents don’t know the person who is picking you up, then see if the person can call your parents. Let’s say you’re going to a summer camp or a special school trip. You could have the summer camp staff or the school trip staff talk with your parents to provide support and answer any questions.
 Talk with your parents about how you understand the importance of planning if there is a change in the flight schedule, a delay, or an emergency. Discuss with your parents about how you would handle yourself if something unexpected came up in the travel arrangements. By problem-solving “what-if” scenarios ahead of time, you’ll be better prepared. Talk about who to call and where to go if something changes in your travel plans.
Show your parents that you will be knowledgeable and mature. Tell them that you would be ready if an emergency occurred because you and your parents are thinking ahead.

