 Preheat your oven to anywhere between 400 and 450 degrees F. Vegetables need to be cooked at a high temperature to achieve the perfect tenderness and caramelization. If the temperature is too low, the vegetables will overcook before they reach the desired browning.
 Wash the vegetables well in cold, running water. Trim the vegetables, peeling or removing stalks where necessary. Cut the vegetables into evenly sized pieces, so they will roast an even rate. As you cut them into pieces, collect in a large bowl.









The smaller you cut the vegetables, the faster the cooking time, and vice versa.
Remember that vegetables will shrink when roasted, so you may want to account for that when you're planning portion sizes.
 Cover a large roasting pan or baking pan with aluminum foil or line with a silicone mat. This will help to minimize clean-up after roasting.









It is preferable to use a baking pan with low sides so the heat from the oven can envelope the vegetables more easily.
Metal baking pans work best. If you put a cold glass or ceramic dish straight into a hot oven, it can shatter.
If you only have glass or ceramic pan, place it in the oven while it preheats so it warms up slowly.
 In a large bowl, toss the vegetables with about a tablespoon of olive oil (or more, to taste). Use your hands or a spatula to turn the vegetables several times, to ensure they are evenly coated in oil. Season with salt and pepper and toss again.









At this point, you can add in whatever additional flavorings you choose, to complement your vegetables. Try adding a few cloves of garlic with the heads trimmed off, a tablespoon of lemon juice, or several sprigs of fresh herbs, such as rosemary, thyme, oregano, or sage.
You can also experiment by varying the oil you use. Olive oil is the standard, but you can also try using toasted sesame oil, peanut oil or safflower oil.
Some cooks take a shortcut by drizzling the oil directly onto vegetables on the baking sheet. This will work, but you will use a lot more oil this way, most of which will be wasted. The oil may also burn onto the baking sheet, giving a bitter, burnt taste to the vegetables.
 Space out the oiled vegetables evenly on the baking sheet, so the oven's heat can weave its way between. If the vegetables are crowded too close together, they will steam rather than roast.









If you are roasting several different vegetables, separate them according to cooking time. Vegetables like carrots and parsnips can take up to 45 minutes to roast, whereas softer vegetables like zucchini, eggplant, and asparagus may only take 10 to 15 minutes.
 Place the baking sheet with the vegetables into your preheated oven, on the middle or top rack. Roast for 15 minutes to an hour, depending on the vegetable. The vegetables are done when they are cooked through, the centers soft and creamy and the outer edges golden and crispy.









About halfway through the roasting time, you should check your vegetables and give them a quick toss. This will ensure that they brown evenly.
 Serve your roasted vegetables immediately. They make an amazing side dish for accompanying meat dishes. You can also save the leftovers for adding to salads or tossing into soups.








