 Staying in contact with your students is one of the most essential parts of being an effective online teacher. Offer more than one way for your students to contact you, including by email, by phone, by video chat, and via the online discussion board for the course. Giving your students may different ways to get in touch with you will show them you are interested in communicating with them and are willing to adapt to their communication needs.You may want to include all your contact information as part of a first day posting on the discussion board or in your syllabus for the course, which should be uploaded to the online learning page for the course before the course begins.
Offering many different communication methods also means you can check up on students who start to fall off the discussion boards or appear inactive in the course. You should reach out to any inactive students through one of the many communication methods you have set up to reestablish a connection so they become more engaged in the course.
 It is important that you be flexible with your time as an online teacher, as your students may have work schedules or other commitments that mean they may get in touch with you at odd hours. But being flexible does not mean you cannot also set some parameters around when you are available for a discussion about an assignment or when you will provide feedback on an online post. You may want to establish online office hours where you will actively be online and ready to answer any student questions.For example, this could be every Monday and Wednesday from 3-5 pm or it could be two hours before the online class session begins. Be specific about your office hours but be willing to also be flexible and meet your students halfway if they have a conflicting schedule that requires them to be online at odd hours.
 Keep the lines of communication open and hold your students accountable by scheduling weekly one on one check ins with your students. This could be a short video chat about how they are feeling about the course, a phone call, or an online chat. Schedule the check ins for the same time every week so they are part of the routine of the course.If you have many students in your online class, you may ask each student to instead respond to an online posting, with feedback on how they feel they are doing in the class and what they are working on in relation to the class. This will spark discussion and allow your students to stay connected to you.
 Listen to student feedback and encourage it. This will show your students that their thoughts matter, even when you do not interact in person with them. You may want to set up a weekly feedback session, where you have a round table video discussion with your students or groups of students. You can then integrate the student feedback into your lesson plans and use their feedback to create more interactive activities for the course., The survey should ask your students about how effective the online course was for them and what you could do to improve the course. Be willing to solicit feedback on the course from your students at the end of the course as a way to close out the course and reflect on it.