 The important thing is not to try to see it (do not make an effort), but just feel as if it is already there (because it is).


You can direct it toward any place, person, or time. Send it to different parts of your body for healing. You can directly feel the energy, either by seeing or feeling it depending on which sensory modality dominates.
Some individuals can do both. The energy emanated from orgonite is unlimited so do not worry about running out of it. Use as much as you want, it gets replaced instantly.;
, Every “thing” has consciousness, from the smallest atom (and even smaller to subatomic particles) to animals, planets, stars, solar systems, galaxies and beyond (From a Cosmic Intelligence perspective, we can see ourselves as subatomic particles.


The structure of solar systems, with one central Sun and planets orbiting resembles the make-up of individual atoms with protons and neutrons at the center and electrons rotating them in orbitals.
A different solar system can be thought of as analogous to different types of atoms, with different numbers of electrons and neutrons-think about it. As above so below. )
Talk to it out loud or in your mind as if you are talking to an old friend you have not seen for a while or whichever way makes you most comfortable.
Ask for healing, love, and light, for yourself and all life that surrounds you. The orgonite will appreciate being acknowledged and will emanate even more love toward you and you toward it.
Breathe in this healing energy of love. See and feel it coming in through your nose and healing all parts of your body, mind, soul, and emotions.
 Bury orgonite under trees. Their roots can absorb this energy and harness it for the greater good of all. Trees are conscious living organisms and will share this abundant and unlimited supply of energy with all forms of life that they can.


Place orgonite in any nearby rivers and streams. The water will easily pick up the POE from the orgonite and transmute any DOE that it may be carrying. In this way, know that you are healing Mother Earth immensely and for a very long time as these devices release an infinity and unlimited supply of energy.
As conscious beings, trees and wildlife are much more readily able to harness the energy from orgonite because they have an innate understanding of this type of energy.
 Just by looking at any pictures of orgonite, you will be able to gain a sense of their power and vibrations. Essentially, the healing effects of orgonite can, and are, transmitted just by looking at pictures of them. Try looking at and focusing on different picture of orgonite and you will gain a sense of how each piece sends out its own characteristic healing vibrations. You CAN be healed just by looking at pictures of them. Of course, we can't stare at a computer screen all day, so having one around us physically will help. The effects, however, are just the same.
 Any DOE that may be released is transmuted and, just like giant versions of your Wi-Fi routers at home, the cell phone towers are now broadcasting frequencies of LOVE to your entire neighborhood and beyond

, It will constantly be transmuting any DOE you may come across and emanate a positive LOVE field of POE.


Place some pieces at your work desk or office. The benefits of the orgonite will be transmitted to all within its vicinity.
Know that you are helping to make your workplace a friendlier and happier place.
 This way, they are being protected and helped at all times too


Place one in your pet’s bed (dogs, birds, etc.) and around where they sleep. Animals understand orgonite and its effects intuitively.
Always remember to communicate your intention to the orgonite, you only have to do it once. If you forget, do not worry. They know what to do.
 With orgonite, the cleansing takes place immediately and instantaneously.
 This way, you are generating a positive flow of orgone energy with every flush of the toilet.


Think of your toilet and all water flow in your own home as your own personal stream of consciousness, both literally and figuratively.
That extra kick of positive energy given by the orgonite will be spread all over the world, as all streams of water, and consciousness, are interconnected.
 Use some Dead Sea or Himalayan salt crystals as well as bentonite clay for a relaxing, soothing, detoxing, and energizing effect. Add some essential oils for an especially special experience.



Use a modified orgonite wind chime indoors, simply place it in front a fan and you can have that beautiful and healing melody night and day.
 Your sleep will be restful and energizing.
 It will make your food last longer and taste better by charging it with POE.
 Orgone energy is the precursor to electrical, heat, and other types of energy.


The electricity running through the tracks are analogous to manmade streams of water (in this case, water = electricity). The POE will be carried along the network of the tracks to all connecting tracks.
Think of the effect this can have in large connection systems such as the subways in NYC. Additionally, any trains running over the vicinity of the orgonite will absorb a lot of the POE and distribute it to the passengers, making for happier city inhabitants.
 The spinning will create an orgone vortex spinning to the Sky and Earth and is a very powerful healing method.
 This way, every time that you take a shower, you will be bathing in orgone energized water.

