 Some travel alerts or warning will only list a particular region or area that may be risky for tourists. It may also note the rest of the country is safe for travel. If this is the case, you may be fine to travel if the area you are travelling to is not listed as risky.For example, if you are travelling to Mexico, you may be fine to travel in certain states or to popular tourist destinations, such as the Mayan Riviera, if the violence in the country is isolated to other areas.;
, Read over the travel alert or the travel warning and identify the level of danger. Does the travel alert talk about violence and terrorism? Does the travel warning note assaults on foreign tourists? If the violence is focused on foreign tourists, this may be a cause for concern. If the violence is focused on residents of the country, you may be okay to travel to the area as a tourist.For example, if the travel alert lists “a risk to locals only,” you may be okay to travelling to the country as a foreigner. If there is a note about “a risk to foreign travellers,” you may be more wary of travelling to the country.
 Check the date the travel alert or warning was posted on your government’s website. Make sure it is recent, within the last one to two weeks. A travel alert that is a few months old may no longer be relevant or accurate. Most government websites will keep up to date travel information on their website, but it is always worth checking the posted date for the alert or warning.If the travel alert or warning is a few weeks old, you may want to search for more information on possible risks in the country on your own.
 Do an online search for more information on the alert or warning from the government of the place you are travelling to as well as government postings from other countries. Look for information from trusted news sources about possible conflicts or issues in the country. This will help to confirm there are conflicts or issues in the country that you need to watch out for.For example, if you’d like to confirm it is safe to travel to the Mayan Riviera in Mexico, you may search for “travel warnings and alerts mayan riviera” to see if other government sites besides your home country have travel alerts and warnings for the area.
You can also read through articles on the current state of the conflict on news sites for up to date information on what’s going on and whether it poses a threat to you.
 Once you have analyzed the travel alert or warning, determine if you feel safe enough to travel. If the travel alert does not seem like it will affect the area you are staying in or does not apply to foreign travellers, you may be okay to head off on your trip. If the travel warning is strongly worded and indicates you may be in danger in the area you are staying, you may revise your travel plans or reschedule your trip for another time.Keep in mind the fallout from an isolated act of violence will likely affect the entire country in some way. You should always go by your own comfort level and the level of danger you may be exposed to while you travel. Your safety comes first, even if that means cancelling the trip or travelling at another time in the future.
 Let your government know you are travelling to a country with a travel alert or warning as a safety precaution. Your government should have a registration program that you can enroll in by providing identification like your passport and your birth certificate. You may be able to register online, depending on your government’s program.Registering under your government will let your government know you may be at risk in a certain country. This could be useful if you need to get out of that country due to conflicts or issues during your travels.
For example, you can register as an American travelling abroad through the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol website.
 Let those close to you know where and when you will be travelling during your trip. Give copies of a detailed itinerary to your friends and family. Note where you will be in the country and the dates of your travel, as where as the address of where you are going to be staying.If possible, you should also include a contact number, such as a cellphone or a landline where you can be reached.
You may buy data for your cellphone or a plan that allows you to make calls in a foreign country so you can be in contact with friends and family.
 To protect yourself while travelling to a risky area, get good travel insurance. You may be able to get travel insurance through your existing insurance company or search for a good insurance plan online. Make sure the travel insurance you buy covers you for any damage or theft to your belongs as well as your health care needs while you are in a foreign country.


Call your travel insurance provider and let them you need a plan to protect you while you are travelling to a country with a travel alert or warning. They can often recommend a good plan for your needs.
 Have a plan in place in the event you need to leave the country due to a conflict or local issue. Find your home country’s embassy or consulate close to where you are visiting. Have the contact details of the embassy close by. Let your travel companions know that you will all leave the country and/or contact the embassy in the event of a conflict or issue in the country.You can find your home country’s embassy or consulate in the country you are travelling to by searching your government’s website.
 Keep tabs on what is happening locally and internationally while you travel in the country. Check your government’s website on a daily basis for updates to the travel alert or warning. This way, you will know right away if the situation is getting too dangerous for you to remain in the country and can work on getting back to your home country.You should also try speaking to locals about the situation to help determine if it is becoming too dangerous.
 Always keep your identification on you in a safe place, such as in a money belt or a purse that you keep with you at all times. Make copies of your identification and keep them in other travel bags. This way, you will have a copy of them if the originals go missing or are stolen.You will need your identification to leave the country if it becomes too dangerous to travel. Make sure it is kept somewhere safe at all times.
 Stay connected to those closest to you back in your home country so they know you are okay. Try sending out daily emails or text messages to family and friends to let them know how your trip is going.


Doing this will also ensure you get information on a more dangerous travel alert or warning from those back home. Family and friends may be able to let you know if the country has become too dangerous for foreigners, for example, and advise you to return home.

