 If you haven’t had any sexual intercourse involving the vagina, your hymen may be intact. A hymen is perfectly normal and is usually a crescent piece of tissue that encircles part of the opening of the vagina. If the hymen is intact, it can interfere with the insertion of a tampon and cause pain.Sometimes, the hymen completely or nearly completely covers the vaginal opening. Other times, there is a strand or band of tissue that runs across the vaginal opening. If this strand is there, it can interfere with the insertion of a tampon, causing pain. See a doctor to get this checked out and to ask about having it removed.
 Another common problem women have with inserting tampons is that they get nervous and tense up. This is especially common if the woman has had a bad experience. The vaginal wall is lined with muscles and, just like any other muscle, can get tense. This can make the insertion of a tampon very uncomfortable and sometimes painful.


Doing Kegel exercises has helped a number of women with tense vaginal muscles. Kegel exercises are a series of exercises which contract and relax the vaginal muscles. You do them exactly as you would if you were stopping the flow of urine and then allowing it to flow again. You can do these exercises anytime and anywhere.Try for three sets of 10 contractions and releases every day.
 You should replace your tampon as needed. When you are awake, that may be every four to six hours, or more often depending on how heavy your flow is.However, don’t leave a tampon in any longer than overnight. Tampons left in too long increase the risk of Toxic Shock Syndrome. TSS is a rare infection that can be associated with tampon use. The symptoms of TSS include:Flu-like symptoms, such as muscle and joint aches or headache.
Sudden high fever
Dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness
Vomiting
A sunburn-like rash
Diarrhea

, If the methods to help reduce the pain of inserting a tampon don’t work, you can make an appointment with your physician or gynecologist to see if there is a problem. For example, the hymen can easily be perforated and removed to allow free flow of menstrual blood, allow the use of a tampon, and make sexual intercourse much more comfortable. It is considered minor surgery and can usually be done in the doctor’s office.


If tense vaginal muscles are the problem, the goal is to learn to control how tense the vaginal muscles are. If you need more help with this, talk to your physician about a treatment plan.
If you have to have your doctor remove your hymen, this does not take away your virginity. Virginity is a state of experience, not a state of having an intact hymen.
If you experience any of the symptoms of TSS, remove the tampon right away and get to your physician’s office or an emergency room. TSS can progress quickly and is a serious infection that needs immediate medical attention.

