 When you first start up The Sims 3, you get to the menu. If you're already in a town, please get back to the main menu. Now, before you go on, press Ctrl+Shift+C on your keyboard. Type "testingcheatsenabled true" without the quotation marks in the box that appears. Now you can enter your town of choice.;
, If you already made the Sim you want to use, just skip this step. Here are some suggested traits:


Flirty
Inappropriate
Great Kisser
Commitment Issues
Mean Spirited

, Now that you have your Sim, you have two options; move them into a pre-made house, or buy a lot and build them a house. Pick one.
 Now that your Sim is totally ready, it's time to meet some people. If you want to do this the old fashioned way, go right ahead! However, there is a much easier way to meet people; you don't even have to leave the comfort of your home! (This will only work if the cheats are on.) Shift+Click on your mailbox. Click on "Make Me Know Everyone". Now go to your relationships tab. You should know everyone. Wasn't that EASY? Although, you should see the warnings.
 Again, you can go out and actually TALK to people, but the other way is easier. (With the cheats on) CTRL+Click on the bar underneath your relationship with people in the relationships tab. Now, while keeping the CTRL and mouse button down, drag your cursor to the right. Your relationship should go up. Further to the right, better the friend. Repeat 10 times.
 There's a chance that they could be in work at the time you call them, in which case you just invite over another friend, and/or wait until they're done with work.
 If you're inappropriate, you can kiss them right away, helping your romantic relationship with a huge jump. If not, work your way up to that point by complimenting and flirting. After the first kiss, complimenting, flirting and massaging are all great ideas. Once an option pops up under the Romantic choices that says Propose Going Steady, select this. If they like you enough, they'll say yes.
 It's time to be Mean! Under the mean options for interaction, it'll say, Break Up. Click. Repeat ten times with your other friends.
