 Sadness is normal and can even be healthy. Research has shown that experiencing mixed feelings and negative feelings is crucial to mental well-being.Many studies have shown that people who apologize for or repress their feelings actually intensify those negative feelings.


Try to acknowledge your emotions without judging yourself for them. It’s easy to think, “This isn’t a big deal, why am I so sad about it?” Instead, accept your emotions for what they are. This will help you manage them., Studies have shown that rumination, or the process of going over and over your feelings of sadness, hinders recovery. Distracting yourself from ruminating on your sadness may help you overcome it.Find pleasant things to do. Doing things that you enjoy can help you overcome sadness, even if you don’t initially feel like doing them.Go for a walk. Take an art class. Find a new hobby. Learn how to play classical guitar. Whatever it is that you get enjoyment out of, make yourself do it.
Interact with friends. Interacting with loved ones can boost your body’s production of oxytocin. Go to a movie, grab a coffee, go on a blind date. Studies have shown that retreating from others can worsen depressive symptoms, including sadness., Mindfulness is based on acknowledging your experiences and accepting them without judging them or yourself. Research has shown that practicing mindfulness can actually change how your brain responds to sadness. It can also help you recover from sadness faster.Because mindfulness focuses on remaining in the present moment, it can help you avoid rumination.
 A common mindfulness technique is mindfulness meditation. Several studies have shown that mindfulness meditation can reduce your brain’s responses to negative emotional stimuli.Mindfulness meditation can also alleviate symptoms of depression and anxiety.
A basic mindfulness meditation takes about 15 minutes. Find a quiet, comfortable place. Sit, either in a chair or on the floor with your legs crossed. Loosen tight clothing and make yourself comfortable.Choose one aspect of your breathing to focus on. This could be the rise and fall of your chest as you breathe, or the sensation of air going through your nostrils. Focus your concentration on that element.
Inhale slowly through your nose. Allow your abdomen to relax and expand as you fill your lungs. Slowly exhale through your mouth.
Continue breathing as you expand your focus. Notice the sensations you feel. These could include the feeling of your clothes against your skin or the beat of your heart.
Acknowledge these sensations but don’t judge them. If you find yourself getting distracted, return to focusing on your breathing.
 Yoga and Tai Chi have been shown to relieve stress and elevate mood. These effects may be because of the emphasis on “self-awareness” in these forms of exercise. Many studies have shown that Yoga and Tai Chi help relieve physical and psychological pain.Taking classes with others may provide more relief than doing these exercises on your own.

