 Try to use one made from cardboard as opposed to foam. The more compartments your carton has, the more notions you will be able to store inside of it.
 You can paint it all one color, or you can paint the inside a different color to add contrast. The carton's labels may show through some paints after they dry. If this happens, paint on another coat. You may need two or three coats total.


The hinge may fall apart after a while. To make your box stronger, consider gluing down a length of ribbon along the hinge, both on the outside and inside of your box. You can do this before or after your paint the box.
 You don't need to measure the height. You will be using these measurements to cut your fabric and batting.
 The fabric needs to be the same length and width as the lid. The batting needs to be the same width, but only half the length.


For the cotton, choose a printed fabric, such as gingham or calico.
If you can't find quilt batting, get some felt or fleece. Use 2 to 3 layers to get the right thickness. You will need to glue the layers together.
 Cover one half of the lid with glue. Press the batting down into it. This will create a nice cushion for needles, pins, and safety pins.


You can use regular liquid glue or fabric glue for this.
 This will hold your scissors. Make sure that the side you are sewing the elastic on is opposite the batting. How long you cut the elastic depends on how big your scissors are. A 1 to 2 inch (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) long piece should be enough for most scissors.You will be sliding the scissors down blade-fist into the elastic.


A 6 compartment egg carton may not be big enough to hold regular fabric scissors. Consider cutting a smaller elastic to use for embroidery scissors or a seam ripper.
For an added touch, glue a large, colorful button to each end of the elastic after you sew it down. This will also help cover the edges. Try to use a contrasting color. For example, if your fabric is blue, use red buttons.
 Use fabric glue to draw a line all the way around the inside lid. Try to get some glue in the space between the batting and the sides of the lid as well. Cover the blank/non-batting side of the lid with glue as well. Press the fabric down into the glue, and smooth out any bubbles and wrinkles. Make sure that the elastic side is opposite the batting side.


Use a pen or pencil to get the fabric down into the tight space between the batting and the sides of the lid.
For an added touch, glue down some ribbon onto the edges of the fabric when you are done. This will also help hide the raw edges. Try to use a contrasting color. For example, if your fabric is blue, use a red ribbon.
 Slip some pins and needles into the batting, and slide your scissors blade-first through the elastic. Fill each compartment with small items, such as buttons, hooks, clasps, and spools of thread. Close your box and put it on your sewing table, or wherever you store your sewing supplies.


A small pin cushion will fit in most egg cartons.
Roll up larger items, such as ribbon, lace, elastic, and zippers, before stuffing them into the compartments.
For ideas on what to fill your box with, click here.
 Your box doesn't have strong enough clasps, so a handle might not be a good idea, but you can still make the box look pretty on top. Glue on some sewing-related notion on the lid, such as buttons, lace, ribbon, and pretty brooches.Here are some more decorating ideas:


Cover the top part with some pretty scrapbook paper.
Write your name on the lid using glitter glue.
Glue some ribbon or an old measuring tape around the edges.

