 Use an antibacterial soap and scrub thoroughly. Lather for at least twenty seconds, and be sure to scrub the backs of your hands and the webbing between your fingers, not just your palms. Rinse your hands and pat dry.


Be sure to dislodge any grime under your fingernails.
Make sure that children wash their hands carefully and frequently to reduce the risk of spreading the infection.;
, Make sure that the meat is cooked all through. It should not be pink inside, and any juice that comes out should be clear.


Some standard temperatures you should cook meat to include:
at least 160°F (71°C) for beef
at least 165°F (73.8°C) for poultry
at least 145°F (62.7°C) for fish

,


Other surfaces that have come into contact with raw meat like counter tops should also be disinfected with antibacterial soap and wiped down with a damp disposable towel or a disinfectant wipe.
Use separate cutting boards for meat. Thoroughly clean all cutting boards and utensils with soap and hot water after preparing raw meats and poultry.
 Sanitizing your sponge is simple. Just get your sponge damp, then toss it in your microwave for one minute.


Change your sponge once every week or every other week.
Don’t wipe up blood or juice that comes out of meat with a sponge.Instead, use a disposable towel or disinfectant wipe.
 Only eat fresh food. Use your senses to evaluate if food has spoiled.Look at the surface. If it’s slimy, moldy, or has an unusual taste or odor, do not eat it. Refrigerate your leftovers within two hours of eating. Use a resealable container to store food properly in your fridge. Eat leftovers within two or three days.


Do not eat raw meat that has been refrigerated for more than a day or two.
Do not eat anything with a broken seal.
Do not eat canned foods that are bulging or dented -- this could indicate the presence of bacteria.
 Campylobacter is common in the developing world. Therefore, if you travel to a foreign country make sure that your water comes from a treated source.


Wells can also sometimes become infected with campylobacter. If you have a well, then have your well water tested regularly to ensure that it is safe.If you are not sure if the water is safe to drink, then only drink bottled water.
 Raw milk, however, is not pasteurized, and therefore puts you at higher risk for campy infection.


Unpasteurized milk can become contaminated if the cow has a Campylobacter infection in its udder, or if the milk is contaminated with manure.

