 The more hydrated you are, the better your body will be able to control your temperature. Better yet, grab a hot green tea or herbal tea to heat your body up before you go out., Choose undershirts and leggings that wick moisture away from the skin. Synthetic layers are less bulky and more efficient than wool or thick cotton.


If it’s been a while since you have updated your long-underwear, many brands like Uniqlo, Cuddle Duds, and REI are offering extremely comfortable and form-fitting layers that can go under work or workout clothes.
 The best way to stay warm is to keep your body from getting wet. Always wear waterproof, insulated boots when you go out into rain or snow. Wearing thick, protective socks can make a big difference, too. If you know you'll be out for a while, pack an extra pair of socks in your coat pocket -- if your socks get wet, you'll be cold for the rest of the time you're out.
 They keep your fingers together, conserving body heat. Gloves restrict your hands and your circulation, resulting in colder fingertips, though wearing gloves is better than not covering your hands at all.
 Invest in a down coat and take a thick sweater. The warmer your torso is, the warmer your extremities will be. That's why packing on those extra winter pounds is a great way to stay warm during the winter.


When your temperature in your torso drops, your body will draw circulation away from your extremities. If it needs to, your body will sacrifice a few fingers and toes to frostbite in order to save your life., Purchase a balaclava that covers the majority of your face, wear hats, thick socks and mittens. Exposed skin can get frostbite quickly. Forget the myth that says that 70% of your body heat is released from your head; instead, focus on having as little exposed skin as possible if you want to stay warm., If you rely on your car for a commute in cold weather, invest $30 to $50 to plug in your engine overnight. Your car will be more likely to start in the morning and when you get out of work.

