 This does NOT apply for people paying for their training, but for people who are looking for scholarships and sponsorships from airlines. The qualifications that will stand out on your CV in the airline industry are in subjects like Physics, Mathematics and English. Although mainly a qualification in Physics is required, other relevant qualifications push you through the tough competition in achieving these sponsorships. But as the airline world is slowly turning to technology these days, a qualification in IT or Electronics won't hurt.;
, The worldwide airline language is English. If you are not an English speaker, you will need to start learning if you want to become a pilot. So, if you cannot read this article, start learning now.
 If you are applying for a sponsorship and get through all the stages, the sponsor will sort everything out for you. Sponsorship schemes usually collaborate with flight training providers, so nothing to worry about there. And the training is usually completely free in this case. But if you are funding your own training, you will be looking to pay from around £50'000 to £100'000. The cost of flight training is very high, but if you have a strong ambition for piloting, you won't be questioning the price. But in most cases, the more you pay, the more well-reputed the training provider, which means an increase in your chances through the competition. Training in Europe will get you an EASA Licence. This is the licence you will need if you would like to fly for a European Airline. If you are looking to fly for an American Airline, then you should be looking for an FAA Licence.
 Whether with flight training providers or with airlines, interviews are very important. In order to get the best out of your interview, you need lots of practice. Filming yourself or practicing with a friend/relative are both great practicing techniques. Consider looking into speaking with an experienced interviewer. They will provide you with useful information on how to conquer your interviews. And always remember to look your best when attending interviews, as interviewers have likely never seen you before and you don't want to ruin your first impressions.
 Showing you have an interest in flying is a great sign. This could be from sailplane gliding to building model aircraft. Anything related to flying gives your CV a little shine to it.
 Airlines want pilots with the right skills. Good communication, team-work, and organisation are the main set of skills one should have. The skills you have are important, it is not just the licence and the CV you hold that get you through.
 Research is key when applying for a job. When it comes to the interview, the airline expects you to know quite a bit about them and their history. This also shows that you are well-organised and prepared for the interview.
 If you hold a firm career ambition in Airline Piloting, the worst thing you can do is give up. There is always a way around things, even if it is hard to do so. Life is full of difficult challenges, but one should never give up on them. Never say never.

