 It is important to know how much alcohol your friends intend on drinking tonight, so that you can make sure that they don't end up more drunk than they would've wanted.
 It will take them longer to get drunk and they will feel less sick later on., If you are the designated driver, then don't drink anything. If you plan on calling a cab/Uber, make sure everyone has the money to pay., Allowing your friend to drink more will only make the problem worse, and might make them vomit. Take any alcohol that they still have in their hands away so that they cannot drink it when you aren't looking, and make sure that they are not getting more from anywhere else., You won't be much use to your friends if you are just as drunk as they are. Your friends need you right now, so don't drink anything else and put all of your focus on your friends for now., It is important to keep a close watch on them to ensure that they don't do anything stupid. Hold on to your friends, sit down with them, or follow them wherever they go. Although you might be tired of constantly running after them, it is better to keep an eye on them than to let them go and risk having them get themselves into trouble., If they are feeling sick and/or wanting to vomit, it will help them to feel better. Although water won't help them to sober up any faster, it will keep them hydrated and give them something to sip on if they are craving a drink., Although you might have been having a fun time, getting your friends home would be much safer for them than keeping them at a busy party. If your friends are out of control and/or feeling very sick and you think that they might be better off just heading home to get some rest, then consider just getting them home.

However, do not let any of your drunk friends drive home, and do not drive either if you have had anything to drink. It is far safer to just call a cab, an Uber, or another sober friend/family member to come and pick you up than to take the risk of driving yourself.
 Consent requires sobriety. If you notice someone trying to get your friend to go home with someone and/or have any sort of sexual contact with them, try and talk to your friend first, especially if this individual is a random girl/guy. It is best to think about what your friend would've wanted when they were sober.

If you know that your friend has a significant other or that they just didn't want to get with anyone tonight, then try and pull them aside to talk before they go with the other person. Also, this individual might be dangerous, and harm your friend, so it is best to just keep an eye on your friend instead of leaving him/her in the hands of someone you can't trust.
 You should always watch your friend's drinks whether they're drunk or not. However, it is way easier for someone to slip a drug into your friends drink if they are intoxicated. If your friend is still drinking, make sure you watch the drinks that they have and where they get them from.