 You must wash your hands with the right kind of soap before removing your contacts. Avoid using deodorant or moisturizing soap. You don't want the residue on your contacts. It is best to wash your hands with antibacterial soap and warm water. Then dry your hands thoroughly with a clean, lint-free towel.


Keeping good hand hygiene protects your contacts and eyes from harmful pathogens. Harmful pathogens can enter the eye via the lenses and cause eye infection or conjunctivitis.;
, Before you take out your contacts, you need a storage container, such as a contact case or other sterile storage containers. Also buy sterile saline or contact solution.


Make sure you are using sterile solution and not saline solution. While saline will keep lenses hydrated, sterile solution will disinfect them. Ask your eye doctor to be sure your solution is suitable for use with your contact type. by.Replace the container about every three months.
 Once you have the right container and solution, fill your case about halfway with solution. New and clean lens solution in cases will help keep them clean, allow for protein removal, and eliminate bacterial contamination. Have the caps off for easy deposit of the lenses., Before you remove your lens, add a few drops of sterile saline or artificial tears to each eye. This will hydrate and lubricate your eyes as well as the lenses, which will allow for easier removal. Position yourself low over a flat surface, such as over the top of your dresser or bathroom counter. This will ensure your contacts don't end up on the floor. Next, look straight ahead into a mirror so you can see your eyes., Press one index finger in between the top and bottom eyelash line. The should be the center of your contact lens, which will trap it under finger. Use the index finger of your opposite hand to pull up your upper eyelid. Move your top index finger holding the eyelid down toward your bottom lid. The result should be that the contact pops away from your eye.
 Use the middle finger on the hand with the contact to pull your lower eyelid down. Look up and carefully slide the contact down your eye, then pluck it out. Gently rub the contact with solution — use two to three drops and rub for about 10 seconds on each side. This will loosen proteins and debris that are stuck to the lens, improving comfort and longevity of the lens. Then drop the contact in the waiting solution container.


Even if the solution you use says it is "no rub," you should not skip this step.
Repeat the same method on your other eye.
 If that method didn't work for you, you can try the catching method. Lower yourself over a surface to ensure that the contact won't fall to the floor. Look down and place one hand under your eye to catch the contact. With the other hand, take your index and middle finger and pull at the side of your eye away from your nose. Then blink. Once you blink, the contact should fall out into your hand.


You may find it easiest to pull outward on just the upper lid instead of both.
Repeat on the other side.
 If your hard contacts are unable to be removed through other methods, a tool called a suction cup (known as a DMV) can be used to help with removal. The tool adheres to the contact and uses suction to pull it out of the eye. Only use a suction cup if you can visibly see the contact in your eye.


To use, moisten the center of suction cup with sterile saline solution. Looking straight ahead, apply the suction cup to the center of your contact. Gently move the suction from side to side until it adheres to the contact and it is removed. Place the contact in the solution and repeat on the other eye., Issues with your eye can cause serious, long time effects. Seek medical attention right away if you spot warning signs such as:


The inability to remove the contact from your eye
An embedded contact inside your eye
Abnormal vision
Pain, redness, or discomfort after the contact has been removed