 Shirts with high collars (including turtlenecks and polos) can be aging or give you the appearance of a uni-boob. A V-neck will visually break up your chest and flatter your figure.


A sweetheart, low-cut square, or punching necklines all flatter a larger bust.Avoid details that draw the eye to your chest. Sequins, writing, buttons above the bust line, pockets, and frills or lace at the neckline will all bring the focus back to your breasts.
Don’t get crazy with too much cleavage, as that will draw attention to your breasts.;
, Because you have more to cover in the chest area, your shirt will hit higher on your waist. You want it to hit about 4-5 inches below your belly button. This will slim your waist and make your torso look longer, instead making your hips and bustline look squished together.Notice sleeve length as well—sleeves that end right at your bust-line can make your chest appear wider. Try cap, three-quarter, or long sleeves instead.When shopping, choose shirts with a more rectangular shape than a square shape—these will be longer.
Wear long camisoles under shorter shirts to add length. If all your shirts are boxy and too short, invest in a couple of long camisoles you can layer underneath for the same effect., You might be feeling self-conscious about your breasts and want to hide in a baggy shirt, or you may be so frustrated trying to find something that fits that you just buy a shirt that is too big. But baggy clothes don’t make your breasts look smaller—they just make you look bigger all over.Try to find shirts that are fitted in the torso but have more space in the bust area. Fitted t-shirts that have extra length should give you the desired fit., Wrap dresses will cinch in your waist, and usually have V-necklines with more room for your breasts.Any dress that creates that “V” shape at the top (whether with fabric, seams, beading, or neckline) will give you a gorgeous hour-glass shape.Avoid dresses with halters or empire bust lines. These are generally not made with large-breasted women in mind, and you will either be spilling out or the empire line will hit you mid-chest.A dress that shows off your legs, either with a short hemline or a slit, will draw the eye away from your chest., A jacket that is too-short will make you look boxy, and lapels or double-breasted jackets (jackets with two rows of buttons) will make your chest look wide.Wear a jacket in a color that contrasts your shirt for a slimming effect.If you're wearing a blazer, wear it open or only button the button below your bustline. Don't button or zip all the way up.Avoid belted jackets. The material will bunch up and make your chest look bigger and your waist look wider., A long necklace will sit right in your cleavage or hang off of your breasts, where it will swing and draw attention. A shorter necklaces that hangs at least a half-inch above your neckline will bring attention to your collar-bone area rather than your chestConsider a big, chunky necklace, which may create the illusion of smaller breasts.A gorgeous pair of drop earrings, hoops, or chandelier earrings will draw the eye to your face.
Layering bangles can also draw attention away from your bust.