 Make sure your victim is alone and not looking at you. The wedgie should come as a complete surprise. If this is something you have done to your victim before, then it's likely that he or she will be on the lookout, so you have to be extra careful. If your victim's underwear is extra-visible, then you're in luck!;
, There are two tactics that you can take. You can just sneak up on your victim and reach for your victim's underwear, or you can casually approach your victim as if you just wanted to say hi or chat about something, and then trick your victim into turning around. Though the complete surprise wedgie can be deviously fun, it can also be pretty fun to pretend that you just want to be friends and then give a killer wedgie in the middle of the conversation.


If you choose to approach your victim and say hello, then you can get him to turn around by pointing to something out the window, asking him to look something up on his computer, or calling his attention to something across the room.
 There are so many fun and annoying ways to give a wedgie, so why stop at the most basic? See the list of different wedgie possibilities in the next section and choose whatever you think would be best for your victim (best = most annoying/most painful). And, you know, make sure your victim has some sort of sense of humor before you proceed.
 Just grab on to your victim's underwear from the back with both hands and pull it up as high as you can.
 Just grab the person's underwear from the front instead of the back and pull it up as high as you can. This is harder to do than the traditional from-the-back wedgie because the victim will be facing you. However, it will hurt more!

, Grab the underwear from the side or from both sides and pull it up to the victim's armpits.
 Grab the underwear with two hands and lift the person into the air. After this, the person can be tossed or hung on a hook if you're really feeling devious.
 Put the victim in a headlock, and make sure you have a hose nearby. Spray the victim's underwear with water and then give him or her a wedgie.
 Put the victim in a headlock, and make sure you have a water bomb on hand. Throw the water bomb into the victim's pants and then give him or her a wedgie.
 Lift up your victim by his underwear and hang it over a doorknob. Remember that your victim has to be pretty light/young for you to do this effectively.
 Lift your victim's underwear up from the back as high as you can, so high that you can actually lift it over the victim's head. This is considered the Grand Daddy of all wedgies. Just make sure your victim doesn't suffocate!

