 Check the size of the hat by placing it on your dog's head and seeing how it sits. If you're purchasing one, take Fido's measurements along with you, to be sure. Obviously, some hats have more give than others, so take this into account when assessing size. The type of hat is really up to what you need from it. If it's for a party or a photo shoot, almost anything goes, from cowboy to wizard hats, while if it's for sun protection or warmth, you'll need to check out brim sizes, durability, warm or cooling fabric, etc.


To measure your dog's head: Use a flexible tape measure and obtain the circumference and diameter of the dog's head. If your dog has any particular features such as a mop of hair in front or big ears, etc., be sure to take these into account for comfort fit.
Rummage through your closet for old hats––consider baby and children's hats as well when looking, as these will have a smaller size that might be more suited to your dog's head. Retailers of baby wear or children's wear might also have appropriate hats. Since these things tend to get chewed, muddy or lost, don't use anything sentimental or expensive.;
, The hat may look adorable for a few seconds on your dog’s head, until he turns to look at a passing jackrabbit and it goes flying into space. To secure the hat:


Design a chin band to keep the hat in place. Gather a few supplies including scissors, an elastic band and a needle and thread. Find a piece of flexible, comfortable elastic to use as the band—also one in a color that complements or matches the hat. You’ll also need scissors and a needle and thread to attach the elastic to the hat.
Size the hat strap to fit by placing the hat on the dog’s head and measuring from one side of the hat to the other. You may also want to place the hat on the pup’s head, hold one end of the elastic next to the end of the hat and then thread it underneath his chin for an accurate idea.
Cut and fit the elastic strap to customize the fit for your dog. Once you know how long your elastic strap should be, cut to size. Cut enough so that each end can be sewn into the cap and always cut the strap slightly longer than your original measurement, in case your calculations are off.
Sew each end of the hat strap to the inside of each end of the hat. Don’t leave the ends poking out––sew the ends inside the hat for a more professional finish. (Loose ends may be tempting for your pup to tug and rip from the hat.)
Put the hat back on the pup with the strap to ensure a tight but comfortable fit. Make adjustments if the fit is not ideal.
 Once the construction portion of the hat is complete, now it's time to get creative. You’ll need to consider materials required to design the hat (felt, fabric, small toys, etc.) and how you plan to keep those materials in place (hot glue gun, sewing, etc).


Consider different occasions where your pet can wear the hat. If you're going for strictly one look for one occasion (such as Halloween or Christmas) you won’t need to worry about making the hat design diverse. However, if this is more of a “dog around town” type of hat, consider the different occasions he’ll encounter such as a dog park, visits with friends or even window-shopping.
Design the hat to be indestructible if you have a rambunctious pooch. If the hat becomes an annoyance for your dog, chances are he’ll not only want to remove it from his head, he’ll be out to destroy it too. In the event this does occur, you’ll want to make sure you’ve done a good job constructing the hat to minimize the damage and ensure that nothing toxic is attached to the hat. Consider using the sewing method instead of building your hat with a hot glue gun or other types of glue. Sewing will provide for a more durable hat and design construction.
Redesign the existing hat to accommodate the doggie design or to fit his personality. If you're using a baseball cap and your dog appears to be clearly annoyed with the bill, remove it. There’s no reason to have it hanging down over his eyes if he can’t see or if he is becoming anxious.

