 Cyberbullying can be more complex than the typical stereotype of the playground bully. While traditional bullying was often intended to make the bully seem powerful to others, cyberbullying is often anonymous. While the person spreading rumors or attempting to humiliate others online may feel powerful, their goal is more often to do damage to someone's reputation. They are also do not necessarily limit the audience to people who personally know either the bully or the target of their aggressive actions. For these reasons, cyberbullying can be both hard to stop and difficult to predict., If you are being threatened or harassed, they need to know about it. A number of the steps you may need to follow to get rid of the bully can be complicated, and you should inform them of the situation early on.
 Because of the complexity of cyberbullying, there is rarely one easy solution, but there are also options that are less available for use in traditional cases of bullying.


In many cases, school officials will do little to handle cyberbullying cases; unless there is evidence that the perpetrator was using school property to post online, they actually may have little legal authority to intervene.Service providers and internet companies like Facebook consider cyberbullying a serious issue, and they may intervene if you contact them. You may also be able to block them on certain sites.
Certain legal options may be available to you and your family. Web content can provide irrefutable evidence of harassment or threats. As a result of new state and federal laws, threats of violence posted online can even result in lengthy jail sentences.If this seems like a bit of an extreme solution, just keep in mind that you are not without options and do have some power to change the situation.
 While this is part of the standard program for dealing with traditional bullying, it may also be the quickest way to put an end to it. Make it clear that you are not intimidated by the cyberbully. You will ignore their posts and eliminate any of their hurtful comments that you can.
 This is another tactic that was recommended for use against bullies, but it often didn't work. It is difficult to ignore someone right in front of you, but it may prove easier to do in the online world. As a last option, if all else has failed, you can close down your internet accounts. If those online connections are vital to you, you may want to start new accounts to replace them, but take steps to discourage the bully from tracking you down again.


It may be useful to find alternate sites to keep your social connections. Diaspora and Frendica, for instance, are just a few of the many alternative social networking sites in existence. You may be surprised to discover how many people you know are already on these other networks.

