 Once you register to the game, it requests you to login with your password and email address (at this part, it doesn't matter if you don't give a valid email). You start by creating your character and horse. There will stand on the screen a base model of your character. You can change the hair, hair-colour, eyes, make-up, and you start with an orange top and mauve jodhpurs. Then, you choose your first and second name from an alphabetical list. A message will come up if you pick an already chosen name. Then you customize your horse. It if the same basic features as the character choosing, except with the horses the choices are more mane, body, and then you choose the name. Then the game starts to load and you are ready to play!


Until the player reaches level four, the game is free. Then, to continue the story and get access to cool new features, it's time to think of buying a membership.;
, There are Jorvik Shillings and Star Coins. Jorvik Shillings are earned from simple things such as racing, quests, and selling things from your inventory. However, Star Coins are more precious. Star Riders receive a weekly allowance of 100 Star Coins. Star coins can also easily be bought on the online site. Star Coins can be used to buy gear, clothing and later on, horses. There are plenty of shops scattered around Jorvik, each shop vary with prices, quality, etc.
 There are cafes everywhere, just find some tables and chairs, and there will be an option on the bottom right of the screen to sit down. You can change the camera angle so you can even zoom in. There are two options: order and open backpack. The backpack is your inventory. When you click 'order' A waiter stands near you with a speech bubble saying "May I help you?" and there is an inventory-shaped list of food and drinks waiting for you to buy. There are milkshakes, sodas, tea, coffee, and sandwiches, as well as many desserts. When you click 'buy' the item will be added to your inventory (just like ordinary buying) and you drag that item onto the table, and your character will eat and enjoy.
 You and your noble steed have a level, and the maximum level is 15. The higher level you and your horse are, the better quality clothing you unlock to buy. Also, to level up, there is a small bar next to your horse profile. Keep doing more and more races and that bar will soon fill up with orange. When the bar fills, Your horse levels up. It is a similar process with your character, but this time the bar is much larger and longer and can only be filled up by doing plenty of quests. Remember, the better mood and the higher level your horse is at, the better it performs!


You and your horse have stats. Your horse has swiftness, discipline, agility, endurance, and strength. Swiftness adds to your horse's speed, strength determines how high and far your horse can jump, discipline determines how well your horse responds to commands, endurance determines how much injury your horse can take (added onto the green bar next to the horse profile), and agility affects how fast your horse changes directions. For your character, riding improves speed, caring determines how long your horse feels good after caring for it, command shortens how long it takes for your horse to change it's gait, and jumping determines how long and far your horse jumps.

