 If you’re in a fight, you’ll need to know how to take a punch. Strangely, moving toward the punch is your best bet—not only does it throw off your aggressor’s aim, but it decreases their momentum as well. If you get hit at full extension of the arm, it will do much more damage than if you catch the punch before the full extension is reached., Throwing a punch starts at your base; your energy comes from your strong, back foot, which should transfer power through your shoulder. Don’t punch from your elbow, unless you want to throw a quick jab. Hooks should only be used when you’re in close, otherwise they are slower, easier to block, and harder to throw., Kicks should be executed with caution. Balance is key in a fight, and losing your base from a kick is probable and very dangerous. That being said, if you do find opportunity for a kick, a sweeping kick to the knees, shins, calves, ankles, or quads could damage your opponent’s base. Don’t kick with your toes; instead, kick with the top of your foot or kick straight on with the bottom of your foot (like a stomp)., Knees can also be used to great effect if your fight gets close. A knee to the core of your opponent can be very painful and temporarily debilitating, and a knee to their quad will help weaken your opponent’s base., Elbows should be used with caution, and should never be the primary means of an attack. They should be used when in close, and not in a flying, pile-driver sort of way. That can hurt everyone involved very badly.
 This is when things turn into much more of a wrestling match. Although terrifying (especially when facing someone stronger than you), it’s crucial that you don’t panic. Your primary goal (as always) should be the exit.


If someone attempts to take you down from behind, try stomping on their instep, reverse headbutting, and, if you can get a hold of them, twisting (and maybe breaking) their fingers.
If they tackle you, try to land on your side so that you can easily break away when you hit the ground (when grip is at its weakest).
They may also shove you, but a good stance should prevent falling. If you do fall, roll to the side and get up as soon as possible. Getting up while they are coming straight on makes you a much easier target.

