 Measure the width around the crown of the head. Measure the length from the top of the wearer's head down to the front of their neck.

Ski masks come in a number of different lengths. Decide if you want it to stop at the bottom of the chin or if you want it to pool at the bottom of the neck. Measure accordingly.;
, Extend the measurement to the outside of the eyebrows. It is essential that the space between the eyes be wide enough so that the wearer can see., This will be important when you cut the hole for the eyes.,, You will need them later on in the process., Although this amount will make more than 1 homemade balaclava, it will allow you to have some extra fabric in case of mistakes. Choose the thickness of the polar fleece based on the climate; the colder the climate, the thicker the fabric., In order to do this, keep in mind the shape of a balaclava and use the measurements you have recorded. Go to bikewinter.org/balaclava to see an example of a traced balaclava pattern.

This pattern will be traced onto folded fabric, so the pattern should be only for the left hand side of the face. Divide the width measurement and eye measurement in half to get an accurate pattern.
Measure and mark a line on the top of your sheet of paper to indicate the height measurement. Divide the width measurement in half and mark the horizontal width of the balaclava on your pattern.
Measure and mark the length between the top of the head and the top of the eye sockets on the left hand side of your paper. Divide the eye width measurement in half and mark the measurement from the left hand side of your paper. You will cut out a space for the eyes using these measurements.
Trace the pattern according to your marks and the shape in the example pattern. Connect your marks with a domed top for the head, a curve around the back of the skull, an indent for the neck and a space (for the eyes) that indents into the left side of the pattern. Make sure not to indent the area where your mouth and nose will go so that you have room to breathe.
