 Before you style, you need to get the cut that's right for you. Straight bangs pair very well with shoulder-length hair, but sideswept and bangs-free cuts also look great. Use your own personal preference to decide which cut is right for you.


While shoulder-length hair can be great on anyone, people with fine-to-medium hair will pull off this look the most effortlessly. For these hair types, a simple trim is often all that's needed to create a shoulder-length cut.
Thicker, curly hair will need to be cut in layers to avoid being wide at the bottom.;
, No matter your hair length, you should part your hair with your face shape in mind for the most flattering hairstyle.


Side parts are best for round, square, and diamond faces.
For a person with a heart-shaped face and shoulder-length hair, a center part is the most flattering.
Any type of part can flatter an oval face.Just because a certain type of part may look best doesn't mean you have to wear your hair that way. Feel free to experiment with different styles.
Pushing your hair to one side, or the opposite side you usually have it, can spice things up. Try a dramatic side part above the outer edge of one eyebrow, or do a more subtle side part an inch or two away from center.
Because the roots are used to your hair being positioned one way, switching will give your hair a little extra volume. For that same reason, though, it may take a while to "train" a new part to stay in place. To train a new part quickly, blow dry freshly-styled hair., Because shoulder-length hair tends to have more body than other hair lengths, it can support a greater number of accessories. It's long enough to put up in a hair tie while short enough for heavy clips not to flatten.


Slide on some flashy hair clips or pins to either hold your style together or simply decorate your 'do.
When wearing a headband, you can choose to tease out your hair to showcase its volume or flatten it down for a sleek look. Either will work for shoulder-length hair., How you define "regularly" will depend on how fast your hair grows. Shoulder-length hair can go longer without a trim compared to shorter styles. However, it should still be cut at least every 4-8 weeks to maintain a neat cut and to avoid breakage.