 Find an extra one lying around the house, ask a friend or relative if they have one, or buy one.


If you need to ask your parents to buy you a box, say you need it for storage or a school project.
Another thing you can do is give a friend some money and ask them to buy a box. Or if you have an older sibling with a car, take advantage of that.;
, Make sure you don't exceed that.


Watch the mailman for a few days and record the time s/he comes. Then wait outside and when s/he comes, run over and give the package to him/her personally so your parents don't find it if they need to mail a letter.
If they mailman comes while you are at school, give the package to him/her on a Saturday.
 Some stores will mail packages for you, but make sure you know if they do ahead of time. Print a map and circle the post office, your home, and your school.
 Are you going to bike to the post office when your parents are napping? Lie and say you're meeting up with a friend? Take a trip to the post office after school?


If you're going to leave the house when your parents think you're home, then you're sneaking out. This is an extremely dangerous thing to do in the daytime and not the best choice. You should only do it if it's the only choice.
If you lie and say you're going to meet up with a friend, you should either make sure your friend in with the plan (so if they're questioned about your 'day out,' they'll have a good story ready) or actually meet up with a friend. That way you won't be caught in a lie.
 You don't want to have a friend's mom drop you off at the post office five miles away, then realize you're stuck and have to call your parents. Have a backup plan and carry the supplies you need. Always assume the worst so you'll be prepared


Bring money for a cab in case your friend realizes she can't take you to the post office after all or you hurt your ankle while walking back from the post office or your bike gets a flat tire. Have the cab drop you off about a block away from home.
Think about the amount of time it will take to get to the post office, mail the package, and get back, then add another fifteen minutes for safety in case you your friend needs to stop for gas or the lines at the post office are longer than expected.
Remember it will cost money to mail a package.
 Practice it several times to make it sound believable.
 Don't stutter a lot, don't say you might be late from school that day, and don't ask if they are going to go to the post office that day.
 Keep in mind that lugging a package that size around will be very inconvenient and a lot harder to hide from your parents.
 You don't want your parents finding that.
