 Your exit code is the number that allows you to dial out of your home country (or the country you are calling from.) Keep in mind that each country has a different exit. If you are making an international call from the United States, your exit code is 011.


Run a search through your search engine of choice to find your country’s exit code. You can find your country code by running an online search with the query “--Your Country’s Name-- Exit Code”.
Two of the most common exit codes are 011--for the United States and other countries participating in the North American Numbering Plan--and 00, for Mexico, Europe and many other countries as well.
In some countries, such as Brazil, you might have multiple exit codes to choose from. Which exit code you use determines which international carrier you'll use to place the telephone call.;
, The country code is typically 1-3 digits long and identifies the country to which you are placing a call. The United Kingdom’s country code is 44.


If you're dialing from elsewhere in the United Kingdom, you don't need to input the exit code or country code (44). But you do need to add the leading zero to the London area code. So the London prefix becomes 020 instead of 20, as would be the case for an international call.
 This number can be 1-5 digits long and will narrow your call geographically in the country you are calling. These numbers always start with a 0 but the first 0 is dropped when calling internationally. London’s area code is 020, so you would drop the 0 and just use 20. So (if you were calling from the US) you would dial, 011 44 20, followed by the local phone number.
 As these are non-geographic they are tied to a specific area. You would still drop the 0 for cell phone calls. If you were calling a cell phone with one of the codes above you would dial 011 44 7939 or 011 44 7850.
 This is the direct phone number of the residence, business, or mobile phone that you are contacting in London. The United Kingdom uses 8-digit local phone numbers for landlines.,, London is on Greenwich Mean Time in the winter months, and British Summer Time in the summer months. London has an interesting geographic position in that it is located right next to Greenwich, where the prime meridian runs. Be sure to check the time in London before you place your call--it would be terrible manners to make your call when it is 2 am in London.


Clocks are set forward one hour on the last Sunday in March, and set back one hour on the last Sunday in October.
 Once you have gathered the required numbers, dial and wait for a ring to signal a proper connection. The following example represents the dialing sequence of a phone call to London, UK from New York, USA: (For the purposes of this example, the local phone number is 5555-5555) 011-44-20-5555-5555.


If you are calling a cell phone in London, you would dial 011-44-XXXX-555-555. (Where XXXX is the non-Geographic code such as 7939 or 7500)

, International phone calls can be very expensive. You may want to contact your phone service provider for information on international calling plans, Another option is to purchase a prepaid calling card to offset the cost.


Options for saving money include using a VOIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) program to place the call, using calling cards, calling during non-peak hours or signing up for a reduced-rate international calling plan. If more than one international carrier is available in your area, you might also get cheaper rates by switching carriers.

