 There are a few different ways in which you can make your claim for Social Security retirement benefits. The most straightforward of these is to apply online through the SSA website: http://www.ssa.gov/retire/apply.html. Completing this application should take less than 15 minutes and will provide the basic information required in order to begin processing your claim. This includes questions about you, your family, and your work.With this option you can begin whenever you like, and you don't need to make an appointment or wait in a line.
You don't have to complete the entire form all in one go. You can save your progress part of the way through.Once you have submitted the application it will be reviewed by the SSA.
After the review the SSA will contact you if they need any further information or documentation from you.
Once they have everything they need, your claim will be processed and you will receive a letter in the mail about the outcome., If you apply online, there will be a list of documents that are required on the bottom of the application form, together with information about where you need to send them. If you are applying in person, you will need to gather together the documentation which you will be required to submit with your claim. The key pieces of documentation you may be asked to provide are:


Your birth certificate or another proof of birth.
Proof of US citizenship, or, if you were born outside of the US, proof of lawful alien status.
If you had military service before 1968, you may need a copy of your U.S. military service papers. Such as DD-214 - Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty.
A copy of your W-2 forms, and/or self-employment tax return for last year., If you prefer to talk to someone in person when you submit your claim, you can do this at your local SSA office. You will need to phone in advance to make an appointment in order to do this. To find your local office enter your zip code into the SSA online search tool at: https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp. Here you will also find the relevant telephone numbers and opening hours of your local office.


You can also apply over the phone by calling the central SSA office at 1-800-772-1213.
The hard of hearing should call 1-800-325-0778.
The opening hours for the phone lines are Monday-Friday, 7am-7pm., If you do not live in the US, you can still make a claim for your Social Security benefits. To submit your claim, you should contact your nearest US Embassy, Consulate, or Social Security Office. The staff there will advise you on how to proceed with your claim.You can apply for Social Security retirements benefits online through the SSA's Office of International Operations.