 Parachute tag should generally be played outside. This way, the ground is big enough to hold the parachute. However, if you have access to a gym, you may also be able to play parachute tag there.;
, You will need someone to hold each section of the parachute. Usually, a parachute is large, so you will need a big group. Get enough players together that you can easily lift the parachute off the ground.When everyone lifts their section of the parachute up, the parachute should easily lift off the ground and wind should blow it into the air slightly.
 In parachute tag, someone calls the players' names and, once called, a player has to run to the other side of the parachute. In order for the game to run smoothly, you have to designate someone to call names. Usually, if an adult is playing, the adult will call names. However, if you're playing without an adult, you will have to decide amongst yourselves.If you're struggling to decide fairly, try doing something like "eeny, meeny, miny, moe," playing Rock, Paper, Scissors, flipping a coin, or drawing straws.
 To start, lay the parachute down on a flat surface. Everyone should assemble around the parachute. Keep everyone spaced out enough that you can lift the parachute evenly.Have everyone grab a piece of the parachute.
Parachutes are often cut into slices based on color. A good way to position yourselves is to have everyone stand before one slice.
 Once everyone is holding onto the parachute, lift the parachute up. You should do it on the count of "three" so you're working together. Raise your hands above your heads as you lift the parachute upwards., There are two ways to play parachute tag. You can have one player at a time run underneath the parachutes. You can also have two players on opposite sides switch places.Depending on what you decide, call either one player's name or two player's names.
The player or players will then let go of their section of parachute and run underneath. The goal is for players to reach the other side of the parachute.
 As soon as players start running, lower the parachute as a group. If the player who is running reaches the other side before the parachute touches them, they can remain on the other side. If the parachute touches them, they have to go back to their original spot., Parachute tag is not necessarily a game where there is a clear winner. You simply keep playing until everyone's name has been called. Once everyone has had a turn to try to run to the other side, the game is over., If you get bored with parachute tag, you can mix it up a little. For example, have people skip, run, or tumble under the parachute to get to the other side., It can be hard to learn how to move a parachute as a group. Before you start playing, have some practice runs. For a few minutes, lift the parachute up and down until you're used to moving it as a group., The freeze rule should exist for your safety. If someone yells freeze, especially a teacher or other adult, stop moving the parachute.You should yell "freeze" if someone is at risk for getting hurt. For example, yell "freeze" if a player has fallen under the parachute.
 Listening is vital for parachute tag. You need to listen to the group leader to know when to lift the parachute and when to bring it down again. You also need to listen closely so you can start running once your name is called.