 Think about meals in a 3-6 meals a day kind of way, assuming that you may add in, besides the usual breakfast, lunch and dinner, things like snacks and dessert.;
, Now separate out each type of planned meal and plan for each day. Will your guests be there before or after breakfast on Friday. If before, then plan on 3 days of breakfasts. You do not want to prepare the same thing each day, and can allow people options.


Cereal is a staple in many households, but it can get boring and not everyone is lactose tolerant.
Try Eggs and Bacon one morning
Pancakes and sausage is another good option.
Or you can splurge and get donuts as a treat for one morning.
 Lucky for you, fruit has been an adequate snack go-between for the breakfast to lunch scenario.


Get a few varieties that are easy to pop into the mouth or pick up and eat, like melons, apples, grapes, bananas, cherries, Blueberries, Peaches, Nectarines, Plums, Oranges and so many others.
 The sandwich has dominated the scene in America, especially, since the late 1800s. However, this does not have to be your only option.


Day 1: Salads, pizzas, mini-brioches, and crudites are acceptable and good for a small buffet so that people can have options.
Day 2: Make your own sandwiches
Day 3: Try to pick out something adventurous or different but allow for both carnivorous and vegetarian options as your guests may have a preference. There are so many cultures in the world that you can borrow from, like Sushi from Japan or Pad Thai dishes with Noodles from Thailand, or Curry (Available with any meat option) from India, and so many more.
 Keep a small tray or plate loaded with:


a dip of choice (French Onion, or Onion and Chives or Ranch are common)
plenty of cut up vegetables like celery which is cheap, carrots, again cheap, and things that are crisp like cucumbers, green/red/orange/yellow bell peppers, and broccoli and cauliflower. Add in a few olives (your choice of green or black) and you've got a grazer's paradise.
Present it with nuts one night,
potato chips another night and
tortilla chips with salsa the final night.
 Are your guests with kids or without? If will, keep mini-corn dogs and chicken tenders available for the first 2 nights. If without kids, plan your meals to cater to your audiences.


Grilling meats and kabobs one night will satisfy the new guests and add in American favorites like beans and chips or mac n cheese. Corn on the cob is always a treat and a salad will cover your greens, but make it colorful.
Do a pasta dish one night and offer both red and white sauces.
On your final night, select a dish that covers all your favorite meal options to give your guests a view of life from your perspective, but do it up. You want the last meal they have with you to be both filling and memorable.
 Now comes the easy part. Desserts are something that everyone has an opinion about but also has the most variety.


Cookies,
cakes,
pies,
ice creams,
popsicles,
cremes,
puddings, and so much more are available. The hard part will be in narrowing down the options enough to not overdo it and overwhelm your guests and their sweet tooth.

