 In many cases, you want to have a pen pal that has some common interests, so share a few things that you really enjoy and ask if they also like those things. To keep it simple for the first letter, you could mention broad interests like, “I enjoy outdoor activities,” or “I like going to events like concerts and plays.”You can be specific as well by mentioning the bands you life, parks you visit, or telling of an event you visited, but have a mix of general likes and specific likes.
 For a first letter, it is great to give the reader a few specific points that you would be interested in learning about them. This gives them a little bit of a head start for their first letter back to you. Don’t get too personal for the first letter like, “What is the worst thing that has ever happened to you?” Stick with something simple like “What do you like to do on weekends?”A fun option can be including a small questionnaire that you’ve written up that has questions and blanks for the person to write their answers. This could have some questions like “What is a book you like?” or “What’s a favorite food you have?” They don’t have to be serious or meaningful, they could be silly questions like “What animal would you want to be?”

, When you choose a pen pal, there’s a good chance you will have somewhat different lives, especially if they are in another country. Giving them an idea of what you do most days reveals some of your experiences to them.This also gives them something to write back to you telling their own experiences.
If the person is in another country, you could tell them you have wondered if kids in their country do the same stuff that you do. It will build a feeling of companionship between you. It also gives them the chance to tell you about their day, which could surprise you by being really similar or really different.
 Something to add a little flavor to the letter is to include a magazine clipping, a picture that you drew, a scrap with a quote you like written on it, a copy of a poem, or a picture of something you like. You can get really creative with this step. Almost anything would add to the letter.You don’t even have to say anything in the letter about what you include. It could be something that adds a little mystery to the letter and makes the person want to write back to find out what it’s all about.

