 If you’re concerned about the environment, treat plastic as your #1 enemy. Whether you’re looking for a new lamp, flooring, or furniture, scratch any products made from this material off your list. Expect plastic to have wide-ranging consequences on the environment. For instance:The chemicals in plastic are poisonous to wildlife. This is a particular threat to marine life, which are more likely to ingest plastic.
Plastic debris in oceans and waterways provides transport for both plants and animals. This can introduce invasive species to new environments with devastating results.
Plastic can endure for centuries or even millennia with prolonged negative effects on the environment.
Nearly 10% of all oil production is devoted to the manufacturing of plastics.;
, Any time that you use fabric to touch up your home decor (such as with curtains, bedding, throw pillows, or rugs), check which materials are used. Expect some fabrics to be non-biodegradable. Additionally, be aware that some are highly consumptive of energy during production and/or otherwise harmful to the environment in less obvious ways (such as utilizing pesticides during production).Fabrics with negative impacts on the environment include non-organic cotton, nylon, polyester, rayon, and non-organic wool.
Sustainable fabrics include bamboo, organic cotton, hemp, linen, and organic wool.Also be aware that dyes, bleach, and formaldehyde are often used in the production of fabrics, which should also be avoided.
 Whenever you purchase new home decor, consider both the before and after for each product. Choose materials that cause minimal negative impact on the environment both in terms of production and future impact, like wood, metal, and glass. Whether you’re looking to paint a room, carpet a floor, or just buy a picture frame, research your options and become an informed consumer.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency provides an extensive guide to eco-friendly choices for your home at https://www.epa.gov/greenerproducts/identify-greener-products-and-services.
Recycled materials (such as plastic lumber) are also a popular choice, since they often use relatively little energy to make without bringing any new harmful materials into existence.

