 Find one that looks like a miniature version of the larger flat irons typically used to straighten hair. If you already have straight hair, you can use flat irons to actually add wavy, natural-looking curls. An iron with rounded edges is ideal for curling.


It's important that the styling iron you choose is very thin. It will be difficult to wrap the short hair of your bangs around a standard thick hair straightener., Applying even heat throughout the curling process will give you the most consistent results. Make sure your iron is heated to the right temperature before you begin. The temperature you set it to will depend on your hair type:


Fine, fragile, or damaged hair should be styled between 250 and 300 degrees Fahrenheit.
A temperature of 300 to 350 degrees is best suited for hair of medium or average thickness. If you aren't sure where your hair falls, try this setting first.
Very thick hair is best curled with a typical flat iron's "high" setting, which is usually between 350 and 400 degrees., Start by selecting a roughly half-inch strand of hair from your bangs. Bring your flat iron up and clamp the strand between the two plates.Start with a strand on either the far left or far right. Working in a single horizontal direction will make missing a stray lock less likely.
 Rotate your wrist outward and away from your face by one half turn so that your hair becomes wrapped around it. Hold the strand's tip with your free hand and gently pull the iron down towards it. Release the iron once you reach the bottom of your bangs. The entire process, from clamping the release, should take about 5 seconds. Avoid holding the iron in one place for long to avoid burning your hair., For a natural look, don't pick the same point to clamp down for each strand. Start each curl either slightly higher or lower than its neighbor. Try to make your curls all the same thickness by separating out similarly-sized strands. If you find doing this on the fly difficult, you can always portion out the strands before you start curling and hold them together with bobby pins.
 Once all of your bangs are in curls, run your fingers through your bangs while twisting your wrist a few times. Finish with a little texturizing spray instead of normal hairspray. If you have naturally straight hair, you probably know that it can be difficult to hold style and volume. Texturizing sprays are great for giving body to fine hair. These sprays are lighter than traditional hairsprays, which can actually weigh curls down.


If you're having extra difficulty getting a curl to hold, try ironing again, this time applying some heat-activated mousse to your bangs first.