 Convincing the dog that you are in control is vital. This shouldn't be done through cruelty, such as beating or hitting the dog.


It is done by simply stepping in front of the dog, and making it back up and allowing you to go through a doorway first. It is done by taking a bone/toy away from the dog when you want it. Don't play when your dog wants you to; play when you want to, and stop when you want to.
Use your voice, but understand that dogs respond to tone and emotion as much as words.Change the tone of your voice appropriately - for example, lighthearted and higher to say well done, and serious and deeper for commands and when the dog isn't doing as it should. A firm no or nope is as important as praising a puppy or dog for doing things properly.
 You can establish control with a dog while walking the dog with a leash. Don't let the dog take the lead or go off leash.Take the dog for long walks. Make sure you are either walking ahead of the dog or side-to-side. A stubborn dog always thinks he is the leader, and not you.
Whenever you train a dog, she or he is training you. People running after their dog on a long leash is an example of a well-trained human to a dog. It is a game of patience, and the more patient one wins, and the less patient one loses. A tired dog, though, might be easier to train at home when you get back.
 The easiest command to teach is "sit." Once they learn a command, the others will come a little easier. They will start to realize that will get praise and a treat if they can figure out what you are trying to tell them.


Use audible and visual commands. Say "sit" and make some sort of hand gesture. Make sure to do the same thing every time or you will confuse the dog and make the process longer.
In the beginning, reward the dog if it gets close to sitting. Eventually you can work your way to a full sit. However, once they execute a full sit, you should not reward them for a half-hearted sit.
Think of ways to break up a trick or command to make it easier for the dog to learn. Don't make the dog roll over for the first trick or it will be too complicated.
 Teach the dog to wait for the reward. Don't let them sit for a split-second, and then bounce around like a hooligan. The reward only occurs while they are calm and obeying.


Do not show emotion or frustration, as the dog will pick up on this, and it won’t help. Keep calm and remember your dog is doing their best. Show the dog love.Dogs will never obey an unstable person. If you are scared, your dog might get dominant towards you and, if you are excited, he or she will not take you seriously. If you are aggressive, he or she will be confused about what to do and won't follow this kind of energy.

