 If you want to motivate your child to learn how to skate, help get them excited about skating. Watch figure skating competitions on your television set. Have your child go to a local figure skating competition and watch other skaters. If you know another skater in your neighborhood, or a relative, have them talk to your child about figure skating.;
, Figure skating requires a lot of coordination and agility. To help your child prepare to learn how to skate, encourage them to play games that help with these skills. The following childhood games can help your child learn to figure skate:Hopscotch
Jumprope
Skip to my Lou
Twist and Shout
Tight rope

, Take advantage of local ice rinks and go skating as a family. Start when your child is young. Bring them out on the ice and help them develop basic skating skills.Make sure to use proper equipment for safety. Your child should wear a helmet as well as knee, ankle, and elbow pads. A child who is just learning the skate is likely to fall a lot at first.
 When your child first gets introduced to the ice, teach them to walk on it. This will help them gradually get used to the feel of ice and eventually build up to skating.Have them gently march on the ice, shifting their weight from one foot to another. At first, a child may only be able to march in place. Eventually, they should be able to move slightly across the ice.
Practice walking backwards and forwards and side stepping. Once your child gets used to the feel of ice, you can encourage them to skate.
 Once your child is comfortable walking, help them learn some basic skating moves. Have your child hold their hands in front as they push forward, moving them as if they're washing a table. This will help them maintain balance. Teach them to start slowly gliding on the ice. Have your child hold one blade sideways and push forward across the ice., Many parents encourage their child to lean on chairs and slide them across the ice when they first begin skating. However, this encourages children to lean forward when they skate. In the long run, this can lead to bad habits that can make figure skating difficult. Avoid using chairs for support when introducing your child to basic skating moves., In addition to taking figure skating, look for other classes that build skills basic to skating. Gymnastics, roller blading, tumbling, and dance classes can all help your child get into figure skating.


Make sure not to overwhelm your child with too many extracurricular activities. Let your child choose which activities interest them and do not force them to take a course they dislike.

