 There are certain conditions that indicate you need to wake up your tortoise. If you use the natural seasonal progression to determine when to let your tortoise hibernate, you should wake him up when the temperature increases above 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius) in the area of his hibernaculum, which is his home during hibernation. This temperature stimulates his metabolism, which is when it is best for him to wake up.


If you notice urine in his hibernaculum, you should also go ahead and fully wake him up. This is an indication that he is partially awake, which means he should fully wake up to avoid sickness.
If it has been four months since your tortoise went into hibernation, he should also be woken up. ;
, The first thing you need to do to start waking him up is move his hibernaculum from where you've kept it protected and stored while he was hibernating. This is typically outside, so you can bring it indoors.


Once indoors, sit his hibernaculum next to a heater or radiator for a few hours. Remove it once it reaches room temperature., While the hibernaculum is warming up, you need to prepare your tortoise an area to recover from hibernation. This area needs a heat lamp or a tortoise table in order for it to maintain the right temperature. The constant temperature in the tortoise enclosure needs to be at least 86 degrees Fahrenheit (30 degrees Celsius).


The heat lamp should be around 150 Watts and mounted about 40 cm (15 to 16 inches) above where you lay your tortoise, which is perfect distance for him to bask in the heat.
Do not rely on the natural heating in your house because it will not be hot enough for your tortoise. which has a heat lamp., You need to put your tortoise in an area where he will receive a lot of natural light. This is important to stimulate certain hormones in his body, which will encourage him to eat. To help stimulate your tortoise when he is coming out of hibernation, you can try an artificial UVB light. This will help him develop his appetite and immunities faster and help him regain the energy he lost during hibernation.


The exact UVB bulb and set up will depend on your particular tortoise habitat, so you may want to ask your a qualified veterinarian that specializes in reptiles for advice. You can also ask a qualified pet store associate.
The use of an extra UVB light is controversial among tortoise owners. Many people do not think that tortoises need more UVB light than that provided by the sun., When your tortoise is just waking up, he needs plenty of water. This will help him flush any toxins out of his system that he accumulated while in hibernation. This is even more important than food since he needs to drink before he can eat.


Your tortoise will not just drink the water from a bowl. You need to instead put him in a bath of lukewarm water no higher than his chin. Also splash it on his shell and head. When he first wakes up, he may dip his head under the water and drink directly from it. This is normal. Leave him for five minutes at a time and do it daily for about a week or so, which should be about the time he eats properly again.
He then needs to sit with his tail region in a small bowl of water for about 20 minutes once to twice a day. Since tortoises can absorb water through their anuses, this will help him get hydrated while he wakes up.
Make sure the water bowl is not so deep that he could drown. To keep just his tail end in the water, prop his upper body on a smooth rock or book and leave his tail end in the bowl of water.
You can place him in a tub of water, but you have to ensure his head is not covered so he won't drown., One way to help boost your tortoise while he is waking up is to put a little glucose (sugar) in some water to help get his energy levels back up. While he hibernates, this is stored in his body, but he will regain energy faster with a little extra glucose on his system.


Make a mixture of 2 teaspoons of sugar in 250 milliliters (8.5  fl oz) of water. Give your tortoise 10 to 20 milliliters (0.34 to 0.68  fl oz) of this solution a day as he is waking from hibernation.
You can also use Pedialyte or Reptoboost, an electrolyte boosting substance specifically for reptiles.
Only do this around the time he is waking up from hibernation. Doing it all the time can lead to high blood sugar levels., After you get your tortoise to drink water, he will also need to eat. Give him fresh fruits and vegetables that will entice him to eat. Tomatoes and strawberries are especially good when he is first waking up because tortoises find these foods extremely tasty, which will encourage him to eat them.


The amount of food he eats will vary depending on what stage of the waking up period he is in, so just put in what you would normally feed him per day and gauge how much he eats.
Since he will be under a heat lamp, you will need to put small portions out a few times a day. Leaving the fruit and veggies too long will cause them to dry out and your tortoise won't eat them. , Once you've set to waking up your tortoise, he should start eating within seven days. If he doesn't, he may be sick. If you notice that your tortoise refuses to eat, you should take him to a vet that specializes in reptiles immediately. If you let it go, he could get worse. You also need to check his overall appearance and demeanor to see if he is healthy. When he wakes up, check his:


Body for lumps, swelling, scraps, or cuts, as well as pinkness under his shell
Eyes for inflammation or discharge
Tail for unusual odor, discharge, or swelling
Nose for blockage or discharge
Mouth for signs of rot, which include yellow or white cheese-like residue
Ears for abscesses
The longer you leave him alone without treatment, the greater the risk of complications for him will be. This can lead to infection or overwhelming, which can cause organ failure., The best temperature to keep a tortoise under while he is in hibernation is between four and six degrees Celsius (39 to 43 degrees Fahrenheit). This is not hot enough to wake up your tortoise and not cold enough to cause any cold based damage, such as frostbite.If you think the weather is too hot for your tortoise, you need to use refrigerator hibernation, which uses special refrigeration equipment.
During this time, he will use his body fat reserves for nutrition to maintain his organ functions.
 Most places do not have the right natural weather patterns to match a tortoise's hibernation needs. This means you must manipulate his environment for him to mimic his natural hibernation habits. The maximum amount of time you should let your tortoise hibernate is four months, though he can hibernate for shorter periods of time., It is important to maintain your tortoise's environment while he is hibernating to avoid partially waking him up. If the temperature changes in his environment, his metabolism will be kick started and he could start to wake up. When this happens, he uses part of his reserves, which can weaken him if he goes back into hibernation.


The most obvious sign that your tortoise has been partially woken up from hibernation is the presence of urine in his hibernaculum., If you wake your tortoise improperly or allow him to hibernate too long, his health may go into an downward spiral. Your tortoise can wake up weak and have a suppressed immune system, which makes him more susceptible to infections and other sicknesses. If he uses too much energy during hibernation, he also may not have enough energy to ever wake up.


If he also doesn't receive the right temperature conditions as he wakes up, he may not eat adequately, which will cause weakness and lead to a lack of energy reserves to keep him healthy and happy.If he is partially woken up and then goes back into hibernation, he runs the risk of getting sick from lack of energy when he wakes up in the spring. It is better to wake him up then leave him so he will be weak when he does come out of full hibernation., Only certain species of tortoises are meant to hibernate. This relies on your tortoise's native environment and if his history called from hibernation in order to survive.


Common species that need to hibernate are the Hermann's tortoise, spur-thighed tortoise, Horsfield's or Russian tortoise, and Marginated tortoise.Never hibernate tropical species of tortoises, such as the Leopard tortoise. You should also not hibernate your tortoise if he is smaller than 700g in weight, or if he is sick or has health problems. If your tortoise has these problems, keep him awake and regulate his temperature during the cold months instead.
 Tortoises hibernate to conserve their energy. During the winter, your tortoise will likely go into hibernation if the conditions are right. This is because the colder conditions are not as suitable for him, so he goes into hibernation to conserve his energy and survive longer.