 People who require a lot of surge protectors, modems, hard drives and other computer devices can string them to a piece of pegboard cut to the size of your desk. Place the pegboard inside a closet or mount it behind your desk.


Use plastic zip ties to keep all the devices secure. Zip ties come in white, grey, black or other colors that match flooring and walls.
Make sure the pegboard gets plenty of air, so that your electronics don’t overheat.
 Any cords that run the same length from the outlet to the device can be strapped into one solid cord with zip ties. This will allow you to pick up the cord bundle and clean behind it.
 Home improvement stores sell corner, wall and floor molds that install over the cords and onto the wall. Paint the mold to match your wall color, so that it looks like part of the wall’s molding.
 Purchase a rubber or plastic protector that matches your flooring. Then, insert the cables into the bottom and stretch it along the wall or between rooms.


The protector is designed to reduce tripping hazards. They are available in many colors and lengths.
 Measure the space that you need to cover between the outlet and the appliance. Cut a piece of durable material in a matching color to the exact length and a six-inch (15.2cm) width.


Hem several lengths together for very long cord covers.
Place double-sided tape on the edges of the fabric at the ends. Fold them over, and then stitch a seam with one-inch (2.5cm) stitches through the tape.
Sew Velcro hook across the entire length of the cord protector on both sides. Make sure you sew on the topside of your protector.
Attach double-sided tape to the back of the fabric. It should be applied along the entire length on both sides. Fold the Velcro inward, so that it is on the bottom side of the fabric.
Sew a hem through the fabric about one inch (2.5cm) from the edge.
Wrap the cover over the cords and press it down onto the looped carpet, where it will adhere until you want to remove it., Make sure it extends from the outlet to a piece of furniture against a wall, so that you can hide the cord completely.
 In some places, you can cut a hole near the outlet and a hole near the device and loop your cables through the back of the wall. Don’t knock holes into the wall until you are sure the structure isn’t load-bearing or until you have the appropriate tools.

