;
, Many people spend years of their lives trying to lose weight but fail because they have a bad body image of themselves. The reason is this: one of the laws of the universe, the law of sufficiency and abundance, states that if you do not believe that what you have at the moment is good enough, IT WILL NEVER be good enough. Once again you may find this strange or not understand this if you don't know or understand the law of attraction.
 You need to appreciate all the good things about yourself, and accept all the things that you might not like about yourself. For example, instead of looking in the mirror and thinking 'Argh! I'm so fat, I'm so unattractive' you need to say, well actually, i appreciate my body because its healthy today, its keeping me alive, its doing its job. There are countless reasons to appreciate our bodies. Think of all the fundamental things about them that we rely on that are working. Think to yourself, 'I have lungs! They're healthy, they're working, they take in my life force, the keep me alive!' Appreciate and be grateful for these things about yourself, and you will attract to you more things to be grateful for.
 When you visualize what you want and you feel good about it, you are literally drawing to yourself those things that you want from the unseen into the seen; the metaphysical into the physical. Visualization and meditation lead to ideas and inspired action, and when you have these inspired ideas, follow them.
 At first it might seem like you're making it up because you're not used to it, so don't beat yourself up about that either. It's just your ego trying to keep you exactly the same as you are-that's its job. But your soul knows better than that. What you have right now, and as you are now is good enough.
 Feel it from the inside. Imagine what it will feel like to have that toned, flat stomach; those defined arms and legs. Whatever it is that you want to create, visualise what it will feel like, and feel it.
 When we appreciate our body as it is right now, we give our subconscious messages that we love and accept our bodies right now, which attracts to us even more to love and accept, and so our subconscious starts to create our ideal body for us.
 There is no doubt that it feels magical, but you do have to actually do something. It must be both physical and metaphysical (this is part of the law of polarity). This is why you still need to eat healthily and do regular exercise.
 You must eat only when you are hungry, and when you do eat, don't stuff yourself. Imagine it as a fire: it has small amounts often to keep it burning, you don't throw a whole tree on it and then leave it. Its the same in this case. If you stuff your body with food that it does not need, it takes longer to burn, so when you are hungry and you do eat, eat only until you are moderately full.
 A lot of the time, especially with comfort eating or boredom eating, or any type of emotional eating, we have other needs that are unfulfilled. People often do not realize this, so they eat, because its the only thing they know to do in that moment when they have some sort of need. Stop and assess what it is that you really need.
 You may notice that if you have not exercised for a while and then you exercise, it feels great! It's a huge relief, it's like your body is saying thank you. Because it is. Being active is our natural state.
 Do the exercise that you're inspired to do.
 It is our minds that lead us to being unhealthy and unfit, our bodies want to be healthy.

