 When planning the playdate, choose a time of day when your child is normally energetic. You should also determine how long you want the playdate to last. Playdates that are too long or too short leave everyone upset and grumpy. Tell the parent the pickup time when they drop off their child.


Two hours is an ideal amount of time for a playdate. This is just enough time to have a lot of fun without the children getting tired of each other.Ask the other parent about their child's schedule as well. Try to find a time that works best for you, your child, and their friend.
 In order to establish a good pattern for playdates, you want to be sure you extend invitations to the right kid(s). Choose someone your child is fond of and with whom they have been known to play nicely.


Avoid aggressive children or those who tend to cause a stir on the playground. You want the playdate to go as smoothly as possible, so choose a child that best suits your own child's play preferences and temperament.
 A successful playdate is all about the guests, including how many there are. One guest is great, but two is a recipe for disaster. One person will likely feel left out.


If possible, try to keep younger siblings away from the playdate. Allow your older child to play with their friends instead of also having to entertain their brother or sister. Occupy your younger child or schedule their own playdate., Plan out the activities you choose to include in the playdate ahead of time. Make sure they are age-appropriate. Planning ahead of time allows you to set up before they get there so you don’t take up time during the date.


Inform the parents ahead of time of your planned activities so they can dress their child appropriately. Don’t forget that meeting at a playground or park is also an option if you want to spend time outside and don’t want to deal with cleanup. , Ask about food allergies, sensitivities, and dislikes before the date. Doing so can prevent any medical problems or fussy eating during the playdate.


If possible, inform the parent of your planned menu before the playdate. Try not to take offense if they disagree with your plans. They may have strict dietary guidelines for their children or they may not want them to have something they normally wouldn’t. , When you have extra children in your household, you have to be proactive about fights, meltdowns, illnesses/injuries, and even potty accidents. Talk to the parents ahead of time to find out about each child's quirks and temperaments. Have a plan in place to take kids to an urgent care center for illness/injury and/or contact parents in the event of a fight or meltdown.


Ask parents to bring extra underwear if a kid has a history of bathroom incidents.

