 It is an executable file and doesn't need a zip program to open it.;
, If you have a particular place to put graphic programs, this is when you will tell it where to go.
 A screen comes up that will allow you to choose the size of the image that you are making.
 Right away, you will notice there are differences.


Natural paint tools. To select the tool that you want, right click on the brush. In this image, you can see your initial options.
Fill options. When you right click on either of these, you can find your many choices for the fill options.
Selection to alpha options. This allows you multiple ways to select. You can draw, use the ellipse or rectangle or use the magic wand. Use the Shift to add or subtract to your selection.
Custom brush tool. This is one of the fun tools. After you have done some drawing as in the image, click on this tool and choose what size you want the brush to be. It will be rectangular. Once you have done that, you can draw with it to your hearts desire!
Linear tool. This allows you to make a perfect straight line with your brush, no matter which one you use.
Curve tool. This tool allows you to make an arch with some degree of precision.
Text tool. With this tool you can move your text box easily, center it, change your test and anything else you might want to do.
Pan the image. To use this tool, click on it and hold it down. From there, not the image, start moving it around. You will notice that your image is moving around. This helps when your image is larger than your screen.
Zoom tool. Like the panning tool, click and hold on the icon and move your mouse around to get the zoom you want.
Rest of the options. The rest of the icons are as follows:

Zoom back to 100 percent. This basically allows you to 'reset' the image.
Fit the image into the window
Fill and gradient settings
'Turkey Baster'. This samples a color from the buffer (image).
Undo/Redo. Click on this with your left or right mouse button depending on what you want to do.
Clear buffer. This complete clears the image. This is probably the handiest tool here!



, Click on Window and then select the toolbar you want to use.





