 If you run out of power, Freddy Fazbear, the main antagonist, will come and end your long night.;
, The four animatronics are Bonnie the Bunny, Chica the Chicken, Foxy the Fox Pirate, and Freddy Fazbear. These animatronics are listed in order of activeness. Bonnie is the most active, while Freddy is the least. Bonnie, Foxy, and Freddy come to the left door, and Chica always comes to the right door. Freddy also comes to the right door from night 3 onwards.
 However, this is all you'll need. The animatronics rarely attack, making this the best night to try to find Golden Freddy. Freddy is not active at all, (unless if you run out of power) Bonnie and Chica are not very active, and Foxy only has a small chance of appearing.
 Bonnie and Chica are activated much faster than on Night one. Foxy also appears, making the player constantly check the cameras. This is the final night where Freddy only attacks you if you run out of power. Once you check both doors about 7 or 8 times, check Pirate's Cove. Then, go back to checking your doors and rotate between the two.
 Chica and Bonnie become significantly more aggressive. Foxy also peeks out of the cove much faster than on Night two, so keep an eye on that. Freddy also becomes active on this night, but only a little. He will attack if not kept a close eye on. Use the same method for Night 2, except look at the Show Stage occasionally as well.


If Freddy is getting closer (i.e. East Hall or East Hall Corner), you may want to shut your Right Door whenever you check the cameras. Freddy is most likely to move when the monitor is raised .
 Freddy is much more active and is aware of the player's gameplay tactics. He is incredibly difficult to understand, predict, and deal with from now on.


Chica and Bonnie have the ability to make the doors and door lights fail completely, indicating they have infiltrated The Office and will attack when the monitor is next lowered or up for too long.
Foxy is also very active, sometimes peeking out before 1 AM.
 Night 5 is where the game gets incredibly brutal. The animatronics are more active than ever.


Just repeat this and you will (hopefully) survive the night, get a paycheck, and unlock the secret sixth night.
 In order to complete the night, it is advised to have certain amounts of power at certain times.


1 AM needs at least 80%, 2 AM needs at least 60%, 3 AM needs at least 40%, 4 AM needs at least 25%, and 5 AM needs at least 9%.
Completing Night 6 will unlock Night 7 (the Custom Night).

