 State and federal antitrust laws, which include price fixing laws, help ensure that businesses compete in an open and free market and that consumers pay a price for goods that reflect supply and demand. Antitrust laws recognize that when competition is reduced, the price of goods normally rises. At the state level, antitrust laws usually mirror federal laws. Each state's antitrust laws definitely outlaw price fixing.


State antitrust laws are enforced by each state's office of the attorney general. The attorney general's office investigates and prosecutes violations when they arise. The attorney general of each state represents the citizens of that state as well as the state as a whole.
One of the most common ways the attorney general's office becomes aware of price fixing schemes is through citizen reports.
To find out how to report a suspected price fixing scheme, visit your state attorney general's website., Start by visiting your state's attorney general website. Once there, find your way to the complaint page, which every state website should have. Read about your state's complaint process, which should include what needs to be in a complaint, where a complaint must be filed, and how it will be handled.


In general, state antitrust complaints are accepted online, by mail, and by email. Some states will have interactive complaint pages (e.g., Washington) while others (e.g., New York) will provide you with forms you can fill out on your own., Each state will request slightly different information on their complaint forms and websites. In general, the complaint will start with you providing your personal information. This will include your name, address, and contact information. Next you will provide contact information for the company you are complaining about.


The body of your complaint will then identify the alleged price fixing scheme and details about the evidence you have. Some complaint forms will also ask whether you have contacted your own lawyer, filed your own lawsuit, or whether you have any documents evidencing the price fixing., Once your complaint has been completely filled out, you can email it or mail it to the address provided by the attorney general's office. If you are allowed to submit it through the attorney general's website, you can simply click the "submit" button once you are done.


Be aware that your complaint will likely become public record once you submit it. This means the information you provide will be accessible to the public and they will be able to see it if they search for it., Once your complaint has been submitted, it will be reviewed in the order it was received. Even in a smaller state like New Hampshire, the attorney general's office can receive over 3,000 complaints each year. Once your case has been processed (usually within about four weeks), you will receive a confirmation message and you will be given a reference number. You will use this number whenever you contact the attorney general's office to talk about your complaint.


When your complaint is reviewed, it will be looked at by paralegals and lawyers who will determine if it has merit. If it does, you may be told to hire a private lawyer, your complaint may be forwarded to another agency, or the complaint may lead to an enforcement action by the attorney general's office.In most state attorneys general cases, your complaint, if valid, will turn into an investigation and possibly a lawsuit. However, you will usually not be involved past the complaint stage unless you are asked to testify at a trial.

