 If moisture has made your powdered food blocky and chunky, you'll first need to break up the powder into smaller pieces. You may want to use a tool, like a wood spoon, metal spoon or ice pick to do this.


Try to get the lumps in your food as small as possible. Aim to have no chunks larger than roughly the size of a marble. This will make the straining process easier on you.
 Hold a thick tined, sturdy strainer over a clean, dry container. Then, a little bit at a time, add your lumpy powdered food to the strainer. Sift loose bits into the container and use a clean, dry tool, like a wooden spoon, to push lumps against and through the mesh of your strainer.Try not to be too forceful when pushing lumps through the strainer. This could cause damage to the strainer.
Some lumps may not break apart easily. In many cases, these will be unsalvageable and can be thrown away.
Tiny lumps that are small enough to fit through the spaces of your sturdy strainer may remain in the mixture. This is ok.
You may need to sift with your sturdy strainer a few times before your powdered food becomes consistent throughout. When you reach this point, you're ready to move on.
 Take a fine mesh strainer and position it over a clean, dry container. Pour your powdered food a little bit at a time into the strainer and sift loose powder into the container below. Then, using a tool like a wooden spoon, push remaining clumps through the fine mesh to break them apart.


Fine mesh strainers are usually a little more delicate than the thicker variety you used previously. Use light to moderate force to prevent breaking your strainer.
If you notice lumps that stubbornly resist breaking up in your strainer, you should remove these and throw them away.
You may need to strain your powdered food several times in your fine mesh strainer before it is consistent throughout and your lumps are broken up.
Depending on how find your mesh strainer is, you may have very small lumps remaining in your powdered food. In this case, you can repeat the process with an even finer mesh strainer until all lumps are gone.
 Moisture is the major culprit that causes most clumping and lumping in food powders, so you may want to use an airtight container. Your powdered food is now ready for use.