 It's one thing when a classmate or loose acquaintance is acting fake. When a close friend starts acting fake, however, it can seriously affect your life because it's much harder to avoid or ignore this person. If you suddenly notice a change in your friend's behavior — s/he starts acting in a way that you know isn't true to their self — speak up. Be prepared for a little resistance, however. No one likes to hear that they are doing something wrong.


For example, if you notice that your friend is hanging out with mean, petty people to look "cool," tell your friend that you're surprised by this. Stay polite, but don't shy away from mentioning that you think these people have terrible priorities.
 Understanding why your friend is acting this way can make it much easier to overcome his or her fake behavior. Asking your friend questions about his or her new behavior is a good way to figure out what's going on, but it's important to stay respectful. You don't want to upset your friend when you can avoid it. Try asking questions like:


"Hey, I've noticed you acting a little differently lately. What's up?"
"So you've been hanging out with some different people, huh?"
"What's all this new stuff you've been talking about lately?"

, To a certain extent, what your friend chooses to do is his or her business. However, if the desire to be "fake" cool leads your friend to do things that are unwise, it's your duty as a caring friend to intervene. You may not be able to stop your friend from doing these things, but you can let them know how damaging you think it will be.


If your friend is getting involved with things that put his or her safety in danger (like, for example, drugs), you can tell a counselor or parent. They may be angry about this, but it's better than the alternative.
Only do this if you are genuinely concerned for their safety. It is not your place to patrol your friend's choices in life.
 Keep in mind that you never have to fight fakeness alone. If you've noticed that one of your friends has been acting fake, odds are that your other friends have too. When your fake friend isn't around, discuss what's going on with them. They may have new perspectives or inside information that makes things easier to understand. Together, you can come to a decision about how to deal with your friend's new behavior.


Try to avoid having your conversation turn into a "dogpile" session. Remember that your goal is to talk about how your friend is acting differently than you're used to. It's not an excuse to make fun of this person or offer complaint after complaint.
 Ultimately, you can't force someone not to be fake. If you're having trouble getting your fake friend to "see the light," take a step back. Let your relationship cool before you start hanging out again. Avoid hanging out with this person one-on-one and limit your interactions when you're hanging out in a group. Showing your friend that fake behavior makes it so that you don't want to hang out may persuade him or her to stop. If not, at least you'll limit the amount that this person can annoy you.

