 Get an antistatic wrist strap and attach it to some bare metal on your case to avoid any static discharge on any of your components. If you do not own a wrist strap, use any other method of grounding yourself. Just be aware that if you do not ground yourself while working on your PC, you risk damaging your components.;
, Whenever you are working on your PC you should always unplug it from the wall for safety reasons. For this task, it would also be a good idea to unplug everything else as it makes it easier to move the case around.
 This step should be very similar on most cases. Take the thumb screws out of the back and slide both sides of the case off. This will reveal the whole inside of your PC.
 This step will be different for everybody as most people don’t have the exact same hardware. Take a minute to look inside your case and examine the cables that may be cluttering up your case.
 The first thing to do is get all of the cables you need and bring them out of the left side of the PC (behind the motherboard). You will most likely need a motherboard connector, CPU connector, and a PCI-E connector (if you have a dedicated GPU or any other PCI accessories).
 You can now take the cables you just separated and route them through the cable management holes on your case (if you have them) and begin plugging them in. If they are too long, you can tie them up behind the motherboard.
 If you do not have a modular power supply, this will be a critical step for you. After plugging in all of the necessary cables, you can now bring all the cables you aren’t using outside of the case, behind the motherboard.
 Now is the time to zip tie or tape all your cables together. You can tape them up and tape them to the back of the case so you can’t see them when the side panel goes back on.
 Make sure all these cables run neatly to your motherboard.
 Everything should now be nice and tidy inside your PC. You can now put the side panels back on and plug everything back in. Your PC should now run cooler and quieter.

