 Studies have shown that one of the biggest culprits of visceral fat is sugary beverages, sweets and foods made from refined white flour.Limit or cut out these foods to help reduce belly fat.


Sweetened beverages like sodas, fruit juices and sports drinks in addition to candy, desserts or pastries can increase visceral fat. In addition, foods made with white flour or are highly processed carbohydrates are also responsible for packing on fat. Look out for crackers, white bread, plain pasta, and white rice.If you crave sugary sweets, try replacing your typical snack or treat with a more nutritious food. For example, try: low-fat Greek yogurt or fruit.
 Many studies have shown that increased alcohol consumption is linked to increased amounts of visceral fat.Limit or cut out alcoholic beverages to help reduce belly fat.


In addition, many alcoholic beverages are mixed with sugary, sweetened beverages. The combination of sugar and alcohol together increase your risk for visceral fat.
In general, women shouldn't drink more than 1 glass of alcohol daily and men should limit their alcohol to 2 glasses daily., In addition to choosing sources of healthy fats to include in your diet, you should also try to limit or avoid certain types of fat that can increase belly fat and the chronic conditions associated with it.


Avoid all trans-fats. These fats are man-made and can cause hardening of the arteries, increased LDL (the bad cholesterol) and decreased HDL (the good cholesterol). Avoid all products that contain partially hydrogenated or hydrogenated oils. These are found in fried foods, processed foods and processed meats.Eat only moderate amounts of saturated fats. There has been a lot of back and forth research over whether or not saturated fats are unhealthy. Since fats in general are higher in calories are you're trying to reduce weight and body fat, limit these types of fats. They are found in animal products like butter, full fat cheese, red meat and lard.Make sure to limit fatty cuts of meat, fast foods, fried foods, processed meats as these types of foods are the highest sources of unhealthy fats.

