 Acrylic and other synthetic yarns do not take dye very well, if at all. Your yarn need to be 100% wool, such as alpaca or sheep.Other natural fibers, such as cotton, may also work.


White yarn will give you the brightest colors. If you want a softer effect, try gray, cream, or beige instead.;
, You will need 1 gallon (3.7 liters) of room temperature water and 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of white vinegar for every 100 grams/cc ounces of yarn. You can prepare the solution in a sink, tub, bucket, or pot., Remove any wrappers from the yarn first, then dunk the yarn in the water. Gently squeeze it until it soaks up the water and sinks. Leave it in the solution for 1 hour., Once the soaking time is out, take the yarn out and gently squeeze it. Do not wring it, however, or it may felt.You want the yarn to still be damp but not dripping-wet.
 There are lots of things you can use to dye your yarn with, including liquid food coloring, gel food coloring, and flavored juice mix (ie: Kool Aid). You can also use professional dyes as well, but you'll need to use special utensils for that to avoid contaminating your cookware. You can use just one color, but two or three will make your yarn look more interesting.
 How you prepare you dye depends on the type of dye you are using. Liquid or gel dyes need to be diluted first. Powdered dyes need to be left in powder form for this method. If you are doing multiple colors, you'll need to pour each dye into its own cup or plate.


Dilute ⅛ teaspoon of gel food coloring in 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of water.Dilute 6 drops of food coloring in ¼ cup (60 milliliters) of water., This project will get messy, so it would be a good idea to protect your surface with plastic wrap or a cheap, plastic tablecloth. You can also spread the yarn out in a casserole dish, baking dish, plastic tub, or tray.Don't unroll or unwind the yarn. You simply want to separate and spread out the fibers so that they are easier to get to.
 The prongs will pick up just the right amount of dye to create speckles. If you are using powdered dye, dip the fork into a cup of water first, then dip it into the dye.Another option for liquid dye is to use a dropper or pipette to apply it. This will create bigger speckles., Keep poking the yarn in various places until the dye starts to fade. When that happens, simply reload the fork with more dye. You can switch to a new color at any time, but you will need to clean your fork first. An even better idea would be to use a separate fork for each color.If you are using powdered dye, such as powdered drink mix, you can sprinkle it directly onto the yarn in small patches., Use your hands or a clean fork to gently shift the yarn around and reveal more blank patches. Dip your fork into more dye and poke the yarn some more.If you are using a dropper, simply drop more dye onto the yarn.
If you are sprinkling powder dye on, then sprinkle more on.
 There are multiple ways to set dye into your yarn and make it permanent. It all depends on what you have access too and how much time you have. You must set the dye, or it will come out when you wash the yarn.


You only need to use one of the heat setting methods from below.
 Preheat your oven to 350F (177°C) first. Once it reaches the right temperature, place your yarn onto a baking sheet lined with aluminum foil. Tuck the baking sheet into the oven, and wait 45 minutes. Once the baking time is up, take the yarn out., Fill a large pot with a few inches of water. Bring the water to a boil, then set a steamer basket over it. Place your yarn into the basket and let it steam for 30 minutes. Take the yarn out at the end, and let it cool.Make sure that the yarn does not touch the water.
Add some salt to the water. This will help set the dye further.
 Place the yarn into a microwave-safe baking dish and cover it with plastic wrap. Microwave it for 2 minutes. Wait 2 minutes, then microwave it for 2 minutes more. Take the yarn out of the microwave when you are done., All of the setting methods involve heat. Once you have finished setting the dye, you will need take the yarn out, and let it cool. Set it down some place where it won't be disturbed for a while. Wait until it becomes cool enough to handle. How long this takes depends on what heat setting method you used and how much yarn you dyed.
 This will get rid of any excess dye that did not get set into your yarn. Do not scrub, twist, or wring the yarn while you rinse it, or it will felt. Instead, hold it under running water, gently moving the fibers around, until the water runs clear.An alternate method would be to soak the yarn in several changes of water until the water turns clear.
You can use a little bit of soap if you need to, but be careful., You can hang the yarn from a clothesline using clothespins, or you can drop it across a drying rack. Make sure that there is good circulation all around the yarn. It might also be a good idea to set a tray under the yarn to catch any dripping water.


Don't let the water pool under the yarn.
 Once the yarn has dried, you can use it just like any other wool yarn. Depending on the weight and type of yarn you used, you can make all sorts of things from it, including hats, scarves, fingerless gloves, and sweaters.

