 Taking away things that are fun in order to change your child’s behavior usually backfires. Instead, use fun activities and extras to motivate your child. For example, if your child gets zero warnings or discipline at school, they can watch 30 minutes of TV or play with a friend.Let your child know what they can earn through good behavior at school. It might be dessert after dinner, time on the trampoline, or playing video games. Make sure it’s exciting and motivating.
Remember that positive reinforcement is much more effective than negative reinforcement.
 Check in with the classroom teacher about how your child is doing. Perhaps you can do weekly phone calls or ask the teacher to send home brief notes about behavior during the day. Work with the teacher in order to help your child succeed and create a united front.Set up a meeting with the teacher to talk about behavior concerns and how you each can support your child in following good behavior.
Use a behavior journal to communicate with the teacher and ask to use it everyday. That way, good behaviors can be celebrated at home and bad behaviors can be dealt with appropriately.
 Communicate your interest in how school is going. Your child may be acting up due to boredom or because they’re struggling to understand. Falling behind or being ahead of the class can create boredom, frustration, and anxiety. These feelings can be confusing for a child and lead them to act out in class or with their peers.Ask them about schoolwork. Say, “Tell me about your classes. What’s easy for you? What’s hard for you? What’s in like when you don’t understand?”
When asking about peers, say, ”Tell me about your friends. Is it easy or hard to get along with kids at school?”

, If your child is experiencing significant problems at school, you may want to see the school psychologist or a behavior specialist. Some behavior problems can result from learning problems or difficulties with attention, like ADHD. Kids with ADHD might be inattentive, easily distracted, fidgety and hyperactive, and have poor impulse control. These deficits can affect school and/or home environments differently and interfere with prosocial behaviors.Children who suffer significantly with behaviors at school may have problems with learning and express their frustration through being loud, obnoxious, or aggressive. Schedule testing with a school psychologist if you have learning concerns.
Be sure that your child gets enough exercise. They might be fidgety and energetic due to a lack of movement or diet.

