 Going to random houses doesn't work well. You want to go to a neighbourhood with densely packed homes, so you can ring doorbells a mile a minute. Print off a map from an online mapping service such as Google Maps. The day before Halloween night, walk through your neighborhood and mark (on your map) which houses have Halloween decorations out. This is an indication they are handing out candy.;
,

Zigzag across the road as necessary. This may not be safe on a busy road, but it is the most efficient method since you don't need to spend extra time walking down a road twice.
 Don't take a bucket; use a large treat bag or old pillowcase. Use a light costume that won't make that bag heavier, and possibly double back, stash your treat bags and head back out to a different place. The tried-and-true car bag trick gets you more candy in the long run, so you can crash in the morning. Prepare!


In addition to this bag, consider wearing a large hiking knapsack (not a small backpack that one would use for school) to empty the bag into when it is full.
 If you're hungry, you'll end up eating candy, which slows you down. Eat a good dinner, or plan for one, and pack snacks if you're going to get hungry., A gang of three or four people is big enough, so get two or three friends and cover the ground together., Everybody hands out big handfuls of candy, thinking they have more than they do., You're racing against the clock!, There are usually signs directing you around to these areas, but some people still miss them.
, Dressing up in something that makes you super cute or bringing your adorable baby bro who has angel curls can really get people cooing and being much more generous on how much you get from them.
 Sort your candy into good, okay and bad. Your best trading fodder is okay candy. These are your workforce. Good candy is not for trade unless there's a perfect candy you need like a medium Skittles instead of a fun-size.

Pull off some gambits. Want a full-size Snickers? Roll over some Smarties and M&Ms, candies that people may not like but they will take. Maybe offer a Kit Kat. Pretend you don't want to give it to them, but then get the Snickers with it. Trade small candies for better candies, then work your way up to a good candy that you can trade for a better candy. Set up a few gambits from TV Tropes using a roll of weird no-brand money candy.
 After getting the candy you want, finally you can eat it. Devour it while it lasts!