 Your child will be learning important principles to math while staying busy. One person thinks of a number and the other person asks yes or no questions to get clues until they can guess the number. Have your child think of the number first, so you can give them examples of the kinds of questions to ask. The person who has chosen a number should say, “I’m thinking of a number between 1 and 100,” for example. The other person can ask questions like:Is it an odd number?
Is it less than 50?
Can I get to it if I count by fives?

, Give your child containers or non-perishable groceries and have them set up a store. This should take some time as they arrange their products and put prices on everything. You can have them create coupons or put certain items on sale. When they have everything set up, you can go shopping at the store. The six-year-old should have a calculator and be the cashier.Teach your child the different math symbols on the calculator and how to use them.
Challenge them with understanding how much each item is if it is being sold as 2 for $8.
 Try experimenting with different items and guessing whether they will float or sink. Have your child compare a block of wood with a plastic bottle cap. Ask which one is heavier and which they think will float. Place the items in the water one at a time to test the predictions.


Push both items under the water and see which one floats back to the top.
Try wadding aluminum foil into a ball and putting it in the water. Then give your child another piece of aluminum foil and ask him to make it into a boat and see if he can make it float.
Explain the dispersion of weight and how the boat is being held up because the weight is spread out over more water to support it., Teach your child “Peter Piper” and see how fast they can repeat it. Have them come up with their own tongue twisters. Expose them to poetry, then give them words and have them think of other words which rhyme., There are plenty of games available which can teach your child dexterity, critical thinking, working with others, memory skills and more. Some can be played with you or friends, while others can also work as solo games. Find some good, age appropriate games and help your child learn how to play them."Go Fish" is a simple card game which will teach your six-year-old how to hold cards in one hand, and learn pairing.
"Spot" it is a popular card game which teaches matching and challenges observation skills. It also comes in a small, portable package for taking with you on the road or pack for an event where you think your child might get bored.
"Hoot Owl Hoot" works on using strategy. The unique aspect of this game is its focus on working together instead of against the other players as each player works to set the next player up for success.
"Memory" is a classic game which can also be played solo. As the title implies, it will help your child work on memory skills.

