 Prepare a baking sheet by lining it with nonstick aluminum foil.


When using the broiler, it is important that you prepare the baking sheet with foil rather than greasing it with nonstick cooking spray or oil. Due to the intensely high temperatures of the broiler, using excess oil can actually be a little dangerous, since the heat can actually cause the fat to smoke and, on rare occasions, even catch fire.
Most broilers only have “on” and “off” settings. If yours has “low” and “high” settings, however, switch it to the “low” setting.
 Use the prongs of a fork to pierce each sweet potato about 6 to 10 times, spacing the piercings apart in a relatively even manner.


Piercing the sweet potato allows more heat to penetrate the inside of the vegetable while also preventing pressure from building up inside.
 Place the sweet potatoes on a microwave-safe plate and cook for about 16 minutes, or 4 minutes for each potato.


Pause and turn the potatoes after each 4-minute mark to prevent them from cooking unevenly over overcooking.
When done, the sweet potatoes should be soft but not quite falling apart. If the sweet potatoes are soft enough to fall apart, you will not be able to cut them into clean slices before broiling them.
 Let the sweet potatoes cool for a few minutes, or until they have cooled enough to touch with your bare fingers. Cut each sweet potato into 1/4-inch (0.625-cm) slices.


You can cut the sweet potatoes into crosswise slices or lengthwise slices, but either way, you should try to aim for a thickness of 1/4 inch (0.625 cm).
You can peel the sweet potatoes with a paring knife or vegetable peeler if you are not a big fan of the skins, but the skins contain extra fiber and other nutrients, so it is actually healthier if you keep the skins on.
 Place even pats of butter over the slices and sprinkle the sugar on top.
 This should take about 5 to 8 minutes. The sweet potatoes should be golden-brown, and the sugar should be bubbling and gooey.


Keep the sweet potatoes about 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) away from the upper heat source of the oven.
 Let cool for a couple of minutes, just until you can touch the sweet potato slices with your bare skin. Enjoy while still warm and gooey.

