 Gestational diabetes is only diagnosed in pregnant women. During pregnancy, a woman's body increases the production of certain hormones and nutrients that can cause resistance to insulin. This causes the pancreas to increase its insulin production. Most of the time, the pancreas is able to deal with making more insulin and the mother will have slightly elevated blood sugar levels, but it will remain manageable. If the body starts building up too much insulin, then the mother will be diagnosed with gestational diabetes.


If you are pregnant, you should get tested between week 24 and 28 to see if you have it. There are no symptoms, which makes it hard to diagnose otherwise. If it goes undiagnosed, it can cause problems with the pregnancy.
This type of diabetes goes away after the baby is born. It can redevelop at Type 2 later in life., Gestational diabetes does not have any obvious signs or symptoms, but the mother is at risk if she lived with diabetes before the pregnancy. If you feel like you may be at risk, you can get screened before you get pregnant to see if you might have any early indicators such as prediabetes. The only way to know for sure, however, is to be screen during your pregnancy., This test requires the patient to drink a syrupy glucose solution. Then the patient has to wait for an hour. Once the hour is up, the blood is tested for blood sugar levels. If the levels are below 130-140 mg/dl, then the patient's levels are normal. If it is higher than this, you are at risk for gestational diabetes but don't necessarily have it. You will need a follow-up test called the glucose tolerance test., This test requires you to fast overnight. First thing the next morning, blood sugar levels are tested through a blood test. Then the patient drinks another syrupy glucose solution. This drink has a higher level of glucose. The blood sugar levels are checked once an hour for three hours. If your last two readings are higher than 130-140 mg/dl, then the patient is diagnosed with gestational diabetes.