 Your body and face should tell your boyfriend how you're feeling before you say a word. You can already let him know that something is about to happen with the right look and the right gesture. Here are a few things you can do:


Maintain eye contact. You should stare him in the eyes without being too intense. Make him feel important.
Turn your entire body toward him. Let him know that he has your undivided attention.
Touch him lightly. Put your hand on his knee, graze his shoulder, or rub his back.
 Now that you have all your ducks in a row, there's no more holding back. You've been planning to share your feelings, and now's the time. You can make him feel comfortable by making small talk or laughing a little, but cut to the chase.


Relax. Take a deep breath before you give him the news. Tell yourself that you'll be relieved once you tell him.
Be direct. Don't beat around the bush. You can be cutesy or funny later, but love is a serious matter. Just say, "I want you to know that I love you." You can also say, "I've fallen in love with you."
Don't look away when you say it. The look in your eyes will show him your commitment.
 After you've given him your big news, take a minute to let him say something. Though you may be dying to say more about your feelings, remember that you've just told him something very important, and that he needs some time to consider it. Now, one of two things will happen:


In the best-case scenario, he will tell you that he shares your feelings and that he has been waiting to tell you how he feels.
He could also say that he is overwhelmed and needs some time to think about it.
The worst-case scenario is that he will be completely thrown off and tell you that he didn't think your relationship was so serious. If this happens, don't despair! You'll work through this.
 Whatever his reaction, your effort doesn't stop after you told your boyfriend that you love him. Once he tells you how he feels, you have to know what to do next to make sure the relationship is as strong as it could be.


If he tells you he shares your feelings, hug him, kiss him, and celebrate your love!
If he says he needs some time to think about what you've said, give him space. Don't pressure him or get upset. Respect that he needs more time to make a decision and don't ask him any questions or you could make things worse.
If he says he doesn't share your feelings, don't despair. For one thing, if you're really sure about your feelings and fairly certain about his, this probably won't happen. But if it does, be proud of yourself for opening up and doing something brave, and work on moving on.

