 Start your wife’s day off right by making the bed in the morning while she gets ready for the day so she does not have to do it. A small gesture like this can show her that you want to be helpful and make her day that much easier.You can also improve her morning by making breakfast for her. This could be a nice cup of coffee and some eggs or setting out coffee in a travel mug and yogurt for her to grab on her way out. She will likely appreciate having to worry about one less thing in the morning and be grateful for your nice gesture.;
, If your wife is constantly asking you to do chores around the house and then getting annoyed when they do not get done, change this pattern. Take initiative and do chores around the house before she asks you to do them.Take out the garbage, tidy up the kitchen or living room, do yard work, and do laundry. Show her that you want to make her daily routine less stressful and that you are willing to follow through on your responsibilities at home.
 Your wife is likely busy and on the go, balancing work and home life as well as her own needs. Being helpful in a tangible, immediate way will likely make her smile and appreciate your efforts.Offer to help her cross off an item on her to do list for the day so she is less stressed and can take some time for herself. This could be something as simple as picking up the kids after school so she can go to her yoga class or dropping off an item for her work event so she can spend more time with her co workers.
 If you and your wife have children, you may want to carve out some time for just the two of you to spend together. You could arrange for a babysitter and plan a day where you do some of your favorite activities as a couple. This may be an intimate dinner at your favorite restaurant or a picnic in the park on a nice, sunny day., Make your wife’s day by surprising her with a thoughtful gift that she will appreciate. This could be something as simple as a bouquet of her favorite flowers or a box of her favorite sweets. You may also buy a card that sums up your love and affection for her, and leave it on her pillow in the morning for her to find.You could also get creative and make your wife a thoughtful gift, like a picture frame with a nice photograph of the two of you or a piece of jewellery made by hand. A creative, homemade gift can show her that you put time and effort into her gift.
 Give your wife the gift of a nice meal that she does not have to make herself. Prepare a dinner of her favorite foods, or surprise her with a new, delicious dish. Take care of the grocery shopping, the cooking, and the setting of the table. Then, lead your wife to her meal and let her relax as you serve her dinner. This will likely thrill her and impress her.As an added bonus, offer to do the dishes after dinner so your wife really has time to relax and put her feet up. This is an especially good idea if your wife usually does all the cooking and the cleaning. A change in the routine will show her you are trying to be considerate and kind to her.

