 Most funding sources will demand that you pinpoint the exact goals, or objectives, a grant would fund and what steps you would take to meet those objectives. These may include expansion of a business to create jobs, research & development of green technologies, and projects to stimulate the local economy. The key is to both be specific and realistic.


The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has a self-paced computer course discussing different options for financing your business, including business grants.SBA Small Business Development Centers are also a source of information, which can include counseling and education on business financing.;
, Your business plan will be the heart of any funding request. Your business plan is the blueprint for your success and will act as a road map for a funder to understand and trust your ability to run your business. At a minimum, your business plan should include several key sections: The Executive Summary is a one-page snapshot of your business. This is the place for your mission statement, a few facts about your company, its history, and a short statement of your goals (objectives).Your Company Description includes the nature of your business and proposed marketplace and highlight your strengths including experience, unique services, and existing customer base.The Service or Product Line details what you make, what you sell, or what services you provide. Don't make it just a catalog, use this section to highlight how your business benefits its customers.Marketing and Sales and Financial Projections is your place to crunch some numbers. Show your current sales, balance sheets, and what marketing efforts you will use to increase these sales. For new businesses, include realistic projections and advertising plans. Make sure you include any specific financial information required by the grant application., If you have an existing business you want to expand, you will need at least three years of taxes, sales, expenses, and other proof of your claims. For a start-up, the funder will still likely want to see your personal taxes to determine your worthiness and responsibility.
 Make sure at least one of them is not familiar with your business. Along with finding typographical errors, this person can tell you if the plan makes sense and both educates him and keeps him interested in your business.
 A cottage industry has grown up promising that, for a fee, you will receive catalogs, software, and guides to access "free government money." The only profit there is to the company selling the guides. The Federal Trade Commission has issued a consumer alert about companies promising to get you "government money for nothing.", The SBA does not give out grants for starting or expanding a business.However, the SBA website leads you to the federal grant search tool. The Business.USA wizard will ask you questions about your business (for example, is it located in a rural area), and provide a list of grant resources you may qualify for.The Business.USA wizard results for your search also provides a sidebar of resources local to your zip code with contact information. These sources are typically lenders, rather than grants, but still should be considered for information and possible funding.
 State and local governments operate closer to the local economy and are often looking for ways to help businesses grow.There is no centralized directory of state resources. The best place to start is on your state, county and city websites, or your local library. Chamber of Commerce offices are also a good source of local information., Time to think outside the box. Is your business located in a historical area? If so, there may be funding available for restoration of your property.Many banks and businesses are also offering competitive grant programs and contests for innovative businesses. The Mission Main Street Grants program by Chase Bank has awarded grants for popular small businesses since 2010.Also be on the lookout for business "pitch" contests in your area or an area you are willing to move to.For example, the Arch Grants organization sponsors an annual grant competition for companies willing to relocate to St. Louis., Grants from private businesses and foundations often have very narrow and specific focuses. To get the best match for your business, it helps to understand that focus.


Research past recipients of the grant. This information is usually listed on the grant website. Other options include a web search of the grant name and "past winners." If there is a phone number or email address, request a list of past recipients. Be realistic. A grant that primarily supports art-focused businesses is unlikely to consider your technology-based project.
Be aware that many grants are "matching funds," requiring that you pay a portion of the cost of the project. If necessary, contact the grant organization to confirm the amount of funding you would be responsible for paying., Grants are very competitive. As a result, they are sticklers for deadlines. Draw up a calendar of all the interim deadlines for the grant program and stick to it. Is your business plan due by May 12th? Then make sure it is delivered by May 12th — better yet, May 11th. Sounds easy, but missing a deadline will likely disqualify your application.
 The RFP is the beginning of the grant writing procedure. It will tell you exactly what the application package must include. Do not deviate from it in any way. Failure to keep within the grant's parameters could result in it being denied in the early stages.If a question doesn't apply to your business, do not leave it blank. Instead, fill it in with "Not Applicable."


Convert your goals into objectives. Your goal may be to open a bakery to supply high-quality healthy cakes to your community. That is reasonable, but it doesn't help the grant funder. They want to know your objectives. Your objective is to lease a central location, equip it with modern energy-efficient kitchen appliances, and hire two assistants with training in nutrition in order to create healthy cake alternatives for your community. Break your overall goal into a list of specific objectives that can be met and how they can be measured if you are granted funding.Formulate your budget based on your objectives. Research the kind of equipment would be best for your business or how much manufacturing your product will cost. A funder may not be able to meet your entire request, but may be able to pick out line items from your budget that matches their goals and resources. For example, for a bakery, don't say: "Kitchen Equipment: $25,000." Break that list down into individual appliances and model numbers. Be prepared to give alternatives if asked.
Consider consulting a professional grant writer to review your application before you submit it to the funding source. Not only can a consultant pick out typographical or formatting errors, an expert can match your application to the RFP and advise you on how well you complied.
 Don't let a computer glitch or mail failure derail your grant application. Have all of your documentation at your fingertips in case you need to submit a duplicate.

