 You will need to pick a thread that is close to the color and thickness of the existing sock yarn. You can also use a dark color for horizontal stitching and a lighter color for vertical stitching. If you have a dark sock, using white thread will help you to see what you’re doing more easily. Same goes for a white sock and dark thread. It doesn't have to match exactly--unless you are a foot model, not too many people will see your sock-covered feet.






;
, This article says darning needle, but really it can just be a regular old needle. You will want to thread the needle with one or two strands of thread, depending on the weight of the sock. As you may have guessed, if it is a thicker sock you will want to use a thicker thread (or two pieces of thread.) Tie a knot in the end of the thread. You will begin by sewing from the inside of the sock, out, so that your knot is on the inside of your sock.
 These little darning eggs are wooden ovals that help to push the toe of the sock out so that you can see where the hole is. You can buy them at any craft store.








If you don’t have a darning egg or don’t want to buy one, you can pretty much use anything that is round. A tennis ball works well, as does a lightbulb, so long as you are very careful. You can also just use your other hand--stick it in the sock like you would your foot. This last option will make darning your sock a bit more difficult.
 Use little sewing scissors to snip away any threads or flyaway string that are hanging from the hole. Just make sure that you don’t actually snip one too many times and make your hole even larger.
 You are now going to make a large running stitch to the other side of the hole. A running stitch is the most basic of sewing stitches. All it involves is running your needle and thread up through the inside of the sock of the sock and out, then making a stitch to the right, and then pulling your needle back up and out of the sock again.








You can also choose to sew a running stitch for a few rows above and to either side of the hole. Doing this reinforces the sewing you will be doing to close the hole up and supports the thread around the hole (which is probably pretty thin and on the verge of forming a hole itself.)














, You will want to run your stitches up and over the hole, going back and forth until the hole is blocked up with parallel stitches.
 Creating stitches that go perpendicular to your previously made stitches will reinforce the patch you have essentially created out of thread. Weave your stitches in and out of the previous stitches.








