 Bullies and haters do what they do in order to exert power. They want to know that they have the ability to control you, including your emotions and reactions. Don’t give them that satisfaction. Ignore them as an effective counter.Ways to ignore a bully include walking away, acting as if you aren’t listening to them, or telling them that you’re not interested in what they are saying.
For example, you have options if a bully tells you that your school project was terrible. You can walk away. You might also tell him directly, “Your opinion doesn’t really matter to me.”
Ignoring a bullies doesn’t necessarily mean acting as if the abuse isn’t taking place. What it means is that you refuse to react how they want you to react.;
, Deflating can be a bit like ignoring. In both cases you are denying the bully the satisfaction of having power over you and your emotions. The difference is that you are engaging their behavior but in a way that derails it.Saying something as simple as “Why would you say that?” turns an insult back on the bully, without seeming aggressive.
You might also try being dismissive of the bully, saying “Really?” “Whatever,” or even pretend not to hear. All can help to deflate the bully’s behavior.
The key to deflation is to confront the hater without retaliation. You poke a hole in their attempt to control you. If they see that you aren’t vulnerable to their abuse, they may move on.
 Bullies and haters need audiences. They do not abuse others for the sheer fun of it but in order to establish a place in a social pecking order – to raise themselves at your expense in the eyes of others. If you take away their audience, they lose their purpose and power.This technique is not always easy and might be outside of your control. However, you can sometimes work against a bully. Try deflating them in front of others, for example.
Say that you walk into the lunch room and your hater starts tear down your performance in the school play in front of a group. Saying, “Geez, it’s only a play. Hey Alex, I heard that you scored tickets to the big game. Great!” both deflates the bully and deflects the conversation. You have taken away his audience.
 Growing up, a lot of us heard that we shouldn’t be “tattletales.” This advice isn’t very good when it comes to bullying and may even be harmful.Be willing to talk to someone if you are experiencing out of control bullying or abuse, especially if it is physical. Talk to a trusted adult, a teacher, a family member.


It is in your interest to report threats and assaults. If you don’t, the bully may become more aggressive.
Your safety should come first. Standing up to abuse is your choice, but don’t take unneeded risks with an aggressive hater or bully. Tell someone if you feel threatened or in danger.