 Depending on the version you’re playing, you can get the Boomerang as a reward by completing certain missions.


In “Oracle of Ages,” you can get the Boomerang by winning at the Goron Shooting Gallery found in Lynna Village. All you need to do is to simply hit all the balls thrown at Link.;
, Boomerangs can also be found inside treasure chests.


In “Ocarina of Time,” you can find the Boomerang locked inside a big treasure chest inside Lord Jabu-Jabu’s Belly—the third dungeon in the main storyline.
In “A Link to the Past,” you may also find a Boomerang kept in a chest inside the house of the Sweeping Lady found in Kakariko Village.
 In some other versions, you can get a Boomerang by simply purchasing one.


In “The Minish Cap,” the Boomerang can be bought from the shop in Hyrule Town for only 300 Rupees.
 Press the “Start” button on the controller of your gaming console (Wii, N64, 3DS, etc.) and the item inventory should appear, showing all the stuff you currently have at your disposal.
 Using the directional arrows of the controller, navigate and select the Boomerang from your item inventory.
 Once selected, press any of the Action buttons available on your controller (X, Y, A, etc.) where you want to equip the Boomerang to, and it will be equipped to that specific key.


Press the Start button again to go back to the gameplay screen.
 Face the target where you want to throw the Boomerang at. Your targets can either be stationary items, such as far-off switches, or moving ones, like enemies roaming around.
 Press the Action button you assigned the Boomerang to, and Link—your main character—will throw the Boomerang at the target he’s facing.
 In some game versions, like the “Minish Cap” and “Oracle of Seasons,” the Boomerang’s direction can actually be controlled. After throwing it at the target, press the directional keys to control its path.
 Once the Boomerang has been thrown, it will only go a certain distance before it comes back. Even if you move from the original location you were when you threw it, the Boomerang will always come back to you wherever you are.


If an item is standing on its path, the Boomerang will bring that item to you.

