 Go for a yellow table theme for the whole setting. Choose yellow plates (or yellow rimmed/patterned plates), yellow napkins, yellow Easter displays (especially with yellow chicks), daffodils and jonquils, yellow glass pebbles in a glass bowl, yellow candles and bowls of yellow candies and Easter eggs.


White breaks up yellow neatly without interfering and provides a contrast that will prevent the yellow from being "too much".
 Go crazy with bunnies and have them the major theme of the table. Use bunny napkins on the plates, bunny shaped plates for holding sweets and food, crafted bunnies (knitted, crocheted, sewn, etc.) and bunny figurines (look for the ones that are painted to look like chocolate). If your children used Bunnykins or Peter Rabbit bowls and plates, rummage around and pull these out to use again! They're great for holding candies and chocolate eggs.
 Choose a spring theme for your Easter table. This setting will focus principally on the flowers available at this time of year. Perhaps they come from your garden or perhaps you need to buy them; whatever the case, make beautiful arrangements down the length of the table. Reflect the colors of the flowers in the tablecloth, dinnerware, napkins and other table display items. This theme allows for great freedom in adding spring animal babies, including piglets, foals, calves and the like that are not as closely associated with Easter as bunnies, chicks and lambs. Include green foliage in the flower arrangements. Try to make use of a good balance of spring colors, such as pinks, yellows and greens.
 It's possible to overdo the table setting with lots of Easter goodies. One way to sidestep this is to go for the minimalist Easter table setting. Place a small Easter tree with natural branches into a glass vase. Place several neat birds and some blossom at even intervals around the tree but don't add too many––just enough for effect. Place this in the center of the table. Use plain white tableware. Add pastel dyed eggs to a white bowl as a decorative element. Place some flower tops into white egg cups and use napkins with only one color and a simple piece of twine or raffia tied around them.

