 The most common sign of heart disease in a German shepherd is a cough.This usually occurs at night when the animal is resting. Fluid buildup in your dog’s lungs may trigger a series of coughing fits. If your dog coughs for more than three days, you should take them to the vet.The cough is often described as similar to a smoker's cough, due to its harsh, hacking nature.;
, Your German shepherd will probably have a lack of energy, exhibit lethargy, or show signs of fatigue. Your pet may not be as energetic or lively as they used to be, and they may lie around the house or sleep more. Due to the restricted blood and oxygen circulation, your pet may tire sooner than normal.Your dog may have difficulty exercising because of restricted oxygen flow. In extreme cases, the dog may faint or pass out during exercise.
 Respiratory problems commonly occur when a dog has heart problems because the heart has difficulty pumping oxygen to the body. Your German shepherd’s heart will have to work overtime to get blood flowing.Pooling of fluid in the lungs makes gas exchange more difficult and the dog has to put in extra effort to breathe. This may look like rapid breathing at rest and exaggerated movements of the chest wall.


Some dogs may need to use their belly muscles in order to help expand the chest to help breathing.
 If the heart disease has been around for a while, many German shepherds will have a poor appetite. Your dog may refuse to eat or want to eat less food than is normal. Therefore, your dog may start to lose weight.


In some circumstances, this can be masked by fluid accumulation in the belly due to poor circulation. However, these dogs will feel bony when stroked and have a disproportionately big abdomen.
 If you notice any symptoms of heart disease in your German shepherd, take them to the vet. The vet will perform a thorough clinical exam and assess the dog's body condition, how lively the dog is, and how well the dog is breathing. The vet will listen to the way the heart sounds with a stethoscope in order to detect heart murmurs and irregular heart rhythms. This exam may indicate if heart disease is likely and what the nature of the problem is.


Further tests are required and these can include an ECG trace to give information about the heart rate, rhythm, and the size of the chambers.
Your dog may need to wear a Holter 24 hour ECG harness. This trace is recorded over a 24 hour period and may be necessary in order to catch erratic episodes of heart arrhythmia. The dog is fitted with a special Halter harness, which records the ECG continuously.
Radiography gives information about the size, shape, and position of the heart, plus whether the lungs are congested with fluid or not.
An ultrasound exam gives a direct visualization of the heart and the blood flow to it. It allows the operator to measure the thickness of the heart muscles, study the health of the valve leaflets, and watch the dynamic flow of blood in order to find extraneous blood vessels or blood flowing in the wrong direction.

