 Depending on what state you are in, your therapist should hold specific degree and license requirements. You may see a M.A, PsyD, or PhD that is licensed according to the specifications required in their locality. Each nation has its own board or organization that grants licenses and certifications. Certain states or provinces have their own licensing requirements, too.You’ll probably see a psychologist, but if you’re working with a psychiatrist rather than a psychologist, they should have a medical degree (M.D.).There is no such thing as an unlicensed therapist. However, sometimes, you will be referred to a therapist in training, who is still being supervised and working under a licensed professional. If this occurs, the trainee should let you know as soon as you begin seeing them., Every therapist focuses on a particular subset of therapeutic practice. For instance, some therapists practice marriage counseling, others are specialists in the area of child psychiatry, and so on. Ask your therapist what their areas of specialty are before signing up for treatment with them. If they insist they are qualified to treat you instead of referring you to an appropriate specialist, you should consider this an indication that they are unethical.For example, if you have a heart problem, you don't go to your foot doctor to treat it, you go to a cardiologist. The same type of specialty classifications apply to psychologists. If a psychologist says that they "do everything," then this is a sign of an unethical practice.
 While it is not appropriate for your psychologist to share personal information with you, you should be able to get some information about their business practices. For instance, if your therapist will not answer basic questions pertaining to their business practices, then they might be trying to hide something.Withholding psychological testing results from you is another example of unacceptable secretive behavior.
 If your therapist does not inform you of the fees and billing practices associated with treatment, their behavior might constitute an ethical violation. Your therapist or a representative of their office should answer all billing questions in a direct and easy-to-understand way.Your therapist should address billing schedules and practices at the beginning of your treatment.
If you are confused about a bill or have questions about how your bill is calculated, do not hesitate to ask your therapist.
 If you have a hard time paying your therapy bill, let your therapist know. They should refer you to a community therapist or work with you to develop a sliding payment scale.