 If necessary, bundle your meat with twine to maintain its shape during roasting. This is most commonly needed for whole birds. Either ask your butcher to truss your meat for you, or buy butcher’s twine, which is safe to use with food products and available at grocery and cookware stores, as well as online.Use square knots or slip knots to tie a separate length of twine into a knot every inch along the entire length of the meat., Prevent the outside surface of your roast from drying out while the interior finishes cooking. Collect the juices and drippings that have pooled at the bottom of the pan, using a basting brush, bulb, or spoon. Pour the liquid over the meat the top of the meat to rehydrate its exterior. Repeat every 15 to 30 minutes., If frozen or refrigerated, allow your meat to defrost to room temperature before beginning. Season it as desired and give its surface time to dry. Line a skillet with just enough cooking oil to cover its surface and preheat it over medium-high heat until the first signs of smoke appear. Place the meat into the skillet. Let each side of it to sear until it has browned to a crust. Avoid moving the meat repeatedly or unnecessarily., Line your roasting tray with a light amount of cooking oil to prevent your vegetables from sticking. Then add your favorite veggies to the tray. Spray them lightly with cooking oil. Place your meat on top of them. Check your veggies periodically during the roast to make sure they aren’t sticking or burning to the pan. Moisten them with the meat’s drippings or add just enough water to the pan to slick its surface., Place your meat in an oven roasting bag to trap heat for quicker roasting times. First, pour roughly a tablespoon of flour inside, twist the opening shut, and give the bag a few shakes so the flour lines all of the inside. Insert the meat and seal the bag with a twist-tie. Poke a few holes in the bag so steam can vent as the meat roasts.Only use bags that are specifically designed for roasting. Do not use any plastic bags that haven’t been approved by the FDA.,