 Sometimes a friendship falls apart because people simply grow apart. Other times something happens that causes the friendship to end. In order to rekindle the lost friendship, you may need to talk about what caused the friendship to end in the first place.


Apologize if you need to. If you did something that caused the friendship to end, then sincerely apologize for what you did.For example, you might need to say, “I know our friendship ended because of the rumor I helped spread. I am truly sorry for that.”
Forgive if that’s what you need to do. If it was your friend that caused the rift between you two, then forgive them.
They may also need to express their lingering anger towards you or regarding your actions. Listen to them with humility if this is what they need to do.
Keep in mind that if the friendship ended badly, then rekindling your friendship may not be the best idea. You might only remember the good parts, but rekindling the friendship could lead to disappointment.
 Share your successes and failures with your friend, as well as funny and interesting things that happen.You don’t have to tell them every detail of your lunch or message them every five minutes. But, you can make an effort to communicate and spend time together.


For example, if you know your friend has a poodle now, you could ask how the dog is doing every now and then. Or you could send them a birthday card on their birthday. Kind, thoughtful gestures like this may help to restore your friendship.
Or, you might call your friend to tell them you finished a major project or received a promotion at work.
 You may want your friendship to instantly be like it was before. But depending on how much time has passed, it may be like starting the friendship brand new. To rekindle the friendship you need to take the time to get to know one another again.


Start by calling, texting, or messaging each other more often and on a regular basis. Slowly move to communicating on a frequent basis.
Make occasional plans to spend time together. Gradually move to hanging out on a regular basis.
Recognize that each of you have different lives now and that you may not be able to get together as often as you would like.
Be sure to occasionally assess whether you are doing all of the work to stay in touch or if it is equal. If you are doing all or most of the work, then they may not be interested in maintaining a relationship.

