 Before you speak to children about teen pregnancy, make sure you have the correct facts.You want to give the most accurate and sincere information. Look up statistics, scenarios, and graphics before you give your speech.


Helpful resources include the Center for Disease Control as well as Planned Parenthood. They have great resources like brochures, statistics, and visuals to help with education.Planned Parenthood even has a website that is directed toward teenagers. Teens can take health quizzes and look up answers to frequently asked questions, You want to have a captive audience that will believe what you have to say. Do not make up facts to scare them. This may result in them not listening to authority figures in the future. Being honest sets a good example for future conversations.
 Talking about sex may be an awkward conversation, but still expect question. Look up frequently asked questions about teenage pregnancy to prepare., Once you have gathered the facts, write out what you want to say and practice it. It will make you more confident and more comfortable with the topic.
 Give kids or teenagers the option to take material home with them. If they feel uncomfortable listening to an adult talk about this information, they might read information on their own. Help control what information you want them to see by providing your own.


Statistics - You can provide statistics about teen pregnancy rates in your country. You can give hard facts and numbersGraphs or other visuals - Use the data you have collected and present it in an image. This can make quite a statement, especially if it uses real-life facts and figures.
Demonstrations - If you plan on talking about safe sex with your children, consider demonstrating skills that might help them. You can show your children how to use a condom or other contraceptives.
Scenarios - Find some scenarios about teen pregnancy. Use the concrete examples as a way to explain the effects of teen pregnancy such as high school dropout rates and poverty rates.

