 You can do this by hand, in a simple computer document, or a database program like Excel. Start with your monthly income, then determine the cost of the following:


Rent. If possible, make sure your monthly rent is no more than 1/3 of your income.
Recurring bills such as utilities, car payments and insurance, regular medication, phone, and Internet service.
Food.
Entertainment.
Taxes. Consult the Internal Revenue Service website for all forms, worksheets, and questions related to your tax obligations.
Set aside some money every month for emergencies if possible. You never know when you're going to need to travel or make use of emergency medical, dental, or maintenance service.
 Your credit rating is very important. It is a score many companies and organizations use to determine your eligibility for everything from a credit card, to a home or vehicle lease, to a bank or credit union loan. Most people start out adulthood with poor-to-middling credit. You can build good credit in a variety of ways.


Get a credit card and pay it off at least once a month. Demonstrating your ability to make regular payments strongly improves your credit reputation.
If you are in debt, make good faith payments regularly. Government debt, like for student loans, can be adjusted to make payments easier, though loans from private organizations like banks can be harder to adjust.
Consult a financial professional before making large purchases to ensure you can afford the expenditure.
 It is unsafe and wasteful to keep all of your money in a checking account. Savings accounts are more secure because they often are not attached to debit cards and checks that can be stolen. Savings accounts also have better interest rates so you will earn money more quickly.


Look for good rates. Not all banks and credit unions are the same. Feel free to shop around for the financial institution that meets your needs.
Be careful of hidden fees. Many institutions charge monthly fees for services like debit cards and transfers.
Know your minimum balances. Many accounts require a minimum amount of money to open and may incur fees if their balance falls below a certain amount.

