 Place the cornmeal, 1 tsp (5 ml) flour, and baking soda in a 1-qt (1-L) glass jar. Pour the scalded milk on top of the dry ingredients, then stir or whisk the contents together until smooth.To prepare the scalded milk, heat it on the stove or in the microwave until small bubbles form around the edge of the dish. Steam may develop, but you should not allow the milk to reach a rolling boil. Allow the milk to cool to a lukewarm temperature before adding it to the dry ingredients.;
, Cover the jar and let it stand for 8 to 12 hours in a warm place away from any drafts.


Ideally, the starter should be kept at a temperature around 105 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
Place the jar in your oven with the heat off, but turn the oven light on. Note that you may need to turn the light on up to two hours ahead of time to get the oven adequately warm.
Alternatively, try wrapping a kitchen towel around the jar and placing it in a paper bag. Keep the wrapped jar in the warmest part of your kitchen., Once the starter develops bubbly foam and a pungent fermented odor, transfer it to a medium mixing bowl. Add the 2 cups (500 ml) of warm water and 1-1/2 cups (375 ml) of flour, then stir until smooth.


At this stage, the starter should have the consistency of a thin pancake batter.
 Loosely cover the bowl with plastic wrap and return it to the warm place used previously. Allow the starter to rise for another 2 hours.


The starter needs to maintain the same warm temperature it previously had. It should bubble and nearly double in volume.
 Transfer the starter to larger bowl, then add 1 cup (250 ml) of warm water and about 2-1/2 cups (425 ml) of flour. Mix the ingredients until a stiff dough forms.


You may need to vary the amount of flour by 1/2 cup (125 ml) either way to achieve the right consistency.
Knead the dough in the bowl until it becomes soft and elastic.
 Lightly grease the bottom and sides of a small loaf pan with cooking spray, then shape the dough into a loaf and set it inside.


Use an 8-1/2 inch by 4-1/2 inch (21.5 cm by 11.5 cm) loaf pan.
 Return the dough to the previously used warm spot and allow it to rise for another 3 hours, or until it climbs about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) above the top of the pan.


Near the end of the rising time, preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius).
 Place the pan in your preheated oven and allow the bread to bake until it turns light golden brown in color.


Note that the bread typically won't rise much as it bakes.
If you gently tap on the outer crust, the bread should have a slight hollow sound once it's ready.
 Remove the bread from the oven and turn it out onto a cooling rack after about 5 minutes. Serve the bread once it becomes cool enough to handle.


You should be able to stare this bread at room temperature for about a week or in the refrigerator for two weeks. You can also freeze it for long-term storage.

