 Cleanse your face first with a gentle non-oil and non-alcohol based cleanser.


Place the cleanser on your fingertips and use gentle, circular motions to loosen any dirt.
Wash for about a minute, then rinse with cool or lukewarm water.
Pat dry with a clean towel.;
, Mix 1 teaspoon of sea salt with 3 teaspoons of hot water in a small bowl or cup. Stir until the sea salt is dissolved.


Make sure you use sea salt, not table salt. Table salt contains only NaCl. It may also contain iodine, if it is iodized table salt. Sea salt contains a wide range of necessary minerals, including calcium, magnesium, sodium, chlorine, iodine, potassium, zinc, iron and trace minerals.
 There are several natural remedies that can help make your skin healthier and clearer. Add 1 tablespoon of one of the following:


Aloe vera gel: This is available at natural health food stores. It can help heal your skin. Green tea: Steep some green tea and add it to your sea salt mixture to get the tea’s antioxidant benefits.Honey: Use honey for its antibacterial actions and to promote healing., You can choose to apply the sea salt mixture to your entire face or apply it in certain areas. You can use your fingers to spread the mixture all over your face. Alternately, use a cotton swab and dip the tip into the mixture. Then apply where needed.


Avoid getting the mixture near your eyes.
 Allow the sea salt facial mask to dry on your skin. Don’t leave it on for longer than 10 minutes though. Sea salt draws moisture out of your skin and dries your skin too much.
 Use cool to lukewarm water to rinse the facial mask from your skin.
 Gently dry your face with a towel. Don’t rub your face, as this will irritate your skin further.
 Apply a “non-comedogenic” moisturizer. Non-comedogenic means that it will not clog your pores.


Examples include Olay, Neutrogena and Clinique moisturizers. Look for the term “non-comedogenic” on the label.
You can check the labels of store-brand moisturizers. Make sure that the label says “non-comedogenic” or that it has other wording to indicate that it will not clog your pores.
Natural oils all by themselves can be used as well. Non-comedogenic oils are rated on a scale of 0 to 5, with 0 being the most non-comedogenic. The best natural oils to use are:Hemp seed oil (0)
Mineral oil (0)
Shea butter (0)
Sunflower oil (0)
Castor oil (1)



, If you need to wash your face during the day (such as after exercising), use a mild soap. Work it into your facial skin using gentle circular motions. Rinse off completely with cool or lukewarm water and re-apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.


Only use the sea salt wash once per day. While you may be very tempted, use this bath or facial wash only once a day. Otherwise, you may dry out your skin too much, even with a moisturizer.

