 One sure sign is if you find yourself having writer's block because the characters simply won't go in the direction you please. Another sign is when you find yourself feeling as if the story is not your own, but your characters'. However, if you feel that you are a character writer, than you are. There are no set guidelines for what defines one or not.;
, Surely a premise can be helpful. But characters will determine what the story is really about. Let's take a fairytale, like Cinderella. The premise is that a girl is forced to work for her evil step family and meets a prince. But that's just the premise! What if Cinderella didn't like balls in the first place? Then, there you have it, you'd have a story about a girl who was GLAD not to be invited. It's all about character.
 Be warned - this is sometimes dangerous. Once a character gets defined to this extent, it may annoy you further! But, for the brave, continue on:


One method is a character "interview". Create a list of questions that you would generally ask - who is your family, what do you like to do, etc. And then, answer them from the point of view of your character!
Another method is a character chart. They can be made in many ways, from brainstorming maps to just jotting down notes. Either way, all you want to do is learn who your character is.
A useful method is what I like to call the "Wanted Poster Method". You make a list of information you would want for a wanted poster. Information included should be age, appearance, friends, hobbies, etc. This can also be used to help figure out the plot of your story, and the main conflict. After all, if we were to make a chart for Cinderella, the reason she is "wanted" could be that she snuck out of her house to go to a ball.
 Adjust them, modify them, make up your own! Just make sure it works for you.
 You don't need to profile every single person that come sin your story - but they should all have a personality and have a background, even if it's not developed.
 My advice is to compromise with them; sometimes characters can get difficult to work with. They become very much alive. If a character truly refuses to go in one direction, you may want to evaluate your plot. After all, would Cinderella really be the kind of person to openly defy her stepmother and yell? No, not in my opinion. So obviously, the story doesn't go that way.

