 Even if he is your boyfriend, you don't want to seem like you have no life outside your relationship. When he asks you to hang out, don't accept his terms every time he asks. Refuse the times or days every so often, telling him you have plans with your friends or are too busy. Try to reschedule for another time, one that works for both of you. That way, he knows you have a life outside of him but lets him know that you are still interested.This can be applied to electronic means of communication as well. In the current age of social media and electronics, it is easier than ever to get in touch with each other. Don't jump to respond every time he texts, calls, or tweets you. Make him work a little for your attention, which will make you seem more alluring and interesting., When you are dating someone, you want to get to know them. However, try to avoid oversharing about your life early on in your relationship. Don't lie or evade direct questions, but be coy about your answers, leaving him guessing about what else there is to know about you. Leave a little mystery for later in your relationship. You want to keep his attention by making him chase you, not annoyed because you talk too much.If you are talking about your past, don't divulge every little detail about your life. He doesn't need to know about each embarrassing moment you had at school dances or information about each of your exes. You can also save the family history lessons for when you are farther along in your relationship. You want him to know you, not be able to write your family history.
 Being playful is a great way to coyly flirt with your boyfriend. Even though you are together, flirting with him keeps your relationship fresh and exciting. Try to giggle at him when he tells a joke. While you and he are talking, playfully push him if he says something outrageous. You can be playful with the way you talk to him as well. Slip subtle, sexy compliments to him while you're in public, like: "You look great tonight. I wish we were not in a room full of people so I could show you how great." It's subtle enough to be coy and lets him know that he is on your mind.
 Even if you've been dating for a long time, you always want to leave your boyfriend wanting more. Flirt with him all throughout your date, but leave him right after dinner is over. During your date, call attention to your body. Slowly rub your hand along your neck while you talk or bite your lip while you're looking over the menu at dinner. While you eat, gently nudge his foot under the table with yours, but pretend you don't notice. At the end of the date, hug him tightly, running your hands up and down his back. When he goes in to kiss you, lean to his ear and whisper "I had a great time." before turning around to leave. This will drive him crazy and make him want you more.

