 Because mats are so densely tangled, they can be very difficult to remove. Instead of trying to power your way through them with a brush, you should use a more delicate, focused approach. A variety of combs with different tooth widths is ideal, but a single comb with wide teeth on one end and narrower teeth on the other will suffice.
 If your hair is very matted, you’ll want to work in sections, so the product doesn’t dry and become less effective.You might apply conditioner or moisturizing mask to dampened hair, or you might spray a detangler or leave-in conditioner onto dry hair. Make sure the product is fresh on the section of hair you’re working on at the moment.


Gently massage the product into the tangle with your fingers. Use a pressing rather than rubbing motion, as rubbing can make the tangle worse.
 You will move from wide to narrow teeth as you detangle the mat, working your way up to the densest parts of the knot. Just as with normal, daily untangling, you should work your way up from the end of your hair to the roots. Otherwise, you may just compress the tangles even more by pushing it down into itself from the root to tip.
 As you’re working on the tangle, you may find yourself wincing in pain. It can be helpful to hold onto your hair above the point that’s being worked on, as you can prevent the strands from pulling at the scalp painfully.


Note that hairstyles that pull on the scalp can result in hair loss over time., When you’ve freed up the parts of the mat that can be addressed with a wide-toothed comb, transition to a narrower-tooth comb. Remember to always work at a tangle from the bottom up, moving from the least to most dense part of the knot. As you reach the most tangled center of the knot, you will transition to your finest-tooth comb., This doesn’t mean that you should lop off an entire lock of hair! Snipping through a mat addresses only the tangle, not the actual length of hair. If you work and work at a mat, but can’t work through it with a comb, use a small pair of scissors to give the knot a small, vertical snip.You don’t even need to cut all the way through the mat — sometimes just cutting away part of the mat will help you work through the rest of it with your fingers and combs.
 Once you’ve worked out the mat, use a flat brush or comb to brush through the entire length, from root to tip. Make sure there are no small snags left before moving on to a different tangle.
 If you have other serious mats that need addressing, repeat this process. Make sure, though, that you’re always working in sections. Attacking your whole head of hair without a plan will just leave you tender-headed and frustrated. Reapply detangling products as necessary to make the process easier.

