 Flexibility is important for promoting ease of bodily movement. Flexibility for running should not only be in the muscles, but also tendons, ligaments, and joints. Limited flexibility will restrict your body’s movement.With better flexibility, you can increase your hip extension, your calf motion, and the overall movement of your legs, which can help improve your gait.


To increase and maintain flexibility, stretch for a few minutes every day.
Having flexible muscles also helps reduce the chance of pulled muscles.
 Calf raises help both with strength and also with flexibility, which can help reduce calf-related injuries. Calf raises also help increase your cadence, which is one of the most important parts of improving your gait. You should perform this exercise barefoot.Stand on the edge of a step, with the ball of your feet and toes on the step. Move one foot back to where just your toes are resting on the step. Lower the one foot slowly until your heel touches the ground below.
Slowly, lift yourself with both feet. Then, lower yourself with the one foot again.
Perform three sets of 12 to 15 reps on each leg.
 High knees can help improve your hip flexors, along with helping with your stride. Having strength in your hip flexors can help you work on shortening your stride and improving cadence, both pivotal to a better gait. You can do this exercise slowly to work on flexibility, and also do it faster to work with stride.Stand with feet shoulder-width apart. You should contract your abs and keep them tight and strong during this exercise. If you are having trouble balancing, you can do this exercise leaning against a wall.
Bring one leg up while bending the knee. Tighten the glute muscles on the standing leg side to help stabilize. You should lift the leg until it forms a 90 degree angle, the thigh at hip level and parallel to the floor.
Slowly lower the leg and repeat with the opposite leg.
To do this as a faster drill, push the leg up from the ground, bending your knee until it’s at a 90 degree angle and the thigh is parallel to the floor. Let the leg fall using your core to lower the leg with a soft, flat landing.
 Butt kickers help work on the range of motion of your legs. They help improve your cadence and strengthen your recovery, which leads to a better gait. With more practice, you will improve your flexibility, giving your legs more movement.Run in place using only your feet and calves to push off instead of your thighs. Your thighs should remain relatively still. Instead, kick back from the knee so that your heel makes contact with your glutes. Your goal should be to work up to your heel being able to hit your glute.
 Lunges help strengthen your glutes so you can work on your range of motion. Lunges also help work on hip extension and pelvic and torso stabilization. Range, extension, and stabilization helps improve posture, stride, and cadence of your gait.Step forward for a longer stride than your normal stride. Place your weight in your front leg until both knees are at 90 degree angles. Keep your abs tight and stable.
Make sure not to lean your knee over your toes.
Use your glutes to step back to your original standing position.
Do the same with the other leg.

