 Call out to him early, and while He is near. He knows, personally, that the deep addiction to sin and the grasp the Devil has on your life cannot be broken on your own!;
, Repent. Say this prayer from your heart (your core), savor the words:
"Dear Father, God in Heaven, I come to you in the name of Jesus my redeemer. I turn to You knowing that I am a sinner, and I am sorry for my sins and the life I have lived; I need your forgiveness. I believe and trust that your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, shed His precious blood on the cross at Calvary and died for my sins, and I am now willing to turn away from my sin. You said in Your Holy Word, Romans 10:9, that 'if you do confess the Lord our God and believe in your heart (depths of your being) that God raised Jesus from the dead, you shall be saved'. So, right now I confess Jesus as the Lord of my soul. With my whole-heart, I believe that God raised Jesus from the dead. From this moment forward, I accept Jesus Christ as my own personal Savior and according to His Word: right now 'I am saved'. Thank you, Jesus, for your unlimited grace which has saved me from my sins. I thank you Jesus, that your true grace never leads to license/permissiveness, continuing sin, but rather it always leads to following Christ in new life. I must lay aside every weight and run the race. Therefore, Lord Jesus, transform my life so that I may bring glory and honor to you alone and not to myself. Thank you, Jesus for dying in my place and giving me eternal life and fellowship. Amen."

, This preparation would include going to meetings and fellowship with like believers. Choose to associate with people who will support, but not hinder your walk.
 Pray and praise Jesus every time you feel the pull to drink, and your pain will come to an end, as you lay your life at Jesus feet as your gift/sacrifice.
,, The Bible is the only book in all history and all world religions to teach salvation as the free gift of God for believers. This a true and powerful fact. Every other world religion teaches you must try to earn or work for it. God teaches us in His word "salvation is the free gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast." And then:


"You are saved unto good works which God has already appointed that you should walk in them."

, Pray everyday! Pray when you go out and when you come in. Be brutally honest with God and tell him everything, unload your burden of sin of Christ. Your heavenly Father wants to take your burdens, for he cares and loves you. Pray always. When you pray you must understand that God is Father, and He understands that His children make mistakes, but He expects you to learn from them and turn/repent from them.
 Be persistent, never allowing doubt or fear to rule over you.
 Do things which aren't against any just law. Follow the Law of Love.
 You must find a good KJV Bible believing church, and get involved. God commands us to go to church because we have a need of the fellowship with other believers who can keep you accountable, pray and support you in your new walk and life in Christ.
 Where 2 or 3 are meeting, agreeing on anything, there I am in your midst. said Jesus, through the Holy Spirit. Many find attending Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) helpful. Don't talk about the wanderlust, carousing and the partying; that may cause someone to get an idea to go on a binge. Instead you might talk about how you are overcoming by following the plan and the help of the higher power/the Holy Spirit, Spirit of Christ. A supportive caring minister or dedicated counselor can/might be helpful. This can be as simple as keeping on going back, allowing/making yourself to be there for you, and to also to help others by agreement and the group dynamics. If you are constantly "finding yourself up against a wall"; stand tall. Put forth the effort, but don't expect perfection.
 Persistence is more important than perfection. Realize you can decide and live a discipline of having only one potato chip, one cookie, one burger, one is a meal... not perfection. But, can you have one drink -- often not. Many say, "not one!"

