 Before you go out hunting for gigs, make sure you are ready for it. There is nothing worse than finally getting the opportunity to play, then screwing it up. Assuming you did your homework already, it still might make sense to go through the checklist offered below. If you can answer all these questions with a confident "Yes", then go on. Otherwise, your time is better spent on preparation. Here is the checklist:


Are you perfectly familiar with the gear that you will be using at the venue you want to play? Did you find out what kind of equipment they have installed? If you want to bring your own controller - is there enough space in the booth to set it up?
Do you have your mixing skills in place? Have you played a continuous three-hour set at home without messing up a single mix?
Do you have enough material and sets together so you can react to the crowd? In order to be spontaneous, you have to be very well prepared. You should have at least three sets in place to pick what's best during the gig.
Do you have a demo CD? When you go meet club owners, you should have a demo CD on you; this should be a 30 to 60 minute mix CD with a printed label on it.
Do you have name cards? DJing is a business and to leave a professional impression, you need a decent name card that includes your DJ name, email, mobile number and your web links.
Do you have a website, or at least a Facebook Fan page, which links to your SoundCloud or MixCloud profile so that a potential customer can check you out online? Are there at least two to three mixes of yours available on your pages?;
, As with all businesses, when it comes to finding job opportunities, it's not about what you know but all about who knows you. Typically, in the beginning of your DJ career, not too many people out there will know you as a DJ. But that's okay. Every star was a beginner at some point without much of a supporting network. A network can be built up. This section explains how to do that.
 Check whether any of your acquaintances is related to the DJ scene. Reach out the them, be honest about where you are in your DJ career and ask them if they know of a gig opportunity for you. And if they don't, ask if they can introduce you to someone who does. You'll be surprised how many people, even if they can't offer you a gig, still know someone who might. Follow up with those introductions.
 This is easy to do because these people will be present and approachable during their club nights and events most of the time. Find out who is the manager of the club (ask the bartender), introduce yourself with a prepared little 30-second presentation and hand over your demo CD. Find the people you met this way on Facebook and start interacting with them.


One important thing to know about club managers: They don't care much about your music. This can be difficult to digest for enthusiastic young DJs, but these folks are mostly interested in the cash they bring home at the end of a night. No way to blame them - that's their job. So in order to cater for your client's needs––which is the essence of every service, including DJing––focus on how you can bring a spending crowd to the place rather than on how fancy your music is.
 Now that you have your list of potential clients, the most important part is to follow up. The biggest mistake you can make now is to walk away after the first "no". There is a rule of thumb in marketing that you have to get into your client's face seven times before he or she will consider to buy from you. Be persistent. Come back again and again, always being polite, of course. Establish a relationship. People are impressed with persistence. If you don't give up easily, they will know you are serious and determined. Nothing can stop true determination.
 Clubs naturally focus on making their weekend happen, plus other special nights like "Ladies nights" and so on. On these nights, they will be very particular about who gets to play the music because a lot of risk is at hand. Not easy to get in for a newcomer. But there are other nights - the odd nights. Normally during weekdays, not much happens there and mostly there is no DJ booking, since it doesn't make sense economically. Targeting those odd nights and coming up with a proposal to play for little money or even better, bring a crowd, can be a very successful strategy to get your first foothold in a club. As soon as you get in and make those odd nights a success - even a small one - chances are you will be offered a weekend night as well. And boom - here comes your residency.
 Ask yourself:


How did they get there?
Do they mix a hundred times better then the average club DJ? In most cases, definitely not. Some even do much worse.
 They managed to produce and publish a track which got some international attention. And when people around the world, even if it's in a tiny underground music niche, know your name, love your music and want to see you play live - that's when the bookers will start calling you and asking you to play in Ibiza. Production is not for everyone and is a topic to be covered in books rather than articles, but if you have some musical talent and an drive to make music, this could be very well worth the effort. A label deal to happen will probably take years rather than months. But if make it happen, this is how you become an internationally renowned DJ.

