


Touch play.
Choose between warrior, mage, and rogue.
Tap new game.;
, Look around for doors and touch one to move to it.
 There will be a little box by your inventory with a picture of the rat when you get in attack range. Tap it until either the rat or you dies.
, Go into that room.


If there are graves in there then do not touch them, but do collect all the items.
If there is a wooden floor with potions and a pot, then collect the potions and look in your inventory to see if you have at least 3 seeds, and if you do, then touch the pot and throw 3 in it by touching the 3 seeds and collect the potion that will appear by the pot.
If it is a normal room, then do the same as with the other rooms.
If it is a room with lots of grass and white lines coming up, then just walk through the grass and you should be healing.
If it's a room with lots of traps, then try not to go into it.
If it's a room with wood floor and black, then jump at your own risk.
 Now you will be at level 2 of the dungeon. Look around and do the same as level one, but be more careful, as there are stronger enemies and hidden traps.


If you find a sad ghost, tap on it. It will either ask you to return its rose to it or ask you to kill the rat or fox or crab or whatever it was that killed it. Do what it tells you to do and return to it and tap on it again. It will then ask you if you want its armor or its weapon. Choose the one you want.
If you run into another wooden floor and blackness room, again, jump at your own risk.
 Now, at your own risk, test all of your potions and scrolls, and put on your rings and equip your strongest weapon and armor.


If you survived, then continue your journey and keep going until you get stuck somewhere.
If you got stuck by not being able to find a door, then tap the search button located on the bottom left corner of your screen, while being at the spot you think a door is at. Continue until you find a door.
If you got stuck not being able to fight something, then go back up and fight some easier to kill enemies until you level up a few times. If you get stuck not being able to survive something, then you're out of luck.
 There are six levels in all to complete.

