 Open any web browser on your computer and visit the YouTube website.;
, If you’re not yet signed in, enter your Google email address and password into the given fields, and click “Sign in” to proceed.
 Once you've logged in, go to the left panel. If you scroll down through the page, you can find the Playlists section. Click it and you’ll be directed to your playlists.
 Click the “+ New playlist” above “Liked videos,” and you will be asked to name the playlist. Naming really depends on what you will be putting into your playlist. For instance, if your playlist is going to be all Christmas songs popular in 2014, you can name it “2014 Christmas Hits.” If it’s going to be a playlist of 5 of the most popular Christmas video clips, you can name it “Top 5 Christmas Videos to Watch This Season.”


Set who can watch the playlist through the drop-down option below the Title field. You can set it to public (anyone can watch), unlisted (only people who know the link can view this), and private (only you can watch on your account).
When you’re done, click the blue “Create” button.
 On the right side of the new playlist screen, you will find an “Add videos” button. Click this to open the Add Video Playlist window.


A playlist can contain up to 200 videos.
 You will be searching for videos to add to your playlist. At the top of the window, you’ll find three tabs: Video Search, URL, and Your YouTube Videos. Select the search option you want to use to find the videos you will add.



Video Search is like the search function of the YouTube website; you just enter a keyword there and click the magnifying glass icon to begin the search. Results will appear in the area below. Click the one you want to add. You can select multiple videos; they will be highlighted in blue.

For a Christmas playlist, use keywords like Christmas Songs or Christmas Videos. You can also include the name of the song, artist or group in the search with the word “Christmas.” Try also other Christmas-related keywords, like Santa, Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer, holiday, snow, and so on.


Use URL if you know the URL address of the video. Just paste the URL into the given text box and it will appear in the area below, with the title at the top. Check if it’s the right one.

Your YouTube Videos opens a list of all YouTube videos you created in your account. If you have any personal Christmas videos you want to add, click on it to select it. You can select multiple videos; selected videos will be highlighted in blue.
 When you’re done selecting your videos, click the “Add video” button at the bottom of the window. The video(s) will be added to your list.


If you want to use a different keyword in your search or a different URL, just repeat the process.
After adding the videos to the playlist, you will be directed to the playlist’s page. The playlist title will be at the top as well as its thumbnail. All the videos you added will be listed below, each with its own thumbnail.
 Videos will be arranged in the playlist in the order you added them there. If you want to rearrange the videos, click the “More” button to the right of the video you want to move. A drop-down list will appear. Select either “Move to the top” to move the video to the very top of the list, or “Move to the bottom” to move the video to the very bottom of the list.
 If by chance you included a video you don’t want in the playlist, click the X to the rightmost of the video you want to remove.
 If you want to add some notes to a video in your playlist, do this by clicking “More” to the right of the selected video, and then “Add notes.” A small box will pop up. Type in your notes in the text field in the box. When you’re done, click “Save.”

, You can select your playlist’s thumbnail from any of the videos you have in the list. Find a thumbnail you like from the videos in the list, and click the “More” button to its right. Select “Set as playlist thumbnail,” and the playlist thumbnail at the top of the page will change.
 At the top of your Christmas playlist page, just below the playlist title is the “Play all” button and the “Share” button. Click the “Share” button and a list of Share options will appear.
 In the Share options list will be a couple of social media icons (Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Blogger, to name a few). Click the one you want to share your playlist to, and it will be posted in that particular social media account.
 There’s a URL below the social media icons that you can copy. Share it with friends through email or instant messages.
 Click the Email tab in the Share option menu. Enter the recipients in the To field and write a short message in the Message field (optional). When you’re done, click “Send email.”

, Locate the YouTube app on your Android or iOS device. The app icon has a big play button on it. Tap on it.
 If you aren’t signed into the app yet, a sign in window will appear. Enter your Google email address and password, then tap the “Sign in” button to proceed. If you’re already signed in, skip this step.
 Tap the magnifying glass button on the top-right corner of the home screen. A search box will appear. Key in the Christmas video you’d like to add to your playlist or use keywords related to Christmas.
 The list of matching results will appear. Tap the one you’d like to view, and the video’s page will be loaded fullscreen with it playing.
 If you like the video and would like to include it in your playlist, tap it lightly once. Some buttons will appear. Tap the one with a plus sign, and then select “Add to Playlist.” Your list of playlists will appear. Tap the one you’re using as your Christmas playlist, and the video will immediately be added to it.


If you don’t have the Christmas playlist yet, you can create it right from the playlists panel. Instead of selecting an existing playlist, tap on “Create New Playlist” from the drop-down list. A small window will appear where you can type in the name of the playlist. Do so, then tap the check icon at the top right corner. Make sure you have something referring to Christmas in the title to make it easy to identify.
 Since a playlist consists of more than one video, search for more Christmas videos you want to add. You can add as many videos as you want to your playlist.

