 Now you can prepare the machine to actually sew. The main spool of thread will stay in the same spot on top of the machine. The bobbin's home is under a small door that is either directly below or to the side in front of your needle. Find this chamber and open it.
 (Note that in the pictures, the example shows switching over to a teal colored thread on the bobbin, just so you can differentiate between bobbin thread and spool thread.)








, There should be a cutout that you will lay the bobbin thread into. In some machines, there is a C-shaped loop with a blade at the end to cut off the thread. Orient it such that if you pulled on the thread, the bobbin would spin counter-clockwise. You should be able to pull on the tail of thread to the right and the thread should unwind fairly easily. Close the cover over the bobbin when you finish.
 Pull the thread from the spool on the top of the sewing machine. Pull the thread through the thread guide on the top of the machine - a silver piece that is sticking out the top. There will likely be printed guidelines on the top of the machine diagramming how to do this.
 Follow the directional arrows on your sewing machine by pulling the thread through the guide and towards you. You will be looping it around the tension discs on the bottom, and then back up towards the top along the second thread guide. This will ultimately create a long, narrow “U” shape with your thread.
 After you’ve completed the “U” shape, you will wind the thread around the takeup lever at the top and back down towards the needle. The take-up lever is a metal piece sticking out of the second thread guide. This metal piece will have a hole cut out near the top that the thread needs to go through. Completing this motion will create a large, narrow, sideways “S” with the thread.
 Pull the thread back down the machine towards the needle. Thread the needle through the small eye near the bottom. The thread should then be pulled through the small metal presser foot directly underneath it.
 The bobbin thread is still hiding under the plate below the needle. To bring out the end of it, grab the round dial







