, As you go through your day, pay close attention to the things that make you perk up or spark your interest. When you pursue things that you truly enjoy--rather than things you have to do--you feel more connected to yourself and more fulfilled in your activities.You may find yourself particularly drawn to and inspired by the times you get to use your creativity when writing emails or thoughts in a journal. Or you might find that your interest always piques when hearing someone talk about quantum physics on the TV or radio.
Whatever it is that draws your interest, note it down and make a point of pursuing it later. Check out books on the topic, research it online, watch a documentary, etc.
 Try to look beyond minor irritations or pet peeves like traffic or people who talk during movies--pay attention to the things that consistently evoke more than passing irritation. You’ll likely notice a common thread between the things that tend to elicit such negative emotions, and you can use that knowledge to narrow down what’s at the root of your discontent.


If, for example, you find that you get upset when people are hurtful to others, you might take from that that you need kind and caring people around you to thrive and/or that helping people might be a fulfilling activity for you.
Or if you find that you become irritable if you’ve gone some time without having a creative outlet (singing, dancing, writing, drawing, etc.), you might conclude that you need to have a consistent creative outlet in your life to feel satisfied.
Also bear in mind that we often judge others most harshly based on the things we ourselves are insecure about. If you tend to judge people who drive luxury cars as being superficial and wasteful, think about your own insecurities and vulnerabilities around being proud, showy, or extravagant. What issues do those things raise for you and why?

, Pay attention to the times when you get the uncomfortable feeling of being inauthentic, whether it’s in what you’re saying, doing, or thinking.Make a mental, or even better, a physical, note of what you’re doing that feels inauthentic.
Then think carefully about what fears and anxieties are motivating that behavior. What’s driving the inauthentic behavior? Is it fear of rejection? Boredom with the people around you? Feeling unappreciated?
Think about ways you can circumvent the beliefs or anxieties driving you to be inauthentic. If it’s a fear of rejection, for example, work on really accepting and appreciating yourself for who you are. When you truly accept yourself, you won’t be driven by a fear of others’ rejection and can start to be more authentic around others.
 Writing in a journal gives you an opportunity to reflect inwardly and to keep a record of those reflections so that you can notice important recurring themes.


Write anything you like in your journal. Be sure to give a bit of space each time to thinking about what it is you wish you had more of in your life, whether that be time with family or more opportunities to paint.
Try to write in the journal on a regular basis. The more regularly you write in the journal, the easier it will be to eventually find common themes and insights.
Once you’ve built up a number of entries, look back over them and consider whether there are any commonalities in the things you wish you could do more often, in the things that bother you, etc.
Work on trying to find solutions to the things that upset you and to find ways to incorporate more of the things that revitalize you into your life.
 When you start to feel inauthentic to yourself, mindfulness practices help you reconnect with your center.


Practices like meditation, yoga, and tai chi are all good options for practicing mindfulness and connecting with who you are at a deeper level.
 When trying to rediscover yourself, it helps to have positive, loving, and supportive people around you.Distance yourself from any negative relationships, whether it be a friend of partner who needs to be convinced in order to love and support you or a family member who continually criticizes you. Those relationships will only set you back.
If there’s a negative person in your life whom you can’t avoid, like a boss, co-worker, or close family member, work on distancing yourself mentally and emotionally rather than physically. Resolve not to engage them and to recognize any negativity they direct at you as a reflection of their own shortcomings rather than of yours.
Seek out people who love and accept you as you are and are willing to support you. Spend time with the people who make you feel energized and who help you feel more in touch with who you really are.
 On the days when you feel frazzled and just can’t seem to hang on to your real self, have a few emergency strategies ready to go. Some emergency measures you can take when you feel lost include:Listening to a playlist of songs that bring you back to your sense of “you.” It doesn’t have to be an extravagantly long playlist; in fact, it’s better if you choose just the handful of songs that are most meaningful to you. Then, when you find yourself feeling spun out, listen to those songs to re-ground yourself.
Having a go-to person. Having a close and trusted friend or family member as a go-to can help you re-center yourself when you’re feeling lost. Let that person in on what you’re trying to do and ask them to be a resource for you when you need it--and offer to return the favor.
Being honest. If you find yourself feeling like you’re being fake, know that there’s always one sure-fire way to defeat fakeness: honesty. When you catch yourself being inauthentic, take a breath, take a step back, and ask yourself “what do I really want right now?” and/or “what am I really feeling right now?” Answer that question for yourself and then bring that feeling to the forefront and let it guide you.

