 As your dog ages, its body will naturally have more aches and pains. If your dog seems restless at night and it can't get comfortable, then if may need a softer, properly lit, and warmer place to sleep.Consider getting a dog bed that is thoroughly cushioned. Padding can make your dog much more comfortable throughout the night. Introduce your dog to the new bed by leading them there with a treat. Then give them the treat once they get in the bed.Make sure the bed is located in a warm but well-ventilated area. Your dog should feel comfortable, not too cold or too warm, and not left in a stuffy room with no air movement.
If the bed is in a well-lit area, consider purchasing black-out curtains to help keep light levels down during the day. Alternatively, if your dog has bad eye sight, a nightlight may help them feel more comfortable in a dark space.;
, As your dog ages, it will naturally begin to sleep more during the day. If your dog is sleeping more during the day, then it may become more difficult for it to get a solid nights sleep. To counteract this additional rest during the day, you should be sure to give your dog exercise to tire it out.Exercising older dogs requires that you take their ailments into consideration. A slow steady walk is great for most dogs, even those that are arthritic or have joint problems.Exercise can also include playing your dog's favorite game or giving it food puzzles or bones to chew on. Anything to keep your dog's mind working and to avoid sleep during the day.
 One way to help your dog sleep better is to establish a regular sleeping schedule. A dog that goes to bed at a wide variety of times will have a harder time getting into a deep sleep cycle. If you set a schedule then your dog will better understand when it is supposed to sleep and it will be able to sleep more deeply.


In many cases setting a sleeping schedule will require that you also stick to a sleeping schedule. If you have a dog that follows your lead when it comes to sleeping times, then you will need to lead the way when it comes to standardizing sleep.
 Some senior dogs that are having a hard time sleeping may benefit from medication that induces sleep. The dog may also benefit from medication that eliminates pain and discomfort. Discuss the dog's restlessness with your veterinarian and ask about the option of medicating the dog to help it get some quality sleep.There are also medications that can help to increase your dog's daytime activity. This could help your dog's nighttime sleep by tiring it out more during the day.
If the sleeplessness does not have a medical cause, then you might consider trying pheromone therapy. Pheromones are used for some dogs to relieve general anxiety and to promote calmness, which may be part of the reason your dog isn't sleeping., If your dog is full of anxiety and can't sleep, try your best to comfort it. Sit with the dog or invite it to lay with you. Pet your pup and speak to it in a calm and loving tone. If your dog still refuses to sleep, at least it will be resting more comfortably.


Pacing and anxiety at night can be a sign of senility. If your dog is doing this and cannot be comforted, then it is time to have the dog looked at by a veterinarian., Sleeplessness can be caused by a variety of issues that can develop in old age. Your veterinarian will likely ask you for a thorough history of your dog's issues, including when they started and if there are times of day when they are especially bad.After discussing the issues, your veterinarian will likely do a physical exam of your dog. This will help the vet to narrow down any health problems that could be causing your dog's sleeplessness.
 Ask your veterinarian to check for problems that could be causing your dog to be restless or sleepless. These problems could include a variety of diseases that are prevalent in aging dogs, including joint and muscle pain or a central nervous system disorder, such as cognitive dysfunction.Cognitive dysfunction is also known as dementia. It is caused by changes in the brain due to aging. Symptoms include disorientation, anxiety, irritability, lethargy, lack of self-grooming, incontinence, and changes to sleep patterns.Diagnosing cognitive dysfunction is done through ruling out other issues that can cause similar symptoms. Once those are ruled out, an older dog is diagnosed with cognitive dysfunction. Some of the veterinary issues that need to be ruled out include cancer, arthritis, hypothyroidism, urinary tract disease, and problems with hearing or sight.
 If your dog is suffering from an age-related illness that is impacting its sleeping there may be a medication or behavioral treatment that can help it. In the case of sleeplessness due to anxiety, for instance, there are a variety of medications that can be prescribed to ease the anxiety.Your veterinarian may refer you to a behavioral specialist if he or she believes that the problem is largely behavioral and not medical.

