 Purchasing a smart phone solely to have a walkie talkie may not be the most cost effective, but most people already have a smart phone.


If you don’t have access to a smart phone, you can always use the first method in this article.
Push-to-talk apps are available for most major smart phone operating systems, including iPhone, Android, and Windows phones., Open the application store on your smart phone and search for push-to-talk apps. There several apps available, including:iPTT: this is one of the App Store’s original push-to-talk apps. It provides one-to-many group communication. It also offers one-to-one communication within a group channel, called “whisper”, or straight one-to-one communication. It’s simple to use and free to download for iPhone users.
TiKL Touch Talk Walkie Talkie: this is another simple but great push-to-talk app. All you need is your contact list and a data plan on your phone. TiKL supports group messaging and push-to-talk calls. It’s also free to download for iPhone and Android users.
Voxer: this app functions like a walkie-talkie, but it sends messages rather than real-time dispatches. The app runs on iPhone and Android. It’s also free, and works over any data connection, including Wi-Fi. You can also send text messages, location messages, and photos.
HeyTell: this app is a lot like Voxer, but with more customization. It has three levels of privacy, which allows you to add or block friends from Twitter and Facebook. Like Voxer, it works on any data connection. It’s free and can run on Windows Phone, as well as iPhone and Android.
Zello: this app caters to developers, who want to add push-to-talk functionality to their own apps. But as a regular smart phone user, you can use Zello to turn your phone into a walkie-talkie. Like Voxer, Zello saves messages for replay later. The app is free and works on iPhone, Android, and Blackberry.
 These apps don't use your phone number or plan minutes. So you will need to set up an account to allow other users to find you via the app., One of the sticking points of any push-to-talk app is that anyone you want to contact with it must also have a smart phone and the same push-to-talk app installed.


With the prevalence of smart phones, asking friends and family members to download an app is still easier than buying and sending them a walkie-talkie.
Most of the push-to-talk apps also have group messaging, so you can easily chat with many people at once.
 Once you and your friends or family have the same push-to-talk app, connecting is as easy as selecting the person from your contact list, pressing the "talk" button, and delivering your message.


Since push-to-talk app use a very small amount of data on your phone, you can connect through the app without using minutes at all. If you're connected to Wi-Fi when you use the app, then you won't be using any of your plan's data.You can also send messages and photos to any user, across the globe, which sure beats the range of a typical walkie talkie.