 Each state has different types of restraining orders available, typically depending on your relationship to the person you want restrained. Different types of orders may require different evidence, so it's important to know which type you need before you proceed.


Domestic violence restraining orders typically are available in situations where the person threatening you is a family member, or someone with whom you were romantically involved.
In contrast, civil restraining orders protect you from someone with whom you have no pre-existing romantic or familial relationship or involvement.
Keep in mind a criminal restraining order is different from a civil restraining order. You can't ask a judge for a criminal restraining order. Rather, it is issued during the course of a criminal proceeding and can't be renewed once it expires.
 In most states, restraining order petitions are handled by different state courts depending on your relationship to the person you want restrained. Domestic violence restraining orders typically are handled by family law courts.The clerk of court typically has a packet of forms that you must fill out to get a restraining order against the person threatening you.
The specific paperwork you'll need to request a restraining order varies among individual courts, so you must make sure you've selected the correct court that handles the type of restraining order you want to request.
You also may be able to get the paperwork you need at a local women's shelter or other non-profit organization. However, keep in mind they may only have forms specific to domestic violence, which may not apply to your situation.
 Once you get the forms you need, you must fill them out completely and accurately so the judge has the information necessary to issue your restraining order. If there is information you don't know, you should leave it blank rather than guessing.


The forms typically require personal information such as your name and address, as well as the name and address of the person you want the court to restrain.
Keep in mind that if you don't have an accurate name and address for the person, you won't be able to have them served and your order will not be made permanent.
You also must provide information regarding the threats the person has made against you and why you want the court to restrain them.
Some forms must be signed in the presence of a notary. Typically you can tell because the form will be labeled an "affidavit" and will have space for a notary's seal and signature.
After you've signed all of your forms, you will need to make at least two copies – one for your records and one to have delivered to the person you want restrained.
Some courts require additional copies. This information should be included in your packet of forms, but you may want to call the clerk's office if you're not sure.
 Take your original forms and copies to the clerk of the court you want to issue your restraining order. In some courts you will see a judge when you file your papers, so go prepared to appear in court.In most states, you don't have to pay a filing fee to file a petition for a restraining order.
The clerk will file your petition, schedule a hearing, and issue a temporary restraining order. This will keep the person away from you until the scheduled hearing.
In some states you must talk to a judge before a temporary restraining order is issued. The judge will ask you questions about your petition and the threats the person has made.
You must have the petition and temporary restraining order served on the person you want restrained. If you want the order to be made permanent, the person must have notice of the proceeding and an opportunity to contest the order.
Typically you can have the paperwork delivered to the person by a sheriff's deputy. Usually there is a small fee for this service, although in some jurisdictions the sheriff's department waives process serving fees for restraining orders.
 If you want your temporary restraining order to be made permanent, you must attend a hearing in front of a judge along with the person you want the judge to restrain. Your temporary restraining order typically expires on the date of this hearing unless the judge makes it permanent.In court, you can present to the judge any evidence you have of the threats the person has made. You also should bring copies of the police report, if you have one.
The person you're asking the court to restrain may appear in court as well, since they received notice of the hearing and have the right to defend themselves. If you're concerned for your safety, consider taking friends or family members with you.
If the person you want the court to restrain fails to appear at the hearing, the judge typically will make your order permanent provided you can prove that the person was properly served and had sufficient legal notice and knowledge of the hearing.

