 Classy goths can't just put on a ratty old black t-shirt and jeans. While their style will mirror the macabre feeling of other goth subcultures, classy goths dress in durable, well-made fabrics. Wear high-quality materials, like silk, taffeta, leather (or "vegan leather"), chiffon, gingham, or Venetian lace.

Don't buy clothing you can't afford! Visit thrift shops or garage sales for dressing well on a budget.;
, Part of looking classy is wearing clothes that compliment your figure. Take your measurements and know what your body type. This will help you find clothes that fit well.If you can afford it, you could even hire a tailor to refit your clothes.

If you have style and a knack for sewing, you could even make your own clothes.
 You are not limited to just black if you're a classy goth. While black should be your main color scheme, you can add muted colors to your palette. Try accessorizing with burgundy, navy blue, mauve, olive green, or shades of cream.

Blush, navy, and mustard yellow pair especially well with black., Adding variety through texture instead of color will help your outfits make a statement. Too much color is over-stimulating and distracts from the understated look of classy goths. Wear a leather jacket with a checkered gingham shirt, or accessorize your mauve chiffon skirt with a silky lilac scarf., Classy goths combine contemporary gothic subculture with timeless vintage beauty. If you're a girl, experiment with Victorian hairstyles like buns, braids, and French twists.For guys, wear your hair long and curly with minimal product.Avoid dying your hair neon colors, as this will detract from the classy goth aesthetic. If you want to dye your hair, opt for subtle colors or black.
Grow your hair out for a glossy, gothic Rapunzel-esque look., Keep makeup minimal so that everything you do apply stands out. Use eyeshadow, eyeliner, and mascara to create a subtle smokey eye look. Wear a light layer of foundation or cover-up, and choose a violet, nude, or Merlot color for your lips.

Put emphasis on either your eyes or lips. If you opt for dark, smokey eye makeup, try a pale lipstick. If you wear scarlet lipstick, go easy on the eye makeup.
 Don't overload yourself with too many necklaces, bracelets, or piercings. Pick your accessories wisely, and only wear one or two at a time. Lockets, lace bracelets, pearl earrings, and pocket watches are all excellent choices.

A scarf (especially a silk scarf) can also make a great accessory.
Although studded chokers or bracelets are appropriate in other gothic subcultures, they do not mesh well with the classy goth style.
 The classy goth style does not draw attention to itself but intrigues people with its mystery. Focus on clean lines, sleek silhouettes, and one or two colors per outfit. This will prevent your look from getting overly-busy.