 The quickest answer to executive dysfunction is to simply initiate and complete the task yourself. Ask them what they want, make it, and guide them to the table to eat it.


Don't expect them to have an "age-appropriate" level of cooking skills. Executive dysfunction and motor skill impairments may make it difficult or impossible for autistic teens and adults to prepare their own food.;
, Initiate the task yourself, and get them to join in. Maybe you get out the ingredients while they make their sandwich. Talk them through the steps and help with difficult parts as needed.


Only do this if they are comfortable with it. If their sensory issues are acting up, moving around in a kitchen with another person may be too much.
Dyspraxia may make a task more difficult if they are "overthinking" it.See if it helps to slightly distract them as they work by talking or singing together.
 Autistic people have incredible powers of focus, and can concentrate on a task for a remarkably long time. The downside to this skill is that it can interfere with proper eating. Force them to break focus for long enough to get food.


Set alarms or other reminders, and see if they work.
Install a program on their computer to make it go to sleep at a certain time (for example, from 12:00 to 12:30). During this time, they will be forced to stop what they are doing, and they can go get food.
 If an autistic person eats at the same time every day, then they are more likely to remember to eat. Try giving them reminders, or setting up on their laptop or phone an alarm to remind them to eat.
 If they like the food in front of them, they're more likely to start eating, and to eat more. Take note of the foods that the autistic person enjoys, and try to make them easy to access.


If you are making something they might not like, offer something they like on the side. Even if they barely touch the cod, they can fill their plate with broccoli and potatoes.
 Magazines, movies, and TV may suggest that they need to be thin and that it is normal to restrict one's diet.


Encourage books and shows that feature characters with diverse body types.
Try introducing them to feminism and body positivity.
 If nothing else works, set a controlled portion of food in front of them as they are watching TV, reading, or surfing the internet. While they are distracted, they may reach for the food without thinking much, and start eating.


Because they are not thinking, controlled portions are important. If you give them an entire bag of chips, they may eat more than is healthy for them, without realizing it.

