 If you feel uncomfortable having a male ring up your period purchase, wait for a female cashier. They are guaranteed to have experience buying their own feminine products, and knowing you share that bond will make the experience much more comfortable for you.If there are no female cashiers working, you may have to bite the bullet and get checked-out by a male cashier. Don’t worry – they ring up thousands of items a day and they won’t comment on what you’re buying (if they do and it makes you feel uncomfortable, seek out a store manager).
If you still feel uncomfortable dealing with a cashier, utilize self-checkout. This is an option at most grocery stores or pharmacies, and is an easy way to buy personal items privately.
If the pharmacy section of your grocery store or drug store is open, check out there. It’s usually much quieter, and pharmacists are used to selling people embarrassing things.;
, The easiest way to distract people from your feminine product purchase is to buy additional items. That way, when you’re checking out, tampons aren’t the only thing you’re looking at. Fill your shopping basket with food, shampoo, notebooks – whatever you need to feel better and distract yourself from the pad you’re also buying.Don’t go overboard on buying stuff. You’ll end up with a lot of junk you don’t need, plus the more you buy, the longer it will take for you to check out.
Don’t use coupons. Coupons take additional time for your cashier to ring up and will only slow down the process (especially if you are purchasing a lot of stuff). If you are aiming to get in and get out, bypass the coupons.
 Stores are frequently much quieter during the week and late at night. If you visit your grocery store or pharmacy when it’s slower, you’ll have a better shot of seeing fewer people, which means less opportunities to embarrass yourself.Stores often roll-out savings during off-peak hours, so you might be able to score your tampons at a greater discount.
Going to the store when it’s slower also lowers your odds of running into somebody you know, if that’s one of the things that scares you about publicly buying feminine hygiene products.

