 Line the edges of a sheet of printer paper with glue, then press a sheet of tissue paper directly on top. Let dry.Use a glue stick or a very light, thin line of glue. Tape could also work.
The tissue paper needs to stick firmly to the printer paper, but if the glue is too thick, your printer may not be able to feed it through properly.;
, Place the tissue paper structure in your printer, then print out the picture you want to use. Make sure that the picture prints onto the tissue paper, not the regular paper.


You also need to make sure that the picture is sized accordingly before you print it. Resize the picture using a photo editing or word processing program so that it will fit onto the candle without difficulty.
Set the printer paper properties to a "transparency film" setting for best results.
 Use scissors to cut away as much excess paper from around the border of the picture as possible.


During this step, the tissue paper should also be freed from the computer paper. Dispose of or recycle the printer paper. Keep only the inked tissue paper for this project.
Some border can be helpful since it makes the picture easier to hold and maneuver, but this border should still be as thin as possible.
 Press the picture against the side of the candle at the position you want it.


Usually, there will be enough static to help hold the tissue paper in place. If the picture does not stay still on its own, however, you can apply a very small dab of glue to the corners before pressing it onto the candle.
The picture should be ink-side out when you place it on the candle.
 Wrap a sheet of wax paper around the candle. Keep it flush against the sides of the candle, and hold it in place from the back (the side opposite the picture).The wax paper makes it easier to maintain the shape of the candle. It also protects your hands from high, direct heat.
Make sure that the waxed side of the wax paper faces toward the candle.
 Use a handheld embossing tool or heat gun to blow hot air onto the picture for several minutes. When the ink starts to show through the wax paper more clearly, turn off the heat.Keep the heat gun moving so that the entire image transfers onto the candle evenly.
The wax on the wax paper should melt, sandwiching the image in between the wax of the candle and the melted wax of the wax paper.
If you do not have a heat gun or embossing tool, use a strong hair dryer or carefully hold the picture-side of the candle over the hot eye of a stove.
 Carefully peel away the wax paper from the candle. If done right, the image should remain on the candle.


If there are any pieces of wax sticking up afterward, wait until they cool and lightly pat them down or wipe them away.
This completes the project.

