 Allow other students to have a chance to answer. Teachers ask questions to get students to participate; if you’re constantly answering first, you’re not helping! Resist the urge to show the class that you know the answer. Show your knowledge when it counts—on the test! If the teacher repeats the questions several times and no one else knows the answer, raise your hand quietly and wait to be called on.;
, If you're smart, everyone probably already knows. It doesn’t have to be a competition to be the smartest all the time. This doesn't mean pretending to be less smart in order to make others feel better; it means sometimes staying quiet to give others a chance to demonstrate what they know.


Don’t talk over other people. If someone starts to speak, let them say what they're trying to say.
Don’t assume your ideas are better than everyone else’s. There are many ways of doing things. Let others have a chance to lead.
When working in a group, let others do play their roles. Allow someone else to lead the group. Your group will likely choose to divide the work into parts; make sure you only do yours, and don’t tell others how to do theirs.
If the teacher praises a project you’ve worked on with a group or a partner, give credit to other group members. You might say, “Thank you! I typed up the information, and Billy created the slideshow!”
Compliment other students when they do good work, answer a tough question, or get a good grade on a test. Something as simple as, “Wow, that test was hard, and you got an A. That’s awesome!”

, Don’t ask questions that are not relevant to the topic at hand, or that branch off and distract the teacher or the class. For instance, if the teacher is discussing a specific method for solving a math problem, don’t ask about alternative ways to solve it. However, if you didn’t understand the method or had trouble solving a homework problem, ask for clarity. Make sure you listen to the full answer, even if you think you already understand. , Know-it-alls are known for constantly adding their two cents to any conversation. It isn’t necessary to add real-life examples to a teacher’s lecture unless the teacher asks students to share some. If you do contribute to a conversation, raise your hand quietly and wait until you are called on. Don’t do this more than once or twice in a lecture.
 You don’t need to be right all the time about everything. It is normal to make mistakes. When you do, accept responsibility and criticism gracefully. If someone points out something you’ve messed up on, simply say, “Oh wow, you’re right. I see what you mean.” Being wrong from time to time is no big deal.

