 Letting her talk might be the best way to make her feel better. Just like anyone else, women often get upset because they feel like no one listens to them. They feel ignored, unappreciated, and without a voice. Listen to what she has to say and this may be enough to make her feel better.
 The type of hug will depend on the situation and the type of relationship you have. If you are not very close or she is not very upset, a side hug should be enough and will show that you support her. If you have a closer relationship or she is having a very hard time, you should consider a big hug (the kind where she can cry into your shoulder, as she might very well need that).
 Telling her that you care about her, how much she means to you, and how hard it is to see her hurting can make her feel much better. It's easy to feel very alone when we're having problems, and showing her that she's not alone and that there are people who care about her will cheer her up.
 Laughter is, as they say, the best medicine. In laughing, we forget about our problems and are able to feel happy again (if only for a little while). Make her laugh to cheer her up but be careful to avoid jokes or anything that might be offensive, as these might make things worse.


Sing her a song. Try being silly. Singing a song is a great way to do this. Don’t worry about singing badly, since the point is to make her laugh (and singing badly will help!). Start singing Wind Beneath My Wings in the most dramatic manner you can manage or try enacting a scene from RENT.






Tell a funny story. Tell her that really embarrassing story you have from middle school. You know which one I mean: that one that just makes you want to die but makes everyone else laugh. Or tell her about the time you found your college roommate drunk and asleep, sitting up on the toilet.






Collect a Youtube playlist of funny videos. Whether it’s kittens riding on turtles while Low Rider plays in the background, parents telling their kids that their Halloween candy got eaten, or clips from Eddie Izzard stand up, a Youtube screening can get her mind off her problems and cheer her up.
 You’ll want to do things that make her feel good too, not just that make her laugh. Do something nice for her that shows you care and brings a smile to her face. Try to hit that perfect mix of sweet and silly.


Leave little notes everywhere. Tell her how pretty she is. Remind her of funny stories. Leave humorous critiques of random objects. You can even just leave notes with random facts.






Draw a silly picture. The worse your drawing skills are, the better. Use humorous labels if it is too difficult to tell what the picture is of. You can be sweet and draw a picture of the two of you or you can be silly and draw a picture of a cat in a top hat having tea with a fish.






Make her a cd. You can compile songs which remind you of her, songs which make you happy when you’re down, or just songs that you think she’d like.
 You can also find lots of other ways to get her mind off her problems. Getting out and doing things are really the best ways to get over challenges and stressful situations in our lives.

Go out. You can go out to eat or you can go out on a hike. Getting her out of her usual environment will be the main key to taking her mind off the issues. The more concentration that’s required for the activity, the better.






Talk about things you’ve done together. You can reminisce about that time you carried that drunk friend halfway across town after that party in college, that time in middle school where she had to help you hide a wayward boner, or that time at work when the dishwasher exploded. Talking about memories like this can get her out mentally, bringing her thoughts elsewhere.
Play games or watch movies. Board and card games are really making a comeback (try Cards Against Humanity!) and movies are a time-honored way of dealing with bad emotions (who doesn't feel better after watching Independence Day?).







