 In the taskbar of Windows 10, you’ll see an icon to the right of the search bar that looks like a rectangle with two smaller ones slightly behind it (actually, it looks like a box with rectangular ears). This is the Task View icon. Clicking it will shift you to the Task View mode. In Task View mode, all running programs will be lined up as large thumbnails.;
, Clicking on this will create a new desktop. At the bottom will appear thumbnails of two virtual desktops: Desktop 1, which is the original desktop, and Desktop 2, which is the one you created. The second desktop will look the same as the original, but with no apps running on it.
 While still in Task View mode, click (tap) Desktop 2 to transfer you to the second desktop. You can now open the applications you want to work on in the second desktop.
 Enable Task View mode from the first desktop. You will see all the running applications on Desktop 1 as thumbnails. At the bottom will be the thumbnails of the Desktop 1 and 2. Click and drag (tap and drag) the Desktop 1 application you want to transfer down to the thumbnail of Desktop 2. That application will be transferred to Desktop 2.


While in Task View mode, if you drag an application from the desktop to the Plus sign, then another desktop will be created and the application will be transferred to the new desktop.
 You can create several desktops. To move from one desktop to another, click/tap the Task View icon and when the desktop icons appear at the bottom, click/tap the desktop you want to work with.
 Save your work and close all applications. Click/tap the Task View icon and when the desktop icons appear, hover your mouse cursor over the desktop you want to close. You will see the close button (✕) on the upper right side of the icon. Click/tap the close button (✕) to close it.
 Press the Windows key and at the same time, press the Tab key (Win + Tab).
 Press Win + Ctrl + D, that is, press the Windows key (the one with the Windows logo) and press the Ctrl key then “D” while still holding on to the Windows key.
 Press Win + Ctrl + F4.
 Press Win + Ctrl + Left arrow, or Win + Ctrl + Right arrow. Note that the desktops are sequentially arranged from left to right. If you are at the last desktop (the rightmost desktop), you cannot use Win + Ctrl + Right arrow to cycle back to the first desktop. You have to use Win + Ctrl + Left arrow an appropriate number of times to reach the first desktop.