 After the judge grants the injunction, he or she will sign an injunction order, which the sheriff should then serve on you. The judge can issue a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) without you being given prior notice that the person suing you was seeking the TRO., Many injunctions do not last indefinitely. For example, a TRO typically only lasts up to 14 days before it automatically expires.A Preliminary Injunction might last longer. For example, a Preliminary Injunction could last for the duration of a trial.


The injunction order you received should state when the injunction expires. Make note of the date.
 The injunction should state in detail what you must do or not do. You should follow all commands in the injunction. If you fail to, then the judge could find you in contempt.


You might not agree with what the judge is telling you not to do, or you might not understand what you aren’t supposed to do. In either situation, you should meet with an attorney to discuss your options.
Even if you disagree with an injunction, you must nevertheless follow it to the best of your ability. For example, if the injunction tells you to stop selling goods with a certain logo on them, then you must stop.
 In case there is ever a question, you should hold onto records that show you have followed the injunction. For example, a domestic violence restraining order might require that you attend drug or alcohol counseling.You need to show the judge that you have satisfied that requirement. Accordingly, hold onto records that show you have completed the treatment.


If you have received a domestic violence restraining order, then you should document where you go every day. Write down the location and the time you spent there. If there is a question whether you contacted the person who got the order, then you can point to your records of where you have been.
 Restraining orders for alleged domestic violence, stalking, or harassment are common. They may be the most common type of injunction. Typically, they prohibit you from having any contact with the person who got the injunction. If this person reaches out and wants to make contact, you need to avoid them.


The injunction is in force until the judge dissolves it. For this reason, it doesn’t matter if your boyfriend or girlfriends wants to get back together with you. He or she doesn’t control whether the injunction is enforced.If you are contacted, say, “I can’t talk to you now. The restraining order is in place. Only the judge can dismiss the restraining order.” Then hang up the phone or physically leave.
 If you want to fight an injunction, you still need to follow it until it expires or until you get the judge to modify the injunction. You should schedule a consultation with a lawyer to discuss your options.


If you don’t know a lawyer, then you can get a referral by contacting your local or state bar association., You have to file a “motion” to ask the judge to modify or dissolve the injunction. A motion is a written document which you file with the court. In some courts, there may be printed, “fill in the blank” forms you can use.Ask the court clerk or look on the court’s website.
 If no form is available, then you will need to draft your own motion. Ideally, you should hire a lawyer to help you. However, if you can’t afford a lawyer, then you will have to draft the motion yourself.


Set the font to Times New Roman or Arial 14 point. Also double-space the document and add a one-inch margin on all sides.
Insert the caption information at the top of the page. Look at your copy of the injunction, which should include the caption. The caption contains the name of the court, the names of the parties, and the case number.
Also title your document “Motion to Dissolve Preliminary Injunction” or “Motion to Modify Temporary Restraining Order.”, You should briefly identify yourself in the opening paragraph and state why you are bringing the motion. You should also state if you have a signed affidavit in support of your motion.


Sample language could read: “Defendant Michael Jones hereby moves to dissolve the preliminary injunction issued by this Court on April 22, 2016, prohibiting him from using Apple Corporation’s name and logo on his website. In support of this Motion, Defendant submits a memorandum of law, proposed order, and declaration of Defendant Michael Jones.”, You can include a section where you describe the facts as you see them.You can use this section to correct any factual errors the plaintiff made when he or she applied for the injunction.


Make sure to refer to documents that support your facts. As evidence, you can use relevant documents (like a contract or letter) or your own testimony, which should be contained in an affidavit.
 You will argue either that the injunction should be modified or that it should be dissolved. Your argument will depend on the circumstances.


You might want to modify an injunction if it was too broad. For example, an injunction that orders you to stop working altogether is too broad. Instead, you could ask the court to issue a narrower injunction. Instead of prohibiting you from working, the injunction could prohibit you from using trademarks that are in dispute.
You could also ask the judge to dissolve the injunction because it shouldn’t have been granted in the first place. Generally, you will point to factual errors the plaintiff made when getting the injunction.
You could also argue that the plaintiff isn’t likely to win the lawsuit. In order to get a TRO or a preliminary injunction, the plaintiff generally must prove that they are likely to win the lawsuit.You could point out that the evidence shows you will likely win instead.
 At the end of the motion, you should repeat what you want the judge to do. For example, you could write: “For the foregoing reasons, Defendant requests that this Court dismiss the preliminary injunction.”


Include the words “Respectfully submitted” above your signature block., In some courts you have to submit a proposed order along with your motion. Read your court’s local rules, which should be on the court’s website. The order is what the judge will sign after agreeing to modify or dissolve the injunction.


You can set up the proposed order like you did the motion: same formatting, caption information, etc.
The substance of your order will depend on what you are asking the judge to do. If you want the judge to dissolve the injunction, then write: “Defendant’s Motion to Dissolve the Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.” Provide a signature line for the judge and a line for the date.If you want the injunction modified, then write out in the order what you think the injunction should prohibit you from doing.
 You typically have to tell the court that you sent a copy of your motion to the other side. You can create a “certificate of service” on a separate piece of paper.


Sample language could read: “I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of Defendant’s Motion to Dissolve the Preliminary Injunction has been served on the party listed below by first-class mail, postage pre-paid, this ” and then insert the names of the other party or their attorney.Sign your certificate.
 You need to support any factual allegation you make in your motion. If you refer to a document, then attach the document as an exhibit. If you are relying on the testimony of a witness, then they should create an affidavit, which you will attach to your motion.


You should also create an affidavit if you are relying on facts in your memory.
 Once you have completed your motion, you should make several copies. Take the original and the copies to the court clerk and ask to file.The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date. Keep one for your records.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee. The amount will differ by court. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 The judge will probably want to hear argument on the motion, so ask the clerk how to schedule a hearing. You will write the hearing time and date on a Notice of Hearing form, which you can get from the court clerk.
 You can give notice to the other side by sending a copy of your motion and a Notice of Hearing form.If the plaintiff has an attorney, then serve notice on the attorney.


Generally, you can serve notice by first class mail. Alternately, you could have someone 18 or older, who is not a party to the case, make hand delivery.
 The judge will hold a hearing on whether to modify or dissolve the injunction. You should bring all of your supporting documents. Also, if you had a witness create an affidavit, then you should ask the person to attend as well. The judge may have questions.


Each judge runs their hearings a little differently. In some courts, the judge will do most of the questioning.
In other courts, you might be able to ask your witnesses questions and to cross-examine the other side’s witnesses.
After the hearing, the judge should agree to dissolve/modify the injunction or not.
 If you fail to follow the injunction, then the person who got the injunction could ask the court to hold you in “contempt of court.” Contempt could have serious consequences, including the following:You could be fined money. For example, the judge might fine you in order to secure you compliance with the injunction, or the judge could fine you if your violations harmed the plaintiff. In some courts, you could be fined up to $2,000 a day for each day you are in contempt.You could be put in prison. It is not unheard of for a judge to jail someone until they agree to follow the court’s orders. You might be imprisoned for a period of time to ensure your compliance with the injunction or as punishment for failing to follow it.
You could face other consequences. If you violated a family law injunction, then the judge could change your parenting plan. In other situations, the judge might take property from you.
 If you face a contempt proceeding, then you should begin planning your defense. Talk to your attorney about possible defenses, which will differ depending on your circumstances. However, you can generally raise the following defenses to a contempt charge:


You followed the injunction. This is probably your best defense. Get proof that you have followed the injunction.For example, if the court has ordered you to make child support payments, then present cancelled checks showing you have made them.
You violated the injunction unintentionally. Depending on your state and situation, you might be able to argue that violating the injunction was unintentional and therefore you shouldn’t be punished. In Florida, for example, the state can only punish you for violating a domestic violence restraining order if you did so intentionally.You never received the injunction. An injunction must be served on you before the court can expect you to follow it. The other side might never have sent you a copy.
 The other side will file this motion with the court and allege that you have not been following the court order.You should receive a copy in the mail or by hand delivery. As soon as you get it, you should read it closely.
 Contempt proceedings are very serious. You could end up being jailed or heavily fined, so you would benefit from legal help. If the judge holds you in contempt, then a good attorney can help minimize the punishment you face.
 You probably can file a motion in opposition to the contempt motion. You should move quickly. Read your court’s rules to find out how much time you have to respond. Generally, courts might give you a couple of weeks, but you typically will not get a lot of time. Your motion should include the following:Proper formatting. Set it up like you would a motion to modify the injunction (described above).
Title: “Defendant’s Motion in Opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion for Contempt” or something similar.
Factual background: Describe the facts of the dispute as well as relevant facts for your defense. For example, if you have complied with the injunction, then explain how and when.
Your defense. Explain to the judge why contempt isn’t appropriate.
Supporting affidavits. If you state a fact in your motion, then you need to support it, usually with documentary evidence or with an affidavit. Have all witnesses with relevant information create an affidavit that you can refer to.
 After drafting the motion, make several copies and file the original with the court. Make sure to send a copy of your motion to the other side in advance of the hearing date.


Read your rules of procedure to find out how much advance notice you must give.
 At the hearing, the judge may hear live testimony from you and from relevant witnesses. Each judge runs hearings differently.However, in each hearing, the person who filed for contempt must prove to the judge the following:


A proper injunction is in place.
You knew of the injunction.
You knew of the injunction when you violated it.
You were given reasonable notice of the contempt hearing.

