 Constipation, or the difficult or uncomfortable passage of stools, occurs mainly because people very often don’t have enough fiber and water in their diet. Constipation can also be due to too little exercise or it can be a side effect of a number of different drugs.It is important to realize that constipation can be a symptom of a number of more serious medical disorders. Home remedies can be useful for dealing with constipation due to diet, not enough water, or medication side effects. However, if you are dealing with constant or recurring constipation and home remedies don't help, make sure you see your healthcare professional about your problem.
 There is really no set rule or norm when it comes to bowel movements. The abnormal is when you have constipation or diarrhea. Most people feel most comfortable when they have at least one bowel movement every day, but there is a wide variation with this. Some people have two to three bowel movements a day, and other people have a bowel movement every other day, and this is normal for them.In general, at least four to eight times a week seems to be most common. The key is your diet and comfort level.
People with more frequent bowel movements tend to have high fiber diets and are often vegetarians or vegans. Those with fewer bowel movements tend to have a higher meat content in their diet and lower water intakes.
 If none of these methods provide relief in two to three days, make an appointment with your healthcare professional. Long-term constipation can be a symptom of a more serious medical condition.If you are pregnant or nursing, or are caring for an infant or child who is constipated, please talk to your healthcare professional before trying any of the methods described here.
Talk to your healthcare professional before trying any of the methods described here if you are taking any medication or if you have a medical condition. Herbs and food can interact with a number of different medications and it is best to check first.

