 You can find most etching creams at craft and hobby stores, though you may also be able to find these at your local hardware store. The other supplies you'll need are either household items or available at most grocery or craft stores. For this project, you'll need:


Adhesive vinyl
Clean rag (or paper towel)
Drop cloth
Glass etching cream
Goggles
Paint brush or sponge brush
Pencil or pen
Plastic gloves
Tracing paper (optional)
Utility knife;
, You'll want a flat, sturdy surface to work on while etching. Beyond that, you might want to put down a drop cloth. This will prevent any dripped or spattered etching cream from damaging your work surface or the surrounding area. Then clean your glass with mild soap, rinse it with water, and air dry it.


Bottles with resistant dirt or grime might need some rubbing alcohol and a good scrub. Afterwards, clean your glass with mild soap, rinse it with water, and air dry it.
Glue left on your bottle may negatively affect the etching process. You may need to soak your bottle in hot soapy water overnight to break up and remove this.
Fingerprints, oil, and dust can also hurt the outcome of your etching. While cleaning and afterward, you may want to wear glove to prevent new fingerprints., You might first want to hold your vinyl up to your water bottle to see where would be best to draw your design. Make sure that all your designs form closed shapes.


While first getting the hang of etching, you may want to stick to simple designs and shapes.
The area on the inside of the closed shapes will be the etched part of your bottle. Keep this in mind while drawing your designs.
If you're not very artistic, you can use tracing paper, trace your design, and transfer it to your vinyl.
 Take your utility knife and very carefully cut only your design free from the vinyl. You should not cut the vinyl from the side, but should press your utility knife into the outer lines of your design to cut the inside parts away.









At this point, you should have one large piece of vinyl with holes in it from where you cut out your design.
The excess vinyl you cut free while cutting out your designs can be thrown away or reused later.
Be careful when cutting your designs. It's easy to press too hard with your knife and cut into your work surface. For this reason, you may want to use a cutting mat., Be careful at this point not to get any fingerprints, smudges, or dirt on your glass. Take the adhesive vinyl with the designs cut from it and pull free the adhesive backing. Position the design on the glass, and press the vinyl in place.If you have a large piece of vinyl, you may have flaps sticking above or below the top and bottom of your bottle. These can be cut off.
Try to remove bubbles in your vinyl at the boundaries of your design. These can create places the etching cream can sneak in, causing your design to be imprecise.
 Depending on the kind of cream you purchased, the usage instructions will vary. In most cases, a small amount of cream can be put into a plastic container or directly onto the glass. Then spread the cream over the glass uncovered by your vinyl with a paintbrush or sponge brush.









As a general rule, whenever handling chemicals you should wear gloves and goggles to prevent irritation, sickness, or permanent injury.
Some kinds of cream may be too strong and require a diluting agent, like distilled water, to be added.
Always read and follow the directions of your etching cream. Chemicals can be very dangerous if not handled properly., If etching cream has special, post-application handling instructions, follow these carefully. Generally, you should be able to remove and neutralize cream by rinsing it away under running water, then allow the bottle to air dry.









Depending on the etching cream, the ideal time you should leave the cream on the glass will vary. Consult your label for the best results, but for most creams, 15 minutes should be enough.
If it is inconvenient to run your glass under running water, in many cases you can remove etching cream by wiping it away with a damp rag. Wear gloves when doing so.
Leftover etching cream should be disposed in the way indicated on the label of your product. Often, this involves diluting the cream with plenty of water and rinsing it down the drain., You may need to use the edge of your utility knife to lift a corner of your vinyl, but once you do, it should be easy to peel it off the glass with your fingers. Now you can show off your etched glass water bottle to your friends!









In some cases, the adhesive from your vinyl may have left glue behind on your bottle. This can often be removed with mild soap, warm water, and a scrub brush.
Stubborn glue might require an overnight soak in soapy water before it comes loose.