 The easiest way to get seeds out of the pumpkin is to start by slicing off the top two inches (five cm) of the pumpkin’s top. Then, cut the pumpkin into quarters. Scrape out the seeds with a spoon and transfer them to a colander.If you're going to be carving the pumpkin for Halloween, you have to cut the pumpkin a different way. Two to three inches out from the stem, insert a knife into the top of the pumpkin on a 45-degree angle aimed inward toward the center. Cut a hole around the stem on this angle. Pull out the top, reach your hand in, and scrape out the insides with a flat spoon. Transfer the seeds to a colander.;
, Place the colander of seeds under running water. As the water rinses the seeds, use your fingers to pick through and loosen and remove the bits of orange flesh.


When you’ve removed all the stringy bits and flesh, turn off the water and shake the seeds in the colander to remove the excess., Pour the salt and water into a small saucepan. Add the pumpkin seeds, and bring the brine to a boil over medium heat. When the water boils, let it simmer for another 10 minutes.When the simmering time is up, remove the pan from the heat. Drain the seeds in a strainer, shaking the strainer a few times to remove as much water as possible
If you didn’t get a full 1½ cups of seeds from your pumpkin, use 2 cups (474 ml) of water and 1 tablespoon (19 g) of salt per ½ cup (65 g) of seeds.
 Transfer the seeds to a bowl. Drizzle the seeds with oil and toss or stir to coat the seeds in the oil. You can also season the seeds with your favorite spices. Use about 1 to 2 teaspoons of seasoning, or to taste. Popular spices for pumpkin seeds include:Salt and pepper
Cayenne pepper
Garlic powder
Onion powder
Cajun powder
Paprika
Brown sugar and chipotle powder
Curry
Herbs, such as rosemary and thyme

, Transfer the seeds to a baking sheet and spread them out in a single layer. Bake the seeds in a 400ºF (204ºC) oven for 10 to 20 minutes, until they're golden brown.Stir the seeds every five minutes to prevent burning and ensure even cooking.
 Place the hot baking sheet on a wire cooling rack and let the seeds cool down for at least 10 minutes before serving or eating.

