 When it comes to buying Ray-Bans, not all sellers are created equal. Some, unfortunately, make a practice of selling fakes, or, in the case of pawnbrokers, may be indifferent to fakes in their inventory. To ensure that you only buy fine, high-quality Ray-Bans, only make purchases from sellers that are officially-licensed by the Ray-Ban corporation.


If you live in the U.S., note that you can use the store locator on the official Ray-Ban site to find licensed sellers near you., As with many luxury goods, if your Ray-Bans seem to be a steal, they probably are. While Ray-Bans vary greatly in price depending on their make and model, they're never cheap. Being hand-made from the finest materials available, Ray-Bans are a premium good sold at a premium price. Be very skeptical of supposed Ray-Bans being sold under their market price, even if the vendor has some sort of convenient excuse for the discount.


As an example of the sort of costs you can expect for new Ray-Bans, know that, within the Wayfarer group of models, new glasses can retail from about $60 to as high as $300., If you're ever unsure of a seller's veracity, why take a risk? To make sure you get real Ray-Bans, simply buy from Ray-Ban's official website, ray-ban.com. The Ray-Ban site allows you to easily browse the entire Ray-Ban catalog, making it obviously preferable to any sort of "shady" seller you might otherwise use.
 Like most knock-offs, fake Ray-Bans aren't nearly as high of quality as the real thing. They're almost always more poorly made, more likely to break, and not as good-looking. However, besides these obvious points, there are several other compelling things that may make fakes even less appealing to you as a buyer. Below are just a few additional reasons why you may want to avoid buying and wearing fake Ray-Bans:Fakes may not provide adequate protection from the sun’s UV rays. In fact, wearing sunglasses without UV protection can actually be worse for your eyes than wearing no sunglasses at all.Fakes almost never come with warranties, so if they break (which is almost always more likely than with real Ray-Bans), you're completely out of luck.
Fakes may be made in factories or sweatshops that exploit their workers. Making a habit of buying fakes can be unwittingly supporting unfair labor practices in other parts of the world.

