 You should help your loved one go see a trusted doctor. If they have seen one doctor, you may suggest a second opinion just to be sure; however, once they have seen two trusted doctors, they shouldn’t go see another medical doctor. Instead, suggest they go see a therapist or psychiatrist.For example, you may say, “I know you have anxiety about your health. You should get a second opinion just to make sure there is nothing wrong. However, if the second doctor doesn’t find anything, you should accept the diagnosis.”
After they see doctors, you can say, “You’ve seen two great doctors who found nothing medically wrong with you. I think you should go see a psychiatrist or therapist now.”;
, If your loved one suffers from hypochondria, they may need therapy. Hypochondria is often related to anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, or past trauma. This means that being treated for the underlying condition by a mental health expert can help.An estimated 75-85% of people with hypochondria also have anxiety, depression or another mental disorder.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a common therapy used to treat hypochondria. During CBT, the person will learn how to identify unhealthy thoughts that cause their fears and to replace those thoughts with healthier thoughts. They also will work on not misinterpreting body sensations.
Stress management therapy helps your loved one to learn how to relax and manage stress. Through relaxation, the person can stop obsessing over thoughts of illness. Managing stress can lead to less physical stress symptoms, like heart palpitations, which can be misinterpreted.
Talk therapy may be used to cope with fears or deal with a trauma from the past.
 Some people with hypochondria can be prescribed antidepressants or anti-anxiety medication to help treat underlying conditions related to their hypochondria.Understand, however, that there are no medications approved specifically for the treatment of hypochondria, so using antidepressants in this way is considered off-label use.Talk to your loved one about discussing this possibility with their doctor.


SSRIs may be prescribed to help with underlying depression or anxiety disorders that can lead to hypochondria.You should never suggest your loved one take medication, only suggest they discuss the treatment option with their doctor.
 Many people with health anxiety will go to the doctor for every symptom they think they have, or they will go to the emergency room because they think they are having serious symptoms. Your loved one should only go to the doctor for scheduled appointments, so help them refrain from going to the doctor for everything.


You may say to your loved one, “You have a doctor’s appointment in three months. At your doctor’s last appointment, they found nothing wrong. You should wait for the scheduled appointment in a few months.”

