 One of the most crucial aspects of your book club will be to create a schedule that works for everyone. Especially with this book, reading in sync is key. Tim O'Brien uses ambiguity in Going After Cacciato to illustrate themes, and you don't want any member of the group reading too far ahead, or falling behind. Try to work around people's work obligations, so that you can read in larger chunks. The book is larger than most, and will take time to complete. A reading schedule is a helpful tool to begin your book club on Going After Cacciato.
 Understanding his background and personal experiences are extremely important to understanding the author. Tim O'Brien's life is reflected in his writing, and the more familiar you are with who he is and how he writes, the more comfortable you will be with this text., These "socratic seminars" if you will, will allow all members to articulate questions they've been having as well as other thoughts and opinions on the book so far.

It's wise to schedule these meetings along with your reading timeline, so that you can discuss the book at certain stopping points. Keep in mind the obligations of your group members. Since these meetings involve talking with one another, it's important than all or most group members can attend. This is where in depth analysis of the book and its themes occurs.
 Going After Cacciato is a unique book that describes the mental and physical journey of an inexperienced soldier named Paul Berlin. The story switches between several realities, and can thus be moderately confusing. It's important to ask questions as you read, and maybe even write down your thoughts. Tim O'Brien's writing is blunt, but provided deep insight into the life and minds of those who fought for their lives in the Vietnam war, and for those who decided to put down their guns... and run., When you have reached the halfway point in this book, your next step is a voluntary trip to a veterans' home. Take some time to meet with Vietnam war veterans, or veterans from another time in history. Hearing the real war stories of the men and women who served so bravely only fuels our understanding of the world around us. Experience is the anecdote to ignorance.

Remember to be respectful of all veterans, and recognize their importance in our country's history. This book is merely a reflection of that struggle.
 Going After Cacciato is a book with many layers, so it can enjoyable to discuss what you learned from it. Also, talk about what you liked and didn't like. Here are some sample questions to further his discussion:

Did you like this book? Why or why not?
Who was your favorite character?
Did any themes strike you?
Was this novel different than previous ones you've read?
Do you disagree/agree with any claims made in this book?
Was this book easy or hard to read?
Would you recommend this book to a friend?

