 Many kanji books teach the most frequently occurring kanji first. You're more likely to see common kanji, so it's not only more useful to study these first, but it will also help you to remember them better, as you'll see them more often when reading. If you don't have or can't afford such a book, in that case:


Search for a kanji frequency list online with the general keyword search, "list of most frequent kanji" or "list of most common kanji.", Trying to learn the 100 most common kanji all at once will make learning more difficult. Breaking that number down into smaller, more manageable chunks will help you to learn kanji more completely and quickly. You'll have to experiment to find what works best for you, but you might start by learning 5 to 10 kanji at a time.You might also break up your list according to word type. For example, you might group all kanji that are used in verbs together, group food related kanji together, and so on.
 Look up each of the kanji you are studying in an online Japanese dictionary. You can do this by copying the symbol from your list and pasting it into the word input box on the dictionary home page. You may have to select a "kanji" option for the text input box, first. This will bring up the dictionary page for the kanji, which should include:



Stroke order. The order in which you draw kanji can influence its appearance. To prevent confusion, stroke order is always consistent.

On-yomi. Is the reading of a kanji used when there is no hiragana added to it. On-yomi reading kanji are often made up of several kanji working together, which are called kanji compound words (as in 地下鉄 / chikatetsu / subway).

Kun-yomi. This reading is used when hiragana has been added to kanji (as in 食べます / tabemasu / to eat) and is also used for words of Japanese origin., Along with the stroke order, On-yomi, and Kun-yomi, there should also be a list of common compounds on the dictionary page for your kanji. These will not only help build your vocabulary, but will also help you learn the kanji itself.


You may want to write out useful compounds in a notebook and review these regularly, like every morning and evening.
Kanji carries a lot of information. For this reason, you may want to make and use flash cards to help learn the kanji shape, On-yomi, Kun-yomi, and compounds.There are free-to-use kanji learning programs available for your computer or phone. These operate like flashcards, but many track your progress so you can isolate troublesome kanji.
 Radicals are commonly occurring symbols contained in a kanji, and these can often help you understand words you don't understand. For example, in the word 詩 (shi / poetry, poem) you have the main radical 言, which means "speech." Even if you didn't know the symbol 詩, by seeing the radical for "speech," you could guess that the word is language related and may even be able to figure it out with context. Some common radicals include:⼈ / ⺅: person, people
⼊: to enter
⼑ / ⺉: knife, sword
⼖: to hide or conceal
⼝ : mouth, aperture, entrance, exit
⼟: earth
日: sun
月: moon
⼠: man, scholar, samurai
⼤: large or big
⼥: woman
⼦: child, son, Even if you don't know how to read a kanji or kanji compound, you can still understand it. For example, if you know the kanji for sugar (糖), urine (尿), and sickness (病), although you might not know how to pronounce the word, you could deduce that 糖尿病 means "diabetes." Diabetes is a disease where the body can't process sugar, which makes people sick and causes the sugar to pass out their body in urine. Some other examples of useful connections:


地下鉄 • chikatetsu • kanji meaning: earth + below + iron • English: subway
水球 • suikyuu • kanji meaning: water + ball • English: water polo
地理 • chiri • kanji meaning: earth + logic/arrangement • English: geography
数学 • suugaku • kanji meaning: number/law/figure + study • English: mathematics

, Even some native Japanese struggle sometimes with uncommon kanji. Give yourself plenty of time to learn these symbols, and add new ones to you list as you master them. In the nine years of education required for children by the Japanese government, approximately 2,000 kanji are taught.


You can practice reading with Japanese newspapers and online publications that use kanji.
For beginning kanji learners, you may want to read text that includes furigana, which are small hiragana letters over the kanji that assist with reading.
Although most native Japanese learn 2,000 kanji during primary and secondary school, general literacy for Japanese of often set at about 1,000 to 1,200 kanji.
This may seem like a big number, but many kanji and radicals repeat or combine to create new words. This means that after the first 500, you'll start to see patterns and similarities tha make reading these symbols easier.