 Different size horses will require larger or smaller stables. The stable will have to be large enough to comfortably accommodate your horse and make them feel at home. The following are some of the basic size requirements for different size horses:Horses around 1,000lbs should be given a stall that is around 12'x12'.
Small draft horses need around a 14'x14' enclosure.
A large draft horse will be comfortable in a 16'x16' stall.
 Part of keeping your horse happy while in a stable is maintaining his bedding. Horses may relieve themselves in the bedding or otherwise make it unsuitable. Replace old bedding often with fresh material to help keep your horse healthy, cozy and happy.Regularly muck out the stall. Try to do so at least once a day.
Rubber stall mats can help with cleaning and cost in the long term.
Leaving the bedding and stall dirty can make your horse ill and stressed.
 Since your horse will be spending a lot of time in their stall, it's important to make sure it has enough light and air. These will help keep the stall clean and comfortable for your horse. Keep these tips in mind when considering if your horse's stall is set up correctly:If the stall doesn't have natural light, consider installing lighting fixtures.
If you install lighting, make sure they are at least 8' off the ground to avoid contact with the horse.
Most horse stalls should have a window to allow fresh and light to enter the stall.
The tops of stalls should be open, allowing air to circulate.
 Even if your horse isn't running outside, it will still need to be regularly groomed and have its hooves cleaned. Keeping up with your horses grooming needs will help keep them happy and healthy, during their time in the stable. Take a look at some of these basic grooming tips:Brush your horse everyday.
Clean the horse's hooves at least once daily.
Clean the hooves whenever the horse comes in from the field or paddock.
Use a hoof pick to clean out a hoof. The pick will let you remove the daily build up of dirt and mud.
If you are new to cleaning a horse's hoof, consider asking or hiring a farrier for help.
 Checking in with your horse regularly can be a simple way to keep him happy and engaged. Regular visits can also help keep your bond strong. If your horse in in a stable for any length of time, always make an effort to stop in for regular visits throughout the day.Groom your horse daily.
Stop in and give your horse some scratches or belly rubs.
You may want to give your horse an extra treat once in a while.
 Ideally, you will want to have other horses in nearby stables. Since horses enjoy each others company, keeping other horses nearby will allow your horse to feel comfortable during its time in the stable. Whenever possible, always try to meet your horse's social needs while he is in the stable.Try to keep your horse near horses that they are familiar with.
Don't separate your horse from other horses that they are usually around.
Horses seem to be happy in groups between four to ten other horses.
 Horses are social animals. If you are unable to stable him with other horses nearby, you may consider leaving a radio on for him. The noises and voices that play from the radio can keep your horse comfortable and help him avoid feeling alone. Always try to leave a radio on for your horse if you must leave it alone in the stable to help keep him happy.