 Before attempting any type of technique to break your water, speak with your doctor or other medical professional. They can let you know if you are healthy enough to try techniques such as having sex. Not consulting your doctor could lead to rapid start of labor, which can cause complications.Ask your doctor if lifestyle methods or medical techniques are best for your pregnancy.
Avoid trying to break your water or induce labor before 39 weeks of pregnancy.;
, Walking may get your water to break and induce labor.Go for an easy walk of no more than 30 minutes at a time to stimulate the baby to move, which may make your water break.Remember not to strain or stress yourself when walking, even if you are excited to get labor started.


Wear supportive shoes to cushion your feet and legs from unnecessary strain. Stick to flat surfaces if you can.
 Although not proven, other forms of exercise may also help break your water. Try another type of low impact cardio to make your water break.Some examples include:Five minutes of deep squats
Sitting on a yoga ball and gently rolling the pelvis in circles
Lunges
Walking stairsSitting upright and butterflying your legs

, Although you may not feel like having sex at 39 or 40 weeks, it may be the best way to induce labor and break your water. In fact, labor is common within one week of having sex. If you are comfortable enough, have sex at least once a day, which may make your water break. Consider deeply penetrating positions such as cowgirl or from behind. These may better stimulate your cervix and get the prostaglandins from sperm to induce labor.Avoid having sex once your water is broken. This can introduce harmful bacteria into the birth canal., If you’re hoping to start or already are in labor, use nipple stimulation to further progress your labor. Rub your nipples and areola between your forefinger and thumb, which mimics the how a baby nurses. Ask your partner for help if that is more comfortable for you.This can also make your water break because it release oxytocin, which causes your uterus to contract.Recognize that it may require significant nipple stimulation to start labor.
 Although there is little medical evidence for them, some foods may help break your water and induce labor. Try eating spicy foods such a hot peppers or curries and pineapple if you want to get your labor started.Some other foods that may make your water break include:Eggplant
Balsamic vinegar
LicoriceBasil
Oregano

, Some women find that taking castor oil can induce labor and make their water break. Talk to your doctor about dosing if you want to try castor oil.Take the castor oil in the morning, as it can cause diarrhea.This also allows you to monitor your symptoms and stay hydrated., Some people may suggest blue cohosh, raspberry tea, or other herbs to get your water to break. There is little evidence these work, and they may also come with unpleasant side effects such as diarrhea. Ask your doctor if these are safe for you and use with caution.Take 3-4 500mg capsules of evening primrose oil if you are at 38 weeks or beyondMake raspberry leaf tea and drink it as you like. This can organize contractions that may help your water break.

