 Before you begin to actually clean the countertop, remove excess debris and move appliances or items so you can reach all areas.


Wipe up any spills or sticky residue on counter. The best way to avoid staining your countertop is to remove liquids or sauces immediately from your countertop. If the liquid has set, use a hot wet rag to loosen and remove the caked on debris.
Wash with warm soapy water and remove crumbs or other debris. Use a basic soapy rag to clear countertops of remaining crumbs, debris or other matter before you thoroughly clean your countertops.;
, Be sure you use cleaners that are pH balanced and include no acid or acidic type chemicals.


Fill a bucket or your sink with warm clean water. If you can use filtered water, even better.
Combine mild dish detergent with rubbing alcohol. Mix three parts dish detergent with one part standard rubbing alcohol. Alcohol works well because it has antiseptic and cleaning properties but contains a pH level of 7.0--the same pH level in water. Keep in mind that using too much alcohol can break down sealers, as it is a strong solvent.
Mix well and allow water to cool slightly. You want water to be very warm, but not scalding or extremely hot. Make sure your soap and alcohol are well mixed for a nice balance.
 Although granite is an extremely tough surface, it is susceptible to acidic formulas, which eat away at its surface. Vinegar, and lemon all contain more acid than is safe for granite.
 For best results, use a white cloth, free of excess fibers that could become loose and be left behind on the counter. One possible solution is to use a clean cloth diaper or microfiber cloth.


Immerse the cloth in the cleaning solution and wipe counters thoroughly. Soak your cloth in the solution, allowing the cleaning fluid to permeate the cloth. Before cleaning the counter wring cloth out to remove excess fluid.
Run hand over the counter to ensure you’ve removed all debris. Due to the nature of granite counter designs, some stains or leftover debris and stains may not be apparent to the naked eye. However, if you run a clean hand over the countertop surface you may be able to pick up stuck on debris that your cloth may have missed.
 Although your counters will be clean, most cleaners may leave streaks if not dried immediately.


Use a microfiber cloth to dry and buff counters. This will not only remove streaks, but enhance the countertop finish and shine.
Use a new dry microfiber cloth if the other cloth becomes soggy or wet. A wet cloth won’t allow you to dry the counter so exchange the original cloth for something new.
