 You can download a fillable PDF copy of Texas's official acknowledgement form online. When the child is born, the hospital may give you a form, or you can get one before or after the child's birth at the office of a certified entity, such as a child support office.A certified entity is one approved by the state of Texas to provide paternity forms and file them with the Texas Vital Statistics Unit.
You can find the office of a certified entity nearest you by calling 1-866-255-2006.
Paternity forms are always free of charge in Texas.
You can complete an acknowledgement of paternity as soon as 300 days before the child is born, or at any time after the child is born – even if the child is an adult.;
, The man who wants to voluntarily acknowledge paternity of the child must complete the portion of the form by providing identification information about himself. The same information is required of the mother, and she can complete this information.This section requires the father to enter his name, date of birth, Social Security number, and current address.
The same information must be included for the child's mother that was entered of the child's father.
You also must include the child's name, date of birth, and place of birth.
The information may be typed or written into the form using blue or black ink. Photocopies of the form itself are accepted. However, the signatures must be original.
You must check the box next to the statement indicating whether genetic testing has been completed, and whether there is someone else who is the presumed father of the child.
Keep in mind that denying the existence of a presumed father will render the acknowledgement of paternity void and the form will have no effect.
 If the child has a presumed father who differs from the acknowledged father, he must complete the section denying paternity at the bottom of the acknowledgement form.The presumed father doesn't have to complete the section on the same form – he can complete a separate form.
However, if you are submitting the forms for the purposes of including the father's information on the child's birth certificate, both the acknowledgement and the denial must be submitted at the same time.
The mother also must sign the denial section if the presumed father completes it.
If the presumed father won't complete the denial of paternity section, you will have to file for a court order to establish paternity and complete genetic testing.
 Both the acknowledged father and the mother of the child must sign the acknowledgement form for it to be valid. If the child has a presumed father who is different from the acknowledged father, he must sign the form as well.Keep in mind that you are signing this form under penalty of perjury. It is considered a legal document once filed, and if you make any false statements on the form, not only will the acknowledgement be void, but you may end up with fines or jail time for committing perjury.
If you need to make any changes to information that has already been entered, you may do so by striking that information out and writing the correct information above it. You must initial the change.
Other than this sort of modification, do not include any additional information or notations anywhere on the form.
 If you turn your acknowledgement form in at the hospital where the child is born or at the office of a certified entity, they will file the document for you.Check the form for completeness and accuracy before you submit it. You may want to make a copy of the form for your records.
Once filed, an acknowledgement of paternity form has the same effect as a court order establishing paternity.
Just as there as no fee to access the paternity form, there also is no fee to file the form.

