 Check the store’s website. Go through circulars that come in the mail or with newspapers. Keep an eye out for the clothes you want, as well as the brand.


Also ask your mom to become a rewards member at the store. This way she may get an even deeper discount when your clothes come on sale.
Be patient. If the clothing you want is for summer or winter, wait until the end of the season for the store’s clearance sale. You may have to wait until next summer or winter to wear it, but if you really love it, that shouldn’t matter.
 Help your mom pay for the item.If you have a job, contribute your own money. If you receive an allowance, give her money that you’ve saved or tell her she can take the money out of future allowances.


If you don’t have any money of your own, offer to work for it. Volunteer to do extra chores around the house or anything else to make your mom’s life easier.Pick chores that she knows you hate; that will show her how badly you want those clothes!

, Think back: have you already asked your mom to get you something for your birthday or any gift-giving holiday like Christmas or Hanukkah? If you have, ask yourself which you’d rather have more: this piece of clothing or that other thing. If you’d rather have the clothes, tell your mom that you’d be happier with this if she hasn’t already bought the other item. If you haven’t asked for anything yet, tell your mom that this would be perfect.
 The more you wear clothes, the quicker they’ll wear out, so don’t plan on wearing it every other day. Tell your mom that it’ll just be for special events: school pictures, holidays, dates, etc. Assure her that it won’t be in constant risk of being ruined by some jerk at school who likes to spray people with ketchup bottles.
 Don't ask your mom to buy you something just because it was made by So-and-So.Remember that your mom can probably think of a dozen different brands that came into fashion and then went straight back out of it, whether they were Members Only jackets or Starter jackets. Ask yourself if you'd still like these clothes if they were from a no-name brand. Think of why you like it and share that with her.
 Your mom probably doesn’t want to spend a whole lot of money on one piece of clothing if you’re still growing. Tell her that you’re fine with buying a larger size. Prove to her that you really do like this piece by showing her that you’re willing to wait before you can actually wear it.


If you still have a whole lot of growth spurts ahead of you, think of any younger siblings or cousins who could wear it as a hand-me-down. Convince your mom that it’ll continue to be used even after you outgrow it.
Since it’s hard to predict how your body will change, be careful with what clothing you choose. Try on sizes that fit you now for a sense of how a larger size will fit you later on. Don't buy anything too form-fitting, since it might not fit your form so well in the future.
 If you’re out shopping for a lot of clothes all at once, count this one piece of clothing as your “big buy.” Then think of ways to keep your mom from spending too much money on other stuff. Show her that you know she has to stick to a budget and that you’re trying to find ways to help her do that.


When you’re looking at other clothes, check the price. If you can find something like it that costs less, go with that.
Think of what clothes you already own. Do you still like them? Do they still fit? If you’re still happy with them, tell your mom that you don’t need to buy five or six new shirts just because it’s a new school year. Settle for three or four.
Offer to go to a thrift store to shop for the rest. Yes, some people act snotty about buying secondhand clothes, but don’t let that stop you! You can find a lot of cool stuff there that you won’t find anywhere else, which means there’s less chance of everyone at school wearing the exact same thing as you. Plus, lots of people donate clothes they’ve never even worn.

