 When you are sleep deprived, your emotions are harder to control. One study showed that with only a few nights of disrupted sleep for teenage girls, their negative feelings increased as well as their anger.Getting a good night’s sleep helps people regulate their emotions.


Try to go to bed at the same time every night and get up at the same time each morning. Your body will benefit from a regular sleep schedule.
Turn off all screens (TV, phone, computer) at least a half-hour before you go to bed. Studies show that your brain is cognitively stimulated by electronic screens, which can interrupt good sleep.If you have trouble getting solid sleep, talk with your doctor to see if there are other strategies you can try.
 If you know you are going into a situation where you won’t get a lot of sleep, try to get extra sleep beforehand. You may be able to counteract some of the negative effects of sleep deprivation, like moodiness., Meditation has been shown to be effective in emotional regulation.This relaxation practice has been shown to have a longer lasting effect on the amygdala, the center for emotion and the part of the brain where the stress response begins after a stressful or threatening event has been perceived.Start with deep breathing exercises. Find a quiet place to sit. Breathe in for a count of four, hold for a count of four, and exhale for a count of four. Make sure you are breathing with your diaphragm rather than with your chest. When you breathe with your diaphragm, your belly extends out (you can feel it with your hand). Do this as many times as necessary until you start feeling calmer.
If you feel like you have trouble meditating, don’t worry. Meditation is a combination of deep breathing exercises, visualization, and performing mental tasks, but if you feel like it’s difficult for you to sit long enough to meditate or if you feel uncomfortable meditating, you can just begin with simply deep breathing, and you can initiate your body’s calming response.
When you are calm, practicing meditation will help you process your emotions in a healthier way. You can combine breathing with visualization tasks. A simple way to do this is when you breathe in, envision a golden-white light that relaxes you and makes you feel happy. Envision this white light spreading into your lungs and throughout your entire body. When you breathe out, breathe out muddy, dark colors which represent your angry, stressed out feelings.
 Progressive muscle relaxation is the process of tensing and relaxing your entire body in progressive stages. It is thought that by tensing your muscles yourself, it will help release pent-up tension in your body.Here is an overview of this method:


Start with a few deep breaths. Breathe in for a count of four, hold for four, and exhale for four.
Start with the muscles in your head and face. Tighten as many muscles as you can in your face, head, mouth, and neck, and hold for twenty seconds, then release.
Work your way down the body, tensing and releasing your shoulders, arms, back, hands, stomach, legs, feet, and toes.
Now wiggle your toes around, feeling the relaxation from your toes to your head.
Take a few more deep breaths, and enjoy the feeling of relaxation.
 Exercise can help dissipate anger. For adults and children, research shows that exercise helps with mood regulation and controlling emotions., Try going out and exercising when you’re in a mad moment, or use it daily to release aggression.


Exercise will also help you sleep better.
 Anger management programs have been shown to have a high rate of success.The most successful programs help you understand your anger, give you short-term strategies to deal with your anger, and help you build skills.


There are a wide variety of types of anger management programs.For example, there are anger management programs available for teens, executives, police officers, and other populations of people who might be experiencing different types of anger for different reasons.
 If you feel like you are unable to get control over your temper, you may want to try therapy as a way to deal with your anger.Your therapist will most likely use relaxation techniques to help you calm down in the middle of an anger episode. Your therapist will also help you deal with the thoughts that can trigger anger and find new ways to view your situations.


Talk to your therapist about emotional coping skills and assertiveness communication training.

