 By far the easiest way to hack at Cookie Clicker is to use the Cookie Engine. This free online program creates custom save code for Cookie Clicker. By importing this save code into the game, you can modify your game to your exact specifications. To use this tool, begin by visiting the Cookie Engine webpage.;
, On the main Cookie Engine page, you'll find a wide variety of options for modifying your saves starting conditions. Use the text boxes to change your values for each of the game's many variables. You'll find three categories of modify-able variables on the Cookie Engine:



Options: The items in this section are used to change various aspects of how the game runs. These are purely cosmetic and/or functional and won't affect your progress in the game. For instance, the "Autosave" option determines whether or not the game automatically saves your process.

Cookies: These items determine how many of each type of cookie you have. Type a number into each of these boxes to set your starting cookie value. For instance, if you want to start with 20,000 cookies, type "20000" in the box labeled "Cookies".

Buildings: These items determine how many of each type of building/helper you have (e.g. grandmas, factories, shipments, etc.). Modify these the same way you would modify the items in the "Cookies" section.
 At the bottom of the Cookie Engine page, there are two small but important check boxes that are easy to miss. One reads "Enable All Upgrades" and the other reads "Enable All Achievements". Leaving either of these boxes checked will cause he corresponding condition to be true in your new game, while unchecking them will start you with no upgrades or achievements, respectively.


By default, these boxes are checked, so if you'd like a challenge, don't forget to uncheck them.
 When you've set all of the items in the Cookie Engine exactly how you'd like, scroll to the bottom and click the "Generate Code" button. The Cookie Engine program will generate a string of save code that contains your specifications. Copy this code to your computer's clipboard or a blank word document.
 Finally, open Cookie Clicker and click the "Menu" button at the top of the screen. Click the "Import Save" button, which is about halfway down the page. Finally, paste your save code into the text box that pops up and click "Load". A new game should load with the exact conditions you selected on the Cookie Engine. Enjoy!


Playing with all upgrades and achievements enabled will not necessarily start you with all seasonal holiday upgrades and achievements.

