 Preparing a flood response plan will help you think through all the details that demand attention as the flood waters approach. This is a project for the whole family. As you write down the plan, make sure everyone understands it. Having the plan in writing will help you remember what to do when everyone is in a hurry and excited because a flood is coming.


Develop a flood response plan based on the flood protection level, local warning procedures, and the time you will have to respond. In flash flood areas, you may only have enough time to evacuate. But if you live in areas in the path of a hurricane or cyclone or on large rivers, you may have 12-24 hours of warning time.
If you live in a mountainous area, or if your flooding comes from a small stream or ditch, your home may be subject to flash flooding. Flash floods can occur before the local emergency managers have time to issue a warning. In these cases, listen for warnings. For example, in the United States, you can listen to the National Weather Service, which may issue a flash flood watch advising people that conditions are favorable for a flash flood. You may not be notified of a flash flood warning before flooding actually begins.
If you live near the coast, you'll be asked to evacuate when a hurricane or cyclone threatens your community. It's important to evacuate when you're asked to.
Prepare your flood response plan to take into account all of the time that you'll need to protect your home before you evacuate. You'll need time to board your windows and to clear your yard so your belongings won't blow or float away.
 Your flood response plan should be a checklist of steps to take before flood waters reach your home. The following are examples of things to include:


Listen to local radio or TV stations for flood information and evacuation instructions.
Read safety precautions at the top of this document.
Get into the habit of keeping a full tank of gas in your car, especially at times of the year when flooding can be expected in your area.
Pack the car with supplies you need while away from home.
Put supplies needed for clean up and recovery in a safe place. If your flood protection level is over your top floor, you may have to store supplies at a friend’s home away from the flood-prone area or take them with you in your car.
Take pets to a kennel or friend’s place on high ground. Health codes do not allow animals in public shelters.
If you have enough warning time, move your contents above the flood protection level or to another safe place. In the United States, some of the cost of doing this can be covered under an NFIP flood insurance policy.
Install flood shields and other flood proofing measures you may have prepared.
In hurricane or cyclone prone areas, protect against wind damage. Install hurricane shutters or plywood covers over windows and doors, take down TV antennas, and securely tie down boats, garbage cans, and everything else left outdoors.
Tape plastic around the cap to your well. This will prevent most, but not all, flood water from entering your water supply. You will still have to disinfect your water.
Turn off the electricity, gas, oil, and water.
Lock your home.
Follow your designated evacuation route to a place of shelter.

