 The first thing you need to do when you ask forgiveness of someone is to express remorse for your actions. In other words, you need to make it clear that you feel sorry about what you have done. This can be accomplished easily if you start out by saying, “I’m sorry,” or “I apologize.”Strengthen your statement of remorse by saying exactly what you are sorry about. For example, “I am sorry for making a scene at your party.” Or, “I apologize for snapping at you and being so short with you yesterday.”

, It is important to reveal the motivation behind your actions, but you have to be careful not to use your motivation as an excuse. Simply tell the person what caused you to do or say the things that you did. Keep this portion of the apology short and make it clear that you are not trying to use it as an excuse for your actions.For example, “I made a scene because I was feeling left out and wanted more attention, but that’s no excuse for my behavior.” Or, “I acted that way because I did not sleep well the night before and I had a lot of things on my mind, but that is not your fault and it was wrong for me to take it out on you.”

, In addition to making sure that the person knows you are accepting responsibility for your actions, you should also make it clear that you understand how you made them feel. Tell the person how you imagine or know that you made them feel.For example, “By making a scene at your party I know that I embarrassed you in front of your new friends from work.” Or, “By acting that way towards you, I probably made you feel unappreciated.”

, Once you have addressed what you did, why you did it, and why it was wrong, you need to make things right. In other words, you need to tell the person what you intend to do in the future to prevent another similar situation. This may be accomplished by providing a plan for future scenarios or by saying how you will respond differently in the future.For example, “In the future, I will talk to someone about how I am feeling rather than acting out.” Or, “The next time I am having a bad day, I will take some time to myself and try not to project my anger onto you.”

, It is important to demonstrate the amount of time and effort that you have put into your apology and the efforts you are making to avoid a similar situation in the future. If you took the time to correct the mistake you made, tell the person about how you corrected it. It shows a willingness to admit you're wrong, as well as a sincere desire to atone for a mistake.


Example: "I've even changed after that incident. I'm trying to find productive outlets for my anger. I'm going to the gym and taking kickboxing classes. I've even talked with a therapist about confronting some of my anger issues."

, Once you have apologized, you can ask the other person to forgive you. This may be the most difficult part of the apology because there is always a chance that the person will not forgive you. In fact, you should demonstrate your understanding by allowing the person that option. Just keep in mind that you can try again if the person is not ready to forgive and try not to get discouraged.Example: "I care about you a lot and I value our friendship. Will you please forgive me?"

, Compensate for your mistake by doing something good for the person you have wronged. Approach them with a bunch of flowers or a card with a written note. Show them that your actions are not just about relieving yourself of guilt, but making them feel better, too. Just don’t rely on flowers or some other gift as a stand-in for a sincere apology.