 Lip balm that contains petrolatum is good for locking in moisture, and balm with dimethicone is useful for sealing up dry, cracked lips.Many balm products also include emollients, which help moisturize the skin, provide a protective film, and make dry, itchy skin feel more comfortable., This might include cuts and scrapes, bug bites, and rashes. First, use a clean tissue, cloth, or leaf to clean away any blood or dirt. Then, apply Chapstick thickly to the area. Be sure to thoroughly coat the wound with balm. Then, cover the skin with a clean cloth or leaf.


In a pinch, Chapstick can stop small cuts from bleeding.The waxy substance blocks off the wound and keeps the blood flowing inside your body.
As a wound or rash heals, Chapstick will protect the tender area from dirt and bacteria. This may reduce your risk of infection, especially if you are in an unclean or unfamiliar environment.
 Be sure to use Chapstick liberally and often when you're in constant exposure to the elements. If your lips take too much heat, cold, or wind, they might dry out, crack open, and even bleed.
 Smear lip balm on blisters, foot rot, and other painful (but not life-threatening) maladies. The protective qualities of the balm may have a tingling, mildly-pain-relieving effect on your skin. Do not expect Chapstick to ease any serious pain, and do not treat it as a substitute for real medical attention.


If you have a toothache, try applying lip balm to the gums or to the outer skin of your cheek. This method is not officially recommended, but some survivalists claim that it can ease the pain a bit.
 Apply to a clean, dry face. Use Chapstick like sunscreen. The waxy coating should put a thin, protective layer between your skin and the sun – but it won't last nearly as long as official sunscreen. Be careful to keep it out of your eyes!


Some lip balm actually comes with an SPF rating. Choose one of these products, and it may actually give your skin some serious sun protection.Chapstick may also help temporarily protect your face from wind-chill and frostbite. Apply to your face in cold, windy situations. Do not expect it to protect you from serious cold.
 To reduce glare in bright environments like snow and deserts, try dipping the Chapstick in ash and rubbing it in lines beneath your eyes. Layer the ash-balm combination all over your face to darken your skin and make a simple, camouflaging hunting mask. It functions much like mud, and it is somewhat water-resistant.