 If you're not using it, turn it off. This goes for lights, televisions, computers, printers, and so on.


Put timers on lamps and use them to turn off lamps at the same time each day. Timers like these can be found in hardware stores and they can be plugged into outlets, then control the power to your lamp.
You can also find heaters and fans that have timers on them. So if it's cold or hot during the night it will switch off for you. Most of the timers go for an hour and then automatically switch off.;
, Leaving devices plugged in, such as laptop chargers or toasters, can use "phantom" energy. Even when an appliance is turned off, it may still use power because the applications on the electronics will constantly use electricity.It is best to unplug anything that you do not anticipate using in the next 36 hours (or more).


Use a power strip to turn lots of things off with the flip of a single switch. You can plug all your devices in one area—say, your computer—into a power strip. When you're done, simply turn the power strip off with the switch.
Measure the energy your devices use or look up typical energy use. To measure usage yourself, use a Kill-a-Watt. You plug an appliance in through the Kill-A-Watt, and it measures the power use. This tool can also tell you whether a particular appliance or device draws power when it is turned off.
 Air drying leaves your clothes smelling fresh and is environmentally friendly. Tumble dryers are among the biggest energy users in most households, after the refrigerator and air conditioner. If you do use a dryer, make sure to keep the vent clear, for safety as well as efficiency.


Also, when using a washing machine, make sure you have a full load of dirty clothes. Do not just put a couple of dirty clothes into the washing machine as that wastes water. Instead make sure you have a full load of dirty clothing to conserve the water and electricity.
If you want, you can also hand wash clothes in a sink or buy a energy efficiency washing machine that doesn't use a lot of water.
 Air conditioners use a great deal of electricity. Use natural ventilation or a fan to keep cool, as much as possible.


If you do use an air conditioner, set it to a slightly lower temperature than outside. Remember that setting the temperature lower uses more electricity, and it won't cool things off any faster.
 If you are not using certain rooms in your house, close the vents in these rooms, and close the doors. Doing this consistently will reduce the amount of energy squandered by heating or cooling seldom occupied spaces.
 Instead of using exercise equipment, use a real bicycle (or a unicycle), or walk to get to nearby destinations or for pleasure. Calisthenics, push-ups, and other bodyweight exercises work, as well.
 Bundle yourself up and lower your thermostat by a few degrees. Aim to set your thermostat at 68°F (20 °C) in the winter, perhaps even lower at night. Every degree above this will generate about 6-8% additional energy output., The average family of four in the U.S. uses about 400 gallons (1,514 L) of water every day.Make conscious choices to lower your consumption of water.


Take shorter showers or fill the bathtub only one-quarter to one-third full.
Turn off the faucet while you brush your teeth.
Install low flow faucets (taps) or aerators, low-flow shower heads, and low-flush toilets.
Run your dishwasher only when it is completely full.
Wash full loads of laundry in a washing machine. Choose a front-load machine if possible.
If you hand wash your car, park it on your lawn and use buckets and sponges. Use the hose to rinse. Use a hose nozzle to stop the water or turn the hose off between rinses. Keep in mind, however, that the soap and other cleaning products might go down the storm drain (if you have one), leading to pollution.
If you have a swimming pool, use pool covers to reduce evaporation and keep leaves out.
Plant drought tolerant landscaping, and consider xeriscaping. Maintain your outdoor irrigation and water no more than is necessary.
 If you have curbside recycling, use it. Be sure to separate your recycling into glass, metal, paper and so on.


Take special trips to a recycling center if you don’t have curbside recycling, or if you need to recycle certain materials not accepted by your recycling service.
 Anything you use only a few times and throw away consumes resources only to spend centuries in a landfill.


Carry your own reusable cup or water bottle, eating utensils, and cloth shopping bags with you. Pack a waste-free lunch.
Use rechargeable batteries instead of disposable batteries. Batteries not only take up landfill space, as they can't be incinerated. They also can leak acid into the Earth.
Dispose properly of hazardous waste. Many materials, including batteries, fluorescent light bulbs, e-waste (most anything with batteries or a plug), cleaning products, pharmaceuticals, pesticides, automotive fluids, and paint, should never be disposed of in a landfill, sanitary sewer, or storm sewer. Instead, contact your city for proper disposal opportunities.
 Don't unwind a mile of it for one little wipe. Be reasonable. Go easy on the paper towels, too, and use a washable cloth or sponge for most of your kitchen cleanup.


For the paper products you do use, look for products made from 80-100% recycled paper, preferably with a high post-consumer content.
For most household cleaning, look for reusable terry cleaning cloths. They are inexpensive, especially when bought in bulk, and can be washed and reused hundreds of times.
 Cloth diapers have come a long way from the things with pins and plastic covers. You will save a fortune (especially if you have more than one child), keep potentially dangerous chemicals away from your baby's skin, and do a good thing for the planet while you're at it.
 If you get several catalogs which you do not need, call and ask them to stop sending them to you.


Sign up at Opt Out Prescreen’s website (https://www.optoutprescreen.com) to stop unwanted credit card solicitations for either 5 years or permanently.
 Ask yourself how your purchases are impacting other people and the natural environment.



Do not buy what you do not need. Besides saving money, you'll save resources if you don't purchase a lot of excess stuff.
Buy for durability. For items you do buy, look for things which will last a lifetime. Search "buy it for life" to find forums and recommendations for durable products.
Buy used. Reuse is a far higher purpose for used goods than the landfill, plus you'll save money.
Borrow or rent items you need only for brief or occasional use.

