 Before you begin your career in Tupperware consulting, try to learn a bit about the career path itself. Tupperware consulting can be done as a hobby, in addition to another job, or it can be done full time.


Tupperware consulting places you in an established, nationwide community of other consultants and salespeople. Tupperware consulting is a good career option if you work well on a flexible schedule, are highly self motivated, and a very social person. Consulting involves interacting with others and maintaining positive relationships with peers and customers.As a Tupperware consultant, you would work on behalf of a manager selling a variety of Tupperware products. Consultants usually host parties, but Tupperware can also be sold at fundraisers and online. While you have a great deal of personal freedom in regards to setting your own schedule, usually there are certain quotas in terms of sales and money you must meet.While many people make Tupperware consulting work as a full time career, a lot of people are able to see Tupperware on the side as a supplement to existing income.;
, In order to begin consulting, you'll need to network with an existing Tupperware consultant in your area. He or she can help you get started and answer any questions you have about the world of Tupperware consulting.


There are a variety of websites that can help you find a consultant in your area by entering your zip code. They can also help you find the contact information of an existing consultant you know of by entering a name. Most Tupperware consultants have their own personal website or blog. Browse the website of a variety of consultants until you find someone whose values and goals seem to match up with yours.
If you're not comfortable with online networking, you can attend a variety of Tupperware parties in your area. Flyers for Tupperware parties are found in churches, schools, community centers, and local coffee shops. By attending various parties, you can get a sense of a specific consultant sales style and strategy and see if they'd be a good match to help you get started.
 E-mail or call an existing consultant to set up a meeting. During the meeting, the Tupperware consultant will speak with you in more detail about his or her program and help you get signed up.


Go into the meeting with a list of questions prepared. Ask about the expectations for sales, how much you'll make on commission, what sort of events this particularly company supports, and how to be successful in the field.Do not make a decision on whether or not to work with this company based on an initial meeting. Ask for time to think it over and spend a few days reviewing the information you've gathered., In order to get started, you'll have to buy a Tupperware sales consultant kit. This kit will come with learning material about consulting as well as a variety of products you'll have to sell at your start-up party and fundraiser.


Before choosing a kit, read and review the information provided to you in the starter kit. Each starter kit will contain an informative consultant manual, a pack of order forms, party hostess forms, catalogs, and a variety of Tupperware products. See if the products do well on the market. Do consumers find the products useful? Do they generally sell well and get good reviews online?
Ask existing consultants who've used this kit how they liked it. Did they find the manual helpful and informative? Did the kit allow them a smooth transition into the world of Tupperware consulting? Was there anything they wished was different about the kit? It's okay to call the consultant you initially met and ask such questions, but you should ask a variety of consultants to get a wider perspective. You can find other consultants online or ask the consultant you first spoke with for contact information of other Tupperware consultants in the area.
 As a Tupperware sales consultant, you can choose from a variety of sales methods for selling Tupperware products. You can sell Tupperware online or host house parties and fundraisers.


If you choose to sell Tupperware online, you'll be able to see products to anyone throughout the US. You can make sales through your own personal website, taking out classified ads, going on message boards, blogging, and through other online marketing means. If you're online savvy and interested in social media and online communication, this might be the best route for you.You can also host Tupperware parties in your own home, in which you invite over friends and community members to have drinks, snacks, and buy Tupperware products. Some parties will involve buying and selling goods in your own home while others, known as catalogue parties, will allow guests to place orders for products that will then be shipped to them. If you are a social person and enjoy entertaining, this may be the best route for you., Some sales consulting kits come with online tutorials and coursework that can help you learn the basics of Tupperware sales. However, it might be a good idea to take a supplementary online course on marketing or business, especially if you're interested in Tupperware consulting as a sustainable career rather than just a side job. Many colleges and universities offer some online courses and a variety of colleges, such as Kaplan, are mostly based online. You can browse course listings and see requirements for attendance by browsing the websites of a variety of colleges, community colleges, and universities.
 Once you feel secure enough to begin your business, you need to advertise that you're going into Tupperware consulting. There are a variety of ways to advertise your business and it's recommended you choose multiple routes to advertise.


You can start by advertising around your own community. You can put up flyers in community centers, churches, schools, and local coffee shops. You can take out a classified ad in the local newspaper or pay for a short radio commercial.If you're doing mostly online based sales, social media websites like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter allow you to reach out to people throughout the US. You can also ask friends and peers to re-post your events and invite people to attend.
 Your start-up party with the first party or event you host as a Tupperware consultant. This party may be in person or it may be online. Many 24 hour online sales, for example, are referred to as "parties" or "start up parties."


If you're hosting an in person party, be prepared. Ask guests to RSVP as you'll have a rough sense of how many people to expect. Prepare food and drinks in advance. If it's in your budget, you might want to consider hiring a caterer as this can make the event appear more professional. You'll want to have some kind of station set up, demonstrating the Tupperware available for purchase.A theme is always nice when hosting a party. You could base a theme around a close by holiday, like a St. Patrick's Day or Valentine's Day theme. You could also choose seasonal themes, like a fall or winter party. There are also general themes that you could do year round, such as a decades theme like a 60's party or an 80's party.Games are always nice to move the party along between buying and selling Tupperware. Many Tupperware consulting websites and forums post ideas on how to incorporate your products into a game. You could also simply play a board game or cards between presentations and sales.Make sure, before planning the party, it's clear how much you're supposed to charge for products and how much you'll personally make on commission. Review any documents or contracts you signed prior to the party to make sure all is understood.
 After your start up party, you should let your business continue to grow. Plan future events, online or otherwise, and expand your advertising presence as the money comes in to do so. Having a personal website, even if you're not online savvy, is pretty much a must for any business. People interested in your products will want somewhere to go to get your contact information and look up an event calendar. You could also take out space in the local phone book. Make sure you host regular events as people will be more likely to remember you, attend, and spread the word if you're operating on a regular schedule.

