 The StoryCorps app is free and available for both Android and Apple devices. See below:


If you have an Android device, get the app in the Google Play Store. Click here to go directly to the app's page.If you have an Apple device, get the app in the iTunes App Store or click here, then click "View in iTunes.";
, Tap the "Download" button on the StoryCorps app page. Accept any permission requests and follow the prompts that appear. StoryCorps will begin to download immediately. You will need a valid internet connection.
 When the app finishes installing, look for the orange and white StoryCorps icon in your list of apps. Tap it to launch the app. Swipe through the introduction slideshow. At the end, you can choose whether to sign up for an account or continue without one. Use the buttons at the bottom to choose either. Both options are free.


The main benefit an account is that it gives you a StoryCorps user profile. Other users can to search for you and follow you to receive updates when you upload content — just like on Instagram and similar social sites. If you don't like this idea, you still have all the main app features without an account.
There are also several minor features unique to account holders. For instance, when you're recording an interview, you can only "add" other users' accounts to the interview for tagging purposes if you have an account.
 When you finish the setup process, you'll be at the main app screen. The buttons you'll see here help you start using the app. These are:



Plus sign in top right: Start recording a new story. See section below for step-by-step instructions.

Three lines in top left: View the menu options. You will see options for browsing your own interviews, listening to other peoples', getting help, and more. You can edit your profile with the button at the bottom if you're logged in.
 Choose this option after hitting the "+" button if you'd like some guidance as you make your first interview. With this option:


You create a list of interview questions. StoryCorps can suggest questions to you if you're having trouble thinking of any.
You can add your interview partner's profile to your account (only if you've signed up for one).
You set an approximate time limit for your interview. Don't worry — you can go over.
If you don't need help, just choose "Record an interview." In this case, skip to the steps below about the recording process.
 After selecting "Prepare an interview," choose "What questions will you ask?" at the top to start making your list.


You'll see a list of sample open-ended questions on the next page. Tap on each one you like to add it to your list. When you're done, tap "Save" in the top right.
Swipe to the left and right to see different categories of questions. You'll start in the "Best questions" category. Other options include "Family heritage," "Love and relationships," and more.
You can write custom questions at any time by tapping "Write your own question" at the top.
 StoryCorps recommends open-ended questions for getting the most detailed, personal results from your interview. The official guide is available here.A few example questions include:


What are the most important lessons you’ve learned in life?
Is there anything that you’ve never told me but want to tell me now?
What was your childhood like?
Did you have a nickname? How’d you get it?
When did you first fall in love?

, On the preparation screen, tap the "Who will you interview?" button. On the next page you can enter the name and email address of the person you're interviewing. This isn't required, but it's handy for keeping track of interviews. Tap "Save" when you're done.


You must be signed into your account to do this. If you aren't, you'll be prompted to log in or create an account.
 You have three options: 15, 30, and 40 minutes. Regardless of which option you choose, the app will automatically stop recording at 45 minutes.
 StoryCorps recordings take the form of two-person interviews. Pick someone to talk to who is close to you and who has a story you want to share.This can be almost anyone. Below are just a few examples of people you may want to consider talking to. Feel free to pick a person who is not listed:


A cherished grandparent
A veteran
Someone with a unique social or ethnic perspective
Someone who's struggled through adversity
Someone with an immigrant experience
Someone who's truly made a difference in your life

, StoryCorps recommends a few measures and precautions when it comes to where you record your interview. See below:Pick someplace quiet. The quieter, the better. Keep in mind that things like airplanes overhead and construction in the distance can be picked up quite easily. Basements can be good for avoiding these sorts of noises.
Pick someplace away from other people. This should be someplace indoors where you are unlikely to be disturbed for up to 45 minutes.
Pick someplace with no echo. Don't record in a large, open room with lots of hard surfaces. If you need to, you can add furniture, rugs, blankets and other "soft" objects to dampen an echo.
Silence your phone and remove any objects in the room that are creating noise (like ticking clocks).
 If you need help preparing questions and getting started, use the "Prepare an Interview" option. Otherwise, just tap "Record an Interview."

, When you tap "Record this interview," you will go to the recording screen, but you won't begin recording right away. To start, tap the "Record" option at the bottom. Your device's microphone will activate. It is almost always at the bottom of the phone, so point this end at yourself when you're talking and point it at your subject when s/he is talking.


As you start to record, you'll see cards with instructions at the top of the screen. The first will direct you to introduce yourself and get started. The rest of the cards will have the questions you chose earlier.
 Searching for the highlights in the middle of a 30 or 40 minute interview can be a slog. Luckily, the app lets you mark them while recording so that you can instantly find them later. See below:


The pushpin button marks the beginning of a question. Press it when you start asking your partner each new question. You should see a small dot appear over the progress bar at the bottom.
The star button marks especially good parts of the conversation. Press it whenever you hear something funny, poignant, revealing, interesting, etc.
 Tap "Yes" to confirm your choice. You can't go back to the interview after this point. Afterward, you'll be able to see your completed interview on the main app screen. Press the big play button to listen!


You'll be directed to take a picture with your interview subject while you wrap up. StoryCorps will switch to your camera app for this.
 After you finish an interview, you'll find yourself back on the main app screen. Here, you can scroll through the interviews you've already recorded (as well as the drafts you haven't finished yet). Find a finished interview in the list and press the "Publish" button at the bottom to continue. At this point, your interview is still not public.
 On the next screen, you'll see many fields you can tap on to supply information about the interview. Only a few are required, but filling out more will make it easier for others to find your interview. If you're just keeping your interview for your own use, the information can still be helpful for future reference. Your options are:Interview Photo (required)
Interview Title (required)
Summary
Keywords
Participants
Recording Location

, When you're done providing some or all of the information above, you'll be asked to save the interview to your device or to digitally publish it. Saving it to your device means it will be stored for you to listen to later, but no one else will be able to listen to it. Publishing your interview puts it online, where other people can search for it and listen. Only do this if you're comfortable with others hearing it.When you choose to publish your interview, check the box to certify that all participants have agreed to share the audio.
The upload process can take a few minutes. You'll need a steady internet connection during this time to complete the upload.
To publish a saved interview later, return to it on the main app screen and tap the "Publish" button again.
 For the first year after launch, stories shared with the app will be electronically archived at the American Folklife Center of the U.S. Library of Congress.You don't have to do anything special for this — it will be done automatically for all interviews uploaded in the first year.


The StoryCorps app officially launched on March 25th, 2015., A finished interview on the main app screen has a few additional options you can use to make changes to it. Tap the three dots in the bottom right of the interview to access these options, which are:



Listen: Self-explanatory.

Upload Full Interview: This is the same as the "publishing" process discussed above.

Edit Info: Lets you change the title, photo, participants, etc.

Create Excerpt: Lets you create a separate audio file from a single section of the interview. Drag the two dots along the progress bar to adjust the excerpt's beginning and end points.

Delete Full Interview: Self-explanatory.

