 Cut out a piece of cardboard as big as you want the frame to be, and cut out an opening in the middle for your picture. The frame can be as simple or creative as you want - go for the basic rectangle, or cut a large base with windows for two or three different pictures. Add construction paper over the back of each picture window to hold your pictures. Glue the paper on three sides so that you can slide pictures in and out of the frame.









You can also buy a simple wooden frame if you don't want to make one.
 The colors and gloss of magazines make them perfect for this frame, but you can also use old newspaper, cardboard paper, or any other scratch paper you have lying around.
 If you're using magazine pages, simply cut each page in half lengthwise. If you're using newspaper, cut strips about four inches wide and ten inches long.
 Place the dowel at one corner of the paper, at just more than a 45 degree angle to the page. Roll the corner of the paper around the wooden dowel. Keeping the paper tight, use the dowel to roll the paper into a tube.









As you roll, the edges of the dowel will be covered by the paper. Don't lose them, as this will make it harder to get the dowel out of the tube. Simply slide the dowel to one side to make sure you always have enough of a handle sticking out of the rolled paper.
 You can simply put a drop of glue on the opposite corner from where you started; this will hold the whole tube together. However, if you later cut the tube, you risk cutting off the glued part and unraveling the tube. To prevent this, put glue on the whole outer edge of the tube. This way, it will stay rolled no matter when or how you cut it.
 You'll need more than you think, so make sure you roll plenty of tubes before proceeding.
 You can use another glue to hold the paper tubes in place, but Mod Podge tends to be effective, secure, and easy to work with, so it's a great option for this frame.
 This will give the edges a clean, smooth look and feel, and you won't have to worry about perfectly trimming the ends of the other tubes.
 Cut tubes down to size before you attach them, or trim them to fit as you put them in place. For a simple frame, lay all tubes vertically on the frame, one right next to another. This will create a simple, classic look.









Experiment with laying the tubes diagonally or perpendicular to each other, or even use them to create patterns. For example, add a small square of tubes rotated 45 degrees from the rest to create a diamond in the middle of your frame. Bend the tubes to create corners, or let them stick off the edge of the frame. Get creative -- the layout of the tubes will define the look and feel of your frame.
Make sure to place the tubes tightly together so that there are no gaps or holes in the frame.
 When you've finished filling in the frame with tubes, a layer of the matte will act as a glue to keep them together and in place. It will also provide a shell covering that will strengthen the frame and keep it crisp and glossy.
 Once the matte has completely dried, slip your pictures into the frame.








