 Strategies that address the problems in a given area must be mapped out. From the outset, it is essential to facilitate neighbors working together. This effort provides an opportunity for neighbors to meet and get to know each other, something that has become less common lately. Yet, it is crucial to include neighborhood involvement for the process to be successful.


In addition to not being familiar with your neighbors, the dilemma is compounded by the fact that many adults in vulnerable neighborhoods work multiple jobs frequently with odd hours, making it extraordinarily difficult to schedule meetings and organize events. This environment also makes it challenging for neighbors to get to know and care about one another in a way that would encourage them to watch out for each other but you need to find compromises to get them together, even if it's a series of meetings at different times.





;
, This is often the most difficult step to hurdle because there is usually angst between the residents and law enforcement for the existing crime problem that exists in their community.
 Neighborhood Watch in the USA states, “In many cases, law enforcement and community members do not have the same focus. For instance, law enforcement may be focusing their attention on a problem that the neighborhood is not concerned about, such as attempting to address major crimes throughout the city. On the other hand, community members may be more concerned about crimes such as bicycle thefts or graffiti, which are considered minor from a police standpoint.” An effective Neighborhood Arson Watch program will combine the needs of the fire and police departments with those of the neighborhood when determining which problems to focus on and the methods used to address them.
 If the group leaders are devoid of motivation and organization, the volunteers may be uninspired to participate and will quickly quit out of disappointment and frustration. Select the leaders wisely and give the leaders reasons to be proud of their role.
 Often, after a Neighborhood Watch has addressed its original issue, members lose interest. It is important for leaders to remain passionate and committed for the long term. One way to accomplish this is to design new projects so that there is always a goal towards which the team of volunteers is aspiring. Arson prevention projects should focus on identifying and removing what could burn or materials that an arsonist could use to start a fire, such as:


Clean up the neighborhood by removing all garbage, material, and excess vegetation that is capable of being ignited.






Remove all possible sources of ignition such as flammable liquids and unused gas containers.






Remove abandoned vehicles. According to the USFA’s NFIRS data and the NFPA, there is an annual estimated average of 25,328 intentional fires involving vehicles.Most car fires are started to cover up other criminal activity or simply as an act of vandalism. An abandoned car is a target for arson.






Secure abandoned and vacant homes which are potential arson targets. This may be comprised with additional locks or the boarding up of broken windows or other openings with plywood. Communicate with the owner that authorities are concerned about the vacant home and explain why.






Encourage the fire department to conduct frequent fire code inspections.






Contact public works to disconnect all utilities at the street. This includes natural gas, water, and electricity. If there are liquefied petroleum gas tanks, they should be disconnected and removed.






Encourage Neighborhood Watch members to patrol these areas and write down descriptions, license plates of suspicious vehicles, and potential suspect descriptions.







