 Evacuating your car is risky, so you want to be 100% sure that your car is on fire before exiting. If you see smoke but no flames, watch the smoke to make sure that it isn’t exhaust coming from your car. Smoke is thick and won’t dissipate quickly, whereas exhaust will fade into the air.


If you see flames, your car is definitely on fire and you should evacuate as quickly and carefully as you can.
 Once you see that your car is on fire, it’s important to exit as quickly as you can. Open the latch of the door and push it open, being careful to only touch the plastic latch and not the frame of the door or car.The metal frame of the car is likely charged with electricity by the power line, so it’s important to have as little contact with your car as possible in order to avoid getting electrocuted.
 After you open the door to the car, don’t step out as you normally would. Instead, hold your legs together and bring them slightly inward towards your body. Rotate your body, making sure to not let your feet or any other part of your body touch the frame of the car, so that you are angled to jump out of the car.Cross your arms over your body to make yourself as small and compact as possible.
 Still keeping your legs together, jump carefully out of the car and land on both of your feet at the same time. Keeping your legs together so that your feet touch the ground at the same time greatly reduces your chances of getting shocked.Jump, don’t slide, out of the car. Your body should be in the air, not sitting in the car, when your feet touch the ground.
 After you jump out of your car, get away from the flaming car as fast as you can. Instead of walking and lifting up one foot at a time, shuffle from the car, keeping both your feet on the ground at all times about 6 inches (15 cm) apart. Alternatively, you could also hop away from your car.You may feel silly, but shuffling or hopping may save you from getting shocked.
If you choose to hop from the car, make sure that both of your feet hit the ground at the same time.
 Keep shuffling or hopping until you are at least 50 feet (15.2 m) from your car. Then take out your phone and call 911. Tell them your exact location, and let them know that a power line has fallen onto your car and that your car has caught fire.When the dispatchers arrive, tell them what is going on and follow their safety advice.
Warn other approaching cars what has happened, and tell them not to approach or touch the car or the power line. Shout over to them if they are within 50 feet (15.2 m) of the power line or car.

