 Lined paper will help you write each letter evenly and uniformly. It will also help to distinguish the difference in size of the upper case and the lower case letters.


If you are teaching your child how to write the alphabet, ask them questions as they write each letter. Once they finish writing the letter “A” and the letter “B”, for example, have a chat about the differences between each letter. Ask your child, “what differences do you see between each letter?” This will help your child remember each letter and start to get a sense of the different shapes of each letter., First draw a circle. When you get to the spot where you started the circle, make one vertical line: |This is a., Draw a vertical line: | , and then a lowercase, backwards c that joins the vertical line. This is b.
 This is c.
 Draw a vertical line, and then to the left of it, draw a lowercase, backwards c. This is d.
 First, draw a short, horizontal line. Curve it round to make a c shape, with a line in the middle. This is e.
 Just above the middle of the letter, draw a short horizontal line across the vertical one. This is f.
 This is g.
 This is h.
 Draw a vertical line, then put a dot on top of it. This is i.
 Same as uppercase J, but make it lower down in the line of writing and put a dot on top of it. This is j.
 This is k.
 You can stop here or draw a short horizontal line under the vertical line (the vertical must be in the center of that horizontal line) and a shorter horizontal line above the vertical line from the left side. This is l.
 Starting from a little under the top, on the right, make a hump that goes to the top, curves downward ("spills water", not "holds water"), and goes back down in a straight line. Then retrace the straight line and make another hump in the same way. This is m.
 This is n.
 Same as uppercase O, except it is the size of the other lowercase letters. This is o.
 This is p.
 Like a backward lowercase p (see step 16 under lowercase). This is q.
 Starting from a little under the top, make a small curved line heading to the right and curving down ("spills water"). This is r.
 This is s.
 Also, if you want, you can curve the vertical line upward at the very bottom ("holds water") on the right. This is t.
 Make an uppercase U the size of the other lowercase letters, but add a straight line on the right and put a small "tail" at the bottom of that line. This is u.
 This is v.
 Either write an uppercase W the size of the other lowercase letters, or write two uppercase U's next to each other, making them the size of the other lowercase letters. In fact, this letter's name is pronounced "double u". This is w.
 Same as uppercase X, except it is the size of the other lowercase letters. This is x.
 Draw a lowercase v (see step 22 under lowercase), but at the point where the lines meet, draw a line that continues the right line of the v. This is y.
 Same as uppercase Z, except it is the size of the other lowercase letters. This is z.

