;
, You can also press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+D., By default, your new bookmark will have the same name as the title of the page. Click the current name in the pop-out window to enter a new name.


You can also edit the description by clicking on it beneath the name.
 You can edit the address of the URL by clicking on it in the pop-out window. This can be useful if you're on a subpage but want to add a bookmark for the main site.
 Chrome allows you to browse through your bookmark folders in the bookmark pop-out window. By default, the bookmark is added to the "Other bookmarks" folder.


Click the "Add to folder" button at the bottom of the bookmark pop-out window.
Navigate to the bookmark folder you want to add the bookmark to using the > and < buttons.
Create a new folder in your current location by typing in a folder name and clicking "Create".
 In Chrome, the bookmarks bar is located directly underneath the address bar. It will display all of your bookmark folders and bookmarks bar bookmarks. Clicking the >> button on the far-right of the bar will display everything that doesn't fit.


You can toggle the bookmarks bar by pressing Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+⇧ Shift+B, or by clicking the Chrome Menu button (☰), selecting "Bookmarks", and then clicking "Show bookmarks bar".
If your bookmarks bar is showing, you can drag a websites icon directly onto the bar to quickly add it as a bookmark.
 If you want to browse, organize, and manage all of your bookmarks, you can open the bookmark manager. Press Ctrl/⌘ Cmd+⇧ Shift+O or click the Chrome Menu button (☰), select "Bookmarks", and then click "Bookmark manager". This will open the Bookmark Manager in a new tab.


The sidebar on the left will display your bookmarks bar and folders. The newest versions of Chrome will also generate "Auto folders" which attempt to group bookmarks together based on context.
Click the ✓ button to select multiple bookmarks at once.
Click and drag bookmarks to move them to different folders. You can also use the "Move to folder" drop-down menu at the top of the window when you have multiple items selected.
Delete a bookmark by clicking the ⋮ button next to bookmarking and selecting "Delete". You can also click the "Delete" button in the upper-right corner when multiple bookmarks are selected.

