 Start saving and investing as much as you can today. Increase saving as your income increases and as obligations — such as supporting children through school, etc. — decrease. Even increasing your savings by just 1% can make a huge difference.The earlier you start saving, and the more you put toward your savings, the less you'll have to worry about making a risky investment later in life to try and make up your savings gap. A low-risk, long-term investment can help you safely put away money for retirement.
 Married couples are eligible for a variety of benefits when it comes to retirement. If you and your partner are married, you should utilize these advantages to get the most out of your savings. Look at your finances or talk to a financial planner to determine the ways in which your marital status can work for you.For example, if you and your partner both have 401(k)s through your work, you can defer twice as much money as a single person. You can also make decisions about putting more money into the 401(k) that has better employer contributions.
Married couples also have higher income limits on IRAs than single people.
 One of the best options for retirement is a 401(k). This employer-sponsored savings plan allows employees to invest money from their paycheck before taxes are taken out. If you and your partner both have 401(k) plans, you can defer paying taxes on as much as $36,000 as a couple. However, if you cannot max out both plans, try to put money towards the plan that has the better employer contributions or the lower cost funds.If only one you has a 401(k), try to prioritize saving towards that plan since it has the most benefits.
Talk with your company’s HR department or a financial planner to make sure that you are taking full advantage of your 401(k)s.
 Traditional and Roth IRAs are great for couples who have maxed out their 401(k)s or are simply looking for a second savings option. Although they do not have the same tax benefits as a 401(k), they can help a married couple avoid paying taxes on their income. However, your income and other savings options determine your eligibility for an IRA.Talk with a financial planner about whether a traditional or a Roth IRA will work for you and your partner.
 If you make too much money for an IRA, you and your partner might want to consider investing some of your savings with a brokerage firm. These firms will help you build a portfolio of investments that should appreciate over time. However, it is important that you and your partner are on the same page concerning what investments are in your portfolio and how it is managed.You have many options when it comes to investing. Mutual funds, ETFs, and individual stocks and bonds are all possibilities.
 If you have the time and resources, you and your partner might consider investing in real estate. Depending on the market, you might see large returns on your initial investment; however, if property values go down or your property is damaged, you may lose a significant chunk of your investment. Rental properties in particular, require a lot of time and effort to maintain the value of your investment.The rent that you collect from a property may be a nice way to supplement your income during retirement.

