 An overwhelmingly packed schedule often brings on a stress-infused lifestyle. Organize your schedule and set limits on how much you can accomplish in a given day.Eliminate non-essential activities. Look through all your commitments and cross off the things that are not needed for your survival or stress reduction. Explain to your friends or peers that you need to take some time off to get back to a healthy lifestyle. Try saying, “I really want to continue volunteering at the shelter, but I need to take care my health. I will be in touch in the future.”
Talk to your boss or teachers about the minimal and specific tasks that you need to accomplish to stay up to date. Plan to have a private meeting to explain yourself. Try saying, “I am committed to my work here, but I need to focus on getting my health together. What exactly do I need to accomplish in the next few months to keep up?”
While some stressful situations cannot be avoided, there are many that can. For example, if watching the news is a stressful for you, eliminate or minimize the amount of time you spend on this activity. If a particular person stresses you out, take some time away from that person to re-evaluate your relationship.
 Spend time with people that make you happy. Have dinner with friends or see a movie. This can take your mind off your stress and help improve your general outlook.Have a laugh. Like exercise, laughter releases beneficial hormones and relieves stress and tension in the body. Whether you invite your friend over for a movie or chat with family about funny family moments, that belly laugh offers more advantages than you may realize.
 Talk to close friends or family members about the cause of your stress. Someone who has more experience with work, school, or life issues has probably faced similar challenges. You might also know someone who has also experienced your type of chronic stress and can offer some advice. If you are reaching out to a friend, for example, you might say, “Miguel, can I tell you about my situation at work? It’s really stressing me out, and I think you might have some good tips.”

, Take a group class or join a social group if you have time. Take your mind off whatever is bothering you and channel your energy into something positive. Make sure you really enjoy in the new activity. It should help balance out any negative feelings caused by stress.Think about something you’ve always wanted to do and see if it fits nicely into your schedule. Consider taking a dance class or joining a cooking club.
 If you are struggling to get through the day or feeling uncontrollably anxious, consider seeing a psychologist. A psychologist or mental health counselor is trained to listen to your challenges and help you come up with coping strategies.