 Store them safely away from the work area to protect them from splatters. Move furniture out of the room or as far from the work area as possible. This will ensure that all your belongings stay clean.





;
, If you have cabinets high above your head then you will need a ladder to access them easily.
 Remove all the drawers and door faces off the cabinets by unscrewing the hinges. You should also remove all the hardware such as door handles. This will prevent them from getting paint on them and keep them looking clean.









You will usually only glaze the doors and drawer faces of the cabinet and not any pieces on the inside. This keeps the cabinets looking clean and finished even though they have an antique look. , After applying wood putty into the holes and cracks, allow it to dry and sand smooth. This will make your cabinets look finished and smooth.









If you are going to be using new hardware that will not fit in place of the old, you must also fill the screw holes with wood putty. After applying the putty, allow it to dry and sand smooth., This will protect the rest of your house from any paint or glaze splatters.
 Over time cabinets, especially kitchen cabinets, can become coated with smoke, oil and other deposits. You must thoroughly remove all this using a degreasing cleanser before glazing your cabinets.









After cleansing apply a deglosser to remove any remaining residue.
There is no need to sand before glazing painted cabinets but if you are repainting your cabinets then you will need to sand them first., If you want to repaint your cabinets, now is the time. Make sure they are smoothly sanded, then apply primer and allow it to dry. Apply the paint color of your choice and allow it to dry thoroughly.









Oil-based paints work better for kitchen cabinets because it dries to a harder finish than water-based paint, making it more durable and easier to clean.
If you want your cabinets to be a cream color, then choose a shade that has more of a white tint than a yellow. This will provide a nicer, cleaner look once the glaze is applied.
If you are repainting make sure you cover all surfaces including the edges of the cabinets and the inside of the doors to provide a more polished look. Allow the doors to dry for 24 hours before applying paint to the other side.
Make sure you cover all surfaces including the edges and crevices. You can use a small paintbrush to do these small areas., Allow the paint to dry for at least 24 hours to ensure that is completely dry before proceeding.
 Spray the lacquer in a clean, even coating over the cabinet surfaces. This step can be helpful if you are using white or cream paint as the base for your cabinets because it prevents them from darkening.









Although brush-on lacquer can also work, it is more difficult to use.
Darkening is a common problem experienced by those attempting to glaze their cabinets because the glaze can penetrate the paint and turn it darker.
With gray or other darker colors this step is not necessary unless you really don’t want them to darken., After the lacquer has completely dried, tape the backs of the cabinet doors and drawers so that you won’t accidentally glaze those areas. The tape will ensure that the edges are cleanly painted and finished.
 You can buy premixed glaze, which is the easiest option, or you can make your own custom colors. Choose your glaze color based on your personal preferences and so that it complements the rest of the kitchen’s décor.









If the store does not contain the particular shade of glaze that you are looking for you can make your own using plain glazing medium and paint.
You can use either oil-based or water-based glazing medium. Oil-based glaze dries slower so can be easier to use for glazing projects. The type of paint you combine will depend on the glazing medium you select. Be sure to read the glazing medium manufacturer’s instructions with regard to paint types.
Most manufacturers will recommend four parts glaze to one part paint but you can vary this to achieve your desired color. To make a very dark glaze combine three parts paint to one part glaze. For a medium glaze combine one part paint with one part glaze. To make a light glaze use one part paint to three or four parts glaze.Test your glaze on a poster board or scrap board with the same base color to ensure that it is the correct color for your needs., Whether you have bought a premixed glaze or prepared your own, you must make sure that the glaze is thoroughly mixed. Use a paint stirrer or wooden stick to mix. This will ensure an even color and texture when applying.
 Apply a thin coat of glaze to the cabinet, using either circular or straight motions. You can use a rag, a brush or sponge applicator to apply the glaze to the cabinet.









Some of the glaze will settle into any seams or grain lines in the wood. This is natural and adds to the beauty of the finished job.
 Wipe the area using a cloth rag or paper towel to achieve the look you want. You can use materials with different absorbencies for wiping down the glaze to achieve different looks along the seams.









For example, if you want a thicker glaze along the edges then you can use a cheap brown paper towel with minimal absorbency to wipe down the glaze.
If you want a thinner glaze, then you can use a soft paper towel or rag to lightly wipe down the glazed area., The glaze will dry very quickly once it is applied so complete only small sections at a time. The longer you leave the glaze before wiping, the darker the finish will be. Always remember to “wipe on, wipe off” so that you end up with a beautiful finish.









Glaze that is left for too long and becomes too dark will look streaky rather than resulting in a nice antiquated look.
Do not glaze an entire door at once. Rather complete the door in smaller sections to ensure an even look., After finishing a section check the glazed area to make sure it looks like you want it to. If you don't like the effect, you can remove oil based glaze with paint thinner and latex/acrylic based glaze with hot water and start over.
 Allow the cabinets and drawers to dry for at least 24 hours to ensure they will not be damaged. Check the manufacturer’s label on the glaze for the recommended time. 







, You can use a urethane, varnish or lacquer to finish the cabinets. This is optional as most glazes are very durable, but it may be necessary in busy or large family kitchens.









The finish can help prevent scratches and other damage on the cabinets.
Test the finish on a small section to make sure it looks good and will not change the color., Hang up all the doors and drawers into their appropriate positions. Reattach all the hardware including pulls and knobs and admire the new look of your kitchen cabinets.
 Glazing creates an antiquated look for your cabinets. If your hardware is shiny and new then it might look a bit out of place next to the new glaze. Consider replacing hardware with more rustic or aged-looking knobs, pulls and other hardware. 







