 You should be able to wrap the rectangle around your head without any skin or hair peeking through.Use a tape measure to measure the diameter of your head. Add 1 inch (2.5 cm) to this measurement for the length of the rectangle.
Measure the height of your head from the top to your chin. Add 5 inches (13 cm). This is the width of the rectangle.
You could also use thin cardboard instead of cardstock.
If you can't find black cardstock, brown or white will work. You will need to paint the mask when you're finished.
 You will need to draw the ears along with the upper edge of the mask.Measure the amount of space between your ears using a tape measure. Start at the front of one ear and wrap the tape measure around the front of your face until you reach the front of your other ear.
Repeat the measuring process with the back of your head. Start at the back of one ear, wrap the tape measure around the back of your head, and bring it up to the back of your other ear.
Divide the back measurement in half and add 1/2 inch (1.25 cm). On the left side of the cardstock, draw a horizontal line of this length 5 inches (13 cm) down from the top of the rectangle. Draw a matching line on the other side of the cardstock.
In between the two lines, draw a third line that roughly matches the front measurement of your face. Leave 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of empty space in between this line and the original two.
Draw a vertical line at each end of this inner line. The line should extend up to the top of the cardstock.
Draw a curved line from the top of these vertical lines down to the ends of your original horizontal lines.
 Create two "3" shapes at the bottom center of the mask. One "3" should face the correct way and the other should be backwards. The top points of the "3" shapes should connect, but the bottom should not.


Measure the distance from the bottom of your nose to your chin. This is the height of your mouth hole.
Measure the distance between the outside tip of one eye to the outside tip of the other. This is the width of the mouth hole.
 You will need to separate the mouthpiece from the rest of the bottom.


Draw two curved lines upward beginning 1/2 inch from the bottom point of each "3" shape. The curved lines should be about 3 inches (7.6 cm) tall and extend about 2 inches (5 cm) away from the "3" shape at the widest part.
This will form two fang like outlines on either side of the opening for the mouth.
Draw a horizontal line at the upper end of each of these curved lines. The horizontal lines should extend to the side of the cardstock.
 The eyes are two slanted almond shapes and should be slightly larger than the shape of your actual eyes.


The eyes must slant upward.
Measure the distance between the bottom of your nose and the bottom of your eyes to get an idea of where to place the eye holes.
 Cut along all of the lines to create your basic outline.
 Carefully curve the two ends in so that they meet at the back of the mask. Tape or glue them together.


There can be between 1/2 inch and 1 inch (1.25 cm and 2.5 cm) of overlap between the two ends.
 The nose piece is made with a single diamond-shaped piece of cardstock.


Measure the width and height of your nose. Add 1/4 inch (0.635 cm) to each measurement.
Draw a diamond at the corner of a new piece of cardstock. The diamond should match the nose measurements taken previously.
Cut the diamond out and bend it in half vertically.
 Draw a diamond shape at the nose portion of your mask. It should be as long and wide as your nose.


Cut this segment of the mask base out.
Glue or tape the nose piece to this newly-cut edge.
 Place a piece of cardstock over the top of your mask and trace a circle matching the same dimensions. Cut this circle out.
 Apply a layer of glue along the top edge of the mask. Gently press the top circle onto this line of glue and let dry.

