 If your partner’s driving consistently makes you upset, offer to drive when you two are together. By taking control of the situation, you can reduce your anxiety and protect yourself., Leave at least ten minutes earlier to give yourselves more time if there is a traffic jam, long lights, trains, or other delays. This might reduce the driver's stress, and it may decrease their road rage., If you are going somewhere new, look up directions ahead of time to avoid getting lost. Even if you are using a GPS, this can be useful to help you navigate, and it will help reduce stress in the car. If there are multiple routes to the place you are going, look up the fastest route.Use Google or Apple Maps to trace the fastest route to your destination.
If you are going somewhere with a website, check it for information about parking, traffic, and landmarks.
If you are traveling on a highway or major road, you may want to look up traffic reports before you leave to see if there are any delays.
 If your anxiety is becoming severe or if you are having panic attacks while your partner drives, you may want to speak to a therapist. There are many different types of behavioral therapy that can help you cope with your passenger anxiety.Cognitive Behavioral therapy can be used to teach how to safely deal with your anxiety while in the car.
Exposure therapy will put you in similar situations so that you can desensitize yourself to your partner’s driving.
If you have anxiety as a passenger in the car, bus, subway, or other vehicles, no matter who is driving, you may have amaxophobia. This phobia may cause anxiety, panic attacks, or extreme fear when you are riding as a passenger., If your partner is a dangerous or unsafe driver, do not get in the car with them. You are under no obligation to let them drive you places. Either take different cars or offer to be the driver.Never get in the car if your partner is drunk or under the influence of drugs.
If you have children, consider whether or not you feel safe with them in the same car as your partner.
You should let your partner know that they need to change. You can say, “When we drive together, I feel scared and unsafe because of how aggressive you become. I am worried we will get into an accident one day. From now on, I want to drive.”

