 It doesn't matter what type. Make the flavor that you enjoy most!






;
, After taking the cake out of the oven, be sure it is totally cool before you start transforming it into cake pops.
 Mix to break down the cake into fine crumbs. You can either mix it with an electric mixer, or use your hands. Make sure that all there is left is crumbs!









This is messy fun. If you have kids, they will probably adore doing this step for you. However, be sure their hands are clean! You don't want to eat cake pops that have been touched by dirty fingers.
 Add about half of it into the crumbs. Basically what you want is to form a doughy texture again. If you need to add more frosting, feel free to do so. Make sure it is all mixed and ensure that there is no part of the cake crumb mixture without frosting.
 Round them out with your hands; this is so they aren't as sticky. Make sure that each forms a perfect little ball. You need them to be even when you are dipping them into chocolate.
 if you don't have parchment paper you can also use oiled aluminum foil.Then place in the freezer for 10 minutes or so to firm up.
 The chocolate that you use to cover strawberries is recommended.









You can also use crushed-up white chocolate wafers if you prefer, as the outer layer.
 Insert the stick into the little round balls a little less than halfway; just as far as it feels sturdy to hold is adequate.
,, This is to ensure that they are fully covered. Be very careful at this point––you don't want the balls to break and fall into the chocolate. Gently tap them above the chocolate to remove any excess chocolate.
,, Then (if you want) melt some white chocolate. Put it into a plastic bag and cut a hole at the corner. Decorate each cake pop using the melted white chocolate in the way you want. This step is optional but provides a great opportunity to write a person's name, the name of a sports team and to draw images, patterns or symbols.
 This is to make them stay firm and to keep them fresh until serving time,