 Salaried employees receive a fixed amount of gross pay in their paychecks. This amount is not linked to the number of hours worked. Their annual salary is divided by the number of pay periods per year to calculate the amount of gross pay for each pay check. This is also know as an exempt employee.If you are a salaried employee, you were likely told your total annual salary when you were hired. However, over time, raises and other changes in pay may make it confusing to know your total annual salary.
 Your pay stub provides a great deal of information. It lists your total earnings, or gross pay. It details any deductions, including federal, state and local taxes, and Social Security and Medicare contributions. Other deductions include health insurance premiums, retirement savings plans and flexible spending accounts. Your take home salary, or net salary, is your gross salary less all of the deductions.Find your total earnings, or gross pay, to determine your annual salary.

You should still receive a pay stub even if you get direct deposit. Some companies keep pay stub information in an online database. Contact your payroll department to find out how to log in to obtain that information or to receive a hard copy of your pay stub. 


, Employers choose a payroll schedule that best suits their company and employees. The payroll schedule determines when and how often you will receive a paycheck. Knowing your payroll schedule will tell you how many paychecks to expect per year.You will need this information to calculate your annual salary from your pay stub. If you are not sure about your payroll schedule, ask your supervisor or the payroll department of your company.

Monthly paychecks are paid at the end of the month. Employees receive 12 paychecks per year.

Semi-monthly paychecks are paid on the 1st and 15th of the month or the 15th and 30th. Employees receive 24 paychecks per year.

Biweekly paychecks are paid every two weeks, usually on Friday. Employees receive 26 paychecks per year.

Weekly paychecks are paid once per week, usually on Friday. Employees receive 52 paychecks per year. 


, Recent changes to overtime pay laws have extended overtime protections for salaried workers. As of 2016, any salaried worker making less than $47,476 per year ($913 per week) is entitled to overtime pay at a rate of 1.5 times their usual pay rate for hours worked over 40 hours each week. If your salary is under this threshold and you work more than 40 hours per week, you can increase your expected pay by the amount of your overtime earnings.For example, a salaried employee paid $41,600 per year ($800 per week or $20 per hour) that works 45 hours (5 overtime hours) each week can expect overtime pay in the amount of 1.5 times their usual hourly pay. 

This would be 1.5×$20×5 hours{\displaystyle 1.5\times \$20\times {\text{5 hours}}}, or $150, per week. 


, Find your total gross earnings, before deductions, on your pay stub. Multiply this amount by the number of paychecks you receive each year to calculate your total annual salary.

Suppose you are paid biweekly, and your total gross salary is $1,900. Calculate your annual salary with the equation $1,900 x 26 = $49,400.
 Depending on the type of company for which you work and the position you hold, you may be entitled to bonuses. Bonuses are paid at different times during the year, and they are in addition to your fixed annual salary. Different kinds of bonuses include profit sharing, rewards for achievement, sign-on bonuses, holiday bonuses and sales commissions. The amount and frequency of bonuses varies depending on how your company awards them.Add bonuses in when calculating your total annual salary.

For example, suppose you earn an annual salary of $49,400 before bonuses, and your company has decided to award you a 2.5 percent profit sharing bonus. Calculate the amount of the bonus with the equation $49,400 x .025 = $1,235. Calculate total annual salary with the equation $49,400 + $1,235 = $50,635 


