 Everything will dry more quickly and clean more easily if you can reduce the humidity in the home. If the humidity outside is lower than indoors, and if the weather permits, open all the doors and windows.


Open closet and cabinet doors, and remove drawers to allow air circulation.
Use fans to help move the air and dry out your home. Do not use central air conditioning or the furnace blower if the ducts were under water. If there is a way to run the fan in reverse, run it venting to the outside to dry out the ducts.
Run dehumidifiers to draw out moisture. Dehumidifiers and window air conditioners will reduce the humidity, especially in closed up areas.
Desiccants (materials that absorb moisture) are very useful in drying closets or other enclosed areas where air cannot move through.
 You have three types of contents that should go to three different places:


Move items you want to save to a safe, dry place, such as the second story, or outside.
Put things you don’t want to save outside to dry until the adjuster comes to confirm your losses.
Get rid of food and anything else that could spoil or go bad immediately.
 How you drain and dry your ceilings and walls depends on what they are made of.


Gypsum wallboard becomes very soft when wet. It will be fragile, and will lose any shape or strength when it dries. Gypsum, drywall, and sheetrock will have to be ripped out.
Plaster will survive a flood better than wallboard. It should not have to be replaced but it will take a very long time to dry.
There are three main types of insulation and each reacts differently to flood waters. Styrofoam survives best; it may only need to be hosed off. Fiberglass batts should be discarded if they're muddy. Cellulose (loose or blown-in treated paper) insulation will hold water for a long time. It can also lose its anti-fungal and fire retardant abilities. Therefore, flooded cellulose insulation should be replaced.
If wood is allowed to dry naturally, it will generally regain its original shape, with some exceptions such as laminated wood.
 Check for sagging ceilings. Drain them carefully; start by making a hole near the edge of the sag a and work in toward the center.
 To check for water, take off the baseboard. Stick an awl or knife into the wall about 2 inches (5cm) above the floor (just above the 2 X 4 wood sill plate). If water drips out, cut or drill a hole large enough to allow water to drain freely. Depending on the spacing between studs in your walls, make a hole every 16" (40.6cm) or every 24" (60.9cm). That wall will have to be ripped out.
