 When you first meet new people, come up and start talking to them immediately. Instead of hanging back and waiting for them to approach you, try to talk to them immediately.Keep your conversation on generally happy topics. You don't want to dwell on negative topics, especially when you first meet a new person.
React to what the other person is saying. If you're listening to them, you can steer the conversation in fun and interesting ways.
 Body language communicates to the other person how you feel about them. Have a relaxed, easy-going posture and position when talking with others.Keep your arms and feet open. Crossed arms or feet give the impression that you are closed off to the other person and what they are saying.
Maintain eye contact with the other person. While you don't want to stare at them, it's important that they know you are directed towards them and what they are saying.
 It's important to be a good listener and be interested in what the other person is saying in order to be personable. While you don't want to grill the other person, asking them about themselves can be a good way to get to know someone.When you're asking questions about another person, be respectful of their boundaries and what they are telling you. If someone doesn't feel comfortable talking about something, don't pressure them.
Always talk less than you listen. It's important to contribute to a conversation with someone, but make your contributions relate to what they are talking about, so it feels like a back and forth rather than a series of monologues.
 A sense of humor can make people more comfortable around you and show that you're personable. Looking at the funny side of things helps others feel good and relaxed around you.Find the joke in any situation. While you want to be careful not to offend anybody, there's always something to laugh at about most any situation.
It's also important to let humor come naturally. If you try to tell jokes artificially or force humor, it can make people uncomfortable.

