 This may take some time, as there are plenty of cards out there, and you want to find a card that expresses your feelings and is unique.


Look for printable cards for teachers online.See if there are printable cards that you can personalize- for example with your teacher's name on it, a certain image and size. That way, even if it's a printed card, it is personal.
Pick several cards first, and compare them. If there is more than one card that you like, come up with a top five list.;
, Once you have narrowed down your selection, you need to pick the card that is going to be your card.


Take your time- there are many cards out there, and you want to find just the right one for your teacher!
Look at the motive- should it be school-related (a blackboard, or a school building), something timeless (flowers for example), or something funny?
Make a generous selection of cards, and then narrow it down step by step until you have one that you like.
 While most of the printable card designs are free, some are not.


Check whether the card is free or not. Most often the website will tell you right away.
Decide whether you want to pay for a card. If not, continue looking for free cards.
Pay for the card using the safest method possible. If you are under 16, ask your parents first.
 After you've picked your card, paid for it (if required) it's time to print it out!


Look at your printer and see if all the cartridges are full (this applies only to ink printers).
Check on the website whether the printing requires special instructions.
Make sure you use the right paper size.
Consider using colorful printing paper- this adds an extra touch of fun to your card.
Use thicker printing paper- this will give your card the right feel.
 Depending on the size of your pictures, how many shades of color there are and your printing paper, it may take a few minutes until the card is dry. While you wait, there are several things you can do.


Think about what you could write in the meantime.
Look at how much space you have in the card, and whether there is a message inside already.
Write your message on a regular piece of paper first.
Print out the card several times in case you misspell something, your pen explodes or you don't fold neatly right away.
 This is harder than it looks, so be patient with yourself.


Use a ruler to help you fold exactly on the line.
Fold several of the cards you've printed out. Folding a card neatly is sometimes hard to get right the first time.
Pick the card that came out best.
 The message is the heart of the card- it makes the card whole, and verbally expresses what the imagery of the card shows.


Re-read your draft- does it encompass what you want to say?
Decide whether you want to use your draft, or re-write your message.
Personalize the card- for example, draw a little flower or a heart inside the card or write your teacher's name with glitter pen!
Write something personal on how your teacher has been important for you.
 If you feel that a printed out card is too impersonal, or your teacher has truly gone the extra mile for you, a small token of appreciation can be the extra cherry on top.


Think about something small that your teacher would like- this can be a piece of their favorite candy, a pretty flower, their favorite tea or coffee.
Look around online. There are many websites with neat, extraordinary ideas.Decide what gift you'd like for your teacher.
Wrap your gift or put a bow on it- it's again the gesture that counts.
Add the gift to the card.
 This is the final step, and as important as the other steps. You need to decide when and how to deliver the card.


Pick a time when your teacher is not too busy, after school is better than before, as they often are still prepping before class.
Give them the card (and the gift if you have one).
Smile and be friendly- this will only add to your card's message.
Ask the administrative staff to put it in her mailbox- this is an option shyer students like to pursue. It gives the teacher privacy when reading the card.

