 You'll need a high-definition TV that can display 720p or 1080p video, and an HDMI cable to connect your Apple TV to your HDTV. Make sure your HDTV has a receiver for the HDMI cable.


If you want to connect the Apple TV to a separate audio receiver like a speaker system, you'll also need an optical digital audio cable. However, this is optional - the HDMI cable will transmit both audio and video to your TV.;
, You'll need a recent version of iTunes - the exact version required will depend on your TV, but update iTunes to the most recent version in order to make sure it works. You should also have an Apple ID to rent or purchase movies and TV shows from the iTunes store and to use Home Sharing to stream content from your computer.


If you want to stream content from other sites like Netflix or YouTube, you may need accounts on those sites.
 You'll need an 802.11a, b, g, or n Wi-Fi wireless network (wireless video streaming requires 802.11a, g, or n), or 10/100Base-T Ethernet network. You'll also need to know your wireless network name and password. You can also use a broadband Internet connection (DSL, cable, or LAN).
 The two ends of the cable are the same, so you just need to plug one end into the appropriate port on your TV, usually found in the back or side of the TV set. Then plug the other end into the appropriate port on the back of the Apple TV, which is flat and marked with 'HDMI'.
 If you’re using an optical digital audio cable for audio, connect one end of the cable to the audio input port on your receiver or TV, and connect the other end to the optical digital audio port on the back of Apple TV. Even with this cable, note that you will still need to connect to the TV with the HDMI cable.
 Connect one end of the power cord to the power port on the back of Apple TV and the other end to a power outlet.
 The Apple TV will connect to your WiFi network, if one is available. Once you connect to your TV, it will walk you through the steps of choosing and connecting to a WiFi network. If your internet network is Ethernet-based, connect Apple TV to your network using an Ethernet cable. The Apple TV will automatically detect your network.


Important:  Don’t place anything on top of Apple TV. Objects placed on top may interfere with the wireless signal. Don’t place Apple TV on top of other electronic equipment in a media cabinet.
 Make sure to choose the appropriate HDMI port so that Apple TV is the source. If you see just a black screen the first time you use Apple TV, make sure the input setting you selected on your TV matches the input you connected the cables to on your TV or home theater receiver.
 The first time you turn on the TV, you will be prompted to set up your Apple Remote. Make sure there are no obstructions between the remote and Apple TV in order to establish the connection and get it working. It will also help you choose a language and select a wireless network, if one is available. Have your network name and password, as well as your Apple ID, handy when you turn it on, and follow the on-screen instructions.
 Update to the latest version of iTunes on your computer if necessary.
 After you set up your network connection, set up iTunes and Apple TV to share the contents of your iTunes library using Home Sharing. Open iTunes on your computer and update it to the most recent version of the software, if necessary. Then go to File → Home Sharing and select Turn On Home Sharing. Enter your Apple ID and password, and then click Turn On Home Sharing. Repeat this step with each computer you wish to use with your Apple TV.

