 You'll have more energy, and store less of your food as fat, if you eat small meals several times a day rather than only eating three large meals. If you can't fit multiple meals into your schedule, eat smaller portions than normal at breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and have healthy snacks throughout the day.Eating on a regular basis keeps your blood sugar levels more stable, so you have a more steady energy supply throughout the day as well as during intense exercise.
If your body is getting enough energy from food sources, you won't need to rely on as much caffeine to give you a quick burst of energy, which can help you avoid caffeine overdose.
If you have trouble remembering to eat more often, or at appropriate times, consider setting a reminder on your phone or computer desktop calendar to send you a notification when it's time to eat something.
 Foods that are high in sugar and fat, such as breakfast pastries, can cause you to crash later on in the afternoon. Have a filling breakfast such as oatmeal or an omelette with plenty of fruits or vegetables.Commercial cereals also can provide plenty of nutrition, but read the labels carefully and make sure you're choosing something without added sugar.
A fruit and vegetable smoothie or a protein bar may be a good choice if you don't have a lot of time in the morning to cook up a more substantial breakfast.
 Slow-burning starches such as those found in potatoes, bread, and pasta will give you a steady source of energy for a longer period of time. If you need to exert intense effort for several hours, having a carbohydrate snack an hour or so before the event will keep you from hitting a wall before the end.Choose your carb sources carefully, and avoid refined carbs such as those in white bread and white pasta. Instead, look for whole-grain breads and pastas, or brown rice.
If you're on a gluten-free diet, look to foods such as quinoa, corn, and wild or brown rice to get the healthy carbs you need for energy., While sugar may give you a quick burst of energy, it fades quickly and can leave you even more run-down and fatigued than you were before. While eliminating sugar entirely from your diet may be impossible, you can reduce or eliminate many sweets that have added sugar.When you first start decreasing sugar, you may experience a drop in energy, especially if you previously consumed large amounts of sugar. However, over time this should even out.
Many energy drinks contain significant amounts of sugar in addition to caffeine. The sugar in these energy drinks may counter the benefits you get from the caffeine, and make it more difficult for your body to recover after intense exercise.
 Protein is essential to build and strengthen muscles. Most sources of protein also are good sources of iron, which is essential to maintain your overall metabolic rate.Typical sources of protein are lean meats such as chicken and turkey. You also can get protein in a shake made with whey powder, or in a snack of almonds and yogurt.
If you don't eat meat, eat plenty of soy-based foods and leafy dark green vegetables, such as spinach, for protein and iron.

