 Set aside some space for the child, making sure you have room for yourself as well. Also, add room for the child to have a playroom.


Note that the non-member den (Small House) will work for only 1 to 2 children as it is very small, though if you're not lazy, you can make a new room outside. If you're lazy because the Small House only has one room, you may need to use Shoji Screens to divide the house into smaller rooms, This is what you can use.;
, Add a pillow on top of it and a Plushie, you can even do more than one plushie. To prevent the baby from falling out of the crib, position the crib so that one side is pushed against the wall. Secure the other side with a fence, this will act as the bars on a baby's crib. You could use a Small Beach Towel or any Beach Towel (at the Heatwave Party, available in winter after the Jamaalidays and during summer) as a rug, and use other objects there for a backyard.


Some children prefer the Candy Cane Fence, however, this is only available to purchase during Christmas, if it's not Christmas you can try trading for one, otherwise you can wait, and fail at caring for a child at that time.
 You can do this by buying some shelves, including book shelves, and putting toys onto that as well as having an area full of Plushies and pillows for a soft area, the soft area can include some outdoor furnishings aswell, like the flamingo to be cute, and fancy. Your child could just fall asleep in all the Plushies, and also to be safe, about your child not itching their neck, go to Kimbara outback and then: Buy a medical neck thing.


Fill the room with Plushies to create a friendly, calm atmosphere for the baby, the baby must be very safe, but trashcans everywhere for the amount of "Body Liquid And Brown Stuff" the baby produces. He or she will also have plenty of toys to play with if bored sadness takes over, though with this tutorial your baby will never get board. Simple stuffed animals and/or action figures are recommended, you can get them from the machine in the game room of jamaa township. Avoid selecting frightening toys to prevent the baby from crying or having nightmares, babies are always the one to be protected so anything scary or big may frighten it. Frightening toys include epic Plushies where some have mushroom heads or glowing red eyes, Never choose those action figures. Ensure that the Plushies are soft colored (ex: instead of using black Plushies, use light blue or light pink or light yellow ect).
 This will serve as a changing table.
 If the baby accidentally falls out of the crib, he or she will land on a soft, cushiony area, instead of the hard floor, though hard floor can be soft depending on certain dens.
 This will prevent the child from going to prohibited places outside of his/her room, also use a fence to block the door, and prop things against I so it will be secure that your baby won't go out (This is for naughty children).


Take down the baby gates once your child is almost four, your baby will be more smart and won't produce as much yellow liquid or brown substance anymore too, the bladder will be bigger.
Avoid acting like a tyrant. While you may want to protect your baby, remember that he or she may not appreciate feeling very limited, the babies need attention, and a lot of attention is recommended.

