 This gives you access to Morytania, which is where Barrows is located. You may also want to complete In Aid of Myreque for a quicker way to get to barrows as well as a bank nearby. If you have the levels, completing Branches of Darkmeyer gives you the Draken Medallion, which after having Vanescula Draken fully unlock, can teleport you directly to barrows.


If you are playing Old-school Runescape, you will need to bring a shovel.;
, Barrows is a difficult mini-game, as it involved facing 6 level 100+ enemies in rapid succession. Have at least level 70 in your preferred combat stat along with 43 prayer. For melee, an abyssal whip with Barrows armor would be the best. For magic, full light mystic, a charged Iban's staff with fire wave would be the best. For range, a black salamander with Karil's outfit would be the best, however variations can be made. You are going to want to have a fury amulet, and ring of wealth as well for the extra loot.
 Have an emergency teleport, and two 4 dose prayer potions, the rest filled with food. You may want to include a super or extreme set to speed up kills. You are going to need to use prayer as Dharok can hit well over maximum health, as his damage is relative to his health.
 As mentioned previously, if you have Draken's Medallion fully upgraded, you can use it to teleport directly to barrows. If you have completed In Aid of Myreque, you can use the shortcut behind the bar in Canfis. Otherwise you will have to go through Mort Myre swamp and through the kelp maze, then go west through Mor'ton to get to barrows


There are ghasts that can turn your food into inedible rotten food if they attack you if you are going through the shortcut or the swamp, so be aware of them.
 The order you should fight them is Dharok, Verac, Torag, Guthans, Karil, Ahrim. This is set up to use your prayer points the most on the brother's that need them the most urgently. The order of the mounds are Northeast, Northwest, Southeast, Southwest, South, then directly in the middle

, When trying to fight the brothers, one of the tombs will not have a brother and instead ask you if you would like to go into the crypt. Do not go into the crypt without killing brothers, otherwise you will lose loot.
 There will be one door that can lead to the chest in the center of the square, and it will be the only door leading to the chest with the open option. Once clicking on it, it will present you with a short puzzle that varies every time. Failing the puzzle means the maze will shift, meaning you will have to find your way around again.
 Once you click on the chest once, the final brother will appear, defeat him and loot the chest. If you thing you have enough supplies, you can retrace your steps and repeat the process, or use your teleport to get out of the crypt. Note that the longer you stay in the crypt, you will start to take damage until you leave


Occasionally the final brother will spawn before you get to the chest, however it does not spawn again when you click on the chest, so you are free to loot it.

