 Opt for water over soda or diet soda at the concession stand. You can also bring in a bottle of water on your own. Drink water throughout the movie going experience. If you fill up on water, this will help you resist the temptation to overindulge on snacks.Aim to take a sip of water between every bite of food.
 The longer you take to eat something, the less you will be able to eat. Things like milk duds and gummy snacks are more difficult to eat. If you're naturally chewing slower, this will slow down the pace of your eating. This allows you to notice when you're feeling full and stop eating., Treats like Starbursts come in individually wrapped portions. If you have to stop and unwrap your candy between bites, this will also slow down your eating. It's easy to overindulge at the theater, as you're distracted by the movie, but having candy on-hand you need to unwrap helps you be more conscientious of what you're consuming., The longer your food lasts, the less you'll eat. Therefore, bring foods you can suck on into the theater. If the movie theater sells popsicles, grab a popsicle. If they sell hard candy, opt for a bag of something like peppermints., If you go to a movie feeling hungry, you're likely to overindulge on snack foods. Have a big, healthy meal prior to going to the theater. This way, you're less likely to overeat as you're feeling full from healthy foods.Opt for a meal with healthy proteins. These can help you feel full longer.
 If possible, split the calories with a friend. Sharing with others can greatly cut down on the overall calories you consume, leading you to eat less. If you're going to the movies with someone else, ask if they want to split a bowl of popcorn or box of candy with you., Bring a stick of gum into the theater. Chew it after finishing a small amount of your snacks. This will give you something to chew on, lessening the temptation to overeat.Dental gum works best here. It's better for your teeth, and if you're chewing gum that leaves your mouth fresh you may not want to ruin that feeling with snacks.

