 Visit https://www.ic.gc.ca/app/osb/tds/search.html?lang=eng and enter your location. You should schedule a meeting with an LIT to help discuss your options. LITs are licensed by the federal government. They don’t generally charge for an initial consultation.If you do decide to go through with bankruptcy, then the LIT can help file the paperwork for you.
Avoid working with debt consultants, who are not licensed or regulated by the government.
 One alternative to filing for bankruptcy is to offer to pay your creditors a percentage of your debt over a period of time (not exceeding five years). You might also suggest stretching out your repayment period so that the monthly payment is lower. You make this offer in a “consumer proposal.”You are eligible for a consumer proposal if your debts don’t exceed $250,000, not including any debt secured by your principal residence.
Your LIT will help you approach your creditors. If your creditors agree, then you will make one payment to the LIT, who will distribute the money to each individual creditor.A consumer proposal can stop wage garnishments and other collection actions against you.
At the end of the repayment period

, This is like a consumer proposal but for those over the debt limit. It is available for both businesses and individuals. Your LIT will help you put together a proposal to reduce your monthly debt payment., In Alberta and Nova Scotia, you can pursue a consolidation order, also called an “orderly payment of debt.” A court will combine all debts and decide the amount you must pay. You make payments to the court, which distributes payments to your creditors.With this program, all unsecured debts will be consolidated at a guaranteed 5% interest rate.In Alberta, you can consolidate all unsecured loans, including income tax and student loans.
Once enrolled, all collection actions will stop.
 This mechanism is available in Quebec only. You register with your nearest courthouse. The court will decide how much you must pay creditors based on your income and family size. You pay to the court, which then distributes payments to your creditors.Once you register for VDS, you cannot be sued by your creditors.
You will pay an agreed interest rate or 5%, whichever is lower.
VDR protects some but not all assets. It does not protect your vehicle, furniture, or immovable property such as your home.

