 One of the easiest remedies to soothe your cracked nipples is applying your own milk to the tender skin. Your own milk is sterile and the most natural liquid to apply over the skin that will not adversely impact your baby.Manually express a little milk and let it air dry on your nipple.
Besides providing a natural way to soothe the skin, the human breast milk is also thought to carry antibacterial healing properties.However, you should not let your skin bathe in the breast milk for extended period of time if you have thrush. Yeast can thrive in the milk if allowed to do so and this can worsen the infection.;
, Make sure to clean your nipples with water and a gentle soap after breastfeeding to wash off your baby's saliva and dried milk.


Rinsing off your nipples after each feeding will decrease a risk of infection, which can lead to cracked and sore skin.Use only unscented, gentle soap to wash the skin to reduce irritation. Be sure to rinse off the soap entirely as leaving a residue can irritate the skin and worsen the problem.After washing your nipples, gently pat them dry with a soft cloth and allow them to air dry. This can help reduce soreness and prevent irritation caused your bra or a shirt.You can also keep your irritated nipples from coming into contact with a constricting bra by putting them into doughnut-shaped nipple shells., You may want to check out over-the-counter ointments to help soothe cracked nipples. Make sure you evaluate their ingredients, as they should be all natural and contain no chemicals that are unsuitable for your baby.


Choose antibacterial ointment to soothe and treat skin that is infected. Your lactation specialist or doctor may also recommend a prescription strength ointment.Olive oil or medical-grade lanolin ointments can also help promote healing of your cracked nipple and keep it from forming a scab. Because the ingredients are all natural, you do not need to worry about washing it off between feedings.A moisture barrier may also help speed the healing of your sore nipple, as research has shown that keeping a cracked nipple naturally moist and slowing natural evaporation promotes healing., You can use a cold compress or a moist dressing to treat your cracked skin. Both techniques can help relieve irritation, pain, and inflammation.


Hydrogel pads can be applied to your nipples between feedings to keep them from drying out. Make sure that you do not touch your nipple tissue directly with your fingers, as you could possibly transfer bacteria to it.Avoid using hydrogel pads if you already have a fungal or bacterial infection on your nipple, as enclosing your nipple in a moist environment can worsen the infection.You can make a cold compress using ice or purchase an ice pack from the drugstore. A cold compress helps soothe your nipples and can decrease inflammation., Some practitioners may recommend using nipple shields, which are silicone shields placed over your nipples during breastfeeding. Be aware that these devices can do more harm than good if used improperly, including increasing your baby’s difficulty to latch.Get help from your doctor or lactation educator so you know how to use them correctly.


Ineffective latching and breastfeeding due to the nipple shields can cause your nipples to be pinched, creating a larger injury., A saline solution that is about as salty as tears can be prepared at home to clean and disinfect cracked nipples.


Mix ½ tsp of table salt in a cup of sterile water. Bathe your nipples for no longer than 5 minutes in the solution.Rinse your nipples in sterile water to remove the salty taste before nursing your baby., Sore nipples are almost unavoidable in the first few weeks after delivery, as your baby's mouth is very small. Poor latching and positioning are typically the main causes of sore and cracked nipples during nursing. However, there are other causes of sore nipples you should be aware of.


Your baby may get a yeast infection in her mouth or throat, known as thrush, and pass this onto you during nursing. Symptoms of thrush include painful, and sometimes cracked nipples, as well as redness and itchiness of the breast. If you suspect thrush, seek medical treatment for both you and your baby.Mastitis, a bacterial infection of the milk ducts, can cause your nipples to become cracked and your ducts to become too inflamed to let milk down effectively. This infection can also result in a fever, chills and body aches with more serious complications.You may suffer from nipple discomfort due to Raynaud’s syndrome, which causes your nipple to become blue or white after a feeding session and you experience pain as blood flows back to your nipple., If nipple soreness persists after the first week of nursing or if you think your nipples might be infected, seek help from a lactation consultant or doctor. You might have another underlying problem in addition to a poor latch from your baby.If you experience any symptoms of infection, including bleeding or oozing nipples, tenderness around the areola, pain during or after nursing, fever and chills, talk to your doctor.