 Going from dark brown to blonde requires an application of bleach. If you bleach hair that's dry or processed, you risk damaging the hair further and even breaking it at the shaft. To get your hair ready for bleaching, follow these basic rules in the months leading up to your dyeing session:


Wash your hair with chemical-free shampoo every three days or so. Chemicals can be abrasive, causing hair damage. Washing your hair more often than every three days dries it out.
Don't use heat styling tools. Put away your hair dryer, curling iron, and straightening iron in the months leading up to your dyeing session. Applying direct heat to hair makes it dry and brittle.
Don't use chemical processing treatments. Getting your hair permanently straightened or curled is also hard on your locks. Let it grow in its natural state before you dye it.;
, To dye your dark hair blonde, you'll need supplies for bleaching it and for recoloring it in the golden or yellowish blonde hue of your choice. Go to a beauty supply store and pick up the following supplies:


Bleach powder: This comes in packets or tubs - the tubs are recommended if you plan to bleach your hair more than once, since you get more powder for your money.
Crème developer: This substance is mixed with the bleach powder to create a paste you apply to your hair to bleach it. It comes in different volumes ranging from 20 to 40. The higher volume developer is stronger and more effective for dark hair, so choose 30 or 40. Never go higher than 40 or you'll damage your hair.
Red gold corrector. This is added to the bleach powder to increase its effectiveness. It prevents you from having to bleach your hair more than once. Buy two bottles if your hair is quite long.
Purple shampoo: This is designed specifically for people with bleached hair. Make sure you use this and not a regular shampoo.
Blonde dye: After bleaching your hair, it's necessary to add color back to your hair. Pick out a blonde hair dye in whatever shade you want.
Plastic gloves, a tinting brush, and a plastic bowl: The gloves will protect your hands from the bleach and dye, and the brush and bowl are used to mix and apply it.
Aluminum foil: This enables you to bleach your hair in sections.
Plastic wrap: This is used to cover your hair while the bleach and dye set in.

