 When you’re working together on something, make a point of talking to those who will be involved in making it happen. Open communication about who is responsible for what will help improve the ease and effectiveness with which everyone involved is able to complete their specific tasks.You want to maximize the productivity of the time everyone spends working on something, and this requires direct and frequent communication. Don’t hesitate to say things such as, “How can reassign tasks to improve our overall productivity? Perhaps I can help with _____?”
State how your feel about the tasks you are assigned, and request any assistance that would increase overall productivity. For instance, “I think we could hit these goals more effectively if these responsibilities are shared.”

, Articulate the ways in which someone may be doing something that diminishes your productivity.If someone is doing something that makes what you’re doing harder, talk to them about it as soon as possible. More generally, don’t sugarcoat your opposition or frustration if there’s a persistent obstacle to getting something done. Instead, be honest and straightforward.


Be polite, of course, but also make sure that everyone clearly and specifically speaks their mind when there are opposing perspectives on how to proceed. This will diminish potential resentment later on.
Try saying something along the lines of “I think we may be more effective as a team if _______.”
Expect others to do the same, and receive these discussions respectfully.
 Distinguish between the “decision-making process” and the “making things happen process” in order to keep everyone working towards your shared responsibilities. Whether you’re leading a team, a team-member on a cooperative project, or following another’s lead, you need to operate according to concrete decisions. If you don’t agree with a particular decision, voice your perspective to ensure your perspective is considered, but understand that whatever a decision is, you must operate accordingly.


More to the point: know and accept your role on a team. Even if you are not a part of a formal decision-making process, your contributions may be vital to the “actually making it happen process.”
Further, if you’re looking to earn a decision-making role, demonstrate you’re capable of getting things done and your productivity will be recognized accordingly.
 Another important aspect of open communication is the degree to which this will help everyone know who needs to be involved, and what is needed from each person in particular. If you’re leading a team, assign every specific task that needs to be accomplished to someone who will be responsible for ensuring it is completed.Assign tasks based on interests and perspectives conveyed in group meetings.
Make sure everyone knows what everyone else is responsible for, as this will increase everyone’s motivation to tackle their personal tasks.

