 This will be a messy project, so prepare to get dirty. Wear old "work clothes" that you won't mind messing up and avoid wearing any fine jewelry.


It can also be a good idea to wear safety goggles, especially as you prepare the wall and joint compound. Dust and other small particles can easily break away and may cause irritation if they get into your eyes.
Work gloves are also recommended, but not necessary. You should be able to wash off joint compound that gets on your skin, but gloves can help minimize the potential mess.;
, If you're working on a brand new drywall project with untreated or unpainted sheetrock, you will need to sand it down before you can apply skip trowel texture to it.Note that sanding is not necessary if you're working on a previously painted wall or ceiling. Skip this step and move onto the next one if that is the case.
If you do need to sand the wall, use a pole sander to work your way around the entire drywall surface. Apply pressure to sand away any edges, lines, or bumps. Make sure that you reach into corners and along wall seams, as well.
 Use a damp rag to wipe down the surface you plan to texture. Allow any moisture to dry before continuing.


If you don't remove the dust and dirt from your walls, the joint compound may not adhere properly when you attempt to apply it.
An air compressor can be used to clear dust from your walls, as well, but using a damp rag is usually easier and more thoroughly.
 Spread a drop cloth, newspaper, or plastic sheets over the floor and all other surfaces in the room. Tape it down so that it remains securely in place throughout the entire process.


Since applying compound textures to the wall or ceiling can be so messy, you definitely need to use a drop cloth to avoid getting excess compound on your floor.
Note that any removable object, like pieces of furniture, should be taken to another room as you work to further protect it.
 Priming your wall or ceiling isn't strictly necessary, and there is some debate on whether or not it offers any real benefit. Nonetheless, priming the surface won't hurt, so it might be worth consideration.


Use an acrylic PVA (latex-based) wallboard primer capable of sealing the pores in your drywall. Apply the primer in a smooth, even coat with a standard paint roller, then let it dry completely before continuing.
Those in favor of priming argue that the process can encourage even drying while also limiting the potential shrinkage of the applied joint compound. Good primer fills in and seals the pores of the drywall, thereby preventing the mud from seeping into those pores and shrinking in volume.
 Standard, all-purpose joint compound will work best for this project. You can use either dry compound or ready-mix compound.


Avoid compounds that contain sand or grit. Plain mud works best for this type of texture.
You should also avoid lightweight compounds. These formulas scratch more easily and may not accept the texture as well as all-purpose compound does., The best tool to use will be a heavy-duty electric drill fitted with a paddle or auger mixing attachment.


If you don't have an electric tool, you can use a large potato masher to mix the compound. Doing so will require much more physical energy and strength, however.
 Combine a full box or bucket of dry mix compound with approximately 1 cup (250 ml) of water in a 5-gallon (20-L) plastic bucket. Mix slowly until the mud starts looking creamy and smooth.


If using ready-mix compound, you do not need to add any water yet. Simply start mixing the compound on its own.
When using dry compound, check the package instructions and use the manufacturer's minimum amount of water. You may need to add more later, but you should start with the minimum.
Note that joint compound can dry quickly once you mix it, so you should only prepare as much as you can use. If necessary, more compound can be mixed later in the middle of the application process.
 Continue mixing and adding water until the compound develops the consistency of thick paint.


If the mud is too thick, it won't spread well. If it's too thin, it will drip. The mud must be stiff yet easy spread around.
 When applying the skip trowel texture, you should start at floor level and work up the wall until you reach the ceiling.


Divide the wall in half visually. Work on the floor to midway point first, then on the midway to ceiling section afterward.
If you're creating a skip trowel texture over a ceiling, you will need to start at one side of the ceiling and work your way across to the other side. It shouldn't matter which side you start on, though.
 Pour the prepared compound into a mud pan, then scoop some onto the widest edge of your trowel.


It should be easier to maneuver the trowel into mud that has been poured into a shallow tray. Working directly from your mixing bucket will likely be difficult and is not recommended.
 Apply the compound directly to the wall, smoothing it over the surface using a side-to-side stroke.


At this point, you simply need to apply the mud to the wall. You don't need to create any texture in this step.
The amount and thickness of the mud will change the final appearance of the skip trowel texture. More mud creates a heavier texture and less mud offers a lighter look.
As you create the skip trowel texture, the mud may spread and thin out, so you should make this initial layer of mud a little thicker than your desired finish.
 Hold the trowel over the applied mud at a 15-degree angle, then work in short, arching strokes across the smooth mud.At the end of each stroke, quickly bend your wrist away from the wall as you remove the trowel. This should help create a slight "skip" or dash at the end of each arching stroke.
Your arches should be random, and you can create arches running from either side-to-side or up-and-down. Continue working with each patch of applied mud until you're satisfied with the appearance.
 Follow the same procedure as you continue applying mud and creating the skip trowel texture across the entire wall or ceiling.


Work in small sections and try not to rush. You need to take your time on each section to perfect the appearance before it starts drying.
 Allow the compound to dry for 10 to 30 minutes. Give it just enough time to start setting.Once the compound just begins to set, you should look over your work. If there are areas that need to be fixed, fix them before letting the compound set completely.
 Most notably, if you see any compound that has begin dripping or dropping from the wall, you should knock it off with your trowel and work over the area again as needed.


Check the surface for even application, too. If certain areas look notably thicker than others, use the trowel to thin them out. Conversely, if some areas look notably thinner, you may need to work more mud over them.
 Once you're satisfied with the way the texture looks, allow it to dry for at least 24 hours.


After the mud is completely dry, you can prime and paint the compound as desired.
If you don't want to apply any primer or paint, you can remove the drop cloth as soon as the mud dries.

