 The most common and one of the oldest mood stabilizers prescribed for bipolar disorder is lithium. It is effective for elderly patients when prescribed, but this medication can present a problem in elderly adults. Lithium can be a difficult drug to use for the elderly because of its narrow therapeutic index; in other words, if you experience co-occurring conditions such as renal disease and cardiac insufficiency, your body may not metabolize the drug as quickly and can lead to toxicity and higher levels of lithium in your blood.Diets that restrict salt and poor hydration can also increase lithium toxicity.
Side effects of lithium include delirium, sedation, cognitive dulling, and, with long term lithium use, hypothyroidism and goiters.Serious drug interactions occur between lithium and diuretics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. Let your doctor know immediately if you are on these if lithium is being considered as a treatment option.;
, Valproate, sometimes called valproic acid or divalproex sodium, is another common mood stabilizer. It's often considered equally as effective as lithium. It was once prescribed as an anticonvulsant, but it is now used to treat bipolar disorder. It may work better than lithium for those with mixed symptoms of mania and depression or rapid-cycling bipolar disorder.Possible side effects in the elderly of valproate include confusion, sedation, tremors, hair thinning, weight loss, and loss of muscle function.It has also been linked to an increased occurrence of pancreatitis in the elderly., Carbamazepine is a mood stabilizer that is used with certain types of bipolar disorder. Rapid cycling bipolar and irritable mania are two of the more common symptoms of elderly bipolar disorder, both of which are treated well with carbamazepine.


It has a long history of use as a mood stabilizer, but you should only use it as an adjunctive treatment rather than an effective single agent.
Common side effects of carbamazepine are dizziness, sedation, nausea, vomiting, skin rash, loss of muscle control, and an worsening of heart symptoms, such as hypertension, hypotension, and congestive heart failure.
This medication with have a slightly different dosing than other mood stabilizers because, after four to six weeks, carbamazepine will create its own metabolism and require more to keep your blood levels even.Carbamazepine can also cause severely low sodium levels, so keep a check on these levels while on this medication.
Serious drug interactions occur if you are also taking some antibiotics, antidepressants, antifungals, corticosteroids, many antipsychotics, calcium channel blockers, and oral anticoagulants., Another mood stabilizer that may be helpful for bipolar disorder is lamotrigine. It has been shown to be highly effective against bipolar disorder if it is taken along with lithium or valproate.A lower dose of this medication will be prescribed because of an increase possibility of toxicity in your blood.
It may also increase the chance of anemia, so your doctor should keep a watch on your blood levels.