
If you are looking to play the mobile version of Agar.io opposed to the website version, you may download the app from the app store (Google Play, Apple's "App Store", Etc.) located on your smartphone.;
, You can create a custom name or go with one associated with existing skins. Typing in certain usernames will give you a certain cell "background" or "skin". Skins don't have any effect on your gameplay as they are strictly for cosmetic purposes. If you pick a custom name, you won't be able to get a skin unless you've logged in and obtained a "Premium Skin"., Moving your cell is what you should master first, since it will be the main aspect of your technique. To move your cell, simply move around your mouse/mouse-pad and your cell will follow the on-screen pointer. The bigger you are, the slower you move and the easier it is for someone to catch up to you.
 This allows your cell to shrink itself so it can move faster, or to share your mass with others. To shoot off some of your cell's "mass", simply click the 'W' key on your keyboard. The mass will fire in the direction of which your pointer is on-screen.


Speed will be an amazing tactic to add to your custom technique.
 If you'd like to boost yourself to catch up to someone or eat someone smaller than you, you are able to divide your cell. Dividing your cell will shoot out half of yourself forward in the direction of your pointer, thus eating any smaller cells in your direction.


This will take a bit of practice and patience.
 The lower you are in this food chain, the more likely it will be for you to lose the game/be eaten. The size of your cell is very important, you must pay close attention to who you try to pick a battle with.


Bigger cells have the ability to eat the smaller cells. Find a way to knock them down to size, or find out how to grow fast enough to eat them first.
If you are equal to, or very close to, the size of another cell, you cannot eat each other.
 In Agar.io, spikes spawn throughout the entire map. Use these spikes to take down larger cells that are chasing you. Shooting out mass into these spikes with the 'W' key will make them grow to a certain point. Once they pass the point, the spike will split itself and throw it into the direction you are aiming.


Successfully hitting the larger enemy and making them explode will most likely cause them to run away in fear of being eaten, thus saving yourself and giving you the opportunity to eat them and grow drastically!

, If you are greater than the Viruses and/or "Green Spikes", in size, going inside of it will make you explode into mini-cells, giving everyone around you the opportunity to eat even quicker.If you are less than or equal to the size of the spike, you will be able to "safely" hide inside of it.
Although larger cells are able to eat you if they go inside of the spike, it is unlikely that they will, due to the fact that they will split in to tons of tiny cells, ultimately risking them losing the game.
 If you find a prey to eat, go ahead and eat it, using multiple techniques on this page. Just make sure he is considerably smaller than you.
 The point of the game may be to eat anyone and everyone to survive, but there are still people in the game that are willing to team up with you. Usually, feeding someone your mass by pressing the 'W' key will lead to them thanking you by helping you grow as well. This may also result in them helping you eat other cells as you play the game.


Typically, an alliance will not last very long. Many people who form alliances will only do it temporarily; They'll wait until they want a different teammate or until they get big enough, and then they will eat you.
Permanent alliances are very rare, be cautious.
You can press the spacebar key to give a big chunk of your cell to someone. just sure you aren't bigger than them. then accidentally eat them.
 Forming an official alliance between multiple people will take much more work. There are many forums that people use to have conversations between the Agar.io community, share skins, and most importantly, form alliances. Use the forums to your advantage for creating large alliances by making threads about a team you've created.


Inform everyone of what your Alliance's name is once you've came up with one. Certain names will attract more players to your clan.

Avoid Inappropriate, vulgar, or any alliance names that give away your personal information.


Look around the internet and/or other threads, for Alliance names that have already been used. Copying other's alliance names will only bring bad reputation to your alliance.

