 The beads should all be of a similar size but they can be varied shapes. Choose crystal, pearl, plain, cylinder, faceted and round, to provide pretty variety. They must have threading holes in them, and the hole must be large enough to accept a pipe cleaner being pushed through.;
, To begin with, you'll need to develop the pattern for the beads you're using. This pattern will go along each stem and looks best when it is reflect symmetrically on each of the snowflake's stems. Hence, making a template makes it easy for you to follow for every snowflake stem per snowflake decoration being made.


For example, you could make a pattern that goes: One round crystal bead, one pearl bead, one cylinder bead, one round bead, repeat. Or, any other variation that pleases you. The important thing is to mix up pearl, crystal and plain to give the impression of "glittering".
Consider using a few larger beads around the center of the snowflake, allowing you to show off some very special beads and create the impression of a typical snowflake with a larger center which descends into smaller tips.
 That way, the design can be referred to again and again and if it's accidentally bumped, it'll stay in place.



Align the pipe cleaners in a row on a flat surface.
Twist the pipe cleaners around the middle two to three times to join them together.
Pull the untwisted lengths apart. Spread them out by their tips to form a 6-pointed star or snowflake shape, with all the sections evenly placed apart from each other.
 Following the order you've chosen for the beads (see Part 1 above), begin to thread the beads onto the snowflake. If you're using larger beads around the center, obviously these are the ones to start with. Push the beads all the way to the twisted join in the middle, right up the stem.
, This will prevent the last bead (and any other beads) from slipping off. The furriness of the pipe cleaner will also assist in keeping the beads snugly in place. Allow the glue to dry fully.
 Use the invisible thread or monofilament and cut as long a hanging length as needed for your tree, window or other hanging location. Tie one end to one tip of the snowflake and knot tightly. Cut off any excess from the knot. Tie the other end in a loop for hanging over a cup hook, tree branch or pinning into wood, etc.
 A whole tree covered in these looks stunning. They also make nice gifts, especially if you include a "handmade by me" gift note.

