 If you have done something offensive or hurtful to your family, the first steps to making amends are to recognize your blame in the conflict, reflect on the reasons for your behavior, and what impact it has had on everyone. This thoughtful introspection will help to make your apology more meaningful and effective when you eventually deliver it to injured family members.Make sure that you analyze the underlying motivations behind your urge to apologize. A genuine apology cannot be contingent on speedy forgiveness, so if you’re wanting to make amends simply in order to feel the relief of forgiveness, you should reconsider whether or not you’re truly ready to make a heartfelt apology.
 Once you’ve gathered your thoughts and feel ready to approach those you’ve hurt, extend a heartfelt apology to your loved ones. You can do this through a letter or email, or in person. No matter what method you choose, the most important thing is to be direct, accept accountability without dodging blame or rationalizing, and show you have thought about the impact of your actions.For example, don’t say something like, “I’m so sorry for hurting your feelings. I never intended to hurt you, and in any case I was really upset about what you said to me that one time. But anyway, I’m sorry!” Instead, say, “I’m so sorry for what I did. It was a foolish and small-minded thing to do, and I want you to know how regretful I am.”
Allow the other parties to explain how they were hurt by your behavior. Feeling heard is an important part of being able to forgive someone. Listening to the person without interrupting, defending yourself, or making excuses does a lot of the work for you.
 An apology seems somewhat hollow if it focuses solely on the past wrongdoing. In order for your compunction to ring true, you should also promise never to repeat the same offense. In other words, you’re not just extending a flimsy, retrospective excuse, but vowing to work at correcting your behavior in the future.Be as specific and concrete as possible in order to demonstrate that you’ve thought about how to realistically amend and avoid personal pitfalls. For example, if you are apologizing for gossiping and saying malicious things about a family member, don’t just say, “I’ll never do it again!” Rather, say something like, “I feel terrible about what I said and promise not to repeat it. I think I was using these texts to friends as a way to vent about other things and frustrations in my life, so I have started writing a journal or seeing a therapist in order to deal with my problems in more productive ways.”
It can often be helpful to ask, "How can I make this up to you?"

, Of course you want your family to forgive you for what you’ve done, but you need to manage your expectations regarding this process. Acknowledge your family’s right to take as much time as they need to think about your apology and that, just because you’ve apologized, you’re not owed forgiveness. In the same way, if you've also been hurt by your family members and they've apologized, you should recognize your own right to take time before accepting and forgiving.


It’s not a bad idea to include this lack of expectations in your apology. This will show your family that you’re respectful of their feelings and aren’t putting pressure on them. Say something like, “No matter how you decide to respond to my apology, I needed to express my sincere regret. Of course I want you to forgive me, but I know that I have no right to expect this from you, so take your time and know I’m here to talk whenever you’re ready.”

