 An asthma attack may be triggered by many different substances or events. That is why identifying triggers and avoiding known triggers is always a part of the treatment of asthma. Common triggers include:Allergens including dust, animal fur, cockroaches, mold, and pollen
Irritants including chemicals, cigarette smoke, air pollution, and dust
Some medications including aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and non-selective beta-blockers
Chemicals used to preserve foods, such as sulfites
Upper respiratory infections, such as colds and other viral infections of the lungs
Exercise and other physical activities
Cold or dry air
Health conditions such as heartburn, stress, and sleep apnea

, One way that you can begin to identify your triggers is to keep a diary of the foods you eat as well as any other common triggers that you encounter. If you have an asthma attack, look at your diary to see what you ate or encountered that may have triggered the attack. In the future, avoid that food or trigger to reduce your chances of having another attack.


If you have known asthma triggers, then do everything that you can to avoid coming into contact with them.
 Food allergies involve a specific type of immune molecule, an IgE molecule that triggers the release of histamine and other allergic mediators.If you have noticed that your asthma attacks seem to come after eating sometime, then a food allergy may be to blame. See an allergist and ask to be tested for food allergies.
 Food sensitivities are not the same as food allergies, but they can also cause asthma attacks. Food sensitivities are quite common. One study indicated that 75% of children with asthma also have food sensitivities.To determine if you have any food sensitivities, pay attention to foods that seem to cause asthma attacks and tell your allergist about these reactions. Common food sensitivities include:


Gluten (a protein found in any wheat product)
Casein (a protein found in dairy products)
Eggs
Citrus
Peanuts
Chocolate

