 that you never knew you had. To make this more fun, perhaps you could invite a friend over to help you and you can also listen to some upbeat music to keep you motivated. Your mother or father will be happy that you cleaned your room without them having to ask you.;
, Try hanging up posters of your favourite bands or pictures of your family and friends. Perhaps you could get a new bedspread and some cool pillows. If you have permission from your parents you could also paint your bedroom walls (you have to be very sure of what colour you want otherwise once you have finished painting you will be unsatisfied after all that hard work).
 You will need to sort your clothes into 3 piles. The 1st pile is for things that no longer fit you or things that you just don’t want anymore that can go to charity. The 2nd pile is for clothes that you still want and the 3rd is for clothes that are beyond repair which can be thrown out.
 Invite some of your friends to the movies and choose a movie that you all agree on. It is much easier for everyone to just pay for themselves to avoid and arguments over who owes money to whom.
 If not then don’t worry. You can just do chores around the house for pocket money.
 You can make anything from choc-chip cookies to homemade pizza. Once you have finished, you can serve your food to family or friends. Who knows? You might just become the next Jamie Oliver.(Be careful when you are using electrical appliances in the kitchen though)

, There are many things that you can do to change your look including: dyeing your hair (if your parents allow it), getting a new hair cut, plucking eyebrows, clearing up acne and even small things like painting your nails.
 If you are having trouble finding one that you like then to your local library. If you enjoy reading you should read a book series such as The Twilight Saga, Harry Potter, Deltora Quest or The Lord Of The Rings (for more advanced readers).
 Whatever you are interested in. If you can’t find anyone that wants to join then you should go to where you might find people with that particular interest. Example: If you are making a book club then you could go to a library to find members or if you are making a club about movies than hang out in movie theatres.
 The possibilities are endless. Do whatever comes to mind (not if it is dangerous though)

, If you enjoy a particular type of music then you should research it. Everyone will be impressed with your knowledge of music.
 It can be about anything that you want

,