 If you're working with a band, learn to work as a team. Timing is vital if you want to be a good drummer. Pay attention to the band's beat to determine the tempo you should use.


Drummers provide the backbone of rhythm in a song. The underlying beat of a song is usually defined by a drum. You need to be able to speed up and slow down when necessary and play in the tempo required by the piece you're performing.
Review the songs you're playing ahead of time to get a sense of when to speed up and when to slow down. Practice playing along to a recording before going to band practice, keeping an eye on your time.Be open to criticism. Teamwork is important in a band or orchestra. If your bandmates or conductor tell you that you're playing too fast or too slow, accept this as constructive criticism. Try to ask them what you can do to play at a more even tempo.If you feel you're playing too slow or too fast, listen to the tempo of the other instruments and players. Try to match that tempo as you work your drum beats., A metronome is a small handheld device that keeps beats. All drummers need to start off practicing with a metronome if they want to learn to keep time. You can set a metronome to whatever tempo you want and try to hit your drum with the beats it keeps.


As you practice with a metronome, pay attention to when you start slipping. For some drummers, keeping beat is difficult towards the beginning of a song. It may take them a few minutes to get into the swing. However, for other drummers the end of the song is where they tire down and begin to slip. If you know your weak spots, you'll be able to know when to be extra vigilant during performances.Ask your band or conductor if you can keep a metronome going into practice. For some drummers, having the clicking tempo in their head keeps them focused. You may find using a metronome while playing with others is tremendously helpful., If your beats are not in time, they will sound off to the audience. Even if other aspects of your technique are solid, bad timing interferes with other musicians and creates confusion for the audience. As you begin moving past the basics of the snare drum and playing with others, prioritize learning to keep time. Practice with a metronome each night and ask your bandmates and conductors for constructive feedback.