 Loop one end of a stretch band around both the right and left ends of the trap bar. Connect the other end of the stretch bands to a heavy weight. Repeat on the other side of the trap bar, being careful to connect the stretch band to a weight of the same value as the one used to secure the stretch band on the opposite side. When you lift the trap bar again, it will be more difficult and require you to exert more force when lifting.After adding resistance to the trap bar, exercise extra caution during your descent. Carefully lower yourself back down, since the stretch bands attached to the trap bar that slow your upward movement will accelerate your downward motion.
A variation on this variation is to loop one end of the stretch band around the left arm of the trap bar and loop the other end beneath the trap bar and around its right arm. Step on the middle of the stretch band before beginning your deadlift., A deficit deadlift allows you to increase your range of muscular motion by increasing the height from which you begin the deadlift. Just place a step one to three inches (two to eight centimeters) tall beneath you before beginning the deadlift. From there, proceed as normal. The slight increase in your starting height will cause you to bend more than you typically would.Contract your core, tightening the muscles all around your back and waist, keeping the shoulders pulled back slightly by tightening the muscles between your shoulder blades.
 Also called the Romanian deadlift, in this variation, you will situate yourself inside the trap bar, then bend at the waist, leaning over to grip it instead of squatting. This lift makes the trap bar useful because you do not have to bend over as far and your hamstrings are not fully lengthened. This makes the move safer for you.


Squat to grab the handles of the bar and flex your core muscles tight.
Keeping your back straight, carefully straighten your legs, but do not lift the bar yet. Once your legs are straight, hinge at your hips and straighten your torso. The movement of this lift is all about hinging at your hips, so your back must be kept straight throughout the movement.This lift is not advisable for beginners and should only be attempted with the assistance of a personal trainer to ensure proper safe technique.
 In this exercise, you start in a high squat position, which is the same way you would start when performing a Romanian trap bar deadlift. However, instead of straightening your legs and standing up with the trap bar after gripping it, simply pull straight up with your arms. Bend slightly at the knees, keep your back in a straight horizontal position, and stick your butt out slightly after gripping the bar. Lift the bar straight up. When your arms reach a 90 degree angle, slowly lower the bar back down., In this variation, start with the trap bar in a racked position at about the level of your shoulders. Pass under the trap bar and grip the handles (which should be positioned beneath the trap bar). Move the trap bar away from the rack and extend your arms straight up, then bring them down slowly.If you have narrow shoulders, this exercise can be difficult because the handles on the bar dictate how wide your grip must be. Try dumbbells instead!

