 Sometimes when adults talk to kids about alcohol, we don’t distinguish between responsible adult alcohol use and alcohol abuse. For example, we may tell kids that drinking caused someone harm without explaining that it was excessive or irresponsible drinking. Understanding the difference between use and abuse can help kids recognize it when they, or someone they know, has a problem with alcohol.Explain that, for adults, drinking doesn’t necessarily mean the adult is abusing alcohol. For example, you might say, “Adults sometimes drink alcohol, but drinking alcohol is not the same as having an alcohol problem.”
Or, you might tell them, “In some cultures, having an alcoholic beverage with your meal is normal. People that do this aren’t abusing alcohol.”
Talk to them about what it means for an adult to abuse alcohol. For instance, you could say, “An adult is abusing alcohol if they are drinking a lot and it’s causing problems in their life.”
You should also explain that, even if they don’t get drunk, drinking before you’re legally old enough to do so is ALWAYS a problem. You could say something like, “Any time a kid drinks alcohol it’s considered alcohol abuse.”

, Part of effectively talking to kids about alcohol is letting them know the impact it can have on people in the short-term and the long-term. When you have talks with them about alcohol, talk about how alcohol abuse can damage your body, relationships, and more. Explain that alcohol abuse doesn’t just affect the person that is drinking, but can also impact that person’s family and friends.For example, you might say, “People that have problems with alcohol abuse may also have problems at work because of their drinking. They may have trouble completing their work or even showing up for work.”
Or, for instance, you might say, “Adults that drink and drive may hurt themselves or someone else if they have an accident because the alcohol is slowing their reaction time.”
You may also want to explain that alcohol abuse can cause people to stop spending time with the people they care about or even do things to hurt them.
 Kids may have the impression that drinking makes you sociable and fun, but may not understand that it impacts judgment. Talking to kids about the way alcohol influences decisions can help them understand some of the consequences of alcohol abuse.


Explain that alcohol can give you a false sense of courage and lower your inhibitions because it affects the part of your brain responsible for self-control.For example, you could say, “Drinking can make you do things you wouldn’t normally do because it affects your decision-making.”
Tell them alcohol also impacts coordination and reaction time. For instance, you might say, “Drinking alcohol can cause you to react slower when you’re driving and you could get a ticket or be incarcerated for DUI.”

, In some cases, kids are dealing with an alcoholic family member or other similar situation.When you talk to kids about alcohol abuse, make sure you also talk to them about ways to cope with someone abusing alcohol. This conversation might include information about how to talk to someone about their alcohol abuse or what to do if a parent, or another loved one, is abusing alcohol.


For example, you might say, “There are meetings and support groups that you can attend to help you deal with it if someone you care about is abusing alcohol.”
Or, you might tell them, “One way to let someone know you’re concerned about their alcohol use is to tell them that you you’re worried about their drinking.”

