 It is especially important you use a tall glass with the strawberry Mojito, since the strawberries add some volume to the cocktail. Make sure you layer your drink in this way, so the mint leaves are protected from the muddler and are less likely to shred.If you're not into the texture of muddled strawberries, you can also puree them in a blender and add with the rum.Your cocktail will be a little smoother, and you can even strain out the little seeds if you want.
Make sure your strawberries are hulled (the stems removed).
Because the strawberries are naturally sweet, you may want to reduce the amount of sugar.(A classic Mojito uses about two teaspoons of sugar, this recipe cuts that in half.)

, If your muddler has an end with spikes on it, you can use that side to crush the strawberries--just make sure the mint leaves are on the very bottom of the glass so they don't tear. Muddle until the strawberries are crushed and have released their juices.To avoid releasing bitter chlorophyll from the mint, use the leaves only and discard the stems. Don't shred the leaves when you muddle, they should appear crumpled when you're finished, not torn and smashed into oblivion.The texture of the sugar will help release the flavorful oils from the mint. The sugar will absorb the oils, plus the flavor of the strawberry, making your cocktail even more delicious., A white (or light or silver) rum is preferable, especially a Cuban rum if you can find it. A dark rum will add extra spice and a strong molasses flavor, which may not be welcome in a Mojito.A darker rum will also affect the color of your beverage--you want the liquid to be clear to highlight the crisp green and pink of your ingredients.


If you decided to puree your strawberries, add the puree to your drink now. You can also add a few small slices of strawberry if you like the look of fruit in your glass.
 Use enough ice cubes to fill the glass about 3/4 of the way to the top.


Garnish with a strawberry and sprig of mint.

