 Place the middle of the drumstick in between your index and middle finger. Spin the drumstick by moving your pointer finger away from you and moving your middle finger toward you.This will make the drumstick in between your fingers spin over toward your other two fingers (ring and pinky finger).


As you do this first spin between your index and middle finger, relax your ring and pinky finger so they can be pulled away and lower than your two spinning fingers. This will prevent the stick from hitting those fingers as you execute the first spin.
 As the drumstick spins and travels around your middle finger, hook your ring finger onto the back of the stick, and allow your pointer finger to relax and straighten out.This will transfer the drumstick from your pointer and middle finger to your middle and ring finger. Just like you moved your pointer finger away from you and moved your middle finger toward you to get the drumstick to spin, you are going to do the same movement with your middle and ring finger.


Move your middle finger away from you and move your ring finger toward you. This will cause the stick in between your two fingers to continue spinning.
 As the drumstick spins around your ring finger, hook your pinky finger behind the stick, and allow your middle finger to relax and lay flat.Allowing your middle finger to relax positions the drumstick between your ring and pinky finger.


From this position, you can again, move your ring finger back, away from you, and move your pinky finger toward you, causing the drumstick to continue spinning.
 As the drumstick spins around your pinky finger, it will come back around to the front (palm side) of your hand. When it is on the palm side, tuck your pointer finger down.When the stick is horizontal and perpendicular to your fingers, lift your pointer finger back up so it is in front of the stick.


At this position, your pinky finger and pointer finger should be in front of the drumstick, while your middle and ring fingers should be behind the drumstick.
As you move your pointer finger to be in front of the drumstick, slowly release your pinky and ring finger so the only two fingers touching the drumstick are your pointer finger (which is in front of the stick) and your middle finger (which is behind the stick).This will put you back in the starting position and you can continue spinning the drumstick.

