 Red dresses are a fairly versatile outfit, so a variety of shoes can match with them. Make sure to pick shoes in a matching similar shade of red, or in a neutral color like black or white.If you want high heels, you can wear kicks, wedges, or stilettos with a red dress. This can work well for more formal occasions. These may work well for a more formal occasion, like a cocktail party, or for a fun night out.
If you want something more casual, flats, sandals, or even flip-flops can pair with a red dress. These would work for a more casual social event or for every day wear around your office.
 Red and white can be a stunning and somewhat preppy color combination. When choosing accessories, consider the red/white pairing, especially for warmer months where lighter colors are in style.You can wear something like a white blazer or cardigan over your red dress.
Try white jewelry. A v-neck red dress may look great with a string of white pearls.
Try a white scarf or hat with a red dress if going for an outdoor event.
 Black, gold, and silver are shades traditionally paired with red. This can be stunning for a more formal occasion. It can also work great if lighter colors, like white, are not in style for the season.Solid metal jewelry can go great with a red dress. For example, try gold studs in your ears or a silver bracelet with a red dress.
You can incorporate black tights with a red dress, or something like a black blazer or cardigan.
Some dresses work well with a belt around the middle. Try wearing a gold, silver, or black belt with your red dress.
 As a general rule, your lipstick should match your dress when you're dressed in red. Try to find a lipstick that is more or less the same color as your red dress. An exact match may not be possible but try to find a close approximation of your dress's shade.However, if you're doing bold makeup elsewhere, such as your eyes, a neutral lipstick is preferred. A bold colored dress and bold makeup elsewhere may be overpowering when paired with bright red lipstick.
 Remember, red is a bold color. If you're wearing a red dress, you want to tone down your makeup. Go for natural shades of eye shadow and minimize use of mascara and eyeliner. You should also only add a light layer of things like foundation, concealer, and bronzer., Red dresses can be great at formal parties. At these events, however, do not over accessorize as this can look tacky or gaudy. Stick to one or two classy accessories and let the dress be the main draw of your outfit.For example, wear an elegant red evening gown with a gold chain necklace and gold stud earrings.
You can also try something like a nice watch or bracelet.
Try a belt or scarf as an accessory if you're not into jewelry.

