 There are many websites in which you can recycle cartridges by selling them to buyers who intend to reuse them. Sites like the E-Cycle group and Toner Buyer will pay anywhere from 25 cents to $4 for empty toners or ink cartridges. This is a great way to help the planet while making some extra money.Most sites list their prices online. If you agree to the price, you can e-mail giving an administrator an overview of the types of cartridges and toners you have.
If the buyer is interested in your toner or cartridge, he or she will send you a prepaid postage label. From here, all you have to do is package your toners and cartridges and then mail them at your local post office.
 You can also auction off cartridges on eBay. Depending on the demand on a given day, you may get a better price via auction sites. All you have to do is create an eBay account and then advertise your toners and cartridges. You can set a starting price and then allow users to bid.You'll make more money if you list details. Talk about the manufacturer, model numbers, and whether the toners are black, color, or a combination. You should also include a picture to show your products are of decent quality.
Cartridges and toners may go for a higher price if they've never been reused before. If your cartridges are new, include this in your description.
 Recycle4Charity allows you to send in empty ink and toner cartridges for free. You will receive some cash for your donations, but a portion of the cash made from your ink and toner cartridges will then go to a charity supported by the site. As of 2016, Recycle4Charity is supporting Smile Train, an organization that helps pay for surgeries for children born with cleft lips.Recycle4Charity provides you with boxes with prepaid package labels. You put your ink and toner cartridges into the boxes, and send them to the site. Once the credit on your account has reached $25, you will receive a check. Recycle4Charity accepts donations from anywhere in the US.
If you want to get some money while helping a great charity, this may be the right organization for you. You can also make a small amount of cash over time if you regularly donate to Recycle4Charity.
 Empties4Cash is another organization that offers cash or charity donations for empty ink and toner cartridges. You receive a prepaid shipping box and can mail your donations to the Empties4Cash headquarters. You can choose to either receive cash back for your donations or donate the money to one of the charities supported through Empties4Cash.If you would prefer to donate, you can find a list of charities Empties4Cash supports on their website. You can choose a charity you find personally meaningful.
You can e-mail Empties4Cash through their website. Include your name and address. If you're donating to charity, include the charity you would like to support. You should then receive a box through the mail you can mail in to the Empties4Cash headquarters.
 If you're interested in donating cartridges to charities, Cartridges for Kids donates proceeds made from recycled cartridges to schools and non-profit organizations. As with other charities, you can send in your empty ink and toner cartridges. Once you've accrued at least $25 in donations, you will receive a check from the company. A portion of the money your donations made will go towards schools and non-profits supported through Cartridges for Kids., Donating to local charities is also always an option. You can look into local charities in your area and see if there are any recycling drives. See if the charity in question accepts ink and toners as recyclables. This can be a quick way to assure your products are recycles while helping a worthy cause.


Keep your eye out for donations boxes around town. If a certain charity is having a recycling drive, you may find donations boxes asking for recyclables. Make sure the boxes explicitly say they take empty toner cartridges before placing your donations in the box.

