 Just because you are eating healthy does not mean you need eat bland food in the morning. Visit cooking websites and buy healthy cookbooks that give you a variety to your breakfast.


Restaurants can sometimes serve high-fat foods cooked in unhealthy oils. However, some breakfast places offer great healthy options. You can take the guesswork out of eating out by researching nutrition information online before you go. This can remove the hassle of having to cook your own meal and also make the experience a little more enjoyable if you're doing it with friends.
 If your routine becomes boring and something you dread, you may be less likely to stick with it. It's important to find morning activities that will jumpstart your metabolism but also that you like enough to make a long-term commitment. There are lots of options to start your day with that are outside traditional exercise.


Sports. Whether you do it alone or with friends, sports like basketball and racquetball are great cardio. The competition can be great to keep you on track and the unstructured movements are great for your joints and muscles. Make time before work where you meet friends for your sport of choice.
Yoga. Yoga may look like a lot of sitting and breathing, but it can be a great calorie burner. Thirty minutes of yoga can burn up to 180 calories. It's also great stretching for your muscles and a great way to mentally prepare for the day. Walk the dog. If you have a four-legged companion, you'll both benefit from a morning walk. This will get you out and moving and help keep your dog healthy in the process. Plus, those hopeful eyes of your dog waiting for a walk can be great alarm clocks to spring you from bed.
 Jogging or walking can be hard on the knees. If you have a nice area to bike, starting your morning with a ride can be a great start to the day. Start with a mile and build up your stamina from there.
 If you like traditional exercise, swinging by your local gym on the way to work can be a great way to get yourself invigorated for the day. Seeing the same people every morning can be a great incentive to wake up and make your way to the gym, too.


Elliptical machines and treadmills. Set the machine with a level you are comfortable with and move at your own pace. Most machines will tell you how long you have been using it and your calories burned, so that you can track your progress. If you are short on time, cycling through 30-60 intervals of high intensity then low intensity can be a great workout.
Stationary bike. This can help you burn calories and keep your legs toned without the wear and tear of treadmills or jogging. Make sure that you set the pedal resistance high enough to give you a great workout and keep continuous movement. If you're not used to this type of workout, start small with ten minutes and move up from there.
 Cardio and a proper diet are great, but turning muscle into fat is a great way to keep your body naturally burning calories. Even at rest, those with higher percentage of muscle than fat burn calories. Start small. It can be intimidating walking into a new gym, but every one is in the same boat of trying to improve their health. Don't try to do more weight than your body can handle because you're afraid of looking weak.
High repetitions, low weight. A great to keep your body toned and lean is to do repetitions of 20-25 per exercise set. This will get your heart rate up as well. To do this you'll need a light weight to complete the repetitions.

