 Since sex is a physical act, you will want to look your best in the moments preceding your ask. Make sure that you are showered, well groomed, and well dressed. You might even consider putting on something that will be sexually appealing to your potential partner.Maybe you will want to put on a tight fitting shirt to show off your muscles or a sexy dress to show off your curves.
Consider wearing a nice, seductive fragrance as well, but don’t overdo it.;
, Begin to set the stages for asking for sex by flirting with them. Watch them longingly while they are speaking and smile slightly. Laugh at their jokes. Compliment them frequently, especially on their attractiveness.You might say something like, “Courtney, everytime I see you, you look so amazing.”

, You can communicate your desire to them via subtle touching, as well. Embrace them warmly when you see them. When they are making a joke, put your hand their thigh as you laugh. You can even lead them into a room by putting your hand on the small of their back as you enter.


If they have something in their eye, offer to get it out for them.
If this person is your partner or is someone that you are dating, feel free to touch them more intentionally.
 In all of your charming, be sure to pay attention to the signs. If they respond warmly to your flirtation and flirt back, then asking for sex makes sense. However, if they shudder from your touch and make little eye contact with you, you should rethink and perhaps even abandon your intentions of asking.


If you have had sex before, you might know the signs that indicate that they are turned on. Pay attention and respond to these.
 If all of the signs seem to indicate that they might want you sexually, test the waters even further by asking if you can kiss them. If you have already kissed before, kiss them a bit more passionately and intensely than you normally would. If you have not kissed, pick a moment when you are alone, look them in their eyes, ask if it’s okay, and then kiss them.Match the intensity of their kiss and pull away if they seem to be disinterested.

