 One of the most important things when looking for the girl for you is making sure that your girl is kind. A sassy attitude is one thing but someone who does not care about the feelings of others won't be able to sustain a healthy relationship for very long.


Also kind to others. It's important that she's not just kind to you. She should also be kind to others, especially people that she doesn't have to be nice to (like service workers). It's easy enough for someone to fake being nice when they think that it's important, but being rude to people they don't care about should tip you off that you're one fight away from her being rude to you too.
This also means that she should be fair. Fairness is very important in relationships. Does she offer to pay for things every now and again? Does she split chores and relationship responsibilities evenly? This shows that she thinks about your well being, which is key in a relationship.;
, You want to be with someone who's willing to work for what they want in life. They should push themselves, at least occasionally. When someone works hard, that means that they will be stable and that there will be fewer chances for things to go wrong.


For example, if she wants to buy a purse, she should be selling some of her old stuff. She should not just expect you or her parents to just buy it for her. Birthdays and gift holidays are obvious exceptions, however.
 Having a girl with good values and priorities is very important in relationships. Her values and priorities don't have to match up with what's traditionally considered good but they should match up with your value system and your priorities. There are occasional exceptions though. Your girl should definitely:


Be honest. Honesty is incredibly important in relationships, no matter what kind of people you are and what kind of relationship you have. Relationships require trust and if she isn't honest with you, then you can only expect problems in the future.Accept people for who they are, including you. If your girl is judgmental of others, it could only be a matter of time before she's judging you too. If she is judgmental of you or constantly seeks to change who you are or what you look like, you deserve better and she is probably not the one for you., When you're around her, you should feel like you're in a place where you can be honest. You should feel like you can be yourself around her. You should feel like you can cry, be really dorky, and should make you feel like you can do all of the things that you don't normally do in front of other people.


For example, if you tell her something deeply personal (like you think you're depressed or that you want to be an astronaut), her response should not be to laugh at you or shut you down. She should try to help you, or at least not discourage you, even if she doesn't agree.

