 You can find lots of different colors at beauty supply stores, and there are even more selections online. If you want to dye your brown hair a funky color like red, purple, blue, or pink, many people will recommend that you bleach your hair first. This will remove the dark pigments and allow the dye color to show up vividly. If you’re determined to skip the bleach, you can certainly still achieve a cool, fun color in your hair.It’s important to understand that your final color may (and probably will) be different than the hair color you see on the packaging. Often, the models show the color on hair that was very light originally. You will be layering the color over darker hair, so the final color will be darker. For example, a color may look pastel purple on someone with platinum blonde hair, while it will look like a darker purple on a brunette.
 Before you start applying the hair color, it’s best to section off your hair to make the process as easy and efficient as possible. Part your hair down the middle into a center part, and then hold your hair into pigtails on either side of your head. Section each pigtail into a top and bottom section, and clip them or tie them into these four sections.


If you have thicker hair, you may need more sections. If you have thinner hair, you might get away with only using two sections.
 Most hair dyes have generally the same instructions, but it’s always important to see what your specific product says to do. This will give you application instructions, timing, rinsing instructions, and even color maintenance tips.
 You can apply it in whatever manner is easiest for you. Some people prefer brushing their dye onto their hair, while others use a squirt bottle to apply it, rubbing it into their hair with gloved hands.After you’ve applied the hair dye, use a mirror to double check that you’ve covered every strand in the back.


If you’re unsure how a dye will look in your hair, you can dye a test strand first. Grab a piece from a bottom layer and apply the hair dye as instructed. Let it sit for the recommended time, and rinse. This will help you decide if you like the color before taking the plunge and dying your entire head of hair.
 These funky colors are semi-permanent, so be warned that your color will fade the more you wash it. After you’ve rinsed out our dye with shampoo and conditioner, try not to wash your hair very often. When you do get your hair wet, use cold water to preserve the color as much as possible.If your hair gets greasy between washes, use a dry shampoo to make it appear clean without having to wash.

