 If a child's "fight-flight-or-freeze" mechanism has activated, they may not be able to control themselves, even though they know that it's not good to hit people or scream in public. The best way to stop it is to prevent it from getting that far.Never get drawn into a power battle. Forcing control upon a child will make them afraid of you, and it won't make them respect you more.
 When stressed, a child may have trouble with auditory processing, and not be able to understand what you are saying.In these circumstances, talk less, and instead focus on de-escalating.


Try to use nonverbal communication. For example, instead of asking "Do you want your bunny?", show them the bunny so they can grab it if they want. Instead of saying "Let's go outside," point to the door and have them take your hand so you can lead them out.
 When stressed, the child might lose the ability to speak, while still being able to use AAC. Handing them a device shows that you aren't going to pressure them to speak, and that you'll listen if they advocate their needs.Watch for deteriorating speech abilities. If an ordinarily articulate girl points to a peanut shell and cries "bug," then she might be having trouble processing things,and may communicate better with AAC.
If they have several forms of AAC, let them choose. If they are more overwhelmed, a simpler form will do better. For example, maybe your student is too frazzled to type, but can show you the picture card for "too loud."

, For example, if a boy knows that when he gets into the car, he will get a tasty snack, and he can play a game at home, he might be more willing to leave the park.Implement the strategy if you see stress building. (You can always come back later, once the child is calmer.)


Explain the exit strategy beforehand—don't wait until the child is mid-meltdown. Use visual supports, like a keyring with pictures, if needed.Tailor the rewards to the child's favorite things. Make sure that they are available; if you run out, the child may stop trusting the routine and stop doing what you want.
Older children might be able to self-monitor, initiate the exit strategy when needed, and do it without rewards. Younger children might need you to watch their mood, and reward them more for following through.

