 If you only drink skim milk, you can still use this as a basis for your heavy cream substitute. In this case, use one cup of milk and add 2 tablespoons of cornstarch or unflavored gelatin to allow the mixture to thicken. Using a whisk, mix the ingredients for 3-4 minutes until the mixture begins to thicken.
 If you are looking for a low-fat or vegetarian heavy cream substitute, try blending tofu with unflavored soy milk until the mixture is smooth.


This substitute is a healthy alternative for heavy cream.
 Cottage cheese and non-fat milk powder can be mixed in equal amounts to create a low-calorie heavy cream substitute. Mix the ingredients until there are no lumps in the mixture.


If you don't have powdered milk for this recipe, you can use skim milk instead.
 Chill the evaporated milk and add vanilla extract to taste.


This mixture is a good one for soup recipes that call for heavy cream.
 Greek yogurt is much thicker than regular yogurt and can be used as a substitute for heavy cream while reducing the fat in the recipe. Be aware that if you are baking cookies or bread recipes that call for heavy cream, you may want to use half yogurt and half whole milk to preserve some of the taste of the fat.


In recipes such as cheesecake where the texture is critical, you may want to use half heavy cream and half Greek yogurt to reduce the fat in your recipe.
Yogurt will curdle when heated too fast. Use low heat if you are making a sauce with Greek yogurt.
You can even make your own Greek yogurt by wrapping 2 cups of plain milk yogurt in a cheesecloth. Let the liquid drain off for several hours and you will be left with 1 cup of thick yogurt.
 For each 1 cup of heavy cream in a recipe, you can use a substitute of butter and half-and-half. Melt 1/6 cup of butter and allow it to cool. Be sure it does not solidify during the cooling process. Put 7/8 cup of half-and-half into a bowl and stir in the cool melted butter until they are well blended.
 Substituting low-fat cream cheese will provide the same consistency while reducing the calories and fat in the recipe.


If the recipe calls for 1 cup of heavy cream, use only 1/2 cup of cream cheese.
The taste of the cream cheese is a little sour. Don’t use it in recipes that need the sweetness of heavy cream.

