 Your first step in creating a media use plan is to determine and outline your goals for the plan. Ultimately, without determining your goals, you and your kids will have a vague idea about where to start and how to put the plan into action.


Figure out their other obligations, like the amount of time they need to spend on homework for school, or time they need to spend practicing for extracurricular activities.
Goals and objectives will depend on age level, so plan accordingly. For instance, your goals for a toddler might be to protect them from inappropriate content, while your goals for a teenager might be to help them focus on their academic obligations.;
, You should also include alternate activities for your child in your media use plan. This way, you're not only imposing limitations, but offering options.


Sign your child up for afterschool sports or activities or Boy Scouts might be good options.
Have your child sign up for a book of the month club. This may encourage them to read.
Encourage your child to play in your neighborhood with friends. You might do this buy purchasing them a new bicycle., When formulating your plan, you need to spend a lot of time thinking about safety. This is important, as the internet offers a wide variety of potential dangers to children. Make sure that:


If they are cyberbullied, they let you know. At the same time, they should not engage in cyberbullying. This is especially important for children between the ages of 8 and 13, who may be spending a lot of time on the internet.
They should not engage in “sexting.” Make this clear to children ages 11 and up.
Tell them they’re not allowed to use Snapchat and similar applications when they are alone in their bedroom. You may ban the applications for children under the age of 16.
They should not divulge personal information, such as their full name, address, phone number, or their school to people they meet online. Say something like "There are a lot of dangerous people on the internet who try to pretend to be people they aren't.", The first thing you should do is initiate a conversation about creating a plan. This talk is intended to introduce the idea of the plan and provide them with basic information about it.


Explain the need for the plan in rational terms. Let them know that it is designed to protect them and help them manage their obligations.
Discuss what the plan will do. For example, explain that the plan will limit their usage of certain media formats., You also need to spend time calmly and rationally explaining your expectations for how they will behave when using media and communications technology. Let them know:


That they need to act responsibly and within the bounds you have set for them online.
If there is any type of media content you want them to avoid. For instance, you may not want your 12-year-old child to play graphic first-person shooter video games. Explain to them that you think this desensitizes them to violence.
Share any other concerns or expectations you may have for their behavior., Before drafting your plan, you need to consider and then take steps to incorporate your child’s thoughts about it. By using their input to design the plan, you’ll get them on board with it. This will make it easier to enforce the plan.


Think about your child’s concerns about the plan and weigh them. For instance, if your child has a deep desire to be able to watch a certain TV program, you should probably allow them unless it interferes with something substantial.
Implement as much of their feedback as possible, while still maintaining your objectives.
When you can’t incorporate something your child has strong feelings about, explain it to them. For instance, if they want to be able to play Xbox for two hours after school every day, say: “I know how much you want to play, but I think that is a bit excessive and it will likely hurt your studies. Let’s try an hour and see how that works.”, After you’ve talked to your child and determined the goals of the plan, you need to put the plan down on paper. By putting it down on paper, you’ll make sure everyone is clear about the details and parameters of the plan. Remember to be as specific as possible.


List the amount of media use time your child will have every day. If you’d rather a weekly number, provide that. For instance, you may want to say they have one hour a day or seven hours a week.
List the activities they are not allowed to engage in, or limitations on certain activities like Snapchat.
Specify which devices they can use, when they can use them, and where they can use them., After crafting the plan, you need to print it and post it. By making the plan readily visible, you’ll remind both you and your child of the specifics. You’ll probably notice that making the plan visible will encourage your child to follow it.


Print the plan and post it in a public place in your home.
Give a copy to your child.
Share the plan with any other adults in a position of authority, like a significant other, or grandparents., You should make your child an active part in both the plan’s design and discussions over how it is implemented or changed. By including your child, you’ll help give them ownership of the plan. Thus, they’ll likely respect it more and abide by it.


Ask your child to be part of creating the plan. Say “Would you please help me design the plan? I think it’ll work a lot better with your input.”
Consider your child’s concerns and hesitations about the plan., Your discussion of the plan should not end with designing the plan together. You need to make sure to continue discussion about the plan while using it. By holding periodic conversations about the plan, you’ll be able to adapt it based on changing circumstances.


Keep a dialogue ongoing about the plan during the first several weeks of its implementation. This way, you’ll have a good idea about how it is impacting the life of your child.
Talk to your child about the plan every couple of weeks. Keep your mind open to their input. In fact, consider asking “Do you think we need to change the plan at all?”

, Media use plans are not intended to be used in a static way forever. Make sure to change and adjust the plan based on changes in your child’s schedule, obligations, and maturity.


Reconsider the plan at the beginning of every school year.
Consider tweaking the plan after report cards. If your child is very successful, consider giving them more TV, gaming, or internet time. If your child is not successful academically, lower their media use time., You can also program your electronics to shut off, block use, or require a password. By doing this, you’ll take away the temptation of your kid accessing media that they shouldn’t be using under their media use plan.


Set your router to block your kids’ internet protocol addresses after a certain time. For instance, if your program states that they won’t have access to the internet after 8PM, have your wireless router disconnect them at that time.
Have your TV lock after a certain time. If your media use plan states that your kids aren’t allowed to use the TV after 8PM, have it lock itself with a password after that time.
Password protect tablets and cellphones. Unlock them for young children when they’re allowed to use them.
Block certain apps like Snapchat from your child’s phone., While you may be able to block your kids use of the internet or cable after a certain time, you may not be able to take this approach with general cell phone or computer use – they’ll still be able to watch downloaded movies, play video games, and more. To solve this problem, have your kids log their own use.


Keep a media use journal in the kitchen or in the living room. Have your child fill it out on a daily basis.
Try not to scrutinize the journal for minor overuses – let your child know that you just want to use it to monitor their habits.
 One of the easiest ways to enforce the plan is to employ the honor system. Under the honor system, you’ll trust your child to use or not use media depending on what their media use plan stats.


Central to using the honor system is communication. Make sure you explain your expectations and maintain communication about them.
Tell your child you trust them to monitor their own use. Say something like “I trust you to abide by our plan.”
This approach might be best for more mature children or ones who have shown themselves to be very responsible. You might be able to judge this based on your child’s responsibility when it comes to doing their chores on time or succeeding at school.

