 The same hormones that control your menstrual cycle also cause your cervix to produce mucus, which collects on your cervix and in your vagina. The mucus will change in quality and quantity before and during ovulation.When you have your period, your flow will usually cover any signs of mucus. As the egg starts to ripen, more mucus will be produced. It will appear yellow, white and/or cloudy and feel sticky or tacky. You will usually have more mucus just before you start to ovulate and it will appear clear and feel slippery, like raw egg white.
At the peak of your fertility, during your fertility window, the mucus will be very stretchable and slippery. After four slippery days, your body will suddenly produce less mucus and it will appear cloudy and tacky again for several days. You may also notice “dry days” where you do not produce any mucus before your period starts again. These days are considered the days where you are infertile.
 You will need to record the color and texture of your mucus every day for one to three cycles on a chart or calendar. Check your mucus by wiping the opening of your vagina with a tissue before you urinate. You can also look at the mucus discharge on your underpants, or put clean fingers into your vagina to check the mucus.Note the color and texture of the mucus. You should describe the mucus as yellow, white, cloudy, creamy, or clear. You should also note if the mucus has a dry, tacky, wet, or slippery texture and a thick, sticky, or stretchy consistency.To do the mucus method, it is important that you are comfortable with touching your cervical mucus. You will need to analyze and record your mucus every day in order for this method to work effectively as a fertility charting tool.
This method may not be ideal for women who do not produce a lot of mucus. Your mucus pattern can be altered if you are breastfeeding, if you have had cervical surgery, if you have a sexually transmitted infection, if you use douches or other feminine hygiene products, or if you have recently used hormonal contraceptives, such as emergency contraception or Plan B.
 Once you have charted your mucus over one to three cycles, you should start to notice a pattern. Your mucus will usually be the most dry at the start of your cycle, when your fertility is very low. When the mucus starts to appear and feels moist or damp, you have moved into the ovulation stage. You will then experience a clear, slippery mucus when you are highly fertile, or in your fertility window. Finally, you will experience yellow and brown mucus and several dry days with no mucus as your fertility window ends.Identify the two to three days before you experience the first signs of slippery mucus. These are your most fertile days and are the best days to conceive.
Once the slippery mucus drops off and appears cloudy and tacky again, you are no longer in your fertility window. You can have sexual intercourse and have a lower chance of getting pregnant. The dry days that follow the end of the slippery mucus period are also considered safe days for sexual intercourse if you do not want to get pregnant.
 This method works best for a woman who has been using the mucus method consistently from one to three cycles and is good at reading her mucus pattern. To do this method, you will need to ask yourself two question: Do I have cervical mucus today? Did I have cervical mucus yesterday?If you can answer “no” to both questions confidently, it may be safe for you to have unprotected intercourse on that day. Keep in mind women who use this method may have only 12 safe days during every cycle.
The two-day mucus method is not foolproof and should not be your only method of fertility charting. According to Planned Parenthood, of 100 couples who use the two-day method correctly for one year, four will have a pregnancy. As well, of 100 couples who use the cervical mucus method correctly for one year, three will have a pregnancy.