 This simple car can be built using LEGO pieces that almost everyone has. You will need several different types of pieces for this car, and you can vary the pieces used based on what you have. Measurements for LEGO pieces are given in "stud" count (the "dots" on many LEGO pieces). A brick that is 2 studs wide by 4 studs long is a 2x4.


For the chassis you will need 4 tires of the same size, 2 rectangular axles of the same size, and a thin 4x12 plate (the long, thin LEGO pieces).
For the body, you will need 2 2x2 bricks, 6 2x4 bricks, 4 1x2 bricks, 1 1x4 brick, 2 2x2 clear angular bricks, 1 LEGO windshield, and 1 LEGO steering wheel piece.
 The axle pieces are small square or rectangular pieces that have prongs on either side. Snap one tire to each prong. When finished, you should have two sets of wheels connected by the axles.


Make sure the axle pieces and tires fit together snugly. The tires should be secure, but still able to spin freely.
Make sure your tires and base piece are proportionate. Tiny tires will not adequately support a larger LEGO car, and will impede speed and movement.
 You’ll need 2 2x2 square bricks and two 2x2 clear angular bricks. Alternately, you could use one 2x4 brick and two 2x2 clear angular bricks.


Snap the clear bricks to the top of the square bricks.
Attach the pieces you just completed to the front end of your car.
Make sure the end of the plate is flush with the edge of the pieces you attached.
 This piece will sit directly behind the hood you just built. You will need 2 2x4 bricks and a 2x4 LEGO windshield piece.


Stack two 2x4 bricks together. Snap on the windshield piece. Attach this section to the plate just behind the piece you attached in Step 6.
 You will need 1 2x4 rectangular brick, 2 1x2 rectangular bricks, and a 1x2 LEGO steering wheel piece.


Snap the 1x2 bricks to either end of the 2x4 brick. It should look a little like a short “u” when you’re finished.
Position the steering wheel in the space between the 1x2 bricks. The piece should be on the back row of studs with the wheel facing you. Press into place.
Attach this section to the base just behind the windshield section.
Build the body of the car. You will need 1 2x4 brick and 2 1x2 bricks. Snap these together to form a “u” just like you did in Step 8. Attach this section to the plate just behind the cab.



Stack the two 2x4 bricks. Snap the 1x4 brick to the back of this stack.
Press the plate onto the 1x4 brick so that it hangs off the back of the structure a little. It should look like the little “wing” on the back of a sports car.
Attach this section to the base just behind the body section.
 One should go under the front of the base and one under the rear.


The front edge of the front wheels should line up approximately with the front end of the base piece. The back edge of the rear tires should line up approximately with the rear end of the base piece.
If the tires are obstructed, change the width of the base piece, or find two longer, matching axle pieces.
 Bend the figurine at its waist so it’s sitting and place it in the space behind the steering wheel.
 If it moves too slowly, the car may be too big for the base piece and the tires. You can experiment with different designs to get the look and power you want.

