 Think of your feet as the roots that keep your body in place. If you have a solid, well-balanced stance, you will be much harder to knock over. First, extend your non-dominant foot towards your opponent. Rotate your leg slightly towards your body so that your toes and knee point just to the side of your opponent. Extend your dominant foot behind you, about a shoulders-width apart from your dominant foot. Rotate your dominant leg so that your toes and knee are pointing away from your opponent. Your dominant leg shouldn’t be at a right angle to your dominant foot. Turn your leg in towards your body slightly if you find yourself doing this.
Stay on the balls of your feet. If you stand flatfooted you might be slower than your opponent.;
, Your feet are pointing to the side of your opponent; therefore, you will have to twist your shoulders slightly to face them. Keeping your body positioned at this angle gives your opponents a much smaller target to hit. Make sure to keep your stomach muscles tight and your back straight. Otherwise, you may be overbalanced easily. Once you’re in position, bend your knees slightly and rock your weight back and forth to test your balance.


Keeping your stomach muscles clenched improves your balance but it also protects your stomach if you get hit. Getting hit in a relaxed stomach is painful!, The placement of your arms is extremely important. They are your first line of defense and protect your face and body from attacks. Curl your hands into loose fists and raise them in front of your face.Your dominant arm should be close to your body while your non-dominant arm should be slightly in front of your body. Extend your non-dominant arm forward but not so far forward that you exhaust your shoulder.


Keep your elbows close to your body, but not so close that they touch your sides. In fact, if you flare out your elbows just an inch or two this will discourage your opponent from kicking.
 Keep your chin down and your mouth closed. By keeping your chin down you make the delicate bones around your eyes and nose a harder target to hit. Similarly, a hard punch to an open mouth can lead to severe jaw and teeth injuries. Therefore, keep your mouth closed even if your opponent is yelling insults at you. Make sure your fists are hovering near your face to protect yourself from attacks.Staying quiet in the face of insults has an added benefit. Confident people don’t feel the need to jeer at their opponents so staying quiet will make you appear more confident. This may spook your opponent and end the fight.

