 A good outline is a tool for success. Without one, it is easy to get off track and you can lose control of the conversation. Know exactly what you're going to say and how you're going to say it.
 This needs to be related to the coaching you're going to give, and needs to be reasonably close in time. If, for example, all the white clothes came out of the washer pink because a red shirt was thrown in, well... "I really appreciate your helping with the laundry!" might be a way to start the conversation.
 Pause just a second to let that feeling solidify, then lead directly into the coaching. Avoid using the word "but" as in "but next time" since that can create the defensive atmosphere that you're trying to avoid. Be direct and firm, but never angry and never demeaning. Communication is a science and if you want positive results, you have to be very... scientific. "I'm going to work with you on how to sort clothes so we don't end up with pink socks again."

, Do not leave that in place; it has to be removed quickly, but correctly. Project a positive outcome of future efforts. The natural conclusion is that there was a good base to start (the initial praise), there are ways to improve that base (coaching), and combining those will produce even better results. "It's great to have another set of helping hands and everybody will have more time for those after-dinner Wii battles!"

, The objective is to anchor the positive nature of the change in the mind of the individual. If you just let things drop, your coaching might be forgotten. Without consistent reinforcement, a process called "extinction" sets in: The desired behavioral change will not materialize.
 I'm impressed you patrolled 400 edits today and rolled back a lot of vandalism.;
, The NFD-Dangerous reason is really reserved for things that are both irrational and dangerous. We generally use it to delete things that are borderline joke articles / truly crazy ideas like "How to Drive Blindfolded in Heavy Traffic" We don't want to delete all topics that are merely dangerous, but still rational. Otherwise we wouldn't have articles on topics like rock climbing, SCUBA diving, skydiving, etc.
 You did a great job and have really improved the quality of the information on wikiHow. I sure hope you keep up the good editing here.

