 You can be selective about whom you invite to play with your child.If you find that your child always gets in fights with a certain child, spend less time with that child.


Many children with ADHD are developmentally delayed by a year or two. It may help to invite a younger child over for a play date so that the children are matched in development.;
, Many children with ADHD get over-excited or anxious in situations with lots of kids. The amount of noise and chaos can be overwhelming, and can contribute to inappropriate behavior. Choose one child to play with. This allows your child to focus on that friend without getting distracted by too much activity.
 The length of the play date should be relatively brief, depending on age. After a stronger relationship between your child and the other child has developed, you can think about lengthening the play date.Start with one to two hours. Take note of when your child starts to get overwhelmed or frustrated. This is a good time to give your child a heads-up that you'll be leaving the playdate.
Be flexible, however. If you see that your child is doing well and is not overwhelmed during the play date, allow him more time to enjoy himself.
 The location is just as important for your child as the playmate. If your child gets overexcited around lots of kids, skip meeting at the playground. Instead, have a play date at your house.
 Have a game plan ahead of time so you know the types of activities you’ll be doing. Get out the Legos, set up an obstacle course in the yard, or set up an art table with paints.


Let your child choose a couple of his favorite activities so he feels like he has some control over the play date.
If you need to divert attention away from one particular activity, you’ll want to have a backup activity. You may also need to change things up more frequently, depending on the ages of the children at the play date.
 Kids will inevitably need snacks at a play date. Make sure you serve something healthy, but it should also be something that kids enjoy.


Choose snacks that give your child good energy. Skip foods with refined sugars and artificial dyes and colors, as these tend to provide little nutrition. Serve fresh fruits and vegetables to offer plenty of nutrients and vitamins instead.
Although it is a common belief that sugar negatively impacts children with ADHD, several rigorous studies have not demonstrated a link between sugar and adverse effects on the behavior of children with ADHD. Sugar is full of empty calories, however, so it's best avoided.
 Let the children interact with each other. After all, you’re having a playdate to help your child develop social skills and build friendships. Turn off computers, tablets, phones and videogames. Send the kids out to the yard, or help them set up board games or other activities.