 Once you have broken the news to your boyfriend, the next step is to figure out together how to handle the situation. It will be useful to each of you to take some time to think about your feelings.After the initial conversation, consider having a time-out. You don't need to plan the rest of your lives immediately.
Try saying, "This is a lot for both of us to handle. Maybe we could talk again tomorrow about what we want to do."
Relax for a while. Watch a funny movie or take a nap. You're going through a very emotional time, and it is ok to take a break.
 Maybe you've been anticipating this pregnancy for a long time. In that case, you probably have a lot of things planned already. But if this is a surprise for your and your boyfriend, you will want to consider gathering some more information.Have a conversation with your boyfriend about what questions you both have. Be honest and open about any concerns or expectations you have.
Maybe you have no idea what pregnancy really entails. Visit some reputable websites and gather some books from your local library.
Find out what health care options are available in your area. Look into different clinics and medical providers.
Ask friends or family if they can offer any recommendations.
 You will want to discuss your options with your boyfriend. When you first learn that you are pregnant, you will have to decide how you wish to proceed. One of your options is parenting.Think about what parenting will mean for you and your boyfriend. Do you have the emotional and financial resources to raise a child? Is this something that you want to do?
Adoption is another option. If you are not ready to become parents, you can give the baby up for adoption at the end of your pregnancy.
Your third option is abortion. Termination is a choice that many women make.
Although it is ultimately your decision, you might find it useful to discuss all of your choices with your boyfriend. Places such as Planned Parenthood offer a lot of resources to help you make an informed choice.
 When you tell your boyfriend about your pregnancy, you can take the opportunity to discuss the state of your relationship. Have an open and honest conversation about your goals and plans. Try to figure out how you fit in one another's lives.This is a great time to decide if you are ready to make a long-term commitment. If you decide to have the baby, you should talk about how involved each of you will be in raising the child.
Maybe you have realized that this relationship is not what you want. Let your boyfriend know that you would still like to have his emotional support.
Take some time to think about logistics. Who will pay for medical procedures? Will your boyfriend go with you to doctor's appointments? These are all important things to consider.
 It is a good idea to visit a doctor. First, she can officially confirm your pregnancy. She can also give you objective information about each of your options.Ask your boyfriend to go with you to the appointment. If you want him to be involved in the decision making process, allow him to participate in the conversation.
Prepare for your appointment. Make a list of questions to take with you.
Your questions can include things such as "Do I need to take prenatal vitamins?" and "How long do I have before I need to make a final decision?"
Talk to your boyfriend after the appointment. Take some time to discuss how you each feel about the information you learned.

