 A great story is like a delicious pot of stew. Poor conversationalists tend to tell the story in its raw form – simply retelling events in an objective way. This is comparable to just throwing some meat in some water and calling it stew.


Let’s look at an example: “Last week I was riding the bus and this large man came in and sat next to me. It made me uncomfortable.” But if you cook the story a bit, if you add some extra ingredients, you’ll achieve much better results. Cooked stories include your feelings, reactions, inner thoughts, colorful descriptions, other people’s reactions, comparisons/analogies, etc.
Let’s take the previous example and really add a bunch of ingredients to it: “Last week I was riding a bus to work, and out of the corner of my eye I saw this massive shape moving towards me…I honestly think the sun was blocked for a second. Anyway, I look over and I see him walking towards me…well it was more like he was scooting…yeah, scooting towards me. And I’m thinking to myself…oh please oh please…I’m claustrophobic, please don’t sit next to me…I might freak out…Now I’m a very accepting person and open to all people of all shapes and colors…ya know..he’s probably 300Ibs +… on a good day, but that’s cool…except for when it comes to my seat on a bus…sorry but I need room. I don’t care. You probably think I’m a jerk…call me a bus jerk if you want. And he leans over and asks if he can sit with me…of course I have to say “Yes.” What was I supposed to do? This man could literally squish me if I angered him. I didn’t want to risk my life…so I said, “Of course!” Well, needless to say, the rest of the ride was not the most comfortable in the world. I became very intimate with the bus window as I was squished against it. …I think it’s time I buy a car…”;
, Great stories are not drawn out, long affairs. Great stories are told in small, quick chunks of information. This helps the audience process the story and also keeps them interested. Take breaths in between chunks and put in some energy to each chunk.


Instead of saying in one long breath, “So I was standing at the bar giving her the eye and um.. she’s looking back at me and I pretty much start to walk over there right through the crowd and I’m doing my pimp walk and staring her down the whole time, and out of nowhere comes this…” Here’s another example, but this time there are intentional pauses and each bit of information is chunked. This allows the story teller to really put some energy and animation into the story, the story teller can act it out as he goes, “And I’m standing there…and I’m giving her the eye, and she’s looking back at me…so I start to walk through the crowd…I’m doing my pimp walk…and I’m staring her down the whole time…out of nowhere comes this…”

, Too much detail can bore, and the same goes for too little detail. Let’s go through a spectrum shall we?


Bad = “We went to a city.”
Okay = “We went to Detroit.”
Better = “We drove our little Honda to Detroit.”
Good = “We drove our little Honda through the war-torn city I call Detroit.”
Good, almost too much detail = “We drove our little 1997 Honda through the smog invested, war-torn city I like to call Detroit and it barely survived the 11 potholes we hit.”
Probably too much detail = “We drove our little 1997 Honda Civic through the smog invested, war-torn city I like to call Detroit and it barely survived the 11 potholes, 5 cracks, and two homeless people that we almost hit”

, Did you like something? Were you surprised by something? Tell the audience – quickly.


For some examples: “She gave me some money, now that’s cool, I always like a little extra money in the pocket…you never know what you may have to buy at a moment’s notice right?” or “she gave me money, now I didn’t like that…I couldn’t believe she did that… people give me pity money because they feel sorry for me, would you like it?”

, Hearing you describe what someone said is never as good as actually imitating the person and saying real dialogue. The same goes for yourself. Don’t just say, “It was cool…,” tell us what you were thinking or saying at the time, “it was cool, I was like, “I’ll do this any day!” Don’t hesitate to say what could have been said - conversation doesn’t actually have to have happened. You could say what you wanted to say at the time, or exaggerate what one of the characters said at time.


For example, I could tell a story about how a friend brought a knife on a trip, and I could have retold the story as it literally happened, “I sat there for a minute in the freezing cold and then said, ‘why would you bring that!?” But to take this up a notch, I could exaggerate the events and say what I wanted to say (or was thinking, but didn’t say), “I sat there for a minute in the freezing cold and then said, ‘why would you bring that!?” Are we going to war soon and no one told me? Should I have brought my machine gun and some extra water?’ … I was just like, ‘this guy must be crazy!’” *Adding your inner thoughts, in the form of story dialogue, opens up your stories to all kinds of exciting possibilities.
 A great story is about something that isn’t normal and doesn’t happen all the time. It’s where things were normal until something happened that made them not so normal anymore. This is why you can establish the norm first and then contrast that with how it didn’t go as expected. This is a very effective and highly recommended way to tell parts or all of your story.


Look at some common formulas for setting up the norm: “I mean normally I would have just walked to school that day, but…” “You know how when you go to the bar, you typically order a drink, well she didn’t do that…” “And I walked in, expecting to see her sitting there right? But…”

, Once you establish the norm of the story, there should always be some turning point. There are many ways to phrase the turning point. You can always mention something “the moment in time” it happened or took a turn. For instance, “It was that moment where I felt…” or “…and this is where everything breaks down…” or “that’s the moment where I was like ______!”


The turning point is often the height of the action and the climax of the story you’re telling, it is where everything changes as a result of the thing that just occurred. Before the Turning Point: “I’m sitting there all snug and cozy in my bus seat…” During the Turning Point: “when all of a sudden I feel this oh-so-slight bump on my shoulder, I look over and I see my buddy Frank resting his big ol’ head on me…” After the Turning Point: “I was like, ‘oh brother not again…”

, You can recover many bad stories by adding good post commentary. The post commentary allows you to reflect back on what happened and make witty comments about it. It also helps you wrap up the story and possibly segue to something else. Talk about what you think about the event currently, and/or what has happened since the story events took place, and any other way you want to wrap up the story. “I don’t know how we ever survived…but we did!” “I don’t know how they ever got a job…but he made it somehow…” “I almost died from embarrassment…I wanted to jump out the window after that!” “I should have kicked his ass…I still could!” “…had I opened the door it never would have happened in the first place! Ya just never know what’s going to happen to you over there…” “I was absolutely devastated when it happened, but now it’s funny to laugh about.”

