 This basically means two things:


Always store your contacts in contact lens solution, unless you're wearing daily disposable lenses. Contact lens solution helps to clean, rinse, and disinfect your lenses.
Dispose of your contact lenses by the recommended date. Most lenses fall into one of three categories: dispose daily, dispose semi-weekly, or dispose monthly. Check your contact lenses for the recommended disposal date and don't wear them longer than that.;
, Rinse thoroughly to get rid of soap residue. Dry your hands with a towel (since paper towels or toilet paper may leave pieces behind) or, if possible, an air dryer.
 Unless the prescription is the same for both, remember to check whether it’s for your right or left eye. Always start with the same eye to avoid mixing up your two contacts. Remember to always handle your contacts gently so you don't rip or damage them.
 Make sure that the contact is sitting hollow-side up on your fingertip with none of the side walls sticking to your finger. Hold your finger at eye-level. If the contact looks like a bowl or a sphere cut in half, it is correct. If the edges are flaring out, then it is inside out.


Make sure to handle the lens on the skin of your finger, not the nail of your fingertip. It might be easier if you put a little bit of solution on your finger where you intend to hold the contact lens.
If it’s a soft contact lens, make sure that it isn’t inside-out. It sounds obvious, but sometimes it's difficult to tell.
While it’s still on your finger, inspect the lens for rips, tears, or debris. If dust or debris is visible, rinse with lens solution.
 Use the index finger of your opposite hand to pull your upper eyelid upward; use the middle finger of your dominant hand (i.e. the one with the contact on it) to pull your lower eyelid downward. As you become more experienced, you’ll be able to do this just by pulling down your lower eyelid.
 Try not to blink or move jerkily. It may help to look upwards. It's also advised to not focus the eye that you're putting the contact into; this will make it easier to place the lens.
 Make sure it is centered over your iris (i.e. the circular, colored part of the eye), gently sliding it over your eyeball if necessary.









If this method is difficult you can also close your eye and look around (up, down, left, and right) to center the lens.
 Take note of any pain or discomfort you may have. If you think that something may be wrong with your contact, remove and fully cleanse it, then try again.
 When finished, pour contact solution from the case into the sink and close the contact case.

