 Slope style skiing refers to a run with multiple jumps, boxes, and rails set up, on which skiers can perform aerial tricks and grinds. Becoming comfortable with the positioning, balance, maneuvers, and landing of basic slopestyle tricks will give you a strong freestyle skiing foundation on which to build.;
, Slopestyle runs will commonly have boxes and rails for skiers to perform grind tricks. Begin practicing this style of trick on a box rather than a rail because boxes offer a wider ledge, making it easier to balance. Additionally, find a low box that requires a less difficult jump to reach.


Approach the box straight on and in line with the length of it.Approaching in a straight line uses your established momentum to carry you down the length of the box, which is much easier for beginners.
Pop up just before reaching the box and turn ninety degrees to land. You should land with your feet centered on the box to maximize balance. Keep your shoulders square with your feet as well, meaning turn only your head to track your movement.Keep your feet a shoulder-width apart and firmly planted with even weight distribution as you grind down the box. By keeping your feet apart, you spread out your center of gravity on the box. By evenly distributing your weight, you stop your skis from catching and causing you to fall.Straighten out as you come off the box. Since your skis will still be perpendicular to your movement, you must straighten out as you dismount the box. By lifting the front of your forward most ski, you can use your boot on the lip of the box to help push off., One of the most common tricks off a slopestyle jump is a 360, where you turn your body in one full rotation before landing. This basic trick has numerous variations once you get the hang of it.


Start practicing by jumping a 360 on the ground and sliding a 360 in the snow. Sliding a 360 in the snow means adding spin to your forward movement without your skis leaving the ground. Both exercises are easier than a jumping 360 and help you train yourself in the amount of rotation a perfect 360 will require. The main skills to practice include twisting with your shoulders and arms, as well as leading the direction of your spin with your head.Ridges in the snow make great spots to practice 360s before trying larger jumps. A ridge offers very little drop off, making a potential fall less dangerous.
When trying an actual 360, approach the ridge or jump with your feet shoulder-width apart, crouch down with your weight over your toes, and twist with your head, shoulders, and arms as you pop off the lip. Keep your head up and look over your shoulder until your can see in the direction of your forward movement down the hill. Your feet will naturally straighten out in the direction of your head to help you land facing forward