 Collect your ingredients accordingly.


If you’re using a box brownie, you’ll probably also need a couple eggs, some vegetable oil, and some water (generally). You may use the back of the box for this step! If you’re making brownies from scratch, there are a range of recipes available. The subsequent steps explain one of the options!;
,,,,,, Remember that flour is light, so you should not stir in all of the flour at once. Start with 1/2 cup, then 1/2 cup, then 1/4 cup to make sure you don’t lose any flour.
 If you would like to use baking powder instead of baking soda, use about ½ teaspoons of baking powder.
,,,,, While the brownie is still warm, use the bottom of a wooden spoon to poke small holes into the brownie.


You may make as many or as few holes as you want. Ideally, do about 35 holes, 5 down and 7 across.
 Put your 30 pieces caramel, ¼ cup of milk, and 1/8 stick of butter or margarine into a pan on put it over low heat until smooth.
 You may also heat the caramel up in the microwave, putting it in for 1-minute intervals until smooth, stirring between intervals.
 As soon as the caramel is smooth, pour it over the brownie while the brownie is still in the pan. You should use a spatula to spread it evenly over the entire brownie.
 It should be left in the fridge for at least an hour to cool off.
 While your brownie is cooling off, put your candy on a cutting board and cut it up into small pieces.


This step may also be done later, if you would prefer.
 Once the caramel brownie has cooled off, and the caramel is partially hardened over the brownie, take the brownie out of the fridge.


Cover the entire brownie with the whipped cream, making it as thick or thin as you would prefer.
 If you have not chopped up your candy, you should now do it. Make sure the pieces are relatively small. When they are at the size of your preference, sprinkle them over the top of your cream pie to finish it off.


You may want to put your brownie back in the fridge if you do not serve it right away. The whipped cream melts rather quickly, so it’s best if served cold!

,