 Models have beautiful, glowing skin. To keep your skin looking its best, it's important to take care of your skin. Make sure that your daily skin routine includes washing and moisturizing in the morning and at night.


Use a gentle facial cleanser in the morning and at night.
Don’t overdo it with special treatments, such as masks and exfoliating treatments, because they may irritate your skin.Always wash off your makeup at night. Never sleep in your makeup because that can lead to clogged pores and pimples.See a dermatologist if you have severe acne, oily skin or other skin issues.
 To make sure that your face and body are always photo ready, devote some time every day to shaving, plucking, waxing and trimming any unsightly or stray hairs.


Women should keep their legs and underarms hair-free, keep eyebrows well-groomed and remove any other excess facial or body hair.
Men should keep facial hair shaved or neatly trimmed. Removing body hair is optional for men and will largely depend on personal preference and what a client wants of the male model., This advice goes for male models as well.Don't bite your nails and keep them in excellent condition. You don’t have to wear nail polish, just make sure that your nails always look neat and clean.


Get regular manicures if you can afford them or give yourself a manicure once every week or two.
Keep a nail file and some good hand lotion in your purse for easy touch-ups on the go.
 Use a moisturizer on your face that is suited to your skin type. You should also get into the habit of putting moisturizer on your body daily, especially your legs and arms. Keeping your skin moisturized will give it a healthy glow.Use a moisturizer with at least SPF 30 protection if you will be spending time outside.Use a facial moisturizer that suits your skin type.
Always take time to moisturize your face before applying makeup. Massage the lotion into your skin until it is fully absorbed.
 Choose makeup that suits your eye color and highlights your best features, but don't wear too much makeup. Make it your goal to show off your natural beauty, not cover it up. Keep in mind that if you are wearing too much makeup to an audition, it may be difficult for your potential employers to imagine what you will look like wearing a different makeup look. Aim to look like you are wearing little to no makeup to seem more versatile.


Choose a tinted moisturizer or lightweight foundation.
Wear a light coat of black or brown mascara.
Wear tinted lip balm or lip gloss.
Go easy on the eyeliner or skip it entirely. If you want to wear eyeliner, go for brown or black. Apply a thin line to your upper and lower lids and blend well.
Go for sheer or shimmery eye shadow. Silver works well if you are fair skinned and champagne works well if your skin is dark. Apply a light layer to your eyelids.Go easy on the bronzer. Apply a light layer of bronzer if you want to add a bit more color to your skin.
Go easy on the blush. Cream blush is good option to give your cheeks a little rosy glow.
 If you are planning to attend a special event, you might want to amp up the drama a bit. It's also fine to wear more dramatic makeup at night. Just remember to wear makeup that brings out your best features without making you look too made up.Try out makeup looks from fashion magazines.
Go for a bold lip look or a bold eye look, but don't do both at the same time.
 Get your hair trimmed regularly to keep split ends at bay and keep your hair looking great. Use shampoo, conditioner and styling products that suit your hair type.Ask your hairdresser if you don't know which products will work best with your hair.


Look through magazines and talk with your hair stylist about what would look good with your facial structure.
Always keep your hair clean and styled, and make sure you go back to the salon every two to three months as your hair grows.
If you get your hair colored, make sure the shade of your hair is vibrant. If your color is dull, consider getting a touch-up. If you don't want to color your hair, use a shine serum to add a healthy shine.

