 Like adult dogs, puppies need daily walks, but they should not be walked for long periods. Every day, walk the puppy for about five minutes for every month of age. For example, a three month old puppy will go out for fifteen minutes while a four month old puppy will go out for twenty.Use a puppy harness and leash to walk the puppy to prevent injuries. You may have better luck if you let the puppy get used to the harness first. Place the harness on the puppy twenty minutes before the walk, and let them wander around their home with it on.;
, Playing will help wear out your puppy so that they do not engage in destructive behaviors like chewing when they are bored. There are many games you can play with your puppy to keep them active and out of trouble.


Take a chewing rope, and hold onto one end. If the dog starts pulling the other end, you can play tug-of-war with them.
Throw a ball, and call for the puppy to get it. Your puppy may bring it back to you so that you can throw it again.
You can take a favorite toy of theirs and run with it, encouraging them to chase after you., It is natural for puppies to chew, and a good chew toy will reduce their urge to mouth your furniture or clothing. It will also teach the puppy how to play alone, which can help reduce separation anxiety. These toys should be made out of durable nylon, plastic, or rubber.Some good chew toys include:


KONG toys
Rubber bones
Chewing ropes
Teething sticks
Puzzle toys

, Obedience class will help teach your puppy to respond to commands. You can use these commands to call the puppy back when they are causing mischief. Obedience class also helps socialize the puppy, and your puppy may even find going to class fun and exciting.Local pet stores often run training sessions. You can also ask your vet if they know of a good dog trainer.
 To reduce separation anxiety and aggression, it is important that the puppy is introduced to as many new situations and people as possible. These activities will teach your puppy how to act in public while giving them a fun outing at the same time.If you’re driving around town, you may decide to bring your puppy along for the ride. Just make sure that you do not leave them alone in a locked car.
Many pet stores will let you bring your puppy in with you. You can even let your puppy choose a new toy for themselves.
Dog parks are a fun way to introduce your puppy to older dogs, but you should be careful. Supervise your puppy to make sure that they are not being bullied by older dogs. You may want to go during a quieter time of day when there are fewer dogs there.
 Puppies cannot hold their bladders as long as older dogs. You will need to keep a regular schedule to take the puppy outside to eliminate. You might take the puppy on a short walk, or you can just let them run out to relieve themselves. Write your puppy breaks into your schedule so that you remember to take them out., If your puppy has separation anxiety, leaving a TV or radio on can make them think that someone is nearby. The noise will soothe them and keep them company. Classical music, jazz, talk shows, and news programs are all great to leave on for your puppy.