 Once you have read through it, start to look at each levels cause on its own and how it connects with the next.


1. First cause: Ignorance. Ignorance of the four noble truths centrally - This drives the whole thing, plus ignorance of greed, hatred etc as a stressful process, ignorance of change, emptiness & stress and lack of awareness or mindfulness so you are ignorant of what you are doing and feeling now.
2. From ignorance come formations / fabrications. These are Mental fabrications - thoughts, intentions, ideas etc, Verbal fabrication - logically this one is speech and Physical fabrications - actions etc.
3. Dependent on these formations, comes consciousness. This one sounds tricky and it is, central to this is that consciousness is not singular (as in a single entity) but many processes occurring simultaneously. Mindfulness of mental states is very useful to practice to examine this topic.
4. Dependent on consciousness comes mind & matter, also known as mentality & materiality. Mentality is pretty straightforward, but materiality refers not just to the body, but all solids, liquids, temperature & movement/cohesion (etc). Physical things generally. So what does this mean? It actually follows right on from the last one - if there was no awareness of mind and matter etc, would we be aware of anything at all?
5. Dependent of mind and matter comes the sixfold base which is basically the six senses: nose, tongue, ears, eyes, body/touch and intellect.
6. Dependent on the senses comes contact. This one fortunately is straightforward, with the senses and the existence of mind and matter you get contact between three things - ears (1) with sounds (2) and the mental process that perceives and interprets sounds (3), then tongue with tastes etc.
7. Dependent on contact comes feeling. After there is contact you get feelings - these are pleasant, unpleasant or neutral. Think about this: If part of these three is disabled, i.e., the sense of touch anesthetized so you feel nothing, then there is no feeling even if there is contact. Its still dependent on the senses and the mind working.
8. Dependent on feeling, comes craving: with pleasant feelings, we typically crave more of them & that they stay. For unpleasant ones, we crave for less of them or that they go away and for Neutral - we crave they were more pleasant.
9. Dependent on craving comes clinging or attachment. This is often broken down into 4 things: Clinging to pleasant things & feelings, clinging to beliefs or ideas, clinging to techniques, rituals, practices, culture etc & clinging to the idea of me, mine, self, soul etc.
10. Dependent on clinging comes becoming. This is often the trickiest part - becoming of what essentially? It refers to the becoming or the start of a chain of cause and effect.
11. From becoming comes birth. Here it is often easiest to look at the cause and effect part. In Buddhist theory, the whole thing drives in re-birth, because the cause and effect chain doesn't die when you do - the world goes on essentially, but at the same time, so does the balance of kamma / karma. The flow of causes make an effect of being reborn according to the nature of the cause and effects (good, bad or neutral).;
,



Understand cause and effect. This is very important here, because this is how you can see the connection between these two and how it can cause stress.
An example of what to think about: If there was no consciousness or cause to have consciousness, would we be anything but a lump of flesh & bone? There would be no process activity that makes the heart beat etc, so the mind and body is conditional on many things and does not exist independently.
Likewise you can't have feelings about a place you have never been to unless you have seen, heard etc about it or been there, so feelings are conditional too.
If you have no bodily or mental processes, you wouldn't be alive or able to stay alive by eating, breathing etc. If you aren't alive, how can you have senses? If you didn't have a nose to sense with, how could you smell? All these things exist dependent on conditions.
Consider that our parents are a result of cause and effect, likewise their meeting, having children, etc. This is not fate because fate is predetermined, this is anything but that as there is change. If there was no cause for our parents or grandparents to meet etc, or decide not to (or by another cause were unable to) have children we wouldn't be here as an effect.
There isn't total randomness happening here, but neither is there predetermination if we can make choices and are subject to cause and effect.
Consider that from being born, naturally comes aging & death and the things that are dependent on life. Use this to evaluate if all these processes etc is actually a good thing. Is repeated cause and effect stressful or liberating?

, These are central to the whole chain - it makes the whole thing click together as the craving being the cause of stress and features right at the beginning of the chain - ignorance of craving and what it does. It is by not understanding the craving and desires that cause stress, or being aware of them that people blunder on craving more things and creating more and more chains.


Break the whole chain. By not craving or clinging to mind and matter, the cycle process stops here in terms of birth and rebirth.

