 Listen to what they experience, what they want, and what they love. What do they say about how you can be helpful?;
, People with DS can become speakers, artists, models, and much more.Sharing their stories can inspire people with Down Syndrome to have hope and strive to be the best they can be.
 This can be a great conversation starter, and you can educate people.


March 21st is World Down Syndrome Day.The date was chosen because it is 3/21, and people with DS have 3 pairs of the 21st chromosome.
October is Down Syndrome Awareness Month., The Down Syndrome awareness ribbon is blue and yellow, and you can buy a Down Syndrome shirt or make your own outfit. Colorful socks (three pairs) are used to symbolize the three pairs of chromosomes., Disabled people need resources, acceptance, inclusion, and self-determination. Find bills that are promoted by the disability community (not just parents—actual disabled people too). Try organizing a letter-writing campaign or educating people on the internet.


You can work in conjunction with other groups of disabled people, such as Deaf and Autistic self-advocates.
 Many people with Down Syndrome have heart issues, stomach problems, eyesight issues, and other health problems. They are more likely to face Alzheimer's and dementia as they age. You can help by advocating for funding for these medical issues, and donating to organizations that help people get the surgeries and treatments they need.
 Education should be fun and individualized, with as much mainstreaming as is reasonable for the child. Teens will need help transitioning to the workforce, and may need programs in high school or vocational programs.


Campaign against violent restraint and seclusion practices in special education. This is still legal in some areas., People with DS can be wonderful people and capable workers. Write to local businesses in support of inclusive hiring practices, encourage your peers to befriend any lonely people with Down Syndrome, and talk about how to make the world a more loving and accepting place.


Encourage local businesses to use inclusive hiring practices.
Help make sure that classmates or colleagues with Down Syndrome have people to hang out with.
Fight bullying.
Use inclusive language—"genetic differences" instead of "genetic defects," "intellectually disabled" instead of the r-word, and other language that helps people with Down Syndrome feel like they aren't broken.
 Yes, smarts matter, but are they everything? Why are bad things called stupid, bad ideas called idiotic, and bad people called morons? How might this feel to someone whose IQ will never be close to average, no matter how hard they work?


Pay attention to how you reference intelligence when you speak. How would this feel to someone with Down Syndrome or another intellectual disability?

, Some people with Down Syndrome speak up about their needs, and how the community can be helpful. It's important that people listen to these advocates. Try sharing their articles, or reminding disability organizations to listen to the voices that matter most: those of the people they support., Maybe you have a family member or friend with DS, or perhaps you'd like to go volunteer at a disability group. Find someone with Down Syndrome, hang out together, and find a way to make them smile.

