 These organizations, sponsored by the Department of Labor, provide assistance to people looking for work.They help job seekers find training programs and job opportunities.


To find your local One-Stop Career Center, you can call 1-877-348-0502.Or you can visit the Service Locator at http://www.careeronestop.org/LocalHelp/service-locator.aspx and type in your zip code. You can then find the direct phone number to your local One-Stop, as well as office hours.
Most services at the One-Stop Career Centers are free.;
, Find out what skills you already have. Did you work a series of manual labor jobs? If so, then it will make sense to pursue a manual labor job once released from prison. If you have experience in food preparation or retail, then you might look for a job in those fields as well.


Hobbies, also, can serve as relevant experience. If you were an athlete in high school or college, then you could emphasize that experience if you are seeking a job as a personal trainer.
You might also have worked while in prison. For example, you could have worked in the kitchen or laundry. That is relevant experience that would be appealing to an employer.
 Once you have surveyed your employment history, you should think about how you can market that experience. In particular, you want to highlight the skills that you gained from each job.


If you worked in a prison kitchen, for example, then you can talk about how you “organized small teams” and “prioritized conflicting demands.” By doing this, you can show an employer what skills you can bring to their job, even if it isn’t a kitchen job.
You can translate extra-curricular experience into skills as well. If you were an athlete in school, then you could highlight that you learned “teamwork” and “leadership.”

, Most employers will ask about your criminal record, and you need to be honest. Nevertheless, there are things you can do to minimize the impact. You should plan well ahead of time as to how you will address your background.


You should plan on bringing up the criminal history yourself. This shows you are not embarrassed or trying to hide it.
You should come up with two or three things that you learned from being in prison.For example, you can state that you learned that anger is unproductive and that you have developed a skill at defusing tense situations through active listening.
You should always state that you have changed your life and explain how you managed to do so. Did you rely on your faith or family? Do you have a mentor who checks up on you?

, Many employers contact applicants now entirely using email. For this reason, you will need an email address if you do not yet have one. There are many common, web-based email services that are free.


The most popular are Gmail, Hotmail, and Yahoo. Visit one of their websites and click “sign up” to create an account.
To create an account, you will need a user name and password. The username will appear in the email address. Be sure to write down your username and password so that you can remember them.
It may be particularly helpful to use your name, e.g., john.michaud2233@hotmail.com. By using your name, you can more easily remember the address.
 You may not need a resume for every job you apply for. But you will need a resume if you apply for office jobs or jobs at call centers, hospitals, and schools. Accordingly, you should work with your Career Center counselor to draft an appropriate resume. There are also many resume templates on the Internet that you can look at. Keep the following in mind:A good resume will contain your personal information, including name and address, phone number, and email.
You should have a one sentence objective. This objective is your goal. For example, “Seeking a position in customer service.”
You also need to include information about your education: the name of your high school (and college, if applicable), as well as the dates you attended or graduated. You should also mention any job-training.
Mention your work experience. You can cast a wide net here, including volunteer positions as well as paid jobs. Be sure to mention the company or organization you worked for, as well as your job title and the dates you worked. Also include a few bullet points about what duties you performed at each job.
Do not put information about your criminal conviction on your resume.Instead, you will list that information on any job application and, of course, talk about it in the interview.
 The federal government has created a program where “at-risk” job applicants who are difficult to place can get a Fidelity Bond. This bond will cover any loss to the employer caused by the employee’s crime, such as theft.Fidelity bonds are provided at no cost to either the employer or to you.To see if this is an option, you should contact your state’s Department of Labor and ask. They should be able to send you a list of requirements.
In Texas, for example, Fidelity Bonds are available for ex-offenders regardless of credit history. The coverage lasts free of charge for six months and covers up to $5,000 in losses. After six months, the employer can pay to extend the bond., There are many websites that collect the names of companies that hire felons. To find them, search “companies that hire felons” in your favorite web browser. You can then scroll down through the results to find any employers in your area.


Some websites that host these lists include Ranker, Exoffenders.net, and jobsthathirefelons.org., You do not only have to apply to companies that have a policy of hiring felons. You can apply to any job. To search for a job, you can visit search engines like Indeed.com and Monster.com. You can use these search engines to find jobs by title or location.


You might also want to look at newspapers. Some employers still advertise through print newspapers. If you don’t want to buy one, then go to your local library.
 Even if you apply to larger corporations, you shouldn’t neglect small “mom and pop” type businesses. The owners of these establishments might be more forgiving about your criminal history and take a chance on you.Small companies often advertise with a sign in their window or in a local newspaper. You also might hear about them by word of mouth.
You might also want to go into a small business and simply ask if they are hiring. Small businesses often can’t forecast their hiring needs, and jobs sometimes suddenly pop up. If you want to stop in, then prepare as you would for an interview: dress appropriately and bring in a resume.
 The job advertisement should tell you how to contact the employer. Some jobs will require that you send a resume. Others will ask that you call a phone number. Follow the method provided in the job advertisement.
 Many jobs will require that you fill out an application. You should read it closely and make sure that you are providing all of the information requested. Incomplete applications will result in no job offer.


Also pay attention to small things like spelling and grammar.If you have trouble spelling, ask a friend or relative to look over the application. Write your application answers in pencil. That way, if you spell something wrong, you can correct it later when you write all of your answers out with a pen.
You can’t lie on the application. Most employers will perform background checks, so be honest about your work experience, education, and criminal convictions., If you are contacted for additional information, then get it to the employer as soon as possible.


After you have submitted a resume or job application, you might want to follow up with a phone call. You should ask to speak to the hiring manager.
Don’t call during busy work hours. Instead, aim to call between 2-4 pm if applying for a job in a restaurant or before 4:00 pm if applying for a retail job.Ask if a decision has been made and express your enthusiasm for an interview. Stress that you are very interested in the job and are happy to meet at any time.
 What qualifies as “appropriate” dress will depend on the job. Some moving companies, for example, will hire someone for the day, so you should dress ready to work. By contrast, if you interview for an office job then you will need to dress formally: wear a dress shirt and slacks. Men should wear ties. Women can wear a skirt (provided it is not too short).


A good rule of thumb is to dress as if you already have the job and are going to work. If you don’t know how employees dress, then stop into the worksite and check. Then try to dress like the current employees at your interview.It is never appropriate to wear shorts, belly shirts, flip flops or sneakers, or denim. Also do not wear anything too tight or revealing., Each interview is different, but there are common questions that are asked in most interviews. You should prepare answers for them. Try to make your answers as short as possible. Common questions are:Can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Here is where you can bring up your criminal history. But make sure to mention why you are excited about the job first. Try to keep your answer brief.
Why are you interested in our company? Here you can show that you are familiar with the company. Employers want to feel like you really want to work there. Mention two or three things. For example, you might have a friend who works for the company and likes the supportive culture and opportunities for advancement.
What are your strengths and weaknesses? These are tricky questions. Make sure that your “strength” relates to the job you are interviewing for. For example, you could say you have always been good talking to the public, which is relevant if applying for a call center job. For a weakness, make sure to explain how you overcame your weakness.
Where will you be in five years? Make sure to mention that you will still be in the same field as the job you are applying for. For example, you could say, “With several years of experience, I plan on being a manager.”

, Give yourself enough time to find parking or to walk from the bus stop. You don’t want to be late. Aim to be 10-15 minutes early.


Shake the interviewer’s hand firmly. Only shake after the interviewer extends his or her hand; don’t initiate. Smile as you shake hands and say, “I am pleased to meet you.”Be respectful to everyone you meet inside the building: secretaries, janitors, the person at the front desk, etc.
 Always stay focused on the job and how your skills make you the right candidate for the job. Although you will certainly be asked about your criminal history, you should have a sentence or two already memorized to deal with it.


For example, you could say, “I take full responsibility but I was a different person then. Since getting out, I’ve been developing my skills in….”
Whatever you do, don’t go into long excuses. You shouldn’t provide too many details about your criminal past. Simply answer the question and try to move the interview back to your skills., How you hold yourself is almost as important as what you say. You don’t want negative body language to undermine you during the interview. Instead, try to do the following:Sit up straight. Being too casual sends the signal that you don’t take the job seriously. Sit straight but comfortably.
Maintain eye contact. If you are constantly looking away, then the interviewer might think you are lying about yourself.
Nod and smile. If you are nervous, you might show a “blank face.” This is common, but it conveys that you really aren’t interested in the job. Instead, nod when appropriate and smile.
, Instead of seeking a job with an established business, you might want to start one yourself. You should look at your skills and experiences and see if there is a business that you could start. For example, you may have skills as a landscaper or plumber. People often start solo businesses in these fields.


You might not be able to start certain businesses because of your felony. For example, a felony could disqualify you from a professional license or permit.Before undertaking to start a business, you should try to meet with a lawyer to see if your criminal history poses any problems to getting necessary licenses and permits. You can find a lawyer by contacting the attorney referral system run by your state’s bar association.
 You might need seed money to get your business off the ground. If so, you should look for small business loans. Ex-felons can apply for loans although it is up to the lender to decide whether or not to extend the loan. Common sources of loans are micro-lenders, who lend money to people with bad credit. Popular micro-lenders include:Accion
Prosper
Count-Me-In (for women applicants)

, You need to decide on a business structure. If you are running a solo business, then you will likely create a sole proprietorship. Forming a sole proprietorship does not require filing documents with your state. Instead, you will simply include your business income on your tax returns.You might also think about forming a limited liability corporation (LLC). This legal structure can shield you personally from legal liability incurred by the business. For example, if the business enters into contracts which it cannot perform, then you will not be personally liable for damages caused by the breach of contract.For more information on the advantages and disadvantages of forming an LLC, you should talk to a business lawyer.
 In order to legally run a business, you will probably need various licenses and permits from the state or county where you are based. You can find out what licenses and permits you will need by visiting your state’s Secretary of State website. You can also call the department and ask.


For more information, see Open a Small Business.
 Many people do not have either a high school diploma or a GED. If you do not, then your first step is to obtain one. You should begin as soon as possible, perhaps even while you are still in prison.


If you are still in prison, you might want to contact the educational department in your facility. They should have resources about completing requirements for a diploma or GED.Basic reading and writing skills are critical for success on any job. Even if you do not want to pursue a license, certificate, or college degree, you should nevertheless work toward a high school diploma.
 Education has many benefits. It can open your mind to new ways of thinking. It can also give you the tools you need to help your community. However, most people pay for an education because they want it to serve as a stepping stone to their ideal career. Before applying to a school or program, you should think about what your ideal job is.


Ask yourself what skills you already have and what activities you enjoy. For example, if you like to draw, then you might become a graphic designer. Or, if you enjoy being outside, you might aspire to become a landscaper.You can find out the necessary educational requirements by visiting the Bureau of Labor’s website at http://www.bls.gov/ooh/a-z-index.htm#L. Search by job title. In the description, you can find the standard entry-level education required for the job.
For example, a hairdresser will need a license.By contrast, a business office manager will need a bachelor’s degree., You might want a certificate or license, or you might want a two- or four-year degree. Once you decide what educational credential you want, you can then search for schools in your area that offer it.


Your Career Center counselor can help you find relevant degree and certificate programs in your area.
 Financial aid is limited for felons, but it is possible to qualify after a certain amount of time. For example, if you were charged with possession of a controlled substance, then you are not eligible for financial aid until at least one year has passed (for a first offense) or two years has passed (for a second offense).If you were convicted of the sale of a controlled substance, then you will need to wait longer. For example, you must wait at least two years after a first offense.You should direct your financial aid questions to the Financial Aid department of the school you want to apply to. They should be able to answer any questions you have.
 If you have been working for a while, then you can get letters of recommendation from your bosses. Even if your educational history isn’t the greatest, solid letters of recommendation can help you gain admission.


Only ask an employer if you are confident that he or she can write a strong letter of recommendation. Also allow sufficient time for the employer to write the letter.
 Contact the school you want to apply to and ask for application materials. You should receive them in the mail in about a week. Go through the application and identify all of the information that you will need.


In addition to letters of recommendation, you may need educational transcripts or test scores.
Pay attention to deadlines and commit to getting your application in with a couple weeks to spare.

