 Don't dwell on the negative aspects of life. Instead, be mindful about the good things and think about tomorrow's opportunities. This bit of common self-help advice is actually supported by science. Positive thinking makes us more successful, happier, and can even improve our health.At the same time, be careful not to blame yourself for having "negative thoughts" or for things that are outside your control. Mental illnesses like depression make positive thinking difficult. Additionally, while staying positive can spur you into action, thoughts alone do not change reality.;
, Build your self-confidence with daily affirmations. You will need to rely on yourself to make your wishes come true. When you don't believe you can achieve your goals, you're making a self-fulfilling prophecy. Turn that around and you'll be more likely to succeed., Figure out exactly what you want to wish for and state it in concrete terms. You won't be able to achieve your goals if you don't know what they are.


Is your dream to be famous? Decide what you want to be famous for. If you want to be a famous actor, take an improv class or try out for the school play. If you want to be a rock star, learn guitar and start a band.
Do you want to find love? Think about what kind of relationship you're looking for. Consider who your ideal partner may be. Know what you want to avoid missing out if he or she finds you.
 Don't let yourself get distracted by instant gratification. If something seems appealing right now but actually puts your wish further out of reach, don't do it.


For example, if your goal is financial independence and you come across a really great deal on a big-screen TV, consider: Will a cheap TV help you become financially independent? Or will putting that amount of money into an interest-bearing savings account instead be more in line with your goal? In a year, your cheap TV will be worth significantly less than what you paid for it, while that savings account would accrue interest.
 While it's fine to go for the improbable (like being famous), remember that truly impossible wishes really are unattainable. Instead, try turning fantastic goals into realistic ones.


Do you want to be a mermaid? Think about what aspects of being a mermaid you like the most. Instead of a literal mermaid, think about becoming a world-class swimmer or a respected marine biologist.
Do you want to fly like a superhero? Start studying for your pilot's license or join your country's air force.
 Whatever your goal, whether lofty or simple, there will probably be setbacks and difficulties along the way. Recognize temporary setbacks for what they are and learn how to move past them.


Did your actions (or inaction) cause that setback? Don't beat yourself up. Remember that everyone makes mistakes. Learn from them and modify your strategy for next time.
Did things not work out due to sheer luck and coincidence? If so, there's no reason why you shouldn't try again.
If along the way you find that your goal isn't practically obtainable, consider revising your original wish and think of an alternative.

