 Before beginning, go through your wardrobe and get rid of anything not "doll-like." Lose the cargo pants, baggy jeans and tomboy shirts. Only keep fun, flirty, or girly clothes.;
, If you don't have anything that will work, go shopping. Look for pastel colors, lace, or ruffles. Baby doll tops are a must-have. On cold days, wear skinny jeans, but try to mostly wear skirts and dresses. If you aren't a big fan of pastels, black will bring some sophistication to your wardrobe and mute the pastels, just remember not to overload!
, It can be a silver charm bracelet, an engraved ID chain bracelet, etc - as long as it doesn't look cheap (avoid plastic), it'll be classy. Always wear it.
 People will be more drawn to you if you smell awesome, and you will stand out more if you have a signature (good) smell. Don't drown yourself in perfume though, just spritz a little here and there ( behind your neck, behind your knees and wrists).
 The idea is to look elegant and clean, not masked. Put on a small amount of mascara, blush, maybe a little eyeshadow. The most important thing is to use a thick layer of foundation or tinted moisturizer to have an even, glowing skin tone like a doll.
 Don't wash your hair daily. When you wash your hair, wash it with cold water as this keeps hair shiny and strong. After washing your hair put in some leave-in conditioner. With curly hair, you can wear it down or in a messy bun. With straight hair, wear it in a ponytail or with a cute headband (like one with pearls).
 Restrain from backstabbing and gossiping. Do your best to embrace kindness and happiness. Fill your life with the things you enjoy. Smile whenever you can, even at strangers—they'll appreciate it. Be bubbly, happy go lucky, and a bit optimistic! Other people like having a ray of sunshine around them.

Always be there for your friends when they're sad. Be on their side no matter what. Bring them soup when they're sick or chocolate when they're sad. People will love it that you care.
 Have a spa day with some friends, paint your nails, do something new with your hair.
 These will give you ideas and a better sense of style. Good magazines are: Teen Vogue, Elle, Cosmo Girl and Seventeen!

, First of all, be classy with your personality. Once people know how nice you are, keep pushing forward! Stay above petty rumors. If you don't have something nice to say, don't say it. Secondly, be classy with your dress: don't show too much skin or wear clothes that are too tight. Be beautiful but demure.


Watch movies with Audrey Hepburn (i.e. Breakfast at Tiffany's, Funny Face) to adopt some of her class.

