 Submerge the new glove in water, shake or wring out the excess and then place the glove in the microwave. Only leave the glove in the microwave for less than a minute at a time—otherwise, the leather can scorch, melt or warp. This is a bizarre and potentially destructive break-in strategy that is nonetheless advocated by some of the top players in the MLB.Despite the fact that this method is used by professional players, it is not recommended if you’re worried about keeping your glove in good shape for the long haul. Heating can cause the glove to shrink or crack, and as a result it may deteriorate faster with use.
Do not try to microwave your glove if it contains any metal parts.
 Preheat your oven to around 300 degrees. Rub some oil or shaving cream into the glove to condition it. Place it in the oven for around 3 minutes, just long enough to soften the leather and let the oil soak in. After you take the glove out of the oven, allow it to cool to the touch and then put it on and play a few passes of catch with it.This is an altogether safer method of heating a new glove than microwaving it, but a lengthy stay in intense heat may still damage the glove’s materials.
 Steaming is arguably the safest and most reliable way to heat-treat a softball glove. Take the glove to a professional to have it done safely for a small fee, or do it yourself at home. Simply fill a stock pot with water, bring it to a boil and hold the glove over the pot to allow the steam to hit it. Turn your hand slowly to expose each part of the glove to the steam, and make sure to place a ball in the pocket so the glove will conform around it as it softens.Wearing the glove while you steam it will help it shape itself to your hand, and also protect your hand from the heat of the steam.
Steaming will infuse moisture into your glove gradually, without the need to soak or submerge it, which can ruin the leather.
 If you’re breaking in a new softball glove during the summer months, wait until the next scorcher and leave the glove on your dashboard or in the trunk for a few hours. That’s it! The heat will begin to work on the leather, and the humidity in the atmosphere will loosen the glove and increase its flexibility. This is one of the easiest ways to break in a glove using heat, and there’s very little chance of damaging it in the process.It may be best to leave the glove out of direct sunlight, as the intensity of the sun’s rays may warp the leather or cause it to shrivel up.