 Mix to combine well until smooth and creamy., Mix.,, Use your fingertips to keep it cool., You can use your eye or weigh the portions., Wrap a cutting board in kitchen plastic wrap. Sprinkle the board with cocoa. Place one third of the dough onto the board. Knead to completely incorporate the cocoa powder. Roll into a ball and place to one side., Place the next dough third on the board and add a few drops of the pink food coloring. Knead to completely change the color of the dough to pink. Roll into a ball and set aside.

The intensity of the pink or rose color is up to you but it's always wise to start out with only a drop or two and build on that.
 Roll it between two sheets of plastic kitchen wrap to prevent sticking. Roll to a thickness of about 9.5mm/ 3/8 inch, in the shape of a square., The strips should measure 2cm/ 3/4 inch in width across., Put to one side., Each time, slide the strips onto the cookie sheet., Place in the refrigerator to chill for half an hour.

Do not have anything strong smelling in the refrigerator while chilling the cookie dough.
 Mix the egg and water in a small bowl. This forms the "glue" that keeps the dough strips together as one.,, Brush the egg wash over the side of the dough strip., Do this with care and align well. Brush the side of the pink dough with egg wash., Again, brush with egg wash., The end pieces of dough or dough that has been over-handled and has lost the striped pattern will no longer make such pretty hearts but can be rolled and cooked as normal shaped cookies with a marbled pattern, which is still fun and tastes the same., Gently roll over the top to ease the edges of the cookie strips together. Do not press hard! Return the whole sheet to the refrigerator to chill for half an hour., Line a cookie sheet., Peel the plastic wrap off the top of the dough., The cookies will be formed from the three different dough colors, in stripes., Do not touch the sides of the newly formed cookies, leave a small distance between each cookie.

Use a spatula to transfer the cut cookies, this will be gentler and helps them to keep their shape.
 Bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until the vanilla section starts to brown a little., Let sit on the cookie sheet for a few minutes, then transfer to the cooling rack to complete cooling., Store in an airtight container.