 To replace a bike chain that is broken or that has fallen off completely, you will need to have a new chain that fits your bike and a chain tool to remove the old chain and secure the new chain. You will also need a replacement pin to connect the new chain, but this should come with the new bike chain.


You can purchase these items in a sporting goods store or cycling shop.
 Stop and lay your bike on its side with the sprocket-up. If the chain is still on your bike, then look for the break in your chain. If the chain is hanging loose from the sprocket, then it should be easy to find the two separated ends of the chain. If the chain has fallen off completely, then you can just start to put on the new chain. For most bike chains, each link is connected to the next by passing a metal pin through the outer "plate" portion of one link and through the inner "roller" portion of the adjacent link. Most bike chains fall into one of three categories:Chains with special replacement pins. These chains require a special type of pin from the manufacturer (usually provided when you buy the chain) to repair a break. If you don't carry these special pins with you when you go riding, you may be out of luck in terms of repair options until you can make it to a bike shop.
Chains with master links. These chains have a special link with two pins that is used to join the two ends of the chain. If this link is broken, you may need to wait until you can replace it to be able to repair the chain.
Chains with "normal" pins. Older, more traditional chains have uniform pins, any of which can be used to repair a breakage (provided you have a chain tool with you).
 If you've decided that your chain will be easier to replace than to repair, the first thing you'll need to do is get rid of the old chain. If the chain has completely split, simply turn the pedals until the length of the chain has passed around the sprocket and can be removed. If the chain is still holding together, you may need to introduce a break in the chain so that it's easier to remove. You can do this with a chain tool.


To use a standard chain tool, simply line up one chain link in the tool's internal groove, securing it on the tool's "teeth", then turn the chain tool's handle to drive the tool's point down and push the pin out of the chain. If you want to reuse your chain, make sure you only push the pin far enough out of the way that the two links can be separated. Don't push the pin all the way out, as they're quite hard to replace.
Once you've introduced a break in the chain, simply turn the pedals to pass the broken chain through the bike's gears. Ideally, you want to buy a replacement chain that's the exact same length as the chain you had before (though bikes with a rear derailleur allow a small margin of error), so now is a good time to count the links in your chain. You should also make note of the type of drivetrain you have, as this determines which chains are suitable. For example, 9-speed drivetrains require 9-speed chains, and so on.
 Next, thread the new chain through your rear derailleur. You may need to turn the back wheel, which is much easier to do if it's not on the floor. If you have a bike rack or hanging hook on the wall of your garage that allows you to hang the bike with its sprockets facing you, use it. If not, you may want to simply prop up the rear of the bike's frame with wood, boxes, cinder blocks, or whatever else you have lying around.


Also, make note of your derailleur arrangement. If your rear derailleur has a cable connected to your shifting mechanism, shift into the highest gear. If the front derailleur has a cable connected, shift into the lowest gear., A bike's rear derailleur is the spring-loaded system of gears hanging down below the main rear sprocket on most modern bikes with gears. Threading the chain through this derailleur properly is essential for smooth, safe riding. Take the "female" end (i.e., the end of the chain without a pin sticking out) of your properly-sized replacement chain and thread it around the bottom pulley, then up and around the top pulley. When done correctly, your chain should make a smooth, straight, backwards "S-shaped" path through the derailleur. Make sure the chain isn't catching or resting on anything besides the pulleys - if so, there will be a bump in your backwards "S".


There may be a small metal "tab" between the two small pulleys in your derailleur. The chain must pass this tab without rubbing on it.
Some bikes, like fixed-gear bikes ("fixies") and bikes with a hub gear shifting mechanism, don't have a derailleur. In these cases, simply thread the chain onto the rear sprocket as directed in the next step, turning the wheel as needed.
 On bikes with gears, the cassette is simply the array of multiple sprockets attached to the rear wheel of the bike. When the chain is properly threaded through the derailleur, pull it up and over the smallest sprocket in the cassette. Make sure the chain is tight and properly threaded through the rear derailleur and onto the sprocket, then pull it through to give yourself some slack at the lead end of the chain.
 Most modern bikes with gears have a metal mechanism near the front sprocket that moves to shift the chain from one front gear to another. Thread the lead end of your chain through this front derailleur, turning the rear wheel to give yourself more slack as needed.


Again, "fixie" bikes usually won't have a front derailleur, so simply thread the chain around the front sprocket as detailed in the next step.
 Align your chain with the smallest of the front sprockets. Stretch it taught so that it engages securely with the teeth on the front sprocket, then pull it around the sprocket, turning the pedals as necessary to give yourself enough slack.
 Finally, once your chain securely passes all the way through your gear system, you can join the two ends of the chain and start riding again. Line up the "female" and "male" ends of the chain in a chain tool (again, available at all bike shops). Be sure that the two ends of the chain rest securely in the groove of the tool, hooked on to the "teeth" of the tool. Turn the handle to drive the pin into the chain, connecting the two links. Make sure the pin protrudes an equal distance from each side of the link, as even a minor misalignment can cause structural weakness in the chain, potentially leading to another repair.


One useful tip is to use a small, thin piece of metal called a "C-hook" to hold the two ends of the chain near each other. This makes it much easier to work, as you won't have to worry about holding the chain in place yourself and potentially losing either end. In a pinch, a bent paperclip can substitute for a real C-hook.

