 It may be tempting to sprint away from your guide the moment you’re free, just be a bit more patient.;
, There are plenty of dangerous creatures and bandits lurking along the forests and roads of Skyrim. At such a low level, you have a very slim chance of being able to defeat these foes

, If you somehow lose track of Hadvar, you can use the game’s compass to find Riverwood. Open the Journal by pressing Start (on PS3 or Xbox 360), or the ESC key if you’re playing on a PC/Mac. This should bring up a list of your current quests.
 This will make it an active quest, spawning a white map marker in the location you need to go.


It is possible to have multiple quests active at once.
 Exit the Journal, and look around using the Right Toggle Stick/Mouse, keeping an eye on the black compass bar at the top of the screen as you do so. Find the white arrow indicated on the compass.
 Once you spot the white arrow, head in that direction, and you will eventually arrive at Riverwood.
 Once you’ve successfully arrived in Riverwood, you will be prompted to speak to the local blacksmith, Alvor.


Hadvar will lead you to him, so don’t worry about trying to find him.
At first Alvor will be suspicious, as Riverwood doesn’t get many visitors.
 Tell Alvor that you helped Hadvar. He should direct you to inform the Jarl of Whiterun about the dragon attack. This conversation will update your quest Journal and, if you’ve activated it, will move the quest marker to Whiterun.
 Luckily, the trek from Riverwood to Whiterun isn’t terribly far. Simply head North out of town, and cross a few bridges. There’s even a stone path to help guide the way. If you get lost, follow the map marker/quest marker on your compass.


The trip will go more quickly if you sprint, which can be done by holding down the L2/LB button or the ALT key.
It should be noted that sprinting uses up stamina (the green bar in the lower left-hand corner). If you still have a torch from Helgen, you can hold it while running, which will allow you to continue sprinting even if your stamina runs out.
You may encounter some wolves, but there are no powerful enemies to worry about.
 After a few minutes of sprinting, you should see a large wall with several buildings inside on the horizon; that’s Whiterun. Traipse through the Whiterun stables, approaching the large stone gate guarding the town, and follow the winding road up to the open drawbridge.
 Once you reach the wooden gates, a guard will stop you in your path, and inform you that the city is closed. Simply tell him that you have news of the dragon, and he will let you enter.


Now whenever you wish to travel to Whiterun, simply open the map, select the city, and fast travel there. You will no longer need to answer to the guards.

