 Open a Google Chrome browser, and visit Google Accounts to access the Google login page. Enter your Gmail email address and password into the fields provided, and click “Sign” to continue.;
, Open a new browser tab, and search for Google Voice. The first website in the results should be the one; click on it to be redirected to the Google Voice website.
 On the Google Voice page, click “Accept” on the Terms and Conditions that appear in a small dialog box and then select “I want a new number.”


You will be asked for a forwarding number. Enter your number in the first text field, and then select the type below (e.g., if the number entered is a mobile one, select “Mobile” from the drop-down list). Remember, the number must not be tied to any Google Voice account. Click “Continue” when you’re done.
Click “Call me now” in the next dialog box, and Google Voice will send a code to the number entered. Type in the code into the text field on the dialog box once you receive it.
In the next dialog box, enter your area code in the first text field and click “Search now.” Google Voice will provide available numbers for you to choose from with that specific area code. Select one by clicking the circle before the number, and click “Continue.”
Remember the number. Google will process the number selected and display it to you in the last dialog box. Write it down if you want so you don’t forget it, and then click “Finish.” You now have a Google Voice number. When you make calls, this number will be displayed in the caller ID.
 Open a new browser tab, and go to your Gmail account. In the Chat section on the left panel, and next to your profile picture, there are two icons: a phone icon and a chat icon.


Click the phone icon, and a small dial pad will appear on the bottom right. The first time you use Google Voice on Gmail to call, you will need to install the Google Voice plugin. Click the the “download the voice plugin” link in the dial pad, and the download page will open in a new tab. On the download page, click “Install voice and video chat” then wait for the installation process to finish. Once it’s done, go back to the Gmail tab. Note that if you use another computer, you will need to install the plugin in that one.
Restart the browser, and access Gmail again. Click the phone icon to make the dial pad appear, and enter the phone number you want to call into the number field. Click “Call” to begin calling the number. Use your computer headset to list and chat with the recipient if you want. End the call by clicking the “End” button at the top left of the dial pad.
 Click the red “Call” button at the top left of the Google Voice page. A small drop-down box will appear. Enter the phone number to call in the first field and then select “mobile” from the drop-down option below.


Google Voice will then call the forwarding number you entered during the setup process, and once you answer, it will connect you to the number you want to call. Note that the rates of your service provider will apply.
 Open Google Contacts at the left side of the Google Voice page. All your Google contacts will be listed. Select the one you would like to call by clicking the contact name. On the contact details page, hover over the phone number and a Call option will appear. Click this to call the contact.

