 First get a box decorate with stickers and colors. Then Put in toys for your sheep things like a pretend television and anything your sheep might like. Next get a piece of paper cut out 2 circles then color one in blue for water the other in any color of food you want. Make sure there is still room for your sheep to fit!;
, There are 2 basic needs of clothes 1 Daytime clothes 2 pajamas. Clothes are easy to make but you don't have to make clothes if you don't want to.


First get some material Make sure its the color you want.
Measure your sheep not with a ruler but just put your sheep upside down for the holes. But if your sheep has small legs you might not be able to make clothes.
Use staples or if your parents don't want you to just use tape.
Have your sheep try them on it might take awhile get them to fit but it's worth it. Just make a body suit for your sheep PJ's. And try to make a sleep mask just get a ponytail holder then cut out a small bit of cloth tape them together and you have a sleep mask! Also if a scarf would be cute! Just get more material and tie it around your sheep's neck and there you have a scarf!

, Stick your sheep's head out and there! They like to go everywhere you do! But only take them if they promise they will behave!

, A Midnight snack! The dreamy sheep specialty!  

,, cosines parents aunts and uncles sisters brothers grandparents! A whole family!

,, Have your sheep take a bath just get a towel rub it around your sheep's body. Put on the Pj's you made for your sheep then read more and go to bed! If your sheep is to hyper then rock them gently to sleep. If rocking them doesn't work then sing them a nice bedtime song.
 Maybe spiders, the dark, not knowing where you are.
, How old is your sheep? Is she 8? Is he 6? Put them in grades based on age!

, What you did today what you think about people! They won't tell!

, If they get 70 out of 100 on the test they did don't say You can do better! Say Good Job! You might hurt there feeling if you say they did bad!

, Dreamy sheep's are not called dreamy for nothing! If your animal looks tired maybe it's time for a nap! Can they barely stay awake? 3 hours is perfect! Are they yawning a little? 2 hours will be fine.
 Or if they really are sick then just go do the checkup right then. Check for fever sore throat and belly aches. First see how hot they are. If they are hot that means they have fever. Then have them swallow water. If their throat hurts that means they have a sore throat. Push their stomach gently. Does that hurt? If it does they have a belly ache.
 They need a lot of sunlight to survive!

, Like, Are you on a medication? Maybe you want your sheep to also. (Get little beads and color them with paint any way you want.) Do you have brothers and sisters? I bet your sheep would love some company!

, Things like that.

