 Where you buy counts too. Take the time to evaluate the different dealerships. Visit a few and walk around. When a salesperson approaches you, say, “I’m just looking around, and I’ll come to you when I’m ready.";
, Walk around the service area and sit down. Stay for 30 minutes. Observe A) Is it orderly and run efficiently? B) Is the manager on the premises and working? C) Are the customers treated with respect?

, In a reputable dealership you will see frames from competing dealerships too. Don’t choose a dealership that’s out of the way. The salespeople know that they have just one chance to make a sale, and they lean hard on you. Avoid multi-franchise dealerships. Too many people run different parts of the operation, causing confusion in service.
 Speak with several. Ask: A) How long have you worked at this dealership? (The longer the better) B) Where else have you worked? And for how long? C) May I get the name and number of a recent customer? (Follow up with a phone call). If there are a lot of turnovers, leave, there is a strong probability the dealership is unstable. Trap: Looking for a salesperson who’s a member of your ethnic group, because you think you will get special treatment. You won’t, and you will be letting your guard down.
 Get as much information as possible about a car before you sit down with the salesperson. Collect brochures (dealers don’t usually keep them on display, because they want you to approach the salespeople) and read consumer magazines that rate autos.
 That’s how they try to establish authority and take control of the sale.
 If you say that you are considering a competing brand, the salesperson will knock it, and be very convincing if you’re uninformed.
 If you are not firm about what you want, you could easily end up with what the salesperson wants to sell you, the most expensive model with the most extravagant option at the highest price.
 Don't turn on the radio, so that you can hear the noise of the motor. Hopefully it will sound as though it is working properly. He is seducing you. Resist. Trap: Negotiating to buy when you’re tired of shopping. Salespeople are attracted to this kind of customer like bees to honey. They know that if they promise you what you’ve been looking for, whether they have it or not, you will probably buy on the spot. Buy only when you’re in an energetic mood.
 Few salespeople ask idle questions. Seemingly relevant questions are actual attempts to find out about your lifestyle, income, driving habits, etc. Avoid answering these questions.
 D.A.P. stands for Dealer Added Profit. Locator Cost means the dealer procured the car. All these charges are negotiable.
 For those unfamiliar with auto buying, the cost of preparing your car for delivery is included in the manufacturer’s sticker price.
 If a salesperson feels that he’s not in control of the sale, he’ll say that he’s going on a coffee break and will “turn you over" to another salesperson. In a high-pressure operation, this could happen three or four times, until they wear you down. How to resist: Go for a walk, have a cup of coffee at a nearby diner, say that you need to think about it. Get away from the salesperson so you can think clearly.
 Make sure everything is working correctly. If you follow these suggestions, buying a car can be a joyful adventure, instead of a crazy mishap.

