 Take the 1 pound of beef tenderloin and put it in the freezer for around twenty minutes to make it firmer and therefore easier to slice. When slicing, cut against the grain of the meat. You can either make thin or thick slices, depending on your tastes. Place the beef slices in a large bowl and mix in 1 tablespoon rice wine, 1 tablespoon water, 1 tablespoon soy sauce, 1 egg white, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 1 teaspoon sugar, and 1/2 teaspoon baking soda. Thoroughly mix this marinade with the beef and set aside for one hour to fully marinate. Do not let the beef marinate for over two hours as the baking soda will damage the meat.;
, While the meat marinates, remove the broccoli florets by making a slight indentation with a knife into the bottom of the broccoli stem and then pulling apart. Do this until you have bite-sized broccoli florets comprising 2 cups. Now crush and mince some garlic cloves to make 2 teaspoons of minced garlic. Finally, grate a ginger root to make 1 teaspoon of ginger.
 Pre-heat about 2 inches (5.1 cm) of vegetable oil in a large wok or skillet. The oil should be between 325º-350º (163º-177º C). You will know when the oil is hot enough when you start to see smoke or little squiggly lines in the oil. For 1 pound of beef, deep fry in two to three batches so as not to overcrowd the pot. Stir continuously. Once the meat floats to the top or changes color, strain and drain on a paper towel. Continue the process with the rest of the beef slices.
 After first pre-heating your wok until it starts to smoke, add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil around the sides of the wok. Let the oil get hot and then add in the broccoli, garlic, and ginger and stir fry for about thirty seconds before adding in the beef. Stir continuously for a few minutes and then add in the sauce ingredients: 2 tablespoons soy sauce, 1 tablespoon oyster sauce, 1/2 teaspoon sesame oil, and a slurry made from 3 tablespoons water mixed with 2 teaspoons cornstarch. Make sure the slurry is fully mixed before you stir it into the beef and broccoli mix. Stir continuously for about a minute and then remove from heat and serve. Enjoy.

