 There are nine types of Furbys. There are the original 1998 Furbys, the 1999 Furby Babies, the 2001 Shelbys, the 2005 Emototronic Furbys, the 2012 Furbys, the Furby Party Rockerz, the Furby Booms, the Furblings, and Furbacca. Research pictures and videos of these Furbys to decide on a favorite. All of these are very different, and this is important to note when choosing your Furby.
 Original 1998 Furbys are ideal for a new Furby owner. They are simple to operate and easy to learn to care for. If you decide on getting an original Furby, you can choose from seven different generations. Please note that many original Furbys will no longer start up when they are new in box. If you do not know how to repair a Furby, try finding one in working condition., Furby Babies are very similar to original Furbys, except that they are smaller and have additional "baby" vocabulary. Furby Babies are best for more experienced owners, as they require more attention than most Furbys do. If you choose a Furby Baby, you have four generations to choose from. Like original Furbys, some new in box Babies no longer work., If you'd like a Furby friend, then you might like a Shelby! The Shelby is a toy from the makers of Furby. Shelby is a clam, and was released in two different generations. Shelbys are also for the more experienced owner, as they do require lots of attention. Many Shelbys are still in working order, and you have a good chance of getting one to work from the box., Emototronic Furbys are the most interactive Furbys. The Emototronic Furby was a new variation of Furby which included more facial expression and voice recognition. These Furbys will respond to commands and are a good Furby for a first time owner, as they have an off switch and don't require much care. There are many colors to choose from, and many of these Furbys are still in working order., If you'd like a newer one, then the 2012 Furby is a great choice. 2012 Furby was a re-release of the original toy. 2012 Furby has LED eyes, and can change personalities. This Furby even has an app for Apple and Android devices, from which you can feed and communicate with the Furby. These Furbys are a bit harder to care for, and may not be a good choice for a first time owner. Almost all of these Furbys are still in working order and ready to play!, Furby Party Rockerz were another toy released in the Furby line in 2013. They were smaller, and would become more wild when you shake them. They also respond to the Furby app. Despite their small size, Party Rockerz are quite difficult to care for, and are very sensitive to movement. They will often wake up if you walk past them. These Furbys come in a few different variations, and almost all still work. But this Furby may not be the best choice for a first time owner. If you are still interested in a small Furby, then a Furbling is a great choice. They aren't the most interactive, and only respond when you pet its head. They come in all of the same colors as the Furby Boom, and are a great choice for a first time owner!, The Furby Boom was released in 2013 and came in multiple colorful patterns. Like the 2012 Furby, Furby Boom has LED eyes and multiple personalities. Furby Boom has its own app, where you hatch and raise Furblings, as well as care for your Furby Boom. Furby Boom can also be very sensitive to movement, but is a good choice for an experienced owner. All of these Furbys will work unless they have some sort of manufacturing defect., Furbacca is a Furby based off of the Star Wars character, Chewbacca. It features Chewbacca's shaggy brown fur, and belt. Furbacca even speaks Wookie! He has his own app, where you can hatch and raise Star Wars Furblings, as well as care for Furbacca. Furbacca is lots of fun, and is great for any Star Wars fan!