 Your new partner won’t be perfect. No one is. This means they make mistakes. If your partner makes a mistake, remind yourself that it wasn't intentional. Don’t automatically assume the mistake was made to hurt you.Know what things are mistakes that will end a relationship. Because you have been cheated on before, any cheating behavior will probably be a dealbreaker. Lying may also be something that can lead to a breakup. However, small things, like forgetting something or disagreeing, don’t mean your new partner can’t be trusted.
 When you have trouble trusting someone, it can negatively impact your relationship. You may be standoffish, closed off, and put walls between you and the other person. This will eventually cause the relationship to stall and fall apart.Admit when you are doing things to interfere with the relationship. This may be keeping your new partner at arm’s length or breaking commitments. By facing your behavior, you can work to change it and build more trust.
 Part of what happens when trust is broken is that people build walls and become harder and more distant. This is often necessary, but when you find someone you care about, you should let yourself be vulnerable. Being open with your new partner can give you the opportunity to build a wonderful new relationship.Being open and vulnerable doesn’t mean that you forget what you learned, stop watching for warning signs, or stop being smart about the relationship. It just means you give your new partner a chance to prove that they are trustworthy.
 When you and your new partner start getting close, you should open up and explain your situation. Letting them know that you have been cheated on and have some trust issues can help you both set boundaries and know what is expected from each other.You can say, “My previous partner cheated on me, and it hurt me. I have trust issues, but I am working on it. I think we should talk about our ideas of trust and set boundaries with each other.”

, When you find yourself not trusting someone, stop and analyze those thoughts. Ask yourself why you are having these thoughts. Are they based on something the new person has done? Or are they a result of your own issues?Taking the time to address your worries can help you keep in control of them and not let past experiences of broken trust interfere with new relationships.

