 There are several main varieties of snowshoe, with designs and traction suited for different activities. Think about how you plan to use your snowshoe, and look for an appropriate design:Recreational, trekking , or flat terrain snowshoes are designed for relatively flat terrain and prepared trails. They have some traction, but not much.

Hiking or rugged terrain snowshoes are a step up in durability and traction, good for occasional off-trail hikes but not lengthy or excessively steep off-trail expeditions.

Backcountry, climbing, or mountaineering snowshoes are good for camping trips and lengthy off-trail expeditions. Make sure the shoes have significant traction at both front and back if you plan on climbing steep slopes.

Racing, running, or aerobic snowshoes are for running over tightly packed snow trails, and are too light weight to use off trail.
 The more weight you carry, the longer and wider your snowshoe needs to be to support you. Weigh yourself while you are dressed in your winter outfit and carrying your typical pack of gear.
 If the snowshoes have a labeled weight limit, use them to narrow down your options. Otherwise, use these general rules of thumb for the most common snowshoe sizes:Snowshoes sized 8 x 25 inches (20 x 64 cm) are usually suitable for weights between 120 and 180 pounds (54–82 kg).
Snowshoes sized 9 x 30 inches (23 x 76 cm) can support weights between 160 and 220 pounds (73–100 kg).
Snowshoes sized 10 x 36 inches (25 x 91 cm) are designed for weights above 200 pounds (91 kg).
 You may find two or three sizes of snowshoe that are appropriate for your weight. If you often travel through deep, powdery snow, go with a larger size for more support. If you prefer to stick to flattened trails or hard packed snow, select the smaller size for greater maneuverability.
 The binding that attaches the snowshoe to your boot should be a tight fit to keep you comfortable and steady during a hike. Besides the size of the shoe, there are two main factors that affect the binding:



Fixed bindings stay under your foot as you step, allowing for a comfortable stride and an easier time stepping over obstacles. Pivoted bindings fall away from your foot as you step, which keeps your legs relatively free of snow and may make climbing easier.Snowshoes are usually labeled men's, women's, or youth, which may describe a different shape as well as a size. Try on snowshoes in multiple categories if you are having trouble finding a comfortable one.
 You won't usually get to choose the exact materials your snowshoe is built from, as the manufacturer selects materials it considers suitable for the snowshoe's intended purpose. However, if you're interested in deciphering product information, here are some tips to help you:


Most modern frames are lightweight aluminum; if "powder-coated", it will pick up less snow but may suffer from unattractive paint chipping. Wooden frames are more traditional, but also more likely to break.An especially lightweight snowshoe for on-trail use might not have any frame.The "decking" material around the frame gives your snowshoe "flotation," or lift above the snow. This is typically a synthetic material, such as the flexible hypalon or the rigid composite plastic decking.Ask the manufacturer if you want to find out more about a specific material's characteristics.

