 The number one key to a successful blog is regular, quality content. If you want to retain readers, your blog needs to be updated on a consistent basis. You should strive to post at least once a week, more if your content allows it. While you don't want to deluge your readers with content that they'll never get around to reading, you'll want to ensure that they have a steady stream that will keep bringing them back.Try to set a schedule that you can stick to, and mark it in your calendar. Tell yourself that you need to have your blog updated by a certain time on a certain day of the week, and try to keep from procrastinating on content.
You can always write multiple posts at once and schedule them for later dates if you're really feeling on a roll.
 Successful blogs find a niche, or interest, that they can become an authority on. This helps you build a cohesive audience and if you update regularly and with good content, you can quickly become a top source on major search engines. Take stock of your interests and see how you can leverage any of them into a successful blog., As you start to gain an audience, you will most certainly begin to receive comments on your articles. If you take some time to respond and interact, you'll build a community around your blog. As the community grows, so will the loyalty of your readers, leading to more and more guaranteed views.


Make sure that you spend some time moderating your comments, as the internet has a tendency to get nasty at times. Keep your comments civil and your community will grow quickly.
You can review and respond to all of your comments by clicking on the "Comments" option in your Blogger menu.
Blogger will attempt to identify and remove spam comments, so make sure to check the "Spam" section of the Comments page to ensure that legitimate comments aren't being removed.
 While good content is essential for bringing readers, so is a little promotion. Letting people know that your blog exists can help your blog stand out amongst the incredibly large crowd. Use social networking to your advantage to create a presence that can't be ignored.


Create a Twitter account and use it to post a headline and link to each new blog post you create.
Blogger allows you to quickly integrate with Google+, which can bring in lots of new readers. You can enable Google+ integration by clicking the Google+ menu option in the Blogger menu. Integrating with Google+ means that your Google+ profile will become your Blogger profile.
Make sure to let friends and family know about the blog through Facebook, but don't fill their inboxes! No one responds well to having blog advertisements shoved down their throats.
Comment on other relevant blog and forum posts with links back to your article. This is one of the basics of back-linking, an essential search engine optimization practice.
 Once you meet a few criteria, your blog will be eligible for AdSense ads. You will receive payments based on clicks and impressions made by these ads.


To qualify for AdSense, you must have an active blog for at least six months, be at least 18 years old, and ensure that the content of your blog doesn't violate AdSense policies.
You will need to create an AdSense account and then decide how you want the ads displayed on your blog. See this guide for more detailed instructions on enabling ads and placing them in your blog.
 Blogger has a lot of templates to choose from, but you can go a lot deeper and truly make your blog your own. From changing the blog's icon to completely rearranging the site, customizing your blog will help you create a unique brand for your blog.


Click the Layout option in your Blogger menu to adjust the content block son your blog. You can move them around to suit your style.
Click the Edit links in the content blocks to change their titles and other options.
Add more interactivity to your blog by clicking the "Add a gadget" link in the Layout section. You can choose from a variety of add-ons, from basic Blogger-created extensions to hundreds of user-created add-ons.
Customize your template by clicking the Template option in the Blogger menu. You can choose from a variety of preset templates, each of which can be further customized by clicking the orange "Customize" button after selecting them. This will allow you to change backgrounds, content widths, and text options.
If you're comfortable with HTML and CSS, you can dive into the code and create whatever you'd like by clicking the "Edit HTML" option. This will give you full control over the look and feel of your Blogger site, but is likely to be more than most bloggers need.
 The Stats option in the Blogger menu will allow you to monitor the traffic on your blog. You can see which articles are getting read, see where readers are visiting from around the world, track page views over time, and more.


Use your page views to help determine why certain articles are getting read more than others.
Your global audience will help you tailor content to match your audience's specific needs. You can also time your blog post publishing to correspond with the prime reading times for that particular audience.

