 If you have naturally blonde hair or very light brown hair, you can skip the bleaching process. Blue dye will layer over your existing color, so it will hardly show up if you have darker hair. You can find bleaching kits at beauty supply stores, and they will have everything you need to bleach your hair, so they’re great for amateur colorists. The kits will come with bleach powder, developer, a mixing bowl, and a brush. Typically, they will contain a plastic cap and gloves as well., Just like bleach will change the color of your hair, it’ll change the color of any clothing it touches. To be safe, wear a t-shirt you don’t care about while you’re bleaching your hair. The powerful bleach can also irritate skin, so wear plastic gloves during this entire process., First, pour the bleaching powder into your mixing tub. Pour it carefully to ensure that the powder doesn’t scatter. Then add the developer, stirring the two together with the brush. Make sure to get all of the bleaching powder from the bottom and sides of the tub, so that everything is thoroughly blended., The process of bleaching and dying your hair is easiest if you separate your hair into smaller sections. Sectioning out your hair will also ensure you coat your hair thoroughly. The best way to do this is by clipping your hair into four “quadrants” in the front and back of your head.To create these sections, part your hair straight down the middle.
Then, part it again in the other direction, as if you are creating a plus sign.
Keep all of the sections clipped out of the way until you’re ready to work on them.
 Begin by applying bleach to the back sections. Start at the bottom of the strand and carefully apply the bleach moving up the strand. Bleach develops faster when heated, and the roots will bleach faster than the rest of your hair because of your body heat. Keep this in mind, and give the ends of your hair more time to process.Bleach will start processing the moment it makes contact with your hair. For that reason, it’s important to work efficiently.
Make sure that your hair is coated thoroughly with the bleach.
 Let the bleach work its magic. Check out the specific instructions on your bleaching kit to see how long you should let it sit on your hair. However, check on your hair sporadically as the bleach processes. You will be able to see your hair lightening, so check its progress.When it looks like your hair has lifted enough, wash your hair like usual. Be thorough to make sure that you’ve rinsed out all traces of bleach.
 Remember, a bleach kit will only lighten your hair a few levels per usage. Dark hair has to lift through many stages (including an orange stage) to become blonde. If you aren’t satisfied with how light your hair got with one bleaching, you can repeat the process in a few days. It’s important to wait a bit, because bleaching your hair repeatedly will damage it.


If it isn’t the perfect shade of blonde, that is okay. You will be adding blue dye over it, so it doesn’t have to be a flawless platinum. Only repeat the bleaching process if it is still a dark color.
 After bleaching your hair, you may be left with an orange or yellow tone. A toner will help to reduce this brassiness. You may only need to apply the toner on a few strands, or you may need to apply it to your whole head. It depends on what color your hair was when you started, and what color it is after bleaching.Follow the instructions on your toner, and make sure you leave it on for the full time.
A purple shampoo can also tone the hair. Apply it like a normal shampoo, and let it sit on your hair for five to ten minutes.
 Just like jeans, denim hair comes in all shades. You can create a deep, dark wash denim, or a silvery-blue – it is completely up to you. You can keep it simple by sticking with one semi-permanent blue dye, or create a custom look with a mix of blues, grays, and purples. Look for inspiration online – you’ll quickly see that the query “denim hair” turns up all shades!


You can find all sorts of colors at your local beauty supply store. You can find even more hues online!

, If you found a “denim” color that is exactly the shade you want straight from the bottle, you can put that in your mixing bowl and get straight to work. Otherwise, you’ll be creating a custom color in your mixing bowl. You can mix silver and blue semi permanent dye, or dilute dark blue with conditioner to create a light blue color. You can add a splash of purple to add a lavender tone, or even a bit of green. Play around with your dyes until you’ve created a color you’d like for your hair.Make sure you mix up enough of your color to coat all of your hair. You may not be able to create the exact same shade again, unless you carefully write down your ratios of dyes and conditioner.
Remember, the lighter your hair is, the more this color will show up. Semi-permanent dye will simply stain your hair, so it will show up more in white hair than it would in brown hair.
On the same note, the lighter your hair dye is, the less it will show up in your hair. A dark denim color will show up more easily than a very pastel denim color.
 For this step, splitting your hair into a top, middle, and bottom section is fine. The important thing is that you are working with smaller sections at a time, so that you can ensure all of your strands are fully saturated with the dye. Hold sections out of the way with claw or duck bill hair clips.


If you have thick hair, you may need to create more sections.
 Start coating every piece and section of hair that you want dyed. You can brush the dye onto your hair with a dye brush, or you can even apply the dye to your hair directly with your hand. Massage your strands as you apply the blue dye to ensure that they are completely coated.


Use a handheld mirror to ensure you’ve gotten all of the hair in the back, as well.
Unless you want denim-colored hands, wear gloves during this step!

, Let the dye soak into your hair. Check your specific dye for instructions about how long to leave it on. The longer you leave the dye on, however, the more vivid it will be once you rinse it out. Keep in mind that your hair will be about one full shade lighter once you wash and dry your hair., Once the dye has been on your hair for as long as the packaging suggests – or when you’re satisfied with the color – it’s time to rinse. Skip the shampoo. Every time you use shampoo on your colored hair, the color will lighten. Instead, rinse it thoroughly and condition. Let your hair air dry, and then admire your denim hair!, Every time your hair gets wet, particularly every time it gets shampooed, your color will lighten. In other words, try to really limit your hair washing whenever you have dyed hair. Dry shampoo is an excellent way to fight grease and keep your hair looking (and smelling!) clean, without the water., When you do wash your hair, use your conditioner as a way to revitalize your color. Add some of your hair dye to your bottle of conditioner so that it reduces fading by actually depositing more color. When you condition, let it sit on your hair for a few minutes., Hot water actually causes the cuticle of the hair to open. Because the dye is in your cuticle, it will wash the dye straight out. If you really want to maintain your denim hair, cold water will be your best friend. The cuticle of your hair will stay closed, and the color will stay locked in for even longer.