 Dealing with a complaining co-worker is a frustrating situation. Not only is it awkward, it can also make you less productive. If you regularly cope with complaining colleagues, take steps to handle the situation constructively. Try to be kind. Sometimes people just need to vent.
If your co-worker regularly complains of overwork, try saying, "I'm in the same boat. Maybe we could take turns going on caffeine runs for each other."
You can also try complimenting the complainer. Try saying, "Wow, you have been putting in a lot of hours. At least it paid off. I heard your presentation was fantastic." This puts a more positive spin on the situation.
 Remember that complaints are sometimes legitimate. It is possible that the complainer has a real problem. If you can, try to offer your assistance.For example, maybe someone in your office constantly complains about the frigid temperature. If you agree, try suggesting that the two of you talk to your boss about the situation together.
Maybe your colleague feels that she is being treated unfairly by your boss. Try saying, "Have you considered talking to HR about the situation?"
By offering advice, you are showing that you heard the complaint. You are also demonstrating that the problem can be fixed. Hopefully, the person who is complaining will heed your words.
 You might find yourself tuning out every time to talk to someone who regularly complains. But try listening. You might find that by asking questions and participating in the conversation, you can make your interactions more positive.Start with a simple question. Try saying, "What do you think you can do to solve the problem?"
That puts the responsibility of finding a solution on them, not you. But it also indicates that you are listening.
If the person says they don't know what to do, try asking more questions. You could say, "Why don't you spend some time thinking about it? How about we talk again next week if the problem is still happening?"
Make an effort to understand the situation. If the person who is complaining says vague things like, "I hate it here", you can try saying, "Why?"
This response is non-committal, but will allow you to determine if the complaint is valid. Then you can decide whether to devote more of your attention to the situation.
 It can be fun to socialize with your co-workers. Maybe you have a group from your office who regularly gets together for happy hour. But if someone who often complains tags along, that can ruin the whole evening.Kindly but firmly voice your opinion. Try saying something like, "I really don't feel like discussing work after hours."
You can also try gently taking the person aside. You can say, "I know it's helpful to vent, but maybe we could save the work problems for work, ok?"
You can also simply turn to someone else and start a different conversation. Others will likely follow your lead and talk about more pleasant topics.
Using "I" statements, explain your point of view. You can say, "I feel stressed when you talk about how unhappy you are at work."

, Your might feel anxious every time a negative co-worker approaches you. Instead of inwardly rolling your eyes, take control of the situation. You can choose how to direct the conversation.End the complaints before they start. When your co-worker approaches, immediately say something positive.
For example, you could say, "Hey, Betty! I heard you ran a 5k this weekend. Good job!" By starting the conversation on a positive note, you might be able to head off complaints.
If the other person starts to complain, you can end the conversation. Say, "Wow, that sounds frustrating. But I'm on a deadline, so I'm going to have to get back to work right now."

