 Vintage-inspired rings generally have the look of a specific time period. Some may just be vintage- or antique-inspired with no connection to a particular era, but some are specifically connected to a time period.Georgian period rings are nature-inspired, so they have leaves and birds embedded in the designs.
Victorian period rings may have diamonds or opals, which were extremely popular during this time period. The rings may also feature designs with flowers, hearts, and birds.
Art nouveau rings have unique designs with asymmetrical lines and a variety of gemstones.
Edwardian rings are mostly diamonds and platinum. These rings are delicate and graceful.
Art deco rings have sharp lines and geometric shapes. They also often used different colored gemstones, such as emeralds, sapphires, and rubies.
Retro period rings contain chunky, square stones.;
, If you like classic, traditional looks, you may want to get a smooth band. Smooth bands have no embellishment on the band. A smooth band can have simple stone or a more elaborate stone. These bands are often found in art deco, Edwardian, or art nouveau rings.This style will go with just about everything and will match changing styles.
 Floral designs are embellished and very pretty. The metal may have small flowers or leaves on the band. The stone may be in the shape in the flower. These rings are more intricate and not as simple or classic. Floral designs are common in Georgian or Victorian rings.


These rings can be very unique and beautiful. However, they are more intricate than a smooth band and may not be for everyone.
 You may want to go for an intricate band with a design. Some bands are split and crafted into intricate shapes. You may consider an art deco-inspired band with geometric shapes. Some vintage rings have a mosaic of stones embedded into the band.Some bands have engravings, other have cutouts, some are covered in a line of gemstones, and some have open galleries. The style of the detail will depend on the era.
These bands are very unique, but may not fit everyone's style.
 Vintage-inspired engagement rings come in all sorts of settings. Many antique rings were made in shades of gold instead of platinum. Decide if you would like to have a platinum or silver colored band or a gold band.Platinum or white gold look silver in color although the metal is not silver. Yellow gold is the traditional gold color, while rose gold has a slightly pink color to it.
 Diamonds have become the traditional, classic stone choice for engagement rings. Diamonds can be put into any type of ring, and many vintage-inspired rings contain diamonds. Edwardian and Victorian era inspired bands commonly feature diamonds.


Diamond engagement rings are the most common type, so they will be easy to find.
 Though most engagement rings are made with diamonds, you can get vintage-inspired rings made with any stone. Since many antique rings were not made with diamonds, other stones can make your vintage-inspired ring more authentic. Rubies, sapphires, and emeralds are popular choices, as are opals.


If you are buying a vintage or antique ring, the color of the stone may depend on the era style. Opals were popular in the Victorian era, while colored stones were popular in Art Nouveau and Art Deco. If you want to build your own ring, you can choose a stone based on the style of the time.
 Vintage-inspired and antique rings have a variety of cuts of the stones to choose from. Figure out whether you would like one or multiple stones, then if you would like a round, square, rectangular, or other shaped stone.For example, halo set stones are really popular in vintage-inspired rings. The middle stone is surrounded by a line of smaller gemstones, which makes the halo.
Geometric shaped stones are common for art deco and retro rings.
Cushion cut and Old Mine cut stones are common in Victorian, Edwardian, and Georgian style rings.
 You can shop for vintage-inspired or authentic vintage rings online or in shops. Most jewelry stores that sell engagement rings sell vintage-inspired rings. You can also build your own ring by choosing the band, the diamond, and the setting. The store you choose may depend on your price range and the type of ring you want to buy.When choosing a place to purchase your engagement ring, you should research the reputation of the jewelry store. Look up information about the store on the internet, or ask trusted family members, friends, and colleagues about their experiences with the store. When you are researching, think about quality of the stones and durability of the ring.
You can also shop online. This is a good way to expand your choices. You can also find vintage or antique rings online.
When shopping online, only shop from reputable stores. Check out their reviews and their reputation. Make sure they offer free shipping and free returns.
 You should never buy from the first store you go to. You should always shop around to compare prices and styles. Since there are so many different styles to choose from, you should try on different ones and see which you like.If you are buying the ring for yourself, you can shop around in stores to try on rings before you move on to shopping online.
When you are shopping around, ask about the price of the ring, if the stone and the band are separate prices, if they offer a payment plan, and if there is a return policy. You should also ask them their policy on broken rings or stones that come loose. You can also ask them about the quality of the stones.
 As you prepare to buy your engagement ring, decide how much you can afford to pay. New vintage-inspired engagement rings will cost more than actual vintage rings, though some shops will sell vintage rings at inflated prices.Before you even start looking, set a hard price. This will help you focus only on rings you can afford to buy and help you avoid overspending.
For example, if you want to be conservative, you can set a budget at around $2,000. If you want to be more extravagant, you can set a budget of up to $10,000. There are ways you can buy an engagement ring for even less if you are on a strict budget.
 Vintage-inspired, vintage, and antique rings are all different. Vintage-inspired rings are new rings created in the style of the past. Vintage rings are rings that have been worn before and that are between 20 to 99 years old. Antique rings are over 100 years old.The difference between the three will be price, condition, and availability. For example, most jewelry stores will carry vintage-inspired engagement rings. Many of these styles are similar. Depending on what you buy and where you buy it, the antique ring may be cheaper or the vintage-inspired ring may be cheaper.
Antique rings can be harder to find because of how old they are. Actual vintage rings can give you the opportunity to have a more unique engagement ring.

