 Cavaliers should be welcoming to people. They are primarily lapdogs that provide entertainment and comfort.Cavaliers can be great for families with young children. Because of their small stature, there is less chance that your children will be hurt accidentally - as is often the case with large lumbering Labradors. Cavaliers can still bite and scratch, but in general they are easy breeds to handle.
Some dogs are conditioned to fear people. Perhaps, they had a traumatic experience early on in life, which has taught them to fear and even strike out at humans. While this behavior can be corrected, it might be a challenge that you're not keen to take on. When you first visit the dog, present your hand and let it take in your scent. Act friendly and don't invade its space too quickly. Attempt to pet and play with the dog. See how the dog responds. If the dog welcomes your attention, then you probably have found a sociable animal., Many families have more than one dog or more than one animal. If this is your situation, then see how your prospective dog plays with its litter mates or other dogs in its area. Does it show aggressive behavior? Does it sulk by itself in the corner of the pen? Or does it join in the fun and lead the pack? You can learn a lot quickly about an animal temperament by seeing it interact with other animals.


If you plan on entering your Cavalier into shows, it will need to be good around other dogs as well. The last thing you want in this situation is to have a beautiful dog, whose behavior distracts judges from its appearance., Cavaliers are energetic spaniels who love to play and explore the out-of-doors. Individuals considering this breed should be prepared to provide regular exercise to keep their Cavalier healthy. For athletic owners, Cavaliers can gradually be trained to accompany you on long walks or hikes.Inactive, even lethargic Cavaliers are unusual. Normally, a downtrodden Cavalier is a sign of a poor upbringing and could signal later behavioral problems.
Do not interpret fatigue for ill-temperament. Young puppies often sleep a lot and so do older dogs. This should not be interpreted negatively; instead, see if you can gently coax the dog awake. Try to play with it. See if you can encourage it to interact with the other dogs. This will give you a better sense of its personality.