 The first step in choosing your new dog is to start searching online. Online resources, like The Shelter Project, will find shelters in your area and help match you with a dog that meets your specifications. This will help you determine which dogs you are interested in before you go to the shelter., Once you have had a chance to check out the dogs online, you should contact your local shelter or rescue group about visiting the dogs in person. You may find that you do not connect with a dog that you were interested in online. Also, some animals are not listed on the shelter's website, so you may want to see what other options are available in person.Be sure to bring your family members along to meet the animal. Some shelters will not let you take home a dog before everyone in your household has met it.
 When you visit most shelters, the volunteers will ask you to complete an application. Besides your contact information, the application will ask about your living conditions, experience with animals and expectations for the new pet. This will help them get a better idea of what you are looking for so that they can match you with the appropriate dog.Most shelters and rescue groups have their application information on their website. Be sure to check this information before you fill out your application.
If you are renting, the shelter or rescue group may ask that you provide evidence that pets are welcome in your building.
The application may ask that you provide the contact information for your veterinarian.
 Talk to the shelter staff about the medical history of any prospective dogs. Determine if there are any medical issues you need to be aware of. Although the vast majority of shelters and rescue groups spay and neuter their animals, your dog may have a medical condition that prevents it. It is important that you ask in order to make sure you know your responsibilities after adoption.Ask questions like “when was the do last vaccinated?” and “does the dog have any chronic conditions?”

, Once you get an idea of the dog’s medical history, be sure to ask about other things like temperament and any previous owners. Although the staff may not have a lot of specific information about the dog before they received it, they may have an idea of what its situation was like before coming to the shelter. Because they work with the animals daily, they will also be able to fill you in on the temperaments of each dog. This will be valuable information to help you find the perfect dog.


Ask the staff questions like “can you tell me anything about the dog’s previous owner?” or “do you know where the dog was at before it came here?”
You can also ask questions like “which dog is the friendliest?” or “which dogs are the most energetic?”

, Many shelters will allow you to walk the dogs and play with them a little to get a feel for their personalities. Depending on what you are looking for, this is a good opportunity to check out the dog’s energy levels and temperament. This should give you a better idea if the dog is “the one.”


If you want an athletic dog that will go for runs and hikes with you, look for one that runs around a lot and seems eager to play.
Many shelters and rescue groups will have a play area with toys for you to spend some time with potential dogs.
 Once you have picked a dog, you may have to pay a fee and fill out some paperwork. The type of paperwork and size of the fee will differ from shelter to shelter. The paperwork will likely document your adoption and give details about your dog’s medical history. The fees are important because they help the shelter or rescue group meet their expenses and provide proper care for their animals. 