 At its most basic level, rapping is reciting rhyming lyrics over a beat, but good raps use a variety of linguistic devices, such as alliteration, repetition and wordplay. Good raps also have a dynamism and flow that keeps the song interesting while also staying on beat.


Study poetry, literature and music to understand what is possible.
Make a game out of learning to rap by trying to say all your everyday sentences in the form of improvised rap. This will give you fresh ideas and help you develop an instinct for how words flow together.;
, Write about topics you know and care about, but don't be afraid to experiment. Write down any lyrics that come into your head throughout the day, but also spend some time sitting and composing whole songs with several verses, hooks, and a bridge.


Write down as many rhymes and interesting word combinations as you can. Over his career Eminem has collected dozens of boxes of notebooks filled with potential rap lines. You should be able to fill at least one.
 Having the greatest lyrics in the world won't get you anywhere if you can't rap them with confidence, dynamism, flow and charisma. Practice rapping your lyrics loudly and passionately, and as much as possible. Try different speeds, volumes, inflections and places to pause for breath.



Memorize the lyrics of other rappers with great flow, and try singing along. When you think you've mastered them, get the instrumental version of your favorite track and try to rap the song without the original artist's voice to guide you. Then when you can do that, practice the song a cappella.
Figure out what is interesting about your own voice and make the most of it. Don't try to imitate other rappers—capitalize on your own unique sound.
 Listen to famous and influential rap artists and examine their lyrics. Look for the different techniques they use and how they structure their songs. Decide what styles you like and explore them until you have a good understanding of the genre. Learn the references and inside jokes behind many classic rap lyrics.


You can be influenced by other rappers, but don't be an imitator. At a certain point you have to block out everything else and focus on your own music.

