 Empathy with another person conveys warmth, validation, and caring. It is the foundation of healthy relationships, building upon listening and respect. Empathy requires that we contribute our own similar experiences through conversation and reinforce values that we share with the other person. When someone views you as empathetic, they are more likely to confide, trust, and hold you in esteem, the foundational pillars of a good relationship.

Practice empathy, not sympathy: Sympathy is a feeling a sadness inspired when we hear someone else's pain and focus on our own similar tragedies. Empathy keeps the focus on the other person, attempting to listen to and feel her pain, unique from your own.
 Compassion requires self-analysis to examine the causes of our own pain and inspires unwillingness to inflict that same pain on others. It means supporting the right of others to thrive and be happy, even if we do not always agree with their views. At its base level, compassion is an act of kindness that reassures others that we find them worthy and valuable. Try to enact compassion in your own life by:Offer compassion to those who have mistreated you: Perhaps the hardest act of compassion is to someone we are tempted to believe does not deserve it. The best thing to do is to put yourself in the other person's positions and imagine what events they have gone through that have produced the anger and pain they inflict on others. Allow yourself to feel empathy for that pain, and channel it into kindness and tolerance for that person.
Focus on common ground: People are more alike than different. We all thrive on similar things — love, trust, support, belonging. Just because these desires may manifest outwardly in unique ways does not mean that we are unalike. When you find yourself dwelling on difference, try to shift your focus back to similarities by reminding yourself that, like you, this person is seeking happiness, known suffering, seeks safety, and is still learning about the world.
 Reciprocity is an important component of developing strong connections with others.

Think of ways that you can lift a burden from the shoulders of another, if only for a moment. Showing you are there for someone and really care for them can help deepen your relationship.

Offer acts of kindness. For example, you babysit for free when a neighbor needs a night off from the kids, help a friend move, tutor your little sister in math. Do these things with no expectation of payment or reciprocity — do it simply as a kindness.
Do something nice for others. You could give a gift or words of encouragement.
Show support by lending a helping hand or offering to assist in some way.Share responsibilities in roommate or shared housing situations (such as cleaning and paying bills, etc).

