 Setting up Nudge Values will allow you to determine the value of each nudge increment.


Open the Nudge Value menu. In your Pro Tools session, locate the Nudge Value menu by locating the toolbar on the right side of the Main Counter and below the Grid Value menu. Click on the downward arrow to open the Nudge Value menu.
Designate a Timebase in the bottom portion of the Nudge Value menu. You can choose from Bars and Beats, Minutes and Seconds or from your own sample database. Depending on your selection, the Nudge Values menu will update slightly in the top portion of the Nudge Value menu.
Choose your desired Nudge Value based on the Timebase you designated. If you chose Bars and Beats, you can choose your desired bar, note or tempo, but if you chose Minutes and Seconds, you can choose from milliseconds or seconds.;
, Activate the Selector tool by clicking on the third icon from the left shaded blue, directly above the timeline bar. Once the Selector tool is activated, double-click on the region you want to nudge. You may also use the Grabber tool, which is the fourth icon from the left in the shape of a hand and usually a faster method than the Selector tool option, as you will only have to click once.
 Once you have selected your region, use the plus and minus keys on your keyboard to move or nudge the region forwards or backwards within the timeline into its desired place. The value of the nudge move will reflect the nudge value you had chosen earlier; for example if you chose one-eighth note from the Bars and Beats category and you nudge one move forward, your nudge will move forward by a one-eighth note. If you are using a keyboard without the plus and minus keys, use specific keyboard strokes.


On Windows computers, press the Start and Period buttons simultaneously to nudge the region forward. To nudge your region backward, press the Start and Comma buttons simultaneously.
On Macintosh computers, press the Control and Period buttons simultaneously to nudge the region forward. To nudge your region backward, press the Control and Comma buttons simultaneously.

