 This will act as a scratching post for the cat so they won't scratch the grass and pull it out. Make sure the tree isn't too soft so the cat won't destroy it. Growing catnip around the tree will help getting them to scratch the tree. If you can't plant a tree or are worried about your pet damaging a tree, a small children's climbing frame or large cat centre adapted for use outdoors can work as well.;
, Place some bark around the edges of your garden bed. Cats generally don't like to jump up on to prickly surfaces.
 Ensure that you clean this often as debris can get into it. Mosquitoes breed on water, so watch out for them. Cleaning them every few hours is a good idea or disposing of the water when your cat is inside.
 The cat will be happy if there is a door to go inside and out, cats don't want to be locked in or out. Cats change their mind often. Giving them a choice will make them much happier. An electronic cat flap that recognises your cats microchip or electronic is the best to prevent outside intruders (such as neighbouring cats and wild animals) coming in to your house.
 Cats usually don't try to eat chemicals but if they happen to lean against one, they will lick it off and may become poisoned. Make sure you don't lock the cat in the shed. Check for cracks and windows in the shed. The cat may find a way to sneak in and be unable to get out. Try preventing the cat getting into the shed by:


Placing a sheet of corrugated iron over the crack or window.
Spraying a cat repellent around the shed. Tea tree and eucalyptus oil will ward them off.
Planting a strong smelling plant such as capsicum (peppers), chilli or a citrus tree.
 This will prevent them from digging up the grass and your plants. A bare patch of soft soil is ideal for this. To encourage the cat to use this area when it first starts exploring your garden, sprinkle some kitty litter on the the soil.
 Cats may accidentally fall into a pool, catch the fish and use the sandpit like their litter tray. Use netting that has very small holes -- small enough so that the cat cannot stick its paw in. If you are unable to get this kind of netting use a plastic sheet. For fishponds, use a clear plastic sheet.
 This is so if the cat were to get into any trouble at night, you would be able to see what was going on. Cats can be attacked by a neighbouring cat or wild animal at night. Having lights around the garden will help so you can quickly get your cat and deal with the situation.
 If you have many weeds in your garden, ask your local hardware store which chemical to buy that isn't poisonous to pets.
 Cats like to eat some plants but many are poisonous, always check the label to see. If you are unsure, ask your local hardware store.
 Make sure this spot is always clean and shady at all times of the day. Because cats like to hide, try using a small cubby house with a comfortable bed inside. You could even keep the water dish inside. Make sure you clean this area frequently as the cat could be spending most of its in there.
 Protect them from becoming a cat-snack by discouraging them with bird scaring devices. Try not to provide cover for your cat to stalk the birds from. If you enjoy feeding wild birds, you may want to stop to keep the birds safe. Your cat is at risk of getting worms if it eats any wild birds or animals.
 This can be very costly but will keep your cat out of danger. Especially if you live on a busy road and there are other neighbouring cats. Ensure that the fence doesn't have any holes. Cats can fit through very small holes, however, some holes are too small and the cat may suffocate trying to get through. Always check with your local council before installing any fencing.
 Read up on the different things cats are unable to eat and how to treat a wounds on a cat. You emergency kit should include:


Phone number of local vet clinic
Blanket or old towel
Medical records, identification and microchip paperwork
The cats medication
Pet carrier
Blunt scissors
Gauze pads
Bandages
Tweezers (for ticks)
Saline water (washing out wounds)

, Mow the lawn frequently, make sure the cat is inside when you mow the lawn. Remove spider webs and weeds. Remember to wash any paving and dust window sills. Prune big plants and remove fallen branches. Call a pest control company and ask them to check for rats and other pests. Rats can give diseases to cats if bitten, scratched or eaten.

