 Begin by searching on the U.S. Department of Labor’s free scholarship search tool, found here: https://www.careeronestop.org/toolkit/training/find-scholarships.aspx. Try different filters, such as the level of study or the place where you plan to study. Some other scholarship-specific search engines you can use are Fastweb, Scholarships.com and The College Board website.Be creative in the search terms that you use to search for scholarships. Keep in mind that there are thousands of scholarships available for specific circumstances, such as having a certain disability, being part of a minority group, or having a parent in the military., In addition to grants from the federal government, many states offer grants of their own. You can search for grants specific to the state where you’ll be attending college here: https://www.nasfaa.org/State_Financial_Aid_Programs.You can also call or email various education departments in your state directly to ask what type of financial aid they offer. You can search for the contact information for your state here: https://www2.ed.gov/about/contacts/state/index.html.
 Many scholarships are available to those who have a special skill, such as being a fantastic basketball player or golfer, or having amazing grades in a specific subject. Enter specific keywords related to your skill or talent on one of the scholarship-specific search engines to see what scholarships are available.


While some sports scholarships are intended for serious athletes, there are also a few available for those who play recreationally. Don’t give up searching just because you’re not the star of the team! Try entering keywords such as “recreational” or “club” when searching for sports-related scholarships.
 If you have done community service or volunteer projects, you may be eligible for scholarship money. Type in the words "community service" or "volunteer" when searching for scholarships to see the options available to you.
 Various organizations offer scholarships to students of certain ethnicities. To see if you are eligible for any scholarships based on your ethnicity, go to the US Department of Labor’s website here: https://www.careeronestop.org/toolkit/training/find-scholarships.aspx. Then, in the left sidebar, scroll down to "Affiliation Required" and click on "Ethnic Group Membership."

, Some organizations are eager to help members of their community attend college, so they will offer scholarships to students from their area. You can do a quick search online to find the contact information for businesses and organizations in your area, and then reach out to them to see if they offer any opportunities that you may be eligible for.


If you are a member of a particular religious organization, that is a great place to start looking for a scholarship.
When you reach out to a local organization, do not expect that they will offer scholarship money. Be polite, appreciative, and if they do offer a scholarship opportunity, be sure to write down all the details about how you can apply.
 If you are an adult, a single parent, a displaced worker, a returning veteran, or anyone other than a recent high-school graduate, you are considered a non-traditional student. After filling out your FAFSA, search online for scholarships specific to your age, gender, intended career path, and parental status. You can also search online for general scholarships for non-traditional students.