 Alright, it's time for the disclaimer: You must know your limits and you must stop playing when you reach them. Before you begin gambling, determine a dollar amount you can afford to lose as well as an amount you will walk away with should you win. Both are equally important, as they can help you know when to stop gambling.


Getting greedy or betting more than you can afford to lose are the 2 biggest pitfalls while playing slot machines. What can be a fun, relaxing experience can turn into something that'll make you pull your hair out. Proceed with caution.
 Leave credit or debit cards and access to additional funds at home or in your hotel room safe, where you won't be tempted to overspend.


If at all possible, section out your money for the night. Tell yourself you'll only spend a certain amount every half hour. If you're up at the end of that 30 minutes, you get to bank what you profited (and keep going with the original amount!). And if you run out of money, you wait until the next half hour mark rolls around and proceed again. The night will last much, much longer., This will allow you to play the slot machine for longer periods of time and can maximize your gaming experience. If you're going with a budget in mind, buy-a-pays and progressive machines aren't your best bet, literally. Stick to multi-line games or multiplier machines.
 This number indicates how frequently the machines pay out, and the higher the percentage the more likely your chances of winning. These amounts should be clearly displayed on the machines and will range anywhere from 80% to 98% -- the higher the denomination of the machine (1¢ for example), the higher the payout.


Be aware that the payout numbers may apply to a bank of machines as opposed to individual units (like in progressive games), and not all machines in that row will pay out the same. You may need to watch other players gamble for a bit to determine which slots are better options.
For purposes of clarity, that 98% payout means that you'll win 98¢ for every dollar you spend. That is, if you were to spend the greater part of this decade there.

Machines in Vegas are purported to payout more.But remember, this is over the long-term. Machines have the same number of combinations each time you take a turn. If you win or don't win on one spin, you have the same chances of winning or not winning next time.
 Never play with money you've won, because it goes against your beginning strategy of only playing what you predetermined you would spend while gambling. And even though instant gratification is a wonderful thing, you'll feel a lot better walking home with money in your pocket than you would if you simply got to spend an extra 20 minutes at the casino.


When you get home, put your winnings into a jar. The next time you go to the casino, take your bankroll out of that. If there's nothing in the jar after a few times, either cut down what you're spending or cut down on the number of times you go in any given period of time. Or wait until the casino sends you free play in the mail!

