 What better way to put it to use? There are many popular games you can play using a balloon. Some of them you may even know of already. Balloon games include:


"Keep it up": When the balloon is beginning to deflate and it begins to fall instead of float, play "keep it up" with a couple of friends, and "keep it up"! That's right; hit it up in the air, and don't let it hit the ground. Make sure to do it when it is soggy, but not completely deflated.
"Balloon Soccer": Play soccer with your balloon, just make sure not to step on it!
"Volleyballoon": Play volleyball the way you normally would, but with a balloon. This is a great activity for a rainy day of some sort. If you don't have a net, improvise, make a line, and set a goal between two chairs to hit it into.;
, To do this, mix eight cups of flour, two cups of water and one cup of glue, and dip old newspaper strips into it. Lay the gooey paper strips onto the balloon, laying bout three or four layers, and allow it to air dry. Then, when it is dry, paint it different colors and take a swing at it.


A piñata can be kept for a long time until the next party occasion – just add the candies at the time it is going to be used.



This works especially well when you have many colored balloons, so you don't just have one colored confetti.
 Hang the used balloons up and purchase some (safe) darts, and then take aim. Make prizes and give them to those who win. Check out How to create your own balloon dart carnival game for more information.
 Smiles, frowns, and blank expressions all around! Put them on the body of a scarecrow, create a birth certificate, etc. This may not sound like fun until you really get into it. You can even name your balloon and make it a "pet" or a "friend". The possibilities of these blank faces are endless.
 Carefully undo the knot and let the air out. Then follow How to create a stress ball for the instructions on making one from a balloon. Stress balls provide a little light stress relief and it's also therapeutic making them.
 Here the limit is your imagination but as you can see from the image, a lot of incredible things are possible for the artist using balloons as their material.


Read How to get started in balloon modeling for more ideas.
 Make up a pretend story of what will happen to it. Watch it go higher and higher, the balloon you always loved. Only do this with a latex balloons though, as this kind will shatter at the extreme cold temperatures it hits as it floats above and not cause problems for wildlife. Don't use Mylar balloons this way or bunches of balloons.

