 Dogs typically have a lot of energy that they need to expend on a daily basis. So in order to have a happy, healthy life, your dog will need daily exercise. The amount of exercise necessary varies from breed to breed, but most dogs need between 30 minutes to an hour of exercise every day.You could take your dog on walks around the neighborhood, play with your dog in the backyard, or bring your dog to the dog park to run around with some other dogs.
If you don’t have much time for regular daily activity with your pup, you might want to consider taking your dog to a doggie daycare during the day while you’re at work. That way your dog can run around and interact with other dogs while you’re busy at work.
 One of the most important things that your dog needs from you is regular medical attention, including preventative care. This means that you should take your dog to the vet for annual checkups. Even if your dog is not sick, this is still a recommended part of pet ownership.At an annual visit your vet will weigh your dog, listen to its heartbeat, ask you questions about its behavior, and administer vaccinations if you request them.
 Vaccinations are important for dogs, especially if they spend a lot of time outside or around other animals. They can protect your dog against dangerous infections and diseases like rabies, parvovirus, distemper, and hepatitis.Some vaccinations are performed annually, while others are administered once every two to three years.
 If your dog spends much time outside, you need to make sure it has something to protect itself from the elements. Your dog should have a place to go to get out of the rain or to cool off in the shade in the hot summer months.


This is especially important during extreme heat and extreme cold weather.
Build (or purchase) your dog a sturdy doghouse it can use as a retreat when it is outside. Or consider giving your dog access to the space under the deck in your yard, if you have one.
 Dogs have a tendency to get into things they shouldn’t. If you want to keep your dog safe in your home, you need to spend some time getting rid of some of the normal household items you might have around that could harm it. This includes potentially poisonous household plants, chemicals (cleaning supplies, automotive supplies, hair products, etc.), and human foods that can be harmful to dogs.


Some common household plants that are poisonous to dogs include azaleas, wisteria, holly, irises, daffodils, poinsettias, and Easter lilies.Human foods that your dog should not eat include chocolate, coconut, grapes, raisins, nuts, onions, and garlic.