 Determine what your mom enjoys and create a themed basket based on her likes. This is much more personal than a pre-made gift basket or a gift card.Personalize it even more by adding a framed photo and add some flowers for a lovelier appearance.


If your mom needs to relax, create a "spa" basket that includes items likes soaps, lotions, perfumes, and other personal care items.
If your mom has a sweet tooth, create a basket that has all of her favorite candies or snacks.
The cost of the basket will depend on the items you include so go as big or as small as needed based on your budget.
Throwing in something with sentimental value always adds a nice touch.
 Indulging your mom will make her feel good both inside and out.Spa treatments such as manicures, pedicures, massages, or salon days are likely to bring a smile to your mom's face.
 Treat your mom to a day or evening of new activities that are based on her likes. Scheduling a new and exciting adventure will show your mom that you care enough to plan an amazing experience.


Try taking her to a new restaurant she's been wanting to try.
Get dressed up and go to the ballet or opera.
Try something neither of you have tried before. For example, instead of giving a bouquet of flowers, why not make one together?, Instead of buying a plain, generic piece of jewelry, try having something custom made to suit your mom's personality and taste. You have to not only think about her jewelry preferences (bracelets, rings, gold, silver, etc.), but you also have to keep her interests in mind.


For example, charm bracelets offer a lot of personalization because many jewelers have charms to represent everything including religion, sports, music, dance, and more.
If you have siblings you can purchase a piece that includes the birthstones of all her children.
Shop at smaller farmer's markets or online to find one-of-a-kind pieces; some can even be hand-pressed and personalized.
 It may seem cliche but many women still enjoy receiving flowers as a sign of appreciation. The hardest part will be determining what type of blooms your mother would best enjoy.


Visit a florist to determine the florist's style, specialties, to ask questions, and to see the bouquets in person.
No flowers really "clash" with each other so don't worry about choosing "ugly" flowers. Instead, choose blooms based on your mother's favorite colors or smells.Bouquets normally only last 4-5 days so be prepared to put in a little work to make them last longer. Change the water daily, make sure the stems are cut at an angle, and add sugar or aspirin to the water to extend the life.