 Lightly coat a 9-inch by 9-inch (23-cm by 23-cm) square baking dish with nonstick cooking spray.
 Place the oats, almonds, buckwheat, and sunflower seeds in a bowl and stir well to distribute evenly. Add the canola oil, honey, salt, cinnamon, and vanilla extract to the mixture and continue stirring until all the grains, nuts, and seeds are coated well.


Do not add the coconut or the dried fruit yet.
Stir the ingredients together using a wooden mixing spoon or spatula.
Note that if you combine the ingredients in an oven-safe glass or metal bowl, you do not need to use a separate square baking dish. Instead, the granola can be cooked in the bowl itself.
 Pour the granola into your baking dish, spreading it out evenly and patting it down gently yet firmly.
 This can take over an hour depending on how tightly packed the granola is. You will need to keep an eye on it every 15 minutes or so after the first 30 minutes.


Additionally, you should stir the granola every 30 minutes with a wooden mixing spoon.If you do not, some of the granola may cook while other sections of it may not.
 After pulling the granola out of the oven, stir in the coconut and dried fruit if you decide to add them. These additional elements should be thoroughly distributed throughout the mixture.


The coconut and dried fruit will end up becoming lightly toasted once you stir them into the hot ingredients. Since the coconut and fruit are both more sensitive than the other ingredients, it is better to toast them this way than alongside the rest of the granola, since the fruit and coconut will burn before the other ingredients finish cooking.
 Stir the granola every 30 minutes or so as it cools. After it cools completely, it is ready to enjoy or to save.


Note that the granola will end up sticking to the bottom of the pan and sticking together in clusters as it cools. This will happen regardless of how often you stir it, but stirring it as it cools will prevent the whole thing from sticking together.
If saving the granola, place it in an airtight jar and keep it for a week or so.

