 Before you can start the paper work and filing process for your LLC you will need to think of a name that you will use for it. The name can be almost anything you would like. However, there are some limits and regulations that must be included in the name you choose for your LLC.You must include “LLC” or “Limited Liability Company” in your company name.
Restricted words such as “bank” or “engineering” will require you to fill out additional forms for those enterprises.
Some words such as “FBI” are prohibited to include in your LLC's name.
Your name must be different from all LLC's already existing in Oregon.
You can search for names that are already taken at http://egov.sos.state.or.us/br/pkg_web_name_srch_inq.login
;
, Oregon requires that you have a registered agent when you apply for an LLC. A registered agent will be the one who handles legal paper work for you if your LLC comes into any legal issues. Review the following requirements for your registered agent when applying for your LLC:You will need a street address for your registered agent.
Any individual or registered business can serve as your registered agent.
You must have consent on behalf of your registered agent.
 You will be required to submit articles of organization when filling for your LLC in the state of Oregon. These articles will include identifying information about your LLC and will be public record once filed. Gather the following information for your articles of organization:Name of the company
How long your company will exist.
Your registered agent.
The registered agent's street address.
Address to receive notifications.
Name and address of those forming the business.
How your LLC will be managed (member manged or manger manged).
Any licenses for professional services being offered.
 There is a mandatory fee involved in filing for your LLC. The fee itself will vary depending on your use of outside services to file your paperwork. However, filing the paper work yourself will result in a one time non-refundable fee.Be ready to pay a $100.00 filing fee to Oregon's Secretary of State.
If you hired the service of a filing company you will need to pay their own unique fees.
 If you plan on hiring others to work for your LLC or have more than one member you will need to apply for a federal employer identification number. This number will allow you to comply with federal tax laws and is sometimes necessary when opening bank accounts for your LLC.


You can apply online at https://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Small-Businesses-&-Self-Employed/Apply-for-an-Employer-Identification-Number-%28EIN%29-Online


, If your business plan calls for employees and you have obtained your LLC you can start to hire employees. There are however certain legal requirements that you will have to meet when you have employees working for you. Review some of the following requirements to understand what is involved when hiring employees to work for your LLC:You must withhold income taxes from their pay.
Employees must be legally eligible to work in the United States of America.
You must meet state requirements in regards to income levels.
Various forms of insurance will need to be provided for your employees.
 You may need to acquire licenses depending on the nature and location of your business. You will need to check directly with local governments to learn more about any licensing requirements that they might demand from you when starting your LLC.Check with local and state governments to learn if your business requires any licenses.
You can also check on-line at https://apps.oregon.gov/sos/licensedirectory


, Any and all LLC's that are working with or within the state of Oregon must file an annual report with the Oregon Secretary of State. These reports must be filed each year and should be submitted just before the date your LLC was founded on. These reports must be filed on-line.File on-line at http://egov.sos.state.or.us/br/pkg_br1_web_rnewl.login

You will need to enter your registry number to begin the process.
Filling your annual report late will result in late fees.
The standard filing fee is $100 dollars for domestic LLCs. Foreign LLCs will pay $275 in fees.

