 Skye has shiny, long, wavy blonde hair, Tiffany box-blue eyes, and clear, tanned skin.


If your hair is not already long, get extensions. If you can't afford them, get the clip-on kind. Dye your hair blonde if it isn't already. It's fine if you want to keep your hair the way it is- whatever looks best on you. Use a good-quality curling iron to get cute curls, but be sure to apply heat-protectant to your ends, first. Try using a clamp-free one, or just wrap your hair around the barrel of the iron instead of using the clamp. You're aiming for a cute, beachy curl, more of a tight wave than a perfect ringlet. Flip your head upside down and back up, then arrange your curls with your fingers. Use good shampoo to make your hair glisten, and good conditioner to make your hair smooth and tangle-free. Use cold water and a teaspoon of vinegar while shampooing to make your hair ultra-shiny. But remember, being like her isn't all about pretty appearance. You just need the alpha confidence.
If you don't have blue eyes and you want them, get a good pair of contacts.
Use a good zit treatment to keep your skin from any potential breakouts. If you have dry skin though use a good moisturiser and cleansing soap. Put on some good sunscreen too! To get a healthy, glowing tan, use self-tanning lotion or spray, or go to a spray-tanning salon. Bronzer is a good option also. (In small amounts.) Don't cake bronzer on. You'll look over done, and the opposite of the fresh, pretty look that we're going for. Too much self tanner might turn you orange. You really don't want to look like Lindsay Lohan. Trust me. Tanning from the sun can be dangerous. And NEVER EVER go to a tanning booth!! They cause premature skin aging, wrinkles, age spots, and skin cancer. It is not worth risking your health to be tan! Use very light, natural colored makeup. Bronze or tan-colored eyeshadow is good. Use one or two coats of mascara. Make sure it doesn't clump. If it does, buy a non-clump mascara or invest in a high-quality eyelash comb. Also have a few tubes of lipgloss on you. If you have a few blemishes, it's best to let your skin breathe instead of covering it with makeup. But, if your skin is noticeably uneven, Bare Minerals is perfect for foundation, it looks great but doesn't clog pores.;
, Skye's wardrobe is absolutely AMAZING. Her parents own a dance boutique, so she gets clothes from there for free. Shop at the cutest boutique near you. Skye is also known for her glamour-dance style- Aka dancey couture. Cute, dance pieces paired with adorable details, such as a mini-tutu over a pair of super-skinny jeans, legwarmers, a decorative tiara, etc. If you want want something a little less bold, try a pair of cute black yoga/dance pants and a baby pink or sky blue ballet tee. All of these pieces can add some Skye to you. Skye is a dancer, but if you aren't, you can add something from your sport to your wardrobe if you would like. She also has a few expensive designer pieces, such as Coach handbags, Juicy sweats, Prada shirts, etc. So, if you can afford it, add some designer items into your wardrobe. Also, try to add a bit of your own style to your outfits and Skye's style.
 Skye's attitude is a lot sweeter than Massie's, but she can be tricky when she wants to. Be nice to everyone you can possibly stand to be nice to. But, if someone makes you mad, don't be afraid to snap a little. Skye is also very flirty and has kissed a long list of boys, multiple times. If a guy gives you a ride, give him a Hershey's kiss.
 She is the leader of the DSL Daters, known for their super fast connections with boys. Find five other girls that are already close with you and popular (It helps if you all have something in common, like the same hair color) and gain their respect and devotion. They'll make you their leader... their alpha.
 Sign up for as many different types of dance as you are able too, such as ballet, modern, jazz, hip hop, tap, and any other type you enjoy!

