 Wash one fresh pineapple and use a sharp knife to carefully slice off the top and bottom ends of the pineapple. Slice away the prickly peel and set the pineapple on its side. Slice the pineapple into rings and use a pastry cutter to stamp out the cores from each ring. You should get about 1 pound (453 g) of prepared pineapple rings.If you'd like to save time, you can use canned pineapple rings instead of cutting up the fresh fruit.
You can also slice the pineapple into cubes. You can cut the pineapple rings or cubes as thick as you'd like.;
, Put the pineapple rings in a saucepan. Pour enough water to cover the pineapple and turn the heat on to medium-high. When the water begins to boil, turn the heat down so it's bubbling gently. Simmer the pineapple until it's soft. Check the pineapple after it's simmered for 5 minutes., Scoop out the softened pineapple and arrange it in a shallow baking dish. Leave 1 cup (240 ml) of the water in the saucepan or add enough water to make 1 cup (240 ml). Add 1/2 cup (100 g) of the sugar and 1/2 cup (155 g) of corn syrup. Stir the mixture well and heat it over medium. The syrup should begin to boil and the sugar will dissolve.It's important to use the corn syrup. Because corn syrup is an invert sugar, it will prevent the glaceed pineapple from crystallizing.
 Carefully pour the hot syrup directly over the pineapple in the shallow baking dish. The fruit should be covered with the syrup. Cover the dish with plastic wrap and let it sit out at room temperature overnight., The next day, remove the cover from the baking dish and pour the syrup into a saucepan. Stir in 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar and turn the heat to medium. Once the syrup boils and the new sugar dissolves pour it back over the pineapple. Cover it again and leave it to soak overnight., Continue to heat the syrup with an additional 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar every day. You'll need to pour it over the pineapple and let it rest overnight. Do this for 5 more days.At this point, you will have been working on the glace pineapple for one week.
 Pour the syrup back into the saucepan and stir in another 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar. Bring the syrup to a boil and add the pineapple rings. Turn down the heat to medium-low and simmer the pineapple for 3 minutes. Return the pineapple to the dish and cover it. Let it sit for 2 days., Heat the syrup with an extra 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar until it boils. Add the pineapple and turn the heat down to medium low. Simmer the pineapple for 3 minutes and then pour it all back into the dish. Cover and let the pineapple sit for 10 days to 3 weeks.The syrup will begin to look golden and thin, like honey, at this point.
 Once the pineapple has soaked for an extended period of time, lift the pineapple out of the dish. Place a wire rack over a baking tray and lay the pineapple on the rack. To dry the pineapple, leave it in a warm place or use a dehydrator. You can also dry the pineapple in the oven. The finished pineapple should be shiny, not sticky.Store the glaceed pineapple in an airtight container in the refrigerator. The preserved pineapple will keep for several weeks.
To dry the pineapple in the oven turn the heat to the lowest setting. Put the pineapple in the oven for a couple of hours so it's no longer sticky.

