 Open up a spreadsheet program like Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets and create a document just for your bills. Make rows and columns for the types of bills and their due dates and other necessary information. You can also make a handwritten document if you prefer to.


Make these essential column categories for each bill: bill name, due date, balance, minimum payment, date received, and date paid. You can also keep track of what the interest rate or late fees are if you don’t pay the full balance on an account.
If you have auto-pay set up for an account, make note of this in your spreadsheet, along with what day funds are automatically taken out of your account.
Add a column for a confirmation number or check number, which you can enter after you pay a bill. This allows you to easily reference the payment if you encounter any problems.
 Organize the bills in your spreadsheet and the physical bills in your files according to due date, with the first due first or on top. This will help ensure that when you sit down to make payments, you’ll be addressing the bills that need to be paid soonest.


In a spreadsheet, you can select all of your cells, then use the “sort” feature to select your “due date” column and how you wish to sort it (lowest to highest, numerically).
Provide a “cushion” for the due date of your bills, and record the day you will actually make a payment. Pay electronic bills as soon as they’re posted or a few days before the due date so you don’t forget. If you’re mailing in a bill, subtract 7 days from the due date provided to account for the time it takes to ship and be processed., Use a free application or paid software to organize and pay your bills if you have trouble doing so on your own. Bill pay software can be set up through your bank, company, or applications you download yourself.


Use a free app or service like Finovera.com, Check.me, or MoneyStream.com.Or try paid software like Quicken or Pear Budget for more robust bill organizing capabilities.

