 When you are potty training your Great Dane puppy, you need to start as early as possible when you bring him home. Start by designating a specific place in your back yard that will be his toilet place. Take him there every 20 to 30 minutes at first, changing to once an hour as he gets older. When he uses it, praise him and give him affection and attention. This will help your Great Dane think about your praise of him when he needs to use the bathroom, which will make him more likely to repeat his good behavior.


Make sure you praise him every time he potties in the right place.
To properly potty train your Great Dane, keep a watch on him all the time while he is indoors. This means you need to follow him around, keep him in his crate while you go out, or keep him on a leash.
If your dog does mess in the house on accident, make sure you clean the area extremely well to remove the smell. This will make sure he will not return to mark the same territory again., Clicker training is a great way of designating desired behavior for your Great Dane. It will also help him know what he is being rewarded for. Clicker training works by linking the click-clack of the clicker to him getting a reward for his behavior.When you get the desired action from your Great Dane, use the clicker to reinforce it.
For example, when teaching your Great Dane to "sit", press the clicker as soon as your dog's bottom hits the ground. , Crate training will give your dog a small room of his own. Start with a crate large enough for your Great Dane puppy to walk around. Put a comfortable bed in his crate along with a water bowl and some toys. Keep your puppy in here when you have to leave to discourage messing in the house or chewing things he shouldn't.


To get your Great Dane used to the crate, close the door when he goes inside. Leave him in the crate for short periods of time, gradually increasing them until he can stay there for hours without whining. Give him lots of praise when he sits in there well.
To help him associate his crate with happy things, give him treats or a toy when you keep him in there.
As he grows, the crate will need to be bigger. If you don't want to buy another crate as he grows, buy a large crate to begin with. It should be large enough for him not to bang his head and long enough for him to lie down., To ensure your Great Dane behaves himself, he needs to learn to obey basic commands such as "Sit", "Stay", and "Come". If your Great Dane obeys these as soon as you give them, you can control him in pretty much any situation.Try using food, small treats, or other foods to help train your dog.


For example, put a treat in your hand. Let your Great Dane know you have it. Use the hand with the treat to lure his head upwards until his bottom naturally hits the ground.. As you put his bottom on the ground, say firmly and calmly "Sit". You can also press the clicker as soon as his bottom hits the floor. Then give him the treat.Similar methods work for other basic commands.

