 The basic principle of recording EVP is that you record yourself asking questions much as you would when using a Ouija board, and then listen back for audio cues that the spirits were answering out loud. It can be an intense experience to listen back over these sessions.


The H1 Zoom mic is a professional-quality handheld recorder that musicians and other people want to use to record spontaneous audio that sounds clear and clean. Cellphone recorders are also good for this kind of recording.
You want to make sure you can turn up the recording sensitivity to a very high level. EVP works best when it records things that are sub-aural for us to hear in the moment, catching things we might miss when we're present. A recorder that has an ultra-sensitive recording setting would be ideal.
 Finding a place with a lot of psychic residue would be a good candidate for trying to record EVP. Newer buildings and locations like shopping malls or housing developments will be less valuable for this activity, because they just don't have the kind of history that an old church, hospital, or library has.


If you live in a house that's more than 50 years old, give it a shot. If you don't it might be worth trying to hold an EVP session elsewhere.
 You should go through the same sort of process you might go through any time you try to connect to the great beyond: eliminate any distracts, unplug the clocks, make it as quiet as possible to get the highest-quality recording you can get. After you hit record, start talking:


"Is there any benevolent spirit here who might be interested in talking?"

, If you know anything about particular hauntings in the area you're researching, or anything about the history of the area, you might try asking specific questions or more general questions of the spiritual world that you're trying to get in touch with. You might try asking:


"What do you want?"
"Why are you here?"
"What would you like us to know?"
"Who are you?"
"Is there anything we can do for you?"

, While you're in the middle of recording, try to pay attention to any sensations you might be experiencing, emotional or physical. Make note of them in the recording itself for comparison afterward. Pay particular attention to:


Cold and warm spots
Tingles or prickles on the back of your neck
Feelings of apprehension
Any sounds or whispers you hear

, Leave the location by closing the conversation as you would any time you're communicating, with a brief salutation and thanks. Leave the location immediately and go to either a comfortable location or back to your house. Turn the lights back on and make it comfortable and as un-spooky as possible to listen.


Turn up the silent parts as loud as they'll go and listen closely. If you can look at the recording on the computer, pay attention to any spikes you see to know where to look more closely. Isolate those places in the recording and try to decipher what they say.

