 One way you can start working through your BDD is to write in a journal. Write down all your thoughts about your body and the emotions you connect with your body in a journal. Also, write down any behaviors related to your body image and health.


This will help you recognize any negative thought patterns and behaviors. Knowing these will help you change the way you view your body and think about your body image., When you are suffering from BDD, you may feel compelled to avoid socializing with your friends and family. This typically stems from fears about how you look in relation to others. Try to avoid this feeling and convince yourself to be around others.Do this slowly. Try to go to one outing every week or two at first. Then you can work up to going more than that.
Your friends and family can provide much-needed support during your treatment and help bolster your self-esteem.
 As you go through CBT, you will work with your therapist to figure out behavioral changes that will help you recover from your BDD. Make sure you stick to these exercises to make sure that you are moving forward with your treatment.


Your therapist will give you homework to do during your sessions, so make sure you do everything that he or she tells you to do so you can get better.
For example, your therapist will give you exercises where you have to learn to look at the big picture when you look in the mirror instead of focusing on the flaws., When you are suffering from BDD, your will constantly focus on the negatives in your appearance. As part of your recovery, start listing the positive things about yourself instead of the negatives. This will help you learn to love things about yourself and improve your self-esteem.


You also need to stop expecting unrealistic perfection from your appearance. This will only lead you to obsess more about your appearance., When dealing with BDD, you will likely go through periods of depression or sadness. During these downswings, avoid making life decisions or deciding anything that will greatly impact you or others. You are not thinking clearly during these times.


You may regret these decision later when you are thinking clearly., When you are working through your BDD, you may feel anxious about your life or worried about your body. To help reduce this, start practicing stress-relieving techniques every day.


This includes meditation, muscle relaxation techniques, deep breathing exercises, or anything else that helps you calm your nerves.