 Clear your backpack of any items that could be damaged by water while washing your backpack. To help clear out small debris and crumbs in the bottom of the backpack, try turning the backpack inside out and use a handheld vacuum to clear hard to reach nooks and crannies.Leave the backpack's pockets unzipped and open once you are finished vacuuming, so all areas of the bag can get cleaned during washing.


To help keep all of your belongings together, try placing your items in a small plastic bag right away, so you keep everything in one, safe, space.
If any of your bag items are dirty, now would be a good time to wipe those down as well. After all, it doesn't make sense to put dirty items into a clean bag.
 Wipe off any loose dirt or dust from the outside of the bag. After the surface dirt is removed from the bag, use a damp cloth to wipe the bag again, clearing any more dirt or dust still remaining on the bag’s surface. This will ensure that no large, solid dirt mixes in with the water you intend to use for cleaning the bag.Remove any metal frames from the backpack before washing the bag.
Any detachable pockets and straps should be removed and cleaned separately from the main bag. This is because they are smaller in size, and they could get caught in the wash machine, and cause damage.
Cut away threads near the zippers. Threading tends to fray near the zippers, causing snags and rips in the backpack material.
 Almost every backpack has a label with care instructions for cleaning the bag. The care labels for backpacks usually have recommended information on washing and drying the bag, so you can clean your bag in the best way possible for the bag material and attachments, while maintaining its features of sustainability – like remaining water proof. You can find the care label inside of the backpack, normally in the biggest storage section along a side seam.


Harsh cleaning agents and overly rough cleaning practices could damage your backpack, and its capability to repel water, so follow the cleaning guidelines that come with your bag. When in doubt, use gentle cleansers on the wash machine gentle cleansing cycle, or gently wash the backpack by hand.
Most backpacks are made from canvas or nylon which normally makes them machine washer safe.
 Add any pre treatment stain remover of your choice to any stained areas of the backpack, but avoid using bleach. Scrub away stain residue with a soft brush (an old toothbrush), and let the stain treatment sit for about 30 minutes. The stains should rinse right off when you actually wash the bag.


A 50:50 solution of liquid detergent and water can work as a pre treatment for stains if you don't have any pre treatment at the house. Just dip a small toothbrush into the solution and scrub away at the stains.
 Place the backpack in an old pillowcase or laundry sack, and place the pillowcase/laundry sack with the backpack in the wash machine. Add a small amount (1-2 tbsp) of gentle detergent as the washer fills with water. Wash the backpack in cold or lukewarm water, using the washer’s delicate or gentle cycle.Once the cycle is finished, take the backpack out of its covering, and wipe down outside and inside compartments of the backpack.


The pillowcase helps to stop the straps and zippers from getting caught in the machine, and damaging both bag and machine.Alternatively, you can turn the backpack inside out.
The backpack may bunch up frequently during the spin cycle. Be sure to move the bag and spread it out to keep the wash machine from getting unbalanced and lopsided as it washes your bag. Once the bag is spread out, restart the cycle., Naturally dry the backpack outside or hanging up inside rather than drying it in a dryer. Allow the pockets to remain unzipped, so the bag can dry thoroughly and evenly.


Make sure the backpack is completely dry before the next use or storing it away. Leaving the bag wet can increase the chances of mold growing on the bag.

