 You can choose a solid color that ties in with the shirt, or get even funkier by wearing a cardigan with stripes or some other pattern. This look is casual yet stylish and looks great paired with regular jeans, skinny jeans or tights.


Wearing a cardigan open can also accentuate a bold necklace or scarf.
This versatile look can be styled many different ways. You can make it more casual by wearing it sneakers or amp up the style by wearing sleek ankle boots.
 A bold pattern can be softened with a cardigan in a solid, basic color like black. If you’re wearing garments with a stiff fit or sharp angles, a lightweight cotton cardigan with soft lines can relax the look.


Go from a day look to an evening look quickly by removing the cardigan.
 Create a casual but sophisticated look by wearing a lightweight, fitted cardigan in a neutral color by itself. If it buttons all the way up to the collarbone, leave the top button open so that it will be comfortable and breathable.
 Classic hip-length and cropped cardigans on top of the skirt of your choice creates a very 50s retro vibe. This look can be dressed up or down. Almost any skirt you choose will look great, whether it’s ruffled, tiered, long, short, pencil or otherwise. Experiment with a bohemian look by pairing a solid-colored cardigan with a bright turtleneck. Round out the boho look with a chunky, beaded necklace.Add another vintage-looking element by wearing a brooch on the cardigan. Place it on the right or left side of the chest for a traditional look. You could also close a button-less wrap cardigan with a brooch.
Create a 70s vibe by wearing a casual cardigan over a ruffled blouse with a pair of flare-legged jeans. Take this look a step further by topping it off with a big, floppy hat or by adding a pair of clogs.
 The wilder the pattern, the simpler the rest of the outfit and accessories should be. Wear a boldly patterned cardigan with garments that are solid colors.


For instance, you could wear a funky patterned cardigan with a pair of slim-fitting black jeans, black shoes and black sunglasses.
 Dressy cardigans can feature unusual, eye-catching details like lace sleeves, a double-breasted fit, ornate buttons and so on. They are rarely oversized, since form-fitting pieces tend to look more elegant.


You can also dress up a basic outfit by choosing a longer cardigan with a coat-like fit. These have a very polished look and can spruce up an outfit as basic as a t-shirt with jeans.
 For a sleek look or to create the illusion of a waist, place the belt around the thinnest part of your waist. Go with a skinny belt, which looks very polished, or a wide fashion belt for a chic look. When pairing with a belt, the cardigan can be either buttoned or unbuttoned.


Aside from a traditional cardigan, you could also go with an open cardigan, which has no buttons. This can create a very smooth look.
If you want to try something a little different, wrap a long sash or scarf around your waist instead of a regular belt.

