 This method may not work on self-adhesive envelopes, since the glue used (typically latex) is not water-soluble. If you don't know which type of envelope you're handling, use a small amount of steam to test the method without much risk of damaging the paper and ink.
 Pour boiling water into a narrow cup. This won't produce much steam, but is a recommended starting point for beginners to reduce the risk of damage to the paper. If it doesn't work, the steps below will move on to more powerful, riskier methods.


If the envelope ink looks wet or starts to run, remove from the steam and try another method.
 Warm a tongue depressor, butter knife, or other flat, blunt tool in the steam for ten seconds, then wipe off the water droplets. This prevents the steam on the envelope flap from condensing around a cold tool, which can cause water damage to the paper and ink., Place the warm tool against the corner of the flap. Hold this corner directly in the path of the steam. Move the envelope gently against the tip of the tool, pausing whenever you feel resistance. The tool should stay in place, so the area you're working on always remains in the steam. As you work, rotate the envelope so the freed flap doesn't touch the envelope again and reattach.A smooth, continuous motion is less likely to leave wrinkles, but involves a higher risk of damage if you are not experienced at this task.
 If the gentle steam is not enough to do the job, try keeping a water-filled kettle on to produce a constant jet of hot steam. Repeat the steps above to open the envelope in this hotter steam jet. Move quickly but carefully, as too much steam can wrinkle or dampen the paper.


Wear an oven mitt to protect your hands.
If your kettle doesn't produce a focused jet, stick a spoon or other heat-safe object into the spout to narrow the opening., Wait for the envelope to cool and dry before replacing the contents. If the envelope's paper or its contents become wrinkly after drying, cover with a dry cloth and use an iron on the lowest possible setting over the cloth, to smooth the paper out again.
 You could also try freezing the envelope for a couple hours; some glues will become sticky again once frozen.

