 If you choose not to tell your crush about your feelings, or if you do but he or she doesn’t reciprocate them, you may find yourself feeling pretty down. These feelings are perfectly normal, but don’t allow them to skew your sense of self value.Make a list of the traits you have that a dating prospect would find valuable or attractive to remind you of your romantic strengths.
Remember that not being right for one person doesn’t mean you aren’t a great catch!

, It’s important that you not just bottle up your negative emotions. Find an outlet that you can use to safely express your feelings without any social fallout or embarrassment.Try writing in a journal on your laptop. Get your feelings out in words to help you better understand and cope with them.
If you feel like you need to cry, you should. Letting it out can make you feel much better and release tension that has built up throughout your interactions with your friend and crush.
Dancing, exercising, drawing or any number of other things can serve as a creative way to express your emotions. Keep trying until you find one that fits you.
 Sometimes when we’re upset we make bad decisions; that’s part of being human, but don’t allow your bad feelings to lead you to make choices you know are harmful or destructive.Drinking and drugs may seem like they’ll help, but they often just make you feel worse in the long run. They can also lead to addiction and serious health issues.
It’s okay to spend some time lying on the couch and stress-eating, but don’t allow yourself to stay there for too long. Eating fattening foods and not getting any exercise can make you feel worse instead of better.
 When you’re hurting, sometimes the best thing you can do is reach out to a friend or family member. Having a shoulder to cry on or a friendly ear to vent to can make a huge difference in how you feel when going through a difficult romantic situation.Focus on you and how you feel instead of discussing your friend or crush. Don’t put mutual friends in a difficult position by making them feel as though they need to choose sides.
You may feel embarrassed about the situation, but speaking to others can help you appreciate that heartache affects us all and there’s nothing to be ashamed of.

