 Buy a quality whole bean coffee and grind it in a “burr” coffee grinder on an espresso (very fine) setting. Aim for a consistency close to that of table salt.Avoid buying pre-ground coffee or coffee beans that have been ground too far in advance of using them. Grind them right before brewing for the freshest coffee and best taste.
To achieve the same authentic taste as a Starbucks espresso, try buying their signature espresso roast from a Starbucks location or grocery store.
A specific espresso roast is not a requirement to make espresso, but whatever type of roast you do use needs to be very finely ground. An espresso roast is usually an oilier bean, which can make the fine grinding process smoother.;
, Pour your ground coffee into the portafilter (the handled tool with a basket for holding grounds) that came with your machine.


A single shot is typically made with 1 ounce (2 tablespoons) of grounds. This is the quantity in a Short or Tall size Starbucks beverage, unless you ask for more.
A double shot is typically made with 2 ounces (4 tablespoons) of grounds. This is the quantity in a Grande or Venti size Starbucks beverage, unless you ask for more or less.
A triple shot is typically made with 2 ounces (6 tablespoons) of grounds. This is the quantity in a Trenta size Starbucks beverage, unless you ask for less.
 Tap your grounds down gently with a finger, then apply an even downward pressure to the grounds with a tamper that you have for your machine. The tamper should be at least 30 pounds and fit the basket snugly.This step compacts the grounds so that water can’t get through as easily, forcing it to interact with the coffee.
Use a tamper of a higher weight if you prefer.
 Add cold, filtered water to the water reservoir of your machine and lock the portafilter into the grouphead of the machine. Put a cup under the spout where the extracted coffee will pour out.


Depending on your machine, you may be able to make other adjustments, like water temperature. Ideal temperature for extracting espresso is 195-205 degrees Fahrenheit.Use a small cup meant for espresso called a demitasse cup under the machine if you want to enjoy espresso on its own, or a larger cup or mug of your desired size if you plan to make additions for another beverage that uses espresso.
 Set your machine to begin brewing, which will vary based on your machine. No matter the amount of grounds you used, the process should take about 20-30 seconds to complete.


If you use a clear cup or shot glass, you can observe the different parts of a successful espresso: crema (the top layer that is light in color and foamy), body (the middle layer of dark brown), and heart (the bottom layer that is darker brown or black).