
The point of networking is to meet a wide range of people who share your interests; therefore, don’t limit yourself by joining only one professional networking Web site. You want your business network to continuously grow, so why not join a few sites? However, keep in mind that you must be able to maintain a sufficient activity level on each site you join. For that reason, don’t create more accounts than you can regularly manage.;
,
Once you create an account, don’t just stop there. Take the time to create a good profile that will appropriately promote your business or you as a professional. Be informative and thorough. After all, other users will develop their first impressions of you or your business based on your profile. So, whether or not they add you to their network will depend on if they like what they see.

If you know some people who are members of the business networking site(s) you just joined, add them to your contact list. The people you already know are your gateway. Through them, you can make new connections and further develop your business network.

The success of your business network is in your hands. If you see someone you would like to make contact with, introduce yourself and request to be added to their network. There’s no benefit in waiting for them to make the first move.

Joining the right groups can help you meet the right people. Take the time to research a number of groups. Read forum comments to get a grasp of what the group is about. If members of the group share your interests, then join the group. Belonging to groups will not only help you get noticed, but it will also provide you with the opportunity to introduce yourself to the users you are interested in meeting.

Participating in forums or Q&A sessions does not mean simply providing your insights. Although responding to other people’s comments or questions is a great way to interact with others and develop new relationships, asking questions is also important. Voicing your inquiries invites people to converse with you, whether they have an answer to your questions or are awaiting a response to similar questions.

Always make sure the information on your profile is up-to-date. This especially applies to your contact information. It is also a good idea to freshen up your content from time to time and/or start a blog. New content gives other users a reason to revisit your profile.

