 Measure 1 cup (236 ml) of whole milk, 2 cups (470 ml) of heavy cream, 1/6 cup (33 g) of the sugar, 2 pinches of salt, and 1 teaspoon of vanilla. Place the ice cream base ingredients in a saucepan and set it aside.It's important to use whole milk, so your ice cream sets up properly.;
, Get out a large mixing bowl and place 5 egg yolks in it. Add the remaining 1/6 cup (33 g) of granulated sugar and whisk the mixture well. Whisk in 3/4 cup (180 ml) of cotton candy syrup.You can discard or save the egg whites for another recipe.
You can buy cotton candy syrup at some grocery stores or candy shops.
 Turn the saucepan on to medium heat. Whisk the ice cream base occasionally to keep it from sticking. Heat the base until it comes to a boil., Slowly pour about one-third of the hot ice cream base into the egg mixture while you whisk the egg mixture. Slowly whisk in another third into the egg mixture and stir it well. Add the last of the ice cream base and whisk the mixture well.Slowly whisking the ice cream base into the egg mixture will prevent the egg mixture from curdling.
 Pour the ice cream mixture back into the saucepan and turn the heat on to medium. Stir the mixture constantly with a heat-proof spoon for 2 minutes. If you want to use pink food coloring to make a bright ice cream, add enough coloring to get your desired shade.Avoid letting the ice cream mixture boil. Turn the heat down if it starts to bubble.
 Pour the ice cream mixture into a large, clean bowl and let it sit out until it's at room temperature. Put the bowl in the refrigerator and chill the mixture for one to two hours, so it's completely cold.Ensure that you don't use the bowl you whisked the egg yolks in, since the bowl contained raw eggs.
 Follow your ice cream maker's instructions to churn the ice cream. If you'd like to mix in cotton candy, you can add it during the last 3 minutes of churning the ice cream. Serve the soft, churned ice cream or transfer it to a freezer-safe container. You can freeze the ice cream until it's hard.Consider garnishing the ice cream with extra cotton candy.

