 That is, pierce it through the side that people won't be seeing. Pull it out and through (you may need a bit of force), followed by the thread, all the way until it's stopped by the knot. If your knot goes through, simply make a bigger one.









The reason you start on the wrong side is so that this knot doesn't end up on the right side (the visible part) of a garment or fabric.
If the knot slips right through the fabric, there might be a few reasons for this:

You might need to make a bigger knot
Your needle might be too big, creating a hole in the fabric that's the same size or bigger than the knot, allowing the knot to pass through
You might be yanking the thread too hard when the knot meets the fabric




, Close to where you pierced your material initially, push the needle back through to the wrong side. Pull the entire length of thread and keep pulling until you feel resistance. You just made your first stitch on the right side! Congratulations! It looks like a little hyphen, right?









The stitch should be tight enough to lay flat on the fabric, but not so tight that it makes the fabric bunch underneath it.
 Always keeping close to your last stitch, pierce through the wrong side again. Pull all the thread out and voila -- your second stitch. Continue doing this, making sure each stitch is the same length as the one before.









Generally, the stitches should be in a straight line, like a less computerized version of this:
- - - - - -

This stitch, with the wide intervals between each bit of thread, is called the basting stitch. This is generally used to hold fabrics together or to gather pieces of fabric.
 You're finished! The needle and thread should now be on the wrong side, where you can finish 'er off with another knot. Get it as close to your material as possible -- otherwise your stitches will move around and stretch out.









There is an alternative, however. You could push the needle to the correct side, but leave it loose. You want a loop on the wrong side. Then, put the needle through to the wrong side again, once more close to the piercing you just made. Pull it tight so there's no loop on that side, but keeping the original loop intact. Now, pass the needle through the loop and tighten all the way, undoing the loop. The loop serves to secure the thread to the fabric. Pass it through twice for good measure.

