 In order to retire under Social Security, you must be at least 62 years old and have sufficient quarters of coverage (QOC). Also called Social Security credit, your QOC will help determine how much benefit you're entitled to. You must have obtained at least 1 QOC for each calendar year between 21 and the year before turning 62. You will not be required to have more than 40 QOC to qualify.


Be aware of how your age is calculated. SSA does not pro-rate monthly benefits. Age is calculated by English common law, in which a person obtains their age on the day before their birthday. In order to receive benefit for the month of your birth, you must be born on the 1st or 2nd of the month, making you eligible on the last day of the prior month or the 1st, respectively. If you're born on any other day of the month, you won't receive benefits until the following month.;
, Retirement Insurance Benefits (RIB) become available when you turn 62, even though that is not currently the Full Retirement Age in America. (To figure out your Full Retirement Age based on your date of birth, click here.) SSA will alter your payments based on when you choose to retire. You have a few options:


Retire early. File for RIB 3 months before your 62nd birthday if you want your benefits to start as soon as your birthday passes. Filing early will decrease how much money you receive each month. Use a benefit calculator to figure out the difference in your case.
Accrue delayed retirement credits. For each month between age 62 and age 70 that you wait to apply for RIB, Social Security will increase your benefits by a certain percentage. Consult this chart for the exact numbers.
 How much money SSA will give you each month depends on a variety of factors, including how much money you contributed to the Social Security Trust Fund, the age at which you file for RIB, your current earned income and any military service. The starting point for figuring out how much benefit you're entitled to is called the Primary Insurance Amount (PIA). This can be calculated by a few different formulas; whichever one comes out with the highest amount will be used.


Watch out for the Windfall Elimination Provision. If you've worked in a job that contributed money to a pension fund instead of the Social Security Trust Fund, your benefits may be offset by the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). If you have 30 Years of Coverage (YOC), during which you contributed significantly to the Social Security Trust Fund, the WEP will be waived. If you have 21 to 29 YOC, the impact of the WEP on your benefits will be significantly reduced. There are some other cases in which the WEP will not affect your benefits; learn more here, or use the online WEP calculator.
 You can apply for retirement benefits online or through your local SSA office; or over the phone at (800) 772-1213 (if you are hearing-impaired, call 800-325-0778), Monday through Friday, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Eastern time.

