 Go directly to the source if you're comfortable, or ask his or her assistant to identify a time that would provide you with about an hour to discuss your proposal.


Suggest an on-site or a lunch meeting, depending upon the type of relationship you have with your boss. If you think your boss may be more receptive to your ideas in a casual environment, opt for a location off-site.
Schedule your appointment during a time when your boss isn’t in the middle of a major project.
 It's important to present a healthy picture of a company doing well, one that values its employees and seeks ways to promote the well-being of employees, as well as focusing on better productivity outcomes. Compare other programs that benefit employees, so that you can liken the open browsing idea to other well-being initiatives in the firm that have all increased employee productivity. Then, relate the desire to open up internet surfing to continuing improving employee productivity.


Where relevant, identify any specific area you know your boss watches every day that has direct links to internet usage and discuss how this is one example of improved productivity through internet usage.
 Transition from company success facts to your plan to improve overall productivity––online browsing.


Refer to your synopsis point-by-point, punctuating why employee online browsing could be beneficial. Don’t go through the entire proposal but instead refer to the synopsis, which provides an overview of your plan.
Identify specific studies that demonstrated how employee online browsing boosts productivity. Point to important studies contained in the synopsis and compare and contrast how the study could be applied to your company.
Explain how online browsing could be implemented specifically at your company. Be sensible about time requests. Treat the free surfing time as you would a tea or coffee break. Perhaps you'd like to suggest that free surfing time should only be during such times or the lunch break rather than during productive work hours––this would depend on the type of workplace you're in. Also clarify that there should be clear parameters put into place as to what can't be viewed––not just the obvious ones like pornography, gambling and hate sites––but also certain game sites, anything that chews up bandwidth or slows down the work system, anything that is considered to be offensive or poor taste, etc.Go into detail about when, where and how employees could spend free downtime on the Internet.
 Be sure you open the floor to questions. Before your meeting, try to anticipate what he or she may ask so that you can be prepared to answer any questions, especially the curly ones.


Inquire if there is any aspect of your proposal that he or she would like to see covered more extensively. Let your boss know that you could conduct additional or more in-depth research on any aspect of the proposal if it will help him or her make a decision.
Have your answers ready to as many negatives as possible, couched in terms of solutions where possible.

