 Puppies need lots of rest, so it's important to give them a bed that's warm, dry, comfortable-and easily washable.;
, You should have a dog crate for your puppy. This is a carrier or basket with a door that shuts so that your puppy can travel comfortably inside. It can also be used as a playpen or den, or even a place to sleep at night.
 Have separate bowls for your puppy for food and water, and wash them regularly.
, Depends on your dog's coat, but a good brush is a must for keeping the skin healthy and the coat shiny and mat-free.Unless you plan to have your dog professionally groomed, your dog's nails will need to be tended to.A dental health program will promote healthy teeth and gums that need to last your dog a lifetime.
 Get your puppy used to wearing a collar as soon as it comes home with you. Make sure the one you choose fits well. You should be able to slip two fingers easily between the collar and the puppy's neck. Make sure that you don't get the collar too loose, either.
 When buying a leash for your puppy consider the following-Nylon leashes are almost unbreakable-and hard to chew. Choose one that is thick enough for your dog.Extending leashes give your puppy more freedom to wander while letting you keep control.
 Your puppy needs to wear an ID tag with your name and phone number on it so that people will know who to contact if it gets lost. also, your vet can implant a micro chip just under the skin on your puppy's neck. If it got lost another vet can pick up a signal using a handheld reader.
 All puppies need toys to play with. Make sure you have a good variety of toys for different games. Also,chew items like chew toys, rawhide, and bones are especially helpful for teething puppies and satisfy your dog's natural need to chew.
 They're good for dogs teeth and prevent serious tartar build up

, Be sure to buy frontline for the appropriate of your dog

, You never know when your dog may get mites, so have something on hand so it can be treated properly and quickly

