 Self-care describes the process of being kind, forgiving, and generous with yourself. Treat yourself to a new perfume or a cool jacket you like. Schedule time at your local massage parlor or spa. Or just give yourself time to relax and decompress at home by reading a book or watching TV. These small acts of self-kindness will make you feel better about your situation., Instead of saying to yourself, “I am a loser because I have arthritis,” you should say, “It’s not my fault I developed arthritis. It happens to many people.” When you encounter a negative thought, push it away and counter it with a positive thought.For instance, if you observe yourself thinking, “I will never get better. My every waking moment will be filled with pain,” envision it as a red balloon in your mind’s eye. Then, let the balloon go and imagine it floating far away from you, never to return.
Picture a group of blue balloons floating down to replace the red one, each representing a positive thought like “I have a happy future ahead of me” and “There are many options for treating arthritis symptoms.”

, Surround yourself with people who care about and love you. Find and join an arthritis support group. Connecting with others who are going through the same thing you are will help you maintain a positive perspective and make you feel less alone.Talk to your support group. Family, friends, and support group members are there to listen and sympathize with you. Confide in them and be honest about your condition, whether you’re doing well or poorly.
Maybe set up standing lunch dates or other ways of spending time with your support network to help ensure that you see them regularly.
Avoid people who say things like, “Your arthritis is not that serious” or “Everyone has personal problems – don’t be a baby.”
You can find a support group by asking your doctor for recommendations or contacting arthritis organizations like Arthritis Introspective or the Arthritis Foundation.Pain management is also a very common theme in therapy. Seek out a therapist who can help you learn to cope with pain and deal with co-occurring depression or anxiety.
 Staying focused on your future means you’re not focused on your discomfort in the present, and that can help you maintain a positive perspective. You should look forward to both the near and long-term future, and imagine managing your arthritic pain and symptoms.In the near-term, you might look forward to going to see a movie with friends, or enjoying a great meal with your neighbors. Remember that it is very important to have things to look forward to! Again, standing appointments can help with this.
You might also look further into the future, to think about career goals, educational opportunities, and – most importantly – a life with few to no arthritis symptoms.
Make a list of your goals, hopes, and dreams.
Develop a realistic strategy to meet your goals and work to follow it. For example, if your goal is to graduate from college, you should investigate local colleges, find one that matches your interests and needs, and send in a few applications.
 In life, the unknown is often a source of great anxiety and fear. If you don’t know much about arthritis, it can be hard to have a positive perspective about it. The more you know about your condition, the better you’ll be able to maintain a realistic perspective, and avoid sliding into misery and negative thinking. Use conversations with your doctor, reputable online resources, and books at your local library to answer questions like:


Can I die from arthritis? (Your doctor should tell you that you cannot die from arthritis.)
Is there a cure for arthritis? (There is no cure for arthritis, but there are many symptom management techniques.)
What are the best foods for arthritic people? (Fruits and vegetables are the best foods for people with arthritis.)
Is arthritis contagious? (Your research will reveal that arthritis is not contagious.)

, Even if you have limitations due to arthritis, remember that you can still enjoy lots of things, such as beautiful weather, reading, and great conversations with your friends. Identify things you enjoy doing and people you enjoy spending time with. Take time out of your day to appreciate them.For instance, if you really like painting, write a “Thank you” note to your paints and brushes. You might write: “I enjoy painting so very much. Without art, life would be very bland and boring.”
If you’re thankful for a person, you should call them, write them a letter, or let them know in person that you really appreciate having them in your life. You could, for instance, say, “I am very thankful to have you in my life. Thank you for being there for me.”
Try to express gratitude for someone or something each day. One way to do this is to keep a gratitude journal and read it regularly. Perhaps start your mornings with affirming gratitude to set the tone for a positive day. For example, you might express gratitude for a good night’s sleep, a good cup of coffee, or a beautiful sunrise.

