 The pattern will also act as the backing on the bow tie, so use something sturdy that also able to be worn comfortably. Ideal backing includes cardboard from a cereal package, poster board or thin plastic folder covers. The pattern should match the usual size of a bow tie––if possible, grab one from your existing collection and take measurements. You can either freehand draw the mustache pattern or print off a version:


To draw a pattern freehand: Draw two paisley designs that join each other in the middle.
To print: Check online for mustache designs that you think will work. Print. Resize if needed using the graph resizing technique.;
, Use sharp scissors or a box cutter to cut through the board or plastic backing chosen. Avoid making jagged edges––snip off any that form.
 The white pencil lines will serve as a visible guide for cutting the felt accurately, especially if you chose to use black.
 Again, use sharp or sewing scissors to cut the felt, for the sharpest, cleanest cut.
 Be sure to align the felt piece so that it fits exactly over the pattern. This creates the sturdiness needed for the bow tie.


Add a dab of hot glue around the perimeter of the mustache pattern. Add a drop of glue every half inch (1.3cm) around the perimeter of the pattern. Add a few drops in the middle of the pattern to ensure a smooth transfer.
Only add a small amount of glue near but not on the edge of the pattern. This will reduce the likelihood the glue will spill over the edge.
 For the best fit, obtain your measurements for accuracy, as follows:


Take collar/neck measurements using a measuring tape. If you don’t have seamstress measuring tape, use a tape measure and wrap it around your shirt collar.
Line the elastic up against the measuring tape and cut to size. Lay the elastic down next to your measuring tape and cut to size.
 The elastic band will hold your bow tie in place. Remember to place elastic underneath the shirt collar to hide it once the tie is in place.


Lay the mustache felt side down on a flat surface. Lay the elastic band across the mustache, lengthwise, checking to be sure that the elastic sits evenly on both sides.
Stitch the elastic in the middle of the mustache. Create a stitch that won’t be overly obvious from the front of the mustache. If the cardboard or plastic you're using is thick, consider trying to just stitch the elastic to the cardboard and avoid hitting the felt.
 Stitch the ends of the elastic together using either the same thread or use white thread for a more finished look.
