 Eventually, most kids stop using bikes with foot brakes and start using ones with hand brakes. Hand brakes give the rider a little more control by allowing them to choose which wheel to brake with. To use a hand brake, simply squeeze the metal bar in front of either hand grip. The back wheel brake usually slows the bike down more gradually, while the front brake slows the bike down more quickly — be careful not to use the front brake too hard or you might go over the handle bars!


Though every child learns at their own pace, in general, most kids are capable of learning to use hand brakes after about six years of age., Just like most kids eventually start using hand brakes, sooner or later, most kids eventually learn how to ride a bike with gears. Gears make it easy to go very fast, climb steep hills, and maintain a "cruising" speed without pedaling hard. To use gears, simply push the lever or switch near the hand grips in either direction. You should notice it suddenly get easier or harder to pedal — the harder it is to pedal, the faster your pedaling will make you go.


Again, every child learns at their own pace. Most kids from ages 9-12 are capable of using bikes with gears after a little basic training., Standing up while you pedal instead of using the seat lets you push on the pedals extra-hard, which makes this a great way to get up hills or gain speed very quickly. In addition, you have to be able to stand up on your bike to do lots of bike tricks (like the bunny hop below). You may find that it's tricky to balance at first or that your legs get tired quickly when you first try to stand up while pedaling. However, with a little practice, it's not hard to build up the strength and balance you need to master this skill.
 When you're comfortable biking on clear, even surfaces like streets, sidewalks, and fields, try biking on an off-road trail. You'll find that this is a little different than biking on a road — it's usually slower, bumpier, and requires you to watch the path in front of you more. However, off-road biking can be a great way to exercise and see parts of the wilderness you haven't seen before, so give it a shot!

, When you feel confident riding your bike at any speed and in any location, try learning a few easy tricks! For example, you can try doing a bunny hop by working up to a slow speed, standing up, and pulling up on the handle bars as you push off of the ground and throw your weight upwards. In the air, lean forward to level out so that you hit the ground on both wheels. When you get good at this, you should be able to pull off a small "hop" which is great for getting you up curbs without stopping.


Don't be discouraged if you fall or "wipe out" a few times when you're trying to learn the bunny hop and other tricks. Minor nicks and bruises are part of the process of learning — you can't learn without making a few mistakes!

