 This will ensure that no TuneUp Utilities processes are running while you try to uninstall it. Safe Mode loads Windows with only the most essential processes.


Reboot your computer and hold the F8 key. Hold the key until the Advanced Startup menu appears.
Select "Safe Mode with Networking". This will start Windows in Safe Mode with an internet connection, which you may need to download additional removal tools.;
, This is always a login option in Safe Mode, even if you don't normally see it.
 You can access this from the Start menu. Windows 8 users can press Ctrl+X and select "Control Panel".
 If you are using Windows XP, select "Add or Remove a Program".
, Move on to the next method to erase any lingering files., This is a program uninstaller that is much more powerful than the Windows uninstaller, and can remove stubborn programs and lingering files. You can download it from revouninstaller.com/revo_uninstaller_free_download.html.


Although the Pro version isn't free, it has a trial period that you'll be using to gain access to one of the more advanced features of Revo Uninstaller. You won't need to enter any payment information to use the Pro trial.
 This would not be accessible in the Freeware version.
 Select it from the list of search results.
 You will see a few windows indicating that the log files are being downloaded from Revo. Revo Uninstaller Pro will use these log files to systematically clean your computer of any lingering TuneUp files., Unwanted programs like TuneUp Utilities 2014 are often installed alongside other programs that you downloaded from the internet. The installer will leave the box checked that allows TuneUp to be installed, or hides the installation options under the "Custom" installation settings.


Reading every screen carefully will help you find additional programs that try to sneak onto your system.
 This is the most common way that additional programs are hidden during the installation process. When installing software that you've downloaded, always select the "Custom" installation option, and uncheck any boxes that opt you in to other programs.

