 Tufted headboards add marvelous texture and look, especially if the fabric you're using on the headboard is monochrome.









For now, drill 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) holes into the headboard, all the way through the material. Your buttons, which will give you the tufted look, will eventually fit into these holes.
You can use several different patterns when drilling your holes. Your tufts can be evenly spaced above and below one another, in a grid pattern, or they can be spaced out on a diagonal. Choose whichever pattern suits you the best.
 Make sure that the fixative you use actually works with the padding you've purchased. Fixative is both very sticky and quite toxic, so make sure you only spray it onto the padding and use a mask when spraying. (Opening any windows is a great idea; working in an open garage might be an even better one.)








, A manual or electric staple gun will work just fine here.
 Hit the fabric with a little bit of steam before you drape it over your headboard. Many people forget to do this, giving the fabric less of a professional look. Once you're done, lay your fabric face down on the floor and place your batted headboard on top of it, batting-side down.
 This is a crucial step, so don't be afraid to take your time here in order to get it right. A couple things for you to remember as you staple the fabric to the headboard:









Use clamps or vices to get the pattern of the fabric lined up with the center of the headboard. Staple one or two times, and then check to see if the pattern looks good by turning the headboard over.
Be sure to get the fabric as taut as possible. Staple well and staple often. Since no one will be able to see the staples on the back side of the headboard, you can go a little crazy here. (Well, don't go crazy, but more is definitely better than not enough!)
Take care around corners and rounded parts. Be sure to pull the fabric taut, especially over rounded parts and edges.
 On the back of the headboard, slide a long needle through the various holes for the buttons. On the other side of the headboard, locate the needle. Attach the buttons to sturdy, thick string, and attach the string to another needle. Using the first needle as a guide, feed the strung needle back into the hole in the headboard. Pull button taut to create tufts; staple the string to the back of the headboard several times, until it is secure.
 You're almost done now. There are several ways that you can attach a headboard to the wall. Here are a few of your options:









Slide the headboard between the bed and the wall and let the two prop the headboard up. So no construction required; simple and safe if your headboard extends all the way down to the floor.
Use a headboard hanger. These come in two long, flat pieces of metal, each with a protruding groove. Attach one piece to the wall, another piece to the back of the headboard. The two protruding grooves fit perfectly in one another, keeping the headboard safely propped up.
Use flush mount hangers. Less sturdy than headboard hangers, but much less expensive, these flush mount hangers have teeth that fit into their bases on the wall. Instead of a long, flat bar, these are small pieces of metal.

