 Buy a small microfiber cloth, use an old rag, or cover your Swiffer with an old sock or other clothing. Use these materials to replace the standard Swiffer dry mopping cloths, and reuse them over and over by putting them in the washing machine to clean.


Try a fuzzy chenille sock for a great dusting material that you can simply pull on over the cleaning surface of the Swiffer.Buy or cut cloth to fit the Swiffer. You can use a standard Swiffer cloth to measure to the right size, though you may want your reusable cloth to be slightly larger to better attach the thicker material to the Swiffer.
Push a microfiber cloth or a rag into the four openings on the corners of your Swiffer head to attach it. If you have trouble doing this with thicker material, you can also use binder clips to fasten the cloth at the back of the Swiffer head., Make a custom reusable cloth for your Swiffer by knitting or sewing a pad that will fit perfectly over the head of your Swiffer. This can make it easier to attach and remove the cloth each time you use it.


If you like to knit or crochet, try creating your own textured “cozy” with a wool or cotton yarn. Attach it by pushing it into the holes on the Swiffer head, or create side pockets, baubles, or button closures to easily fasten it on.Sew fabric with a sewing machine to create a custom-fit cloth. You can create “pockets” on either end of a rectangle to fit onto the ends of your Swiffer head. Use a fleece fabric to catch dust best, or quilt regular cotton to create more texture for trapping dust.
 Use your own reusable microfiber or rag cloth with your favorite cleaner to recreate Swiffer’s standard wet mopping cloths. You can either spray or soak cloths in a watered down cleaning solution for use on your floors.


Try putting washcloths in a sturdy gallon Ziplock bag with 6 cups water, 4 cups white vinegar, and ½ tablespoon dish soap. Allow the washcloths to soak up the cleaning solution, then attach to the Swiffer head to use.You can also spray your floor directly with warm water or a watered-down cleaning solution before you use your Swiffer. This will help keep the wet cloth on the Swiffer damp to clean for longer.You can also use your own cleaning solution in another Swiffer product, the Swiffer WetJet, by cutting a small hole into a standard refill pack and filling it with a water and vinegar solution, or another cleaner of your choice.