 Open a web browser and go to http://www.starwoodhotels.com/preferredguest/index.html.;
, You’ll have to scroll down slightly to find this button on the right side of the page. You’ll be redirected to the Account Registration page.
 Upon successful enrolment, you will be given an SPG membership number., This will launch the app.
 Type in “SPG” on the search field, and then tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search.
 This app is free.
 Locate the app on your mobile device. It has an app icon with a purple background with the text “spg” on it. Tap on it to launch it

, You need an SPG account in order to use the app. Key in your username, or your SPG number, and password in the fields, and then tap the “Sign In” button. You will be brought to the main screen., You will be brought to the SPG Keyless screen.
 This will begin registering your iPhone with the SPG Keyless feature.
 A confirmation box will appear to indicate your successful registration of your device to the service.
 Your iPhone can now be used for keyless entry to your room when you check in at Starwood Hotels.


Another confirmation box will appear indicating that the app will like to send you push notifications.
 The app needs to be able to push data to your iPhone to confirm your check-in details and activate your phone for keyless entry., You may book at Starwood Hotels through any of the normal methods. You can call their call center, visit their website, or use the SPG app.


You can check all the different hotels and locations at www.starwoodhotels.com/preferredguest/directory/hotels/all/list.html.
 Right before your stay at the hotel, the SPG app will send you an alert or notification on your iPhone. It will ask if you would like to use SPG Keyless on your upcoming stay.
 Tap on the alert or notification to go to the SPG app. You will see a box titled “SPG Keyless Check In” on the right side. Tap on it.


Confirm the details of your stay, and tap the “Yes” button below to confirm the use of SPG Keyless. You will now be able to use SPG Keyless for your upcoming hotel stay.
 On the day of your actual check-in, you will receive an alert or notification on your iPhone stating that you’re already checked-in. No need to line up at the reception desk. Your check-in is done automatically. Tap the notification to open the SPG app.
 You’ll find this box on the right side once the app opens.
 Your room number will be displayed; at the same time, this will activate the the mobile room key.
 Both of these need to be active in order for you to use your iPhone as a mobile room key; otherwise, SPG Keyless won’t work and you won’t be able to get into your room.
 Your iPhone will communicate with the digital lock pad. Once you’re authenticated, the door will be unlocked and you can now get into your room.