 The stomach flu is a combination of gastrointestinal troubles and common flu symptoms like fever and nausea. You may be experiencing gastroenteritis if you experience any of the following:

Non-bloody diarrhea.



 


Nausea.






Vomiting.






Abdominal cramps.






Mild fever around 100-degrees F.






Headache or dizziness.






Physical aching or tiredness.





;
, A simple stool sample test can determine whether or not you are experiencing a rotavirus or norovirus. Your doctor may also test for bacterial and parasitic infections., Often laying down and/or curling into a fetal position can feel more comfortable when you are experiencing gastrointestinal pain.
 Peppermint reduces spasms in the stomach that lead to vomiting and soothes the overall digestive tract.


If drinking ginger ale, make sure to choose a variety make with real ginger. Ginger has anti-inflammatory properties that soothe your stomach.
You may also chop up fresh ginger and allow it to steep in hot water for about 10 minutes before drinking.
 A common cause of gastroenteritis is dehydration. Make sure to intake 3 liters (0.8 US gal) of water per day for men and 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water per day for women.Drink water enhanced with electrolytes such as Pedialyte, Gatorade, Powerade, or coconut water, especially if you are vomiting or experiencing diarrhea. This will help your body make up the vitamins and minerals it might have lost during that time.
Take oral rehydration salts if you are prone to dehydration. These are available at your pharmacy and replace glucose and other essential minerals that you lose when you are dehydrated.Do not drink fruit juice or milk if you are experiencing gastroenteritis. The sugar in fruit juices and the dairy in milk can be upsetting to sensitive or allergic stomachs.
Consult a medical professional if your dehydration does not improve or worsens, you may need to be started on a fluid IV.
 Chop up ice in a plastic bag with a meat mallet or a hammer until it is in little chips. If you have an ice maker, simply set it to the chipped ice setting. Suck on small ice chips to rehydrate yourself and bring your temperature down if you are experiencing a fever.
 While you are experiencing the worst symptoms of gastroenteritis such as vomiting, stop eating solid foods for a day or two. If you choose to stop eating solid foods, make sure you are still receiving the proper nourishment to allow your body to heal itself. Drink a product such as Ensure, which is rich in the vitamins, minerals, and electrolytes needed to nourish your body.


When you resume eating solid foods, do so gradually. If you immediately rush back into consuming a hamburger, for instance, your body will likely be shocked and you will end up with an upset stomach.
Start off with relatively bland foods such as crackers, toast, gelatin, bananas, rice and chicken., The BRAT diet outlines a diet composed of bananas, rice, apples and toast for up to two days following an experience of gastroenteritis.


These four foods are rich in fiber and are very easy to digest. While is it not a sustainable diet for continued use, it is highly desirable following a bout of gastroenteritis.
Common variations of the diet include adding yogurt and tea., Certain indigestion medications may help with the symptoms of gastroenteritis. Some common medications include Pepcid, Maalox, and Pepto Bismol. These medications will only truly help if you are experiencing indigestion, acid reflux, or excess gas, but they can help calm your stomach.


Avoid taking pain medications, as these can further upset and damage your stomach lining. Be especially wary of taking medications that contain ibuprofen, which is known to be particularly hard on the stomach.
Always be aware of any drug allergies that you have before taking medication and only mix medications if the labels denote that doing so is appropriate for your symptoms. Consult a doctor or a nurse advice line if you are unsure about a certain medication.
 Ultimately, there is no real cure for gastroenteritis, but don't be discouraged, it will pass. Gastroenteritis usually passes through your system within two to three days, but can last for up to 10 days. If symptoms do not subside, consider consulting a medical professional.
 If none of the non-prescription medications or immediate home remedies are easing your symptoms, consider contacting a doctor and obtain prescription-strength medication.


Commonly prescribed medications for reducing vomiting include (Phenergan), prochlorperazine (Compazine) and ondansetron (Zofran). They are often prescribed as suppositories or administered through an IV to avoid the possibility of the patient vomiting the pills after taking them.
To reduce diarrhea, your doctor may prescribe diphenoxylate and atropine (Lomotil) or loperamide (Imodium).
 Common symptoms of gastroenteritis can also be indicators of more serious gastrointestinal diseases.


Common treatments for gastrointestinal disorders include antibiotics, steroids, and immunosuppressant medications.
Accurate diagnosis is extremely important when treating gastrointestinal disorders. Be sure to visit a gastrointestinal doctor and undergo the appropriate testing in order to receive a proper diagnosis.
 In some countries, a vaccine against rotavirus is available for children. Children under one year old can be administered the vaccine. In most cases, the rotavirus vaccine will prevent a child from experiencing severe symptoms of gastroenteritis throughout his or her life., Use hand sanitizer often. Always wash your hands after going to the bathroom, visiting public spaces, before and after eating, and whenever deemed appropriate throughout the day. Be sure to wash any clothing items, bedding, and/or washable toys that come into contact with an infected individual to avoid spreading the virus.
 Use a chlorine bleach-based cleaner to sterilize countertops in your home and avoid bacteria from spreading.
 Over the course of a day, the average person often comes into direct contact with bacteria and viruses that have the potential to cause sickness. Be sure to avoid touching your face, especially orifices such as your mouth, nose, eyes, and ears as much as possible throughout the day. Be sure to wash your hands before touching your face if possible.
 These foods have a higher ability to spread the stomach flu virus. Meats are especially prone to carrying the virus. Consume undercooked and raw meats and other foods with extreme caution.

Do not drink untreated water or unpasteurized milk when possible. Untreated or unpasteurized waters can carry illness-inducing bacteria and viruses. Only drink from sealed bottles and use bottled water to brush your teeth when you are travelling.
Wash fruits and vegetables thoroughly before consuming to remove any outstanding bacteria from the outside of the produce.

