 Riding public transit is great because it gives you time to answer emails, read work-related materials, or work on your laptop during your commute. This means that you’ll have more time to spend with your family when you’re at home.You could also check for alternate routes and short cuts. Lay a map out on your table of your municipality. Trace your route to work on the map. Look for alternate routes and give them a try. If they save you time, use them instead of the route you’ve been taking.
 There are several ways to streamline your time at work so as to maximize family time. You could change when you work, how you work, or where you work.Working from home will increase the amount of time you’re able to spend with your family. Use your breaks to spend time with your family.
Work from home. Many productive and enjoyable occupations can be done at home. If you are a writer, graphic designer, or artist, you might be able to convince your employer to let you work from home – or go into business for yourself.
Before asking your boss if you can work from home, talk to someone in your Human Resources department to determine if such a request could be accommodated.
Cut back on work-related travel. Ask your boss if you could conduct conferences that you’d normally have to travel to via an online webcam program like Skype. Volunteer for shorter trips that don’t keep you away from home for so long instead of the longer trips that take you further from your family.
Encourage your boss to assign some of the work-related travel to other employees.
Take care of emails and projects early in the morning before your family rises, or late at night after they are asleep.
 Shopping can take a lot of time. In order to cut back on time wasted on shopping, buy things online. There’s no traveling to and from the store, no standing in line, and no wasting time browsing the shelves to find what you’re looking for. Online shopping is fast and convenient, and can help you maximize family time.


To shop online, just buy through the website of your favorite retailer. For instance, if you enjoy shopping at E-Mart, just visit the store’s website, pay for the items you want, and wait for the delivery.
In some cases, the extra costs associated with shipping might make online shopping impractical. Compare prices carefully before deciding to shop online.
 Making twice as much food usually doesn’t take twice as long. Instead of making dinner every night, double up on certain recipes that you can eat as leftovers the next night, or even the one after next. For instance, if you make a big pan of lasagna or a big pot of stew, you should be set for the next few nights.You can refrigerate any meal for at least two or three days.
If you make a really big batch of chicken, turkey, or most veggies, you can easily freeze them for even longer.
 Carryout meals are not generally recommended because they tend to have higher calorie counts and are less healthy than home-cooked meals. However, if you’re located near a quality diner and can get some salads, wraps, and other meals to go when you’re busy, do it. Just don’t make take-out a habit.Avoid getting fast food, even when you’re busy. Fast food is loaded with salt, sugar, and fat, and does not contribute to overall good health.

