 A pegboard is a common sight in workrooms and garages. But you could install a pegboard in your child’s room to get things up off the floor. You could attach wire-frame baskets, baseball gloves, scarves, and other small objects and apparel from the pegboard.To hang the pegboard from the wall of your child’s room, nail or screw it in place.
 Clothes racks are freestanding metal frames that provide the horizontally-aligned pole that you’d find in a closet. You can then place your clothing on the clothes rack and never miss a closet. Some clothes racks have two bars connecting one end of the rack to the other. This provides you with two levels to hang your child’s clothes on. Depending on your child’s age, they might only be able to utilize the bottom rack. The best racks have wheels on them so they can be easily moved once assembled.
Clothes racks are available at most home goods stores.
 A ceiling rack consists of two chains hung from the ceiling with a bar slung between them. Place each chain about one foot (33 centimeters) from the wall. They should be separated from each other by a distance not greater than the length of the bar you’ll hang on the chains. After hanging the chains from the ceiling, pull the ends up a few inches or centimeters and connect them to a higher spot on the chain using metal clips (for instance, the kind of clips you’d use to connect a shower curtain).The length of chains you’ll need depends on the height of the ceiling and the height of the child. Ensure that your ceiling-hung rack will sit at a height that enables your child to access the rack.
For a simple ceiling-hung rack, place a curtain rod across the chain.
For a more rustic style ceiling-hung rack, place a relatively straight tree branch across the chains. A birch bark branch looks stylish and chic in any room.
You could substitute sturdy ropes for chains.
 A ladder is basically a series of short racks. Your child could fold pants or other apparel over the rungs of the ladder in order to place them out of the way. Any ladder will work, of course, but he best ladder will lend the room a clean, minimalist look. Instead of getting a big industrial ladder made of metal, try a wooden ladder. That way, you could also paint it to match the interior of your kid’s room. Ensure your child understands proper safety protocol before leaning the ladder against the wall for extra storage. If you suspect they will topple the ladder over or cannot understand basic safety precautions, do not install a ladder in their room.

