 Think about the wonderful things they've done for you, the things about their personality that you adore, "your" song, and how you felt when you first got together. How did it feel to be newly in love? You can still have that spark.
 Expressing your emotions is important, and your partner needs to know about your feelings! Work on being clear in the moment, so that your partner understands your emotions and ideas. This will help your relationship in the long run.


Try the script "When ______, I feel ______." For example, "When you stay late at the office without calling to let me know, I feel worried and unimportant."

, Just as your feelings are important for your partner to understand, you need to understand how your partner feels. Let them speak uninterrupted, and make sure that you are listening to them, not just waiting for your turn to talk.
 Disagreements happen, and you may find your temper on the rise. Rather than saying something you'll regret, suggest a fifteen-minute break. Use this time to calm down and remember that even though you disagree, you still love your partner and don't want to fight.
 Call over your partner when you're both in a better mood, hold their hand, look into their eyes, and smile. This eases the atmosphere and lets them know that everything can be fine.


Apologize for your part of the argument, and take time to listen to and validate how they feel. If they see you nodding and listening, they'll be more open to working together to fix the problem.
 Pull your partner off the couch to dance to your song, cook them something, watch a movie and make popcorn, laugh together, and have fun.
 If you ever worry that your relationship is falling into a rut, it's time to go out and do something. Visit the beach, mall, aquarium, library, national park, or any place the two of you could have fun together. Go to a new restaurant or museum. See new places: other countries, other cities, or just a grassy hill where you can have a picnic. These are experiences the two of you will treasure all your lives.
 Perform acts of love on a daily basis, whether it's as small as doing the dishes or as large as planning a surprise getaway. Show your partner how much you love them, so there is never any doubt in their eyes. This is how a relationship will last.

