 The physical space you spend time in greatly affects your potential productivity. Especially during times dedicating to studying, go wherever you are least likely to be distracted. For some students, this is at home, for others, the library, and for some, a busy coffee shop., Headphones can eliminate distractions caused by things you hear. If you prefer studying in silence, wear noise canceling headphones. Some models will play white noise. Alternatively, play ambient electronic or classical music – really, anything without lyrics – to provide background sound that may improve your ability to focus.
 This step is more important than you may think. If you find yourself on Instagram during times you’ve set aside to be studying, immediately close the app and get back to work. If this or any other app keeps pulling you away from more productive behavior, consider removing it from your phone.
 The bus isn’t coming for ten minutes? Resist the urge to start swiping through Tinder and open up your email instead. Send your professor or employer that question you’ve been meaning to ask. Even better, carry notecards with notes from one of your more challenging classes with you at all time. Even a bathroom break can help you prepare for that upcoming organic chemistry exam., Plan to call a friend later in the evening after studying for a few hours. Giving yourself something to look forward to can actually enhance your focus leading up to the reward. Further, focused studying followed by relaxation is more productive than studying interspersed with unplanned calls or texts.If you notice yourself becoming distracted, return to work and remind yourself you have plans to socialize later in the evening. This will help you keep from being distracted again.
 If something is on your mind and is keeping you from meeting your responsibilities, put down whatever you’re trying to get done and address the distraction. Spend a few minutes giving the distraction your full attention. You are more likely to able to focus after addressing something that’s been distracting you.