 You will need to be able to play something at least at a basic level. Please do not assume piano is the only way to go. Yes it is conventional, but many composers have begun their compositional careers on instruments such as the guitar, oboe and clarinet.;
,, the most powerful scale tool musicians have is the diatonic modes, which are just scales, starting on different root notes. You should also understand scales and chords and remember them.
 Take a class in high school or college, or even teach yourself via the internet. You will need the knowledge regardless of how you learn it.
 Be creative!

,, Some helpful things to look up for an accompaniment would be chord progressions and scale knowledge. Remember that music theory was made so each musician wouldn't have to experiment as much when making music.
 Know which instruments fit into the category of music (e.g. String Quartet ~ 2 violins, viola, cello; Brass Quintet: 2 trumpets, horn, trombone, tuba).
 Play by ear. Play things and see if they sound good together. If you want to be able to play the same thing again later, try using a MIDI keyboard. It can be hooked up to a computer, and will print your notes onto sheet music for you. A good computer composing program is Audacity

, This takes a lot of practice and dedication, but is a great composing tool.
 Write the note combinations that sound good to your ear. With guitar, write down the chords and guitar lines you play. It will help you to be familiar with music so you can name the chords and know the notes/scales that should be played along with the chord.
 Just like a written composition in English class, music requires multiple revisions before the final piece is ready. Build off your melody. The best thing here is to use your imagination. Don't forget about dynamics, expressions, or articulation. for more ideas.
 This is an extremely useful technique that will rapidly improve the sound of your piece.
 Try to think where the listener will become bored, and be brutal with your judgments. Also, read up on musical forms.
 Often you will find they are more willing than you assume.
 It is a defining feature of common practice era music, and will make your piece sound really amazing. 