 If your grandmother or neighbor doesn’t know Spotify from a spotted owl, but finally wants to join that Facebook thing or pay bills with the computer, they are probably willing to pay a little for your expertise.There’s no reason to price-gouge Granny, of course, but most people, even family members, are probably happy to pay a little for help in setting up a new computer or wi-fi network.
 Most computer novices would also probably prefer to pay a little for help from someone they know and can deal with in person, rather than rely on phone calls or online chats and tutorials.Don’t get in over your head, however. If you don’t know how to help with a problem, say so and advise that the person get in touch with customer service or tech support.
It can be frustrating to attempt to tutor someone who knows very little about a product or skill that seems second nature to you. Be patient, and think about all the things your favorite uncle has taught you before scoffing at his lack of a clue about how to fix his router or sell his baseball cards.
 Sometimes it isn’t even a question of knowledge, but of time. If you have it, and others don’t, you may be able to make some money doing some computer “grunt-work” for them. For example:Digitize boxes of old photos or scan documents for a relative or neighbor.
Edit and upload or order prints for someone who has a camera card full of photos and no idea how (or time) to do anything with them.
Convert home movies to DVD, or even edit scattered videos and photos (such as from a wedding) into a movie everyone will appreciate.
Design and/or print photos, logos, designs, banners, invitations, flyers, and so on for others., Maybe your friend’s Mom is starting a small business and wants a web presence, or a neighbor wants to know how to utilize various social media platforms so he can keep in touch with his grown children.Once again, work according to your skill level. Don’t promise a fully-functional, professional website if you don’t know how to make one.
If, however, you can set up a site that draws in page views and ad revenue, maybe you can negotiate for a piece of the profits.

