 Start by running your hands over your horse’s whole body, from his head and ears to his torso and down each leg. Notice if your horse flinches, shrinks away, pins down his ears, or flicks his skin as you place your hands on any of these areas, particularly his legs. If he reacts with any discomfort or pain in a certain area, this may be a sign that a muscle is irritated.You should also feel for any obvious swelling on any areas or any heat coming from a specific muscle or spot. These could all be signs of an irritated muscle that is causing lameness in your horse.
You can check if your horse looks less muscular from side to side, as his muscles may be smaller and less well-defined if there is pain in that leg from lack of use.;
, You can also check for signs of lameness by looking at your horse’s feet and hooves. Your horse may have lameness in his front leg, for example, leading to pain on his hoof. His hoof may be smaller than the opposite hoof, a sign of possible lameness.You should also look for signs that the shoes or hoof walls are wearing more quickly on the comfortable side. Your horse may be putting his weight more on the comfortable side to avoid putting weight on the painful side or foot that is causing the lameness.
 Have your horse move in a circle, going in both directions. You may have him move around with no rider, and then with a rider. Having him move in a variety of situations can help you pinpoint if he is lame.Notice if the horse looks relaxed and is taking smooth, generous strides. Pay attention to how his head and neck move in rhythm with his neck. If he does not bend smoothly when going in a circle or move the same way in both directions, this may be a sign that he is lame.
You might find it helpful to watch your horse in a ring with a fence. This gives you a level surface to judge the animal’s head and makes it easier to see a head bob.
You may also notice that he does not have normal head movements and that he is not landing evenly with his feet. He may also be dragging a hoof or stumbling when he moves. As your horse trots, close your eyes and listen to hear whether he drags a hoof as he moves. These are signs of lameness.
You can also watch him move from behind. Look at your horse’s rump to see if it rises and falls equally from left to right. You may see a marked hip drop on one side if he is showing signs of lameness. You should also check to see if his back legs move forward in a straight line. If he wobbles or limps on one side, he is likely lame.
 You may also notice that your horse is going to the bathroom more often than usual, which usually occurs when your horse is experiencing stress or pain. Your horse may urinate more than normal or defecate more often.Horses that are experiencing back pain or muscular hind pain may also go to the bathroom more often than normal when they are saddled and carrying a rider.

