 It's assumed that you're going to this game with friends or family (you probably wouldn't bring yourself alone or with strangers to a game that you're not interested in), so enjoy the time you're spending with them. In addition, take yourself out of the equation momentarily and enjoy the fact that you're making them happy by going to the game with them. That's the finest gift you can give another person who loves or cares about you.;
, Modern ballparks, especially in the Major Leagues, often have plenty of diversions. Some of the things you can try include:


is seen at New York's Citi Field. ]]Many ballparks have team history museums which can provide you with the opportunity to learn a bit about their club's past. This can turn out to be so interesting and instructive that you might even warm to the game considerably more!
If you came to the ballpark with a bit of extra money on you, explore the shopping options. There are surely some team T-shirts, pennants, or game programs that will serve as a reminder of the experience, even if you just buy them as gifts to say thanks to those who brought you along. Major League clubs will have an even greater variety of stores to explore, with a wide selection of team-branded apparel and other knickknacks to purchase.
 Even the lowest-level Minor League clubs have concession stands, and as the level in question gets higher, the food and drink choices deviate more so from the standard hot dogs, beer, peanuts, and Cracker Jack. Nowadays, it's not unusual for a stadium to offer things ranging from chicken wings to wine (and everything in between). Nowadays, eating at a ballpark can be quite enjoyable!

, Save for a few exceptions you're outside on a nice day (or evening). It's a much better option than sitting home in bed, so enjoy the feeling of being among an electric crowd in an outdoor environment.


Take the chance to talk to some baseball fans. If you're curious and don't mind striking up conversations with strangers, you can learn a lot by talking to fans attending the game. Ask them why they like baseball, what they like about their favorite team, what the game on this day means to them, etc. Ask the also how they would convince someone who isn't that keen on baseball to watch a game – the answers are bound to be very interesting!

, Baseball is a sport. Sporting events are inherently exciting: who will win, who will lose? So even if you're not that thrilled about baseball, see the competitive aspect and go with the flow, and try to get interested in the things that could make or break the game.


If you don't understand the sport, this can be a roadblock to feeling the true excitement of it. Save your companions the potential for game-time headaches by getting your questions answered before the first pitch.
Take along a small guide on baseball. You can check this when things happened and you're feeling totally perplexed.
 If necessary, do what the crowd does, so that you manage to make appropriate reactions to plays. Don't be the guy or girl who sits silently morose while the rest of the crowd is cheering or booing. Get into the spirit of things!


To prevent awkward situations in games where you know the crowd might be split in their allegiances (such as two teams from the same city playing against each other), watch for the reactions of the people in your group. At least showing solidarity with those who took you along to the game will be a nice gesture for the fact that they cared enough to ask you.
 Bring a couple of rolls of quarters. Divide them evenly amongst your group. Rules: Everyone puts a quarter in a cup. One person starts the game by holding the cup. If the batter (no matter which side) reaches first base by any method, even fielders choice, hit by a pitch, walk, etc., the person holding the cup gets the quarters. Everyone puts another quarter in and the cup is passed to the next person. If the batter is "out", only the person holding the cup puts a quarter in and the cup is passed to the next person. This game is guaranteed to keep even the most disinterested fan involved while not detracting from the enjoyment of the diehards.

