 To do bench presses, you will need a barbell and a bench. Lie back and grasp the bar with your hands shoulder-distance apart. Lower the bar all the way down to your chest and then slowly press it straight up until your arms are fully extended. Start with 3 sets of 10 reps and increase the number of reps and the weight as you gain strength.Check the weight of the bar itself, which should be engraved or printed somewhere on it. The barbell usually weighs 45 pounds, so if you are a beginner, you may just want to start by bench pressing the bar and then add weight as you gain strength.
If you’re new to lifting or lifting a large amount of weight, have someone to spot you in case you need help returning the bar to the rack.
Pressing on an inclined bench will maximize pec involvement.;
, You will need two light dumbbells and a flat bench. Lie back with the dumbbells in your hands. Rest the dumbbells on your chest so they are touching and your elbows are pointing out. Slowly press straight up while keeping the dumbbells in contact with each other. Start with 3 sets of 10 reps and increase the number of reps and the weight as you find comfortable.Keep your shoulders back during the press to maximize pec involvement.
 You will need two light dumbbells and an incline bench. Lie back with the dumbbells in your hands and your elbows bent. Hold the dumbbells as if you’re going to do a bench press. Then, begin to press the dumbbells straight up. As you press up, slowly twist your wrists so that your palms are facing each other. Hold this position at the peak for 2 second before twisting your wrists back to the starting position and slowly lowering the dumbbells back down. Start with 3 sets of 10 reps and increase the number of reps and weight as you find comfortable.Keep your shoulders back during the press to maximize pec involvement.
 Get a flat weight and a clear floor space. Place the weight on your back near your shoulder blades and position your feet so they are shoulder-length apart. Perform 3 sets of 10 push-ups and increase the number of reps and the weight as you find comfortable.Do this as a close grip push up to maximize the focus on your pecs. This means keeping your hands closer together than you would for a normal push up. Place them about 8 inches or roughly two hand-lengths apart.

