 Lab-created or synthetic diamonds are "real" but they are not "natural". Synthetic diamonds cost a fraction of what a mined diamond costs, but they are (usually) chemically the same as "natural" diamonds. Telling the difference between a natural and a synthetic diamond requires a trained professional using highly sophisticated equipment which tends to rely on detecting the higher uniformity (closer to perfect) structure that gem-quality lab-created diamonds usually have as well as distinctive trace quantities and uniform distribution of specific non-carbon elements within the diamond crystal. Man-made diamonds do not command the same re-sale value as mined diamonds due to successful PR campaigns by the mined diamond industry to suggest that mined diamonds are better than lab-made diamonds because they were mined instead of "made". If you care about re-sale and insurance values it is important to know if the gem is "natural" or "man-made".
 Diamond and moissanite are very easy to mistake for each other. It is difficult to tell the difference between them but moissanite sparkles a little more than diamond and also produces a double refraction, which can be difficult for most people to see. You can try shining a light through a stone, and if it gives off a much more colorful and large shine than a known diamond, then you'll know that moissanite is what you have.Diamond and moissanite have very similar thermal conductivities. If you only use a diamond tester, it will show "diamond" when you actually have moissanite. It is important to test any stone that tests "diamond" on a diamond tester or a moissanite tester. For a professional jeweler, the best option is to just get a combined diamond/moissanite tester.
 White topaz is another stone that can look a little like a diamond to the untrained eye. However, white topaz is much softer than diamond. A mineral's hardness is determined by its ability to scratch and be scratched by other materials. A stone that can scratch others easily without being scratched itself is hard (and vice versa for soft stones). Real diamonds are some of the hardest minerals on the planet, so look for scratches around the facets of your stone. If your stone appears to be somewhat "scratched up", it's probably a white topaz or another soft substitute.
 Contrary to popular belief, sapphires aren't only blue. In fact, these gems are available in virtually every color. White varieties of sapphire, which appear clear, are often used as diamond substitutes. However, these stones don't contain the sharp, sparkling contrast between light and dark areas that real diamonds do. If you find that your stone has a somewhat hazy or "icy" appearance — that is, its light and dark areas don't contrast greatly — it's probably a white sapphire., Cubic zirconia is a synthetic stone which closely resembles a diamond. The easiest way to spot a cubic zirconia is by the color of it's "fire" or shine. Cubic zirconia gives off an orange shine which makes this stone easy to identify. Its artificial origin can also give it much more "clear" appearance than natural diamonds, which often contain minor flecks and flaws.


Cubic zirconia are also known to exhibit a greater spectrum of color than real diamonds when light is focused on the stone. A real diamond's sparkle and reflection should be largely colorless, while a cubic zirconia can project colored sparkles.One commonly-circulated test for determining whether a stone is a real diamond is to scratch glass with it. According to popular belief, if the stone scratches glass without becoming scratched itself, it's a real diamond. However, some high-quality cubic zirconia can also scratch glass, so this test is actually not a definitive way to determine whether a diamond is real or not.