 Most computer security experts are now pursuing a bachelor's degree, although an associate's degree with many years of experience can be substituted. Focus on choosing a high-quality program with the most up-to-date information on computer programming, networking, information systems, penetration testing and systems analysis.;
, You should begin building your work experience as soon as possible. Most IT schools will have connections to internship programs, or you can find them via online search.
 Any consultant should be able to show a high level of certified training and it will improve your chances of getting contracts.


Other useful certifications include: Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH), ITIL, Certified Information Security Manager (CISM), SANS GIAC, Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Project Management Professional (PMP), Certified Business Continuity Professional (CBCP), Certified Protection Professional (CPP) and Certified Information Privacy Professional (CIPP).
 Study IT forensics, software safety, virus protection, firewall management and other topics whenever possible to prove you are an expert that can deal with a wide-variety of problems.
 A well-trained graduate should be able to break into the field fairly easily. Joining an IT department for approximately 2 to 5 years will give you excellent knowledge about threats and business structure.


You do not need to gain a job in IT security right away. Other jobs, like network administrator are excellent stepping stones for a computer security career.
 Learning about database repair client support, networking protocols, programming and computer maintenance will allow you to take more contracts when you become a consultant.
 Like most computer-based fields, there are a number of fraudulent or short-lived companies. Make sure you do your research to avoid these companies, which could mar your resume to prospective clients.
 Chapters of the Information Systems Security Association can help you join study groups, forums and conferences. They can help enhance a resume and your expertise.
 Write a business plan that will detail the number of employees you will need and the services you will offer. Make sure to spend time setting prices based on your expertise and competitors.
 You will need to file a business structure (sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, etc.), fictitious name certificate and employer identification number for tax purposes. You will also need business licenses to start an office in your county/city.


Call your Secretary of State and County Clerk to inquire about the necessary documents in your area.
 Start to build up a list of clients. Although this may take some time, you will start to get business based on the relationships you build with companies.

