 When you know what you are looking for, you are better able to recruit the type of sales executive you need.


The product or service, customer base, company size and marketing strategy will help define the type of person you need to fill your sales positions. For example, if your sales force must deliver home security presentations in home improvement stores, then you need to recruit sales executives who look presentable, energetic, comfortable in front of large crowds, experienced in public speaking and able to think quickly on their feet.
Experience should guide your knowledge of what works and what doesn't work in your industry/trade; therefore, if you don't have hands-on experience in the sales field, speak with other knowledgeable and successful salespeople to get a good idea of what type of personality and skill set is best suited to the sales position you are recruiting for.;
,


Describe your company and its brand. Build credibility by including supporting information, like Fortune 500 status, industry affiliations and better business bureau rankings.
Tell prospective employees what they can expect from employment with you. For example, you should include details about the work environment, the pay plan, employee benefits, training, support and the marketability of the product/service.
Detail what you are looking for in a potential sales executive. This is where you should include the characteristics from your ideal employee profile.
Take this opportunity to sell your company and the position, so as to encourage top-quality sales professionals to apply.
 Once you know the qualities you are looking for in a sales executive, you can develop a plan for recruitment.


Enlist the help of qualified professionals. If other people will be handling the details of the recruiting process, make sure you check their credentials to make sure they have experience in sales and/or recruitment, and also educate your recruiting team on the job description, the qualities an ideal candidate should possess and your outlined recruitment strategy.
Develop a system for filtering initial applications. You may get a flood of sales executive applications, but only some of them will lead to a good fit for your business. Your filtering system may involve telephone screenings, aptitude/knowledge tests and/or a questionnaire.
Once candidates pass through the first filter, you may conduct face-to-face interviews. Prepare for interviews by formulating a list of about 50 questions that are specifically tailored to gauging the qualities and experience you are looking for in a sales executive. Follow-up with a second interview, if necessary.



Place job post ads in Internet and newspaper classifieds, trade journals, on your business website, on bulletin boards and on job listing websites.
Attend job fairs and other recruitment events.
Hire a firm to recruit sales executives, as well as qualify and interview potential employees, for you.
Launch an employee referral program. Provide your employees with a job description write-up and offer them incentives for bringing qualified employees into the team.
Find potential employees through employment and/or temp agencies.
 Additionally, devise a payment system that guarantees new recruits at least a small salary while they adjust to the learning curve. Many sales positions are commission-only, and financial concerns are a primary deterrent for sales executives who may be talented and capable of achieving, but who are also new to the industry and afraid of going without pay.

