 When new correspondence enters your office or when new paperwork is created, you may not be able to file it right away. You should place everything that needs to be filed in a single place to be filed when you are able. A basket on your desk, labeled “To File,” is a good way to set these papers aside until you are ready., If you can, schedule a consistent time each day or week that you can work on filing new papers. If you make filing a regular part of your routine, you are more likely to keep up with it.For example, you might set aside the last half hour of each day to file the day’s papers. If this is not enough time, then you might try doing your filing twice each day, just before you go to lunch and then just before leaving for the day.
The keys to success are consistency and repetition.
 If you are the only person using your files, then you should easily be able to maintain the order that you have created. However, if other people need to use the papers in your files, you should make sure that they understand -- and follow -- the system that you have created. Having a filing system in place is not helpful if papers get misfiled and put into incorrect folders.If may be more efficient and more effective if you offer to get anything that someone else in your office might need, and then ask them to return everything directly to you. Then you can be sure that everything gets refiled correctly.
 Some special materials may need to be held in separate, special locations. For example, some papers may need to be kept in a safe or in a fireproof lockbox. You may even need to keep some materials off-site, in a bank safety deposit box or at your company’s lawyer’s office., At least once a year, or more frequently if necessary, you should set aside some time to review your files. The purpose of this review is to decide whether there are papers or entire folders that can be discarded or perhaps moved to an off-site storage facility. If something is never going to be needed again, then you should discard it. If it is something that you do not expect to use regularly but may need to keep as a record, then you should send it to storage.