 If you feel confident enough about your business to branch out on your own, develop a website that acts as a storefront for selling your products. Learn about the ins and outs of designing and hosting a website. Organize your site to guide customers through categories of products. Write content to promote your products. Get paid through a payment gateway account and merchant credit cards.
 This is the web address of your online business. Find a name that isn’t already taken. Most registrars charge a fee for claiming the domain name. You will need a credit card or PayPal account to pay this fee. Domain name registrars include GoDaddy, Namecheap, 1&1 Internet and Dotster., They will manage the hosting, security and coding if you do not know how to do it yourself. They typically offer a user-friendly, non-technical interface. You can quickly upload your products, connect to a payment processor and start selling. However, you may not have much flexibility to modify the functions they provide. You will receive technical support from support staff. Examples include Shopify, Bigcommerce, Wix, Weebly, and Squarespace., These are standalone programs that require you to install them into your own host. You can design them to operate the way you want them to. Choose from several advanced features that let you customize your customers’ shopping experience. You must manage all of the technical aspects yourself or hire someone to do it for you. Examples include Magento, Word Press with WooCommerce and Open Cart., A web host gives you space on the internet and support for building your ecommerce site. You will have to pay for site maintenance, search registration and site development.Free web hosts are available, but you have to deal with disadvantages. These include advertising on your page, a limited amount of web space (typically under 5 MB) and limits on file sizes and types. Also, they may be unreliable and slow which may cost you customers.Choosing a commercial web host has advantages. They are faster and more reliable, and you can purchase enough bandwidth to transfer more data to customers, such as music and videos. You can purchase more web space and they offer technical support. Also, you can have email addresses at your own domain.Choose a web host that lets you set up a secure SSL server. This gives you a website that begins with "https://" instead of http://. Expect additional charges, but you will need this if you plan to accept credit card payments., Your software may offer hundreds or even thousands of different templates. Choose one with background graphics and visual images that give your website the image you desire. You may even find graphics that reference the product you are selling. Many templates are free. However, consider paying for a premium template to find one that fittingly complements your business., These are provided with your software. If your business is small, you may be able to manage processes like shipping and bookkeeping manually. However when your business starts to grow, you may want to automate some of these functions. This frees you up to deal with the other administrative and operational issues of your growing business. Shopify and Bigcommerce both offer apps that can increase their capabilities., Think about what your website will look like and how you want your customers to use it. Determine the location and size of your logo and other visuals. Create menu selections that guide your customers through the pages of your online store. Start with a home page, and choose other menu selections and submenus that organize the information on your website. Identify the kind of information you want on each page. Your software will give you options for setting up your storefront with different formats and styles., Ecommerce content creates a superior shopping experience for your customers. Most of your content will be unique product descriptions and customer reviews. But it may also include buyer’s guides, videos, photographs or comparison tools. Do keyword research to identify terms your customers search for and use them in your content. Balance usefulness with relevancy. You don’t want to go overboard and clutter your site with too much information. Give your customers a satisfying experience that convinces them to purchase., This gives you the ability to process credit cards. Go to a bank with whom you already have a relationship. If you have credit cards and business accounts there, they will likely give you a merchant account because of your long-term relationship with them. If they won’t give you a merchant account, apply at another local bank. Offer to move all of your business accounts there to persuade them to give you merchant status. , This is an online transaction processor that lets you process credit cards from online shoppers. It handles verification and transfer requests. It communicates with the shopper’s bank to authorize the credit card in real time. If you don’t have a merchant account, they offer packages that let you set up a merchant account and accept payment. The most popular providers are PayPal, Authorize.net, Cybersource and Verisign. You pay a monthly processing fee based on the number of transactions per month, and you also pay a fee of from 3 to 5 percent per transaction. 