 An often neglected component of a battery is its hold down straps. An unsecured battery is an accident waiting to happen. The bouncing of a vehicle, especially a tractor over a plowed field, can cause a battery to scoot around in its housing and possibly short out against another metal component, causing a fire. If not that, it can certainly break a terminal, cable, or case, or even turn over and leak. Purchase a battery hold down kit and install it. It is cheap insurance against car, tractor, truck damage and will increase the life span of the battery.;
, This cool tool looks like a small gear puller with clamps. After the terminal bolt is loosened, the puller makes removal of the terminal an easy job. Don't screw a stuck terminal back and forth or use a screwdriver to try to pry it off. You can inadvertently crack the battery case or break the seal between the case and the protruding terminal. A puller is cheap, easy to use, and does the job correctly.
 A battery terminal cleaner works great for removing corrosion build up. This tool has two wire brush ends; one male, the other female. Use it to brush the ends until they shine. Sometimes a terminal end will have a hard blackish coating on it. This lead oxidation stops the electricity from flowing and creates excessive heat at the connection. It won't always come off with the wire brush so you may have to use a small file. Make sure to rotate the file around the terminal as you go so you won't create a lot of flat spots. Don't remove too much material, then tidy up the terminal with the brush. If the bolt is corroded, replace with a new one.
,,, Place on charger and fill accordingly. Whenever possible, use distilled water. Using impure water in a lead acid battery will harm battery performance and life. Remember to use safety eye equipment and gloves, especially when uncovering the filler ports. If the vehicle's alternator is defective and overcharging the battery, then the water in the battery will be electrolyzing into gas. If the filler ports are sealed, the covers cannot vent this gas (hydrogen and oxygen). Pressure may build up and be released when you remove the covers.
 With the battery installed in the vehicle, attach a voltmeter to the battery terminals. Ground the coil to keep the engine from starting and crank the motor over for 15 seconds. If the battery voltage stays above 9.6 volts, then the battery is in a reasonable state of charge. Below that amount indicates a shorted cell or a lowered capacity due to the battery is heavily sulfated harming its useful life. Treat it with ResureX additive and install the MAXI-Life Pulse you could recover from the junk 80% of discarded ones. (BCI source)

, The conditioner comes in a spray can and goes on like a red paint. The coating slows battery acid corrosion and lead oxidation and will lengthen the time between cleanings. One can also install felt pads onto the battery posts which have been saturated with baking soda. These also tend to slow acid corrosion. The negative cable has the smaller end and goes to the corresponding terminal.
