 Evading a mandatory military service is a crime and often carries serious consequences. In one recent case, an Australian national was arrested and jailed in Israel for draft evasion; she had lived there for four years as a teenager.Talk to a lawyer before you do anything. They can update you on the law and give you advice about your options.;
, Look into the files of recent service evaders with your lawyer. In the US, for example, there have been a number of high-profile cases in the last ten years of soldiers refusing to serve. Some tried to flee to Canadabut have mostly been deported, ending up in legal trouble.Although these men are legally deserters, not draft evaders, their stories can be helpful and give you a better sense of your options – and of the potential consequences of draft dodging.


Recently, Polish men have been moving to Britain in order to escape the draft in their country, which is punishable by three years in prison. They have been able to do so because of fairly open freedom of movement between countries in the European Union., You are about to take a very serious and potentially life-changing step. Examine all of your options with a lawyer. Know the latest case law. Be sure that you are making the right choice and that you have a plan for all possible outcomes.


Questions to consider include whether you have dual citizenship in a country not at war. It may be possible for you to go there. Are you gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, or intersex? Many militaries do not let such people serve in the military.
Are you a member of a religious organization that is historically pacifist, like the Quakers, Mennonites, or Jehovah’s Witnesses? If so, you may qualify as a “conscientious objector” or someone who opposes war or violence by reason of religious belief.
Do you have any physical or mental conditions that could prevent you from being drafted? Document them. Do you have a mild case of asthma? Go to the doctor once a month to get it on record. Whatever your condition, document it as much as possible. You will need to present comprehensive documentation.

