 How popular is soccer in those nations? Which countries have particular rivalries with each other? Often in the World Cup, former colonies are keen on winning against the country they gained independence from, or have tense environments due to strong political differences and conflicts.;
, Can they control the ball in the air in one touch and then immediately be ready to shoot or pass? Do they control the ball in anticipation of what they want to do next? Can they avoid a defender when pressured, shield the ball and still find an open teammate? Focus in on free kicks and corner kicks, known as set pieces, which often result in goals.
 While watching their moves, try to pick out individuals and understand the roles they each play for the time. In particular, look out for:


The Star - Usually there’s one player who every play the ball runs through. Like Benzema of France, Messi of Argentina, Muller of Germany, Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal, or Neymar of Brazil - they run the show for their teams.
The Breakthrough - Identify the upcoming and future stars. There’s usually one new young player that breaks through in the World Cup and dazzles the World, such as Fernando Llorente (Spain), Eden Hazard (Belgium), Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain (England), or Rafael and Oscar (Brazil).
 Is the team that is winning stalling the game to get the ball for a throw-in? Are they trying to keep possession of the ball rather than go forward? Do they keep possession of the ball and slowly work up the field or do they send a long ball up to the forwards (the best teams do a bit of both)? Watch how teams defend: do they play an off-side trap and move the defensive line up the field or play deeper, compact and near their goal? Do they double team one player when he receives the ball? Are they stretched or organized?

, Good teams vary and control the pace of the game, a few short passes and then a long pass that splits the defense and puts a teammate through with a chance on goal. Great teams play the ball at speed – sharp passes, driven balls, and whipped in crosses. Pay attention to how momentum changes games. They often say the first five minutes and last five minutes of each half are key moments of the game; don’t concede an early goal and look for a late goal when the other team is tired. Teams pounce on other teams just after they score.
 Are the teams playing with energy and being aggressive or sitting back intimidated? Watch how each 50/50 ball is challenged for. Sometimes, a great fight and challenge for a ball is a thing to appreciate, as they jump up into the air to head the ball to a teammate amongst two defenders, an elbow to the face in the process. Listen to when the fans cheer, sing and whistle. Listen to their national anthems. See how the crowd sings, jumps, claps and stands nearly the whole game.
 A goal is hard to come by and a player can be overcome with emotion and deservedly so; a run to the bench to celebrate, a dance, sliding on their chest towards where their fans are located, ripping off the jersey and revealing an undershirt with a message and so on. Don't hold back; if you're excited, show it!

