 There are two small terminals sticking out of the face of a starter solenoid. One is the 12 volt positive (top) that comes from the battery. When the starter solenoid is activated, it connects the lower terminal to the upper one internally, engaging the starter motor.There should be continuous power going to the top solenoid terminal.
Press the red lead from the test light onto the top terminal and hold it in place.
 The black lead from the test light must be connected to a grounded surface in order to complete the circuit and test the power passing through it. Any part of the body of the vehicle will suffice as a ground, provided it is bare metal.You can touch the black lead to any bare metal on the body of the vehicle.
You may also touch it to the negative terminal on the battery.
 If the light comes on when you have the test light touching the top terminal on the starter solenoid and the other lead grounded, it means there is electricity coming from the battery to the starter solenoid itself. This means there could be an issue with the solenoid, rather than simply a dead battery.Once you have confirmed that there is power going to the solenoid, you can test if the solenoid is transferring it properly.
 Now that you have confirmed that there is power going into the solenoid, the next step is to determine whether or not the solenoid is transferring the power properly. Place the red lead on the lower terminal that should only have power when the vehicle is starting.Hold the lead in place on the lower terminal.
Keep the black lead grounded.
 While you hold the two leads in place, ask a friend to turn the ignition. This should make the solenoid bridge the connections internally and send electricity to the lower terminal on the solenoid.Be careful not to get your hands or clothes in the way of any engine components that may move if the vehicle starts.
Do not allow the test light wiring to hang into the area around the belts.
 If the test light comes on, it means the solenoid is transferring power from the battery to the starter. If the starter fails to activate despite the light coming on, the starter itself may need to be replaced. If the light does not come on, it means the solenoid is failing to transfer the power and will need to be replaced.You can often purchase a starter and starter solenoid together, as it may be easier to replace them both at once.
Make sure to tell the clerk at your local auto parts store the correct year, make and model of your vehicle to purchase the right replacement parts.

