 This is a serious issue that you shouldn’t have to hide from anyone. You won't get in trouble for informing others about how you are getting mistreated. You can also choose to walk away, and protect yourself if the bully is physically harming you.Talk to a guidance counselor or discipline officer at your school. Tell them how you feel and what has been done/said to you or about you.
Stand up for yourself. Don't let others push you around. Nobody can tell you who you are; that’s for only you to decide.
This includes cyberbullying. If you are being bullied over social media or via texting, direct messaging, emails with things like threats, pictures, spreading rumors, or verbal attacks, it's important that you talk to someone.Cyberbullying can be especially harmful because it can be done at any time, from almost anywhere. It can sometimes be difficult to track who is behind the bullying and undo damage done by images or messages once they have begun circulating.;
, If you keep fighting with some friends, or other friends keep asking to copy your homework, decide if these are friends you want in your life. Choose to keep the friends that care about you and that you care about back. The people that use you or pretend to be your friends? Forget them.


It can be hard to let friends go, but prioritize your happiness. If people contribute to your unhappiness, let them go.
 Drama can be fun, but it can also be very damaging. Don’t ever spread rumors about somebody. Think about how you would feel if people were spreading rumors about you. Don’t get involved with drama, and don’t participate in other people’s drama. If someone spreads rumors about you, tell an adult and speak up for yourself. Nobody has the right to treat you disrespectfully.Remember that bullying and spreading rumors can have devastating consequences for the person being bullied and to those participating in the bullying.
If two of your friends are fighting, tell them that the fight is between them, and you refuse to choose sides.
 Make sure your social relationships don’t take over all of your time, and remember to devote some energy to school and learning. Especially if you have career or college goals, don’t lose sight of doing well in school. Devote some time for homework and classwork and have an attitude of success.


If friends hassle you for staying in to finish homework, don’t feel bad. Sometimes you have to work, and other times you can play. Promise to meet up with them for the weekend.
 Fights are normal in romantic relationships, but they shouldn’t happen more often than not. If you find your romantic relationship takes up all of your energy, or you are constantly trying to make things better with a partner while your partner expects you to always apologize without taking responsibility, reconsider this relationship. A partner should add to your life, not take away from it.


Don’t be with a romantic partner that is constantly jealous.
Run as fast as you can if your partner begins to talk down to you, say you are worthless, or criticize your looks or appearance.
Run even faster if your partner becomes violent with you by pushing, shoving, or violently threatening you. If your partner humiliates you, isolates you, or intimidates you, leave. This is abuse and cannot be tolerated.