 To massage your arms, start by making long flowing strokes with the opposite hand all the way up your arm, from your wrists to your shoulder. Continue to make these long strokes until you feel your arms heating up. Then, transition to making smaller little circles all over your forearms and upper-arms.









Switch back and forth between the long-flowing strokes and the smaller circles until your arms feel heated and relaxed.
 Gently squeeze one hand by pressing it between the palm and fingers of your other hand. Then, squeeze each finger and run the thumb from your other hand along the joints of the fingers in a circular motion. Hold the finger at its base and gently pull it up so that you're stretching the fingers upwards. Use your thumb to stroke the tendons on the back of the hands.








Use your thumb to put pressure on your palms and wrists, moving it in a circular motion.
To complete the massage, stroke your palm gently from your fingers to your wrist. If you're using oil, rub your hands together to massage the oil further into your hands. You can also complete this motion even if you're not using oil.
 Glide your fingers over your legs, starting at your feet and working all the way up to your waist. Glide your fingers over your calves, shins, quads, and hamstrings. Start with light motions and then dig in with your palm, moving in firmer circles. You can start squeezing your muscles with one of your hands, massaging them with your fists, or even pressing into them with your elbow.








Try the drumming technique. Use the side of your hand to make a gentle chop all the way up your leg. This can help ease cramped muscles and relieve soreness.
 To massage your feet, dig your thumbs in a circular motion into the soles of your feet and the bottoms of your toes. You can also start at your ankle and rub your thumbs outwards across the top of your feet and down the toes. You can support your foot with one hand while working on each toe with the other hand. Squeeze each toe and gently pull it upward. Place your thumb on each of the joints on your toes and move it in a circular motion.









Massage the soles of your feet either by creating circular motions with both of your thumbs, or putting your hand into a fist and running it up and down the soles of your feet.
Use your fingertips to stroke your ankle up and down.
Squeeze your Achilles tendon several times.
Finish the massage by gently stroking your foot.

