 Or, if you're not into shaping the dough, you can use a store-bought pizza base instead. Some guidance is available here:


How to make pizza dough
How to make thin crust pizza dough

How to make pizza dough without yeast.;
, This is optional, as a circle can be used as the monster's face just as easily as another shape. However, if you want to play around with the dough a little, here are some fun suggestions:


Shape the dough like a skull
Shape the dough like Frankenstein's monster's clunky head
Shape the dough as a square, for a monster's head that's a little different from the standard round pizza
Shape it in any weird way you like; monsters come in all shapes.
 The dough is now ready for turning into a pizza monster.
 Rather than telling you an exact way of putting together your monster, this section breaks down the monster features, allowing you to pick and choose how you'll decorate your pizza monster. It's also fun to make one and show it to the kids, then let them loose on decorating their own, any which way they like.
 The following are just some fun ways to make monster eyes (and remember, one eye or many eyes is just fine):


Use a green olive chopped in half. Ensure that the red pepper is in the middle of each half. Place on the pizza where eyes are to be.
Cut two slices of tomatoes for the eyes and add black olive slices for the pupils.
Cut onion slices. Use these for the outer eyes, with a black olive slice placed inside each one for pupils.
Use pepperoni rounds for eyes.
 Here are a few suggestions for making a monster mouth (and some fangs):


Cut a slice of tomato in half. Use the semi-circle for a mouth. To add fangs, carefully cut small triangles from onion and add around the mouth shape. Or, add cheese triangles after the pizza has been cooked.
Add a crooked row of bell pepper/capsicum slices; red works best.
Make a row of thinly cut olive slice halves across where the mouth goes. Then add cross sections of the same slices facing upward at even intervals along the mouth, to appear like stitches in the mouth.
Cut a length of bell pepper. Fill with a row of corn kernels; they look remarkably like teeth.
Just a bunch of grated cheese in a mouth shape works well.
 An idea or two for a monster's nose on the pizza:


Make a big triangle from bell pepper or pepperoni slices.
Add a round of pepperoni as a large nose.



Add a monster scar. Make scars from olive or bell pepper pieces; make a row first, then add pieces that cross over in the opposite direction to appear like a scar.
Add blood dribbles from the monster's mouth. Add blobs of tomato paste coming from the mouth area to the edge of the pizza.
Add wicked eyebrows. Add eyebrows made from olive or bell pepper slices that slant inward to give the effect of a mean or evil stare.
Cut pepperoni into long triangles to serve as bangs or hair.
 Follow either the instructions of the recipe or the packaging for times and temperature.
 Eat it while it's still nice and warm.


Ensure that you have serving plates large enough to serve the pizza monster whole. The pizza can be cut or torn after the diner has enjoyed looking at the fun shape.

