 The leaf needs to be at least 10 to 12 inches (cc to cc centimeters) across, otherwise it will be too small to use as a stepping stone. Great leaves include: gunnera, hosta, and rhubarb. Make sure that the leaf does not have any holes or tears.Some cucumber, squash, and pumpkin leaves may also be big enough. Some calla lily leaves may also be large enough.
 You can also brush some cooking oil onto it. This will help keep the concrete from sticking and make it easier to remove., This is important, as concrete dust can irritate your lungs, eyes, and skin. You will need safety goggles, rubber gloves, and a dust mask. At this point, it would also be a good idea to put on a set of old clothes and protect your work surface with a plastic sheet., Each brand will be a little different, so prepare the concrete according to the instructions on the bag. You want the concrete to be more dry and firm than wet and soupy. It should clump together like wet sand when you squeeze a handful of it.

Use a lightweight concrete with little gravel for a smoother, decorative stepping stone.Use a heavier concrete with more gravel for a strong, sturdy stepping stone that will get lots of foot traffic., Place the leaf down onto a large, plastic sheet. Use a trowel to scoop the concrete onto the leaf. Make the layer about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) thick., While still wearing your gloves, gently pat the concrete down onto the leaf. If you need to, guide it towards the edge of the leaf, and wipe any excess concrete away. Do not to let the concrete slop over the edges of the leaf., How long this takes depends on the type of concrete you are using. This will typically take about 2 to 3 days., Flip the stepping stone over, then peel the leaf away and discard it. If there are bits stuck to the concrete, you can scrape them away with water and an old toothbrush. You will be left with a leaf-shaped stepping stone. Depending on how lightweight the concrete was, you may also see the leaf's veins embedded into the concrete.

Use a hammer and chisel to chip away any flakes of overhanging concrete on the edges of the stepping stone., You don't have to do this, but it will give your leaf stepping stone a nice, wet look. Use a high-quality outdoor or marine varnish to lightly coat the front of the stepping stone., Choose a spot for the stone, then dig a shallow how that is 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) deep. Set the stepping stone into the hole, then fell any gaps in with more soil.