 Spray six to eight brioche molds with nonstick cooking spray. Use a clean paper towel to spread the oil over the bottom and sides, coating the entire mold in a thin layer.Ideally, you should use 4-inch (10-cm) molds or 1/2-cup (125-ml) molds. Brioche molds work well and give the finished jelly an appealing appearance, but any similarly sized mold would also work.
If you do not wish to remove the jelly from its dish before serving it, you could use six to eight 1/2-cup (125-ml) custard dishes, instead. Do not coat the dishes with cooking spray if you choose this option.
 Pour the coffee liqueur into a small to medium mixing bowl and sprinkle the gelatin on top. Allow it to stand for 5 minutes.As it stands, the gelatin should soften or "bloom." The individual grain will absorb the moisture and will dissolve more readily once you add them to the hot coffee.
 Pour the hot coffee, sugar, and salt into the bowl. Stir well until the gelatin fully dissolves.


The coffee must be hot when you add it to the gelatin. Using cool coffee can result in stringy jelly.
Continue stirring until the entire mixture seems like a smooth liquid. This should take approximately 2 minutes.
 Divide the mixture evenly between your prepared brioche molds.


After filling the molds, loosely cover them with a single layer of plastic wrap.
 Place the filled molds in your refrigerator and keep them there until the jelly becomes firm.


Chilling them for 8 hours or overnight should result in very firm jellies, which will be ideal if you plan to remove them from their molds.
If you wish to eat the coffee jelly directly from its dish, however, it might be firm enough to enjoy after 4 hours. Waiting longer will still produce a firmer texture, though.
 Remove the coffee jelly from your refrigerator. Use your fingers to gently pull the jelly away from the edges of the mold, then turn each mold over onto its own dessert plate.


If the coffee jelly sticks to the mold, quickly dip the bottom of the mold into hot water. The heat should loosen the jelly and make it easier to remove.
 The coffee jelly is finished and ready to enjoy.


If desired, garnish each serving with whipped cream and chocolate shavings.
This coffee jelly is best when enjoyed immediately, but you can cover and store the leftovers in your refrigerator for up to 4 days.

