 The albums featured on iTunes are not paid advertisements -- they're chosen by the iTunes staff as "new and noteworthy" releases. Getting your picture and album on the front page of iTunes is one of the best ways to drive sales, so set your release date 2-3 weeks after you distribute your music to give the iTunes staff time to hear your songs., Most aggregators allow you to sell pre-orders, which increases your sales when the album drops. Pre-orders allow you to market your music in advance, giving people sound-bites to get excited about. When the album finally comes out, everyone who pre-ordered the album will be talking about you at the same time, creating social media buzz to drive future albums sales.
 Today, a strong online campaign is the best way for anyone at home to sell their music. This needs to be prepared months in advanced. Start a Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and BandCamp page to make yourself accessible to your fans and meet new ones. More important than having an account, however, is using it. The most successful bands post at least once a day, if not more:



Twitter: Try for 3-5 tweets per day.

Facebook: Post at least twice a day.

Pinterest: Post or re-pin another band 4-5 times a day.

Blog: Try to write a post 3-4 times a week.
Connect these accounts for the most success. For example, put your Twitter handle at the bottom of every blog post.
 The only way you can sell you music is if you promote it. Talk about it on blogs, ask friends to write you a review, and play some small concerts in your town to get people talking about you. Try to record 2-3 songs to put online so that people can hear you before they buy.


Ask local coffee shops and bars about playing your music during the week.
Send you music to college radio stations. They will often play your music and are more approachable then commercial stations.
 You need to use your social media presence, music buzz, and concerts to drive traffic back to your album, otherwise you won't get any sales. Make this easy on your listeners by placing a link to your album on your website, blog, Facebook, Twitter, etc. Whenever you are out, be sure to mention the album at your concerts or when you meet interested listeners.



Create a QR code to send smartphone users directly to your music without clicking on any links.

