 If you suspect you have a tooth abscess, your first action should be to make an appointment with your dentist right away. Symptoms of a tooth abscess include fever, pain when chewing, a bad taste in the mouth, lingering bad breath, swollen neck glands, redness and swelling of the gums, discoloration of the tooth, swelling of the upper or lower jaw, or an open, pus-filled sore on the side of the gum.A tooth abscess is not necessarily painful; a severe tooth infection will eventually kill the pulp inside the root of the tooth, at which point the tooth will lose sensation. This does not mean you are OK, now. The infection is still active, and if left untreated will cause further, serious damage.
Depending on the type of bacteria involved in the infection and your immune system, an abscess can even cause facial deformities due to the constant accumulation of pus in the tissue.;
, Do this after meals to keep any particles from further irritating the abscess. It may also bring temporary pain relief to the area.Mix 1 tsp (5 g) of salt into 1 cup (250ml) of warm (not hot) water, and swish it around in your mouth to rinse, then spit out the water and repeat.
Remember that a saltwater rinse can NOT cure a tooth abscess, even if it makes it feel better. You still must be seen by a dentist because the symptoms may be aggravated severely by an anaerobic infection, which expands quickly.
 Medications such as acetaminophen (Tylenol,) naproxen (Aleve,) ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin) can help relieve your tooth pain while you wait for your appointment.Take medications only as directed, even if doing so does not completely alleviate your tooth pain.
Note that these medications are also fever-reducers, and may mask a fever that the infection is causing. When using these medications, keep an eye out for any other symptoms that might indicate that the infection is worsening.
 It is possible for a tooth infection to spread rapidly, and affect not only other teeth, but your entire body, as well. If you experience any of the following symptoms, go to an emergency room right away: visibly increased swelling of the abscess, the jaw, or the face, swelling that spreads across the face or down the neck, skin discoloration, fever, vertigo, lack of energy, eyesight problems, chills, nausea, vomiting, or increasing or intolerable pain that does not respond to over-the-counter medications.