 During sleep paralysis you will feel conscious and aware but unable to move your body or speak. This phenomenon could last just a few seconds, few minutes or in very rare cases longer. It is not unusual for people experiencing sleep paralysis to feel pressure on the chest or a choking sensation, as if something were pushing down on their chest.The paralysis does not cause you any harm, but it can be a frightening situation, especially if you have not experienced it before.
Some people will experience it a few times in their life, others more frequently, and some not at all.
Typically, it is more frequently observed in teenagers and young adults, although it can affect anybody and is not thought to be influenced by gender., The main symptom of sleep paralysis is the sense of consciousness without being able to move. This is often coupled with a feeling of restricted breathing. It is not uncommon for someone to experience scary hallucinations and have a powerful sense that there is something threatening in the room during sleep paralysis. These hallucinations may be especially vivid because you are semi-awake when you are dreaming.These symptoms can create an anxious and disturbed feeling which can persist after you move out of sleep paralysis.Sleep paralysis itself can be a symptom of narcolepsy., Sleep paralysis itself does not cause you any harm, but if you experience it frequently it can be upsetting and disruptive for your sleeping pattern. Most often, making adjustments to your sleep cycle so it is more regular, and trying to limit stress in your life will lower your chances of experiencing sleep paralysis. If it is having a negative impact on you, visit your doctor for advice. In some cases the doctor may prescribe a short course of antidepressants.If you have severe symptoms, they may be connected to another sleep disorder, such as narcolepsy.
Visit your doctor if you experience excessive sleepiness during the day and are finding it difficult to concentrate on everyday tasks.