 When you are constipated, tight clothing around your abdomen can cause pain. Wear loose clothing that doesn’t put extra pressure on your abdomen.Tight pants or skirts may cause digestive problems because it constricts the belly area.;
, One natural remedy that has a reputation for immediate relief is honey and water. The high sugar level can act as an osmotic laxative, meaning that the sugar quickly moves water into your bowels. Mix two tablespoons of honey with eight to 10 ounces of hot water. Drink it all as quickly as you can. Some people report that this method works very quickly.
You can use the same approach with blackstrap molasses instead of honey.
 Olive oil can help with your bowel movements. Take one tablespoon of olive oil and follow it with one six to eight ounce cup of water. Mix the juice of one fresh lemon into the water.You can also substitute one tablespoon of flaxseed oil in place of the olive oil.
Mineral oil taken orally can work as well, but should never be used for long periods because it slows down the absorption of various vitamins and nutrients.
 Glycerin suppositories can work very quickly to help you have a bowel movement. The glycerin lubricates the rectal walls and allows for easier bowel release. Since glycerin is administered by inserting the suppository in the rectum, there are relatively fewer adverse effects.Use glycerin suppositories only occasionally, when needed. Follow manufacturer’s instructions and be aware that glycerin suppositories can work within a short period of time.
 Some herbs can help with relieving constipation because they act as purgatives. These herbs include senna, buckthorn, cascara, and aloe. Only use these for acute or rare constipation, and only under the direction of a physician such as a naturopath or a medical herbalist.Milder herbs act as bulking agents or as mild stimulants. These include flaxseed, senna, psyllium and fenugreek.
There are many commercial herbal teas available. Find the one that you like the best. Don’t forget, you can always add a bit of lemon or honey if that helps it taste better for you. Examples of these teas include Traditional Medicinals Smooth Move Tea and Yogi Get Regular Tea.
You can also take senna in a tablet or capsule form. Senna can gently and effectively relieve the pain and discomfort of constipation. Senna is FDA approved for constipation and usually works within eight to 12 hours. Don’t use senna if you have Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis and follow manufacturer’s directions for use.You can also try psyllium. Try one tablespoon of psyllium seeds two times a day along with at least two full eight ounce glasses of water. Start out by taking one tablespoon of seeds. If there is no bowel movement within eight to 12 hours, take another tablespoon along with water. If you have asthma or are allergic to psyllium, don’t use this method.4

