 Lemon juice is a natural lightener. Either get three lemons and squeeze out the juice, or just buy pure lemon juice from the store. If you choose to squeeze your own, remember to strain out the seeds.;
, Like lemon juice, chamomile acts like a natural bleaching agent. Bring one cup of water to a boil and add the tea bags. Allow the tea to steep for five minutes, then add it to the lemon juice.
 Adding these ingredients, which also contain natural lighteners, creates a super-bleaching cocktail for your hair. Get about one teaspoon of cinnamon and one tablespoon of almond oil and mix them in with the other ingredients. You may substitute coconut oil for the almond oil, if you like.
 If you're just going for highlights, only spray the areas you want to lighten.Otherwise, spray it all over your hair. Try to spray as evenly as possible to avoid patchiness.
 You'll need to stay in the sun for about one to two hours. The reason for this is that the lightening process needs heat. Be sure to use sunscreen so that you don't burn.
 You'll need half a cup of calendula flowers or marigold petals, as well as two teaspoons of hibiscus petals. If you don't have any in your garden, you can find them in herbal shops or some health food stores.These flowers are known for bringing out the red tones in hair.


For redder hair, add more hibiscus petals., Add in the flowers and bring it down to a simmer. Allow it to stew for a minimum of thirty minutes.This lets all of the juices in the flowers steep into the water.
 Use a strainer to separate out the flowers from the liquid. Keep it in the refrigerator. This helps to maintain its freshness.
 It's best to use it as a rinse after a shower. Then, sit out in the sun and allow your hair to dry. Use it every day until you achieve your desired shade of red. An herbal rinse such as this works progressively. That is, the color intensifies with repeated use.


To maintain your color, simply reapply the mixture every few days.
 Coffee contains a natural brown pigment. Measure one cup of water and add in a tablespoon of coffee. Brew as normal, then allow it to cool for thirty minutes.If you want to condition your hair at the same time, add in a tablespoon of olive or coconut oil.
 Make sure that you cover your entire head with the stuff. It may be helpful to comb it through after putting it in your hair. This helps the color deposit evenly through-out your hair.
 You can also use a plastic bag with a rubber band to hold it in place. Keep it on for at least one hour and thirty minutes. The longer you leave it in, the darker your hair will become. The reason for this is that the plastic traps your body heat between it at your scalp. Heat opens the cuticle of the hair shaft, allowing color to be deposited.
 Do not shampoo your hair. Simply rinse the coffee off with water. If you didn't add in the olive or coconut oil, you can use a conditioner in your hair after you rinse out the coffee.

