


The side of the coil that this wire came off of is the "negative" and is often marked "-" or "1".
The other side of the coil is the "positive" and is often marked "+" or "15".;
,


It is a good idea to leave the plug wires installed on the cap, to keep them in order.



Remove the ignition rotor (3) and lay it aside for later re-installation.



Make sure you do not lose this screw down inside the distributor!
With the screw removed from the points, unplug the wire on the points that is going to the condenser (5).



Depending on the location of the condenser, you may need to loosen the distributor clamp and rotate the distributor to gain access to the small condenser screw.
If you do rotate the distributor, mark its location with thin line of white paint on the distributor body running down on the distributor clamp and the engine case, in order to be able to reinstall the distributor just as it was.



Make sure the "post" on the bottom side of the pickup unit fits firmly into the unthreaded hole in the breaker plate that held the points pivot shaft.
A little over an inch away from this unthreaded hole is the threaded hole that was used to secure the points. Use the 4 x 8 mm socket screw (8) and supplied Allen wrench to secure the module in the same threaded hole that the points screw was installed in.



Make sure you have slack in the wires inside the distributor.

The wires must not interfere with the operation of the magnetic trigger wheel (9) or vacuum advance mechanism.


Push the plastic grommet into the hole in the side of the distributor.

The grommet is designed to slightly pinch the wires to keep them from moving.
The square plastic grommet has the flange removed on one side. This side of the grommet must be located up in the direction of the distributor cap to avoid interference with the distributor cap when it is installed.



DO NOT REVERSE THE WIRES or the points replacement module will be destroyed when starting the vehicle.



Slide this ring down onto the distributor shaft; make sure it seats all the way down. It's a tight fit; apply some WD40 to a rag and wipe around the shaft to remove accumulated crud and to provide a little lubrication.
This ring properly sets the air gap (about 0.060") between the CompuFire module and the magnetic trigger wheel. The gap must not be outside the range of 0.030” and 0.100”.



The wheel is indexed and will go onto the shaft correctly four ways.

Rotate it back and forth until you feel it “locate” onto the cam.


Once the trigger wheel is lined up properly, gently press it into place on the spacer ring.

It may be stiff the first few times; use the ignition rotor (3) as a tool to fully seat the trigger wheel onto the distributor cam.
If the trigger wheel is not pressed firmly onto the spacer ring, the gap between it and the CompuFire module may be too wide, and the system will not operate properly.



Depending on the ignition rotor, you might have to remove some material from the bottom of the rotor so it will seat properly onto the distributor shaft.
If not installed properly, the ignition rotor will spin freely on the shaft.
,