 Without it you will look careless and definitely not professional.


Create a unique picture and make sure you put some effort into it.
Add the picture as your channel icon;
, This step will help your channel stand out from the crowd


Click the pencil icon at the top of your channel to add a picture
Create a picture that shows your viewers your channel name, a subscribe reminder, or just a unique picture of who you are as a channel.
Make sure your picture fits the required size.
 This can really gain your views and help give your channel a more professional look.


Add some channel branding to your videos by going to In video programming and adding your channel's (linked to your channel) picture. Everyone will see it while watching your video.
Upload a couple seconds long video to add an intro to all of your videos by doing a "branding intro".
Do "Featured video" and it will add a recommendation to watch your YouTube video or playlist.
 Adding a channel trailer is one of the most entertaining ways to tell people what your channel is about.


Go to your channel's home page and add a un-subscriber or subscriber channel trailer to welcome visitors to your channel.
You can create a special video that informs your un-subscribers what your channel is about.
You can add a video you think deserves more attention to your channel also.
 (e.g a video game play-through). If you have videos that can fit into a category then this step will help your channel look more organized.


Click "add a section" at the bottom of your channel
Click add a single playlist and add the playlist your just made.
Make a custom title name of what it is your doing in the playlist.
 This is helpful if you really want to inform a viewer about your channel or just want to put a funny message.


Go to your channel's "about" page and click channel description
Whether your describing your channel or coming up with something unique, try viewing some other channels description for inspiration

, Have friends on YouTube or have done collabs with other channels? This step will help your channel look more popular.


While adding those channels pick a unique name for your list. (e.g People you should check out, Cool Peeps, Amigos).



Go to your channel's "about" page and click the "add custom links" button
Add all of your channels social media pages, websites and blogs (e.g Facebook pages, Twitter, or Instagram)

