 When someone loves you, he considers you when he's thinking about his daily life. When he makes plans for the future, he includes you.Does he include you in his plans, or does he make plans for himself alone?
When he talks to his friends or family on the phone, does he mention things you've done together? Does he let them know when he's with you? Or does he avoid talking to his friends when he's with you?

, Some men have an easy time saying they're sorry, but their actions might not change. Some men refuse to say they're sorry, even when they're clearly in the wrong. Notice how your boyfriend reacts when he's done something hurtful or insensitive. Does he apologize?If someone apologizes easily, but seems to repeat the same behavior patterns, his apologies aren't very meaningful.
A boyfriend who is stubborn may have a hard time apologizing for when he's wrong, but if he loves you he'll be uncomfortable until things are right between you again.
 The boyfriend who says things that his actions don't back up is essentially untrustworthy. Someone whose actions and words doesn’t match has a disconnect with his thinking. This disconnect is demonstrated through his actions and words.When someone's words and actions don't match up, he isn't trustworthy. Even if he loves you, you won't be able to trust him.
Many times, a boyfriend will try to explain away this disconnect through confessing his negative life experiences. This often has the result of girls feeling sorry for him and trying to help.
Other times, someone caught in a disconnect will try to blame you. He'll turn your conversation around to accuse you of negative thinking. This is a warning sign.
 Someone who says, "I love you," but doesn't act in loving, caring ways doesn't really love you. The words "I love you" are sometimes used in dishonest, manipulative ways. When someone says, "I love you," consider if their actions match their words.If you aren't sure whether you should trust someone's words, ask a trusted person for help figuring it out. Maybe they've noticed something that you haven't.
If you feel convinced your boyfriend really loves you, then you're ready to think about whether or not that's good enough for you. If your boyfriend loves you, it doesn't mean that you have to love him back.

