 The most important thing about the grip is that either your index finger or middle finger is pushed up against the inside of a seam. (That's the left side of the seam for a righty, right side for a lefty). You can rest your ring finger and/or pinky finger on the side of the ball if it makes it more comfortable.;
, When you throw, DO NOT snap your wrist like you would a normal curve ball. Instead, come through like a normal fastball. Thrown correctly, the ball should be coming off your index finger. You might get some break diagonally down and away from a right hand batter (down and in if you throw lefty). More likely though, on your first try you didn't get much, if any, break. Just keep throwing like this to get used to the grip. Proceed to step 3 when you feel you have control.
 After throwing a few times like a fastball, it's time to start making adjustments. At this point, your "directional slurve" probably isn't really breaking. An easy way to add a little more break is to push down with your middle finger on the outside of the ball. Doing so will add more rotation, and therefore more break. If you're having trouble, check the tips section below.
 By this point, hopefully you've worked out any major problems to get a decent pitch working. But what about that "directional" part? When I throw this pitch without thinking, it has a diagonal break down and away from a righty. But the angle at which it breaks can be altered. For this next part, grip the ball and just imitate throwing. Imitate a throw holding the ball straight out in front of you. Now with the ball out in front of you, turn your hand SLIGHTLY down and to the left (down and right for a lefty). Throwing like this will put more of a downward movement and less across. Get used to this and then go back to the normal grip. Now try tilting your hand slightly back and to the right (left for lefties). This should break less down and more to the side. Get used to these two other angles and try throwing them. Again see tips if you're having trouble.
 If you've made it this far, you can (hopefully) throw the "directional slurve" pretty well. You might even be able to direct the break based on the angle you hold it. So now you're on the mound and you're not sure how to use it. Throw it low in the zone and the batter should start his swing. It should drop out near the end and fall into the dirt. By then it's too late for the batter to stop his swing. Swing and a miss!... we hope. If you direct it to have more of a side to side break, you can throw it "at the guy" and let it break into the zone. This is only worth trying if it's unexpected, though. If it's expected, the batter can watch it in and pull it.

