 Though it is not possible to cure your thyroid issues by adjusting your diet, changes to your diet can benefit your thyroid in positive ways. To maintain your health when you have thyroid issues, you should have foods that are not processed or prepackaged, as they can contain additives and preservatives that can irritate your thyroid. Go for whole-foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables as well as whole grain foods. Make sure all the produce you consume is organic and preferably, fresh or homemade.You should try to integrate seaweed or kelp into your meals if you are iodine deficient due to your thyroid issues. However, you should not have more than 158 to 175 micrograms of kelp a day. Avoid taking kelp capsules or a surplus of kelp, as too much iodine in your system can cause issues.;
, If you have hypothyroid, where your thyroid is underactive, you should avoid or limit your consumption of certain foods that can affect your thyroid. Vegetables like cabbage, turnips, Brussels sprouts, rutabagas, broccoli, cauliflower and bok choy can all interfere with your thyroid’s ability to take in iodine.


Do not have soy products if you have hypothyroidism, as soy can hinder your body’s ability to absorb hormones that can help your thyroid function properly.You should also avoid cassava, a root vegetable popular in Caribbean cooking. Cassava is known to produce toxins that can slow down an underactive thyroid.If you have hyperthyroidism, you should increase your intake of these vegetables, as they can help to counter an overactive thyroid.
 These substances can have a negative effect on your thyroid. You should also avoid certain drugs such as Lithium, Thionamides, Alpha Interferon, Interleukin-2, Cholestyramine, Perchlorate, Expectorants, Aluminum hydroxide and Raloxifene.


If you are not sure if the medications you are taking are safe for use while smoking or drinking alcohol, you should talk to your doctor.
 Stress can cause thyroid problems to get worse. Try to do one stress management technique a day, such as deep breathing exercises, yoga, and tai chi.



Deep breathing exercises can be done at home in a quiet, secluded area or at your desk with your office door closed. Take a comfortable seated position in your chair or on the floor. Practice inhaling deeply through your nose for four counts and then exhaling through your nose for four counts. Try to deep breathe with your eyes closed and your body relaxed for five to ten minutes a day.
You can also do yoga poses that focus on relaxation, such as corpse posture, where you lay on your back with your eyes closed and your body relaxed. You can also take a relaxation yoga class, which will focus on poses that will encourage your body to de-stress., A moderate amount of cardio exercise is also recommended for individuals with thyroid issues. Squeeze in a 20-30 minute walk or jog one a day. You can also do 30 minutes of cardio machines at the gym.


Exercising will help your body stay healthy and encourage your thyroid to function properly. Doing 30 minutes of exercise a day can also help your body to de-stress and allow you to burn off any feelings of anxiety.

