 Blot out as much coffee as you can with a paper towel. Do not rub the silk, as this may spread the stain.;
, Silk is already susceptible to damage from most cleaning products. Colorful dyes further restrict your options, since some chemicals will cause the dye to fade. The safest option for colored silk is a professional cleaner, who has access to specialized products for specific dyes.
 In an emergency, apply hydrogen peroxide using a cotton swab or sponge. Dab it onto a hidden area first. If there is no color change, swab a corner of the stain, then the entire stain.
 Detergent can eat away at your silk, but may be necessary if the stain is still present. Mix a little hand soap, liquid detergent, or liquid dish washing soap with some hydrogen peroxide. This helps the peroxide push through the cloth, carrying the stain with it. Hold a sponge on the other side to pick up the dirty liquid. Rinse the sponge and change the liquid frequently to avoid spreading the stain. Repeat until the stain is gone.
 Rinse the silk thoroughly. Leaving residual cleaning products on the silk can fade the color or even unravel the silk fibers.
 If the hydrogen peroxide does not work, repeat the same steps with a more powerful treatment. Always test a hidden area first to check for damage. (Alternatively, skip ahead to removing old stains for safer methods.) Here are your options, starting with relatively mild options and moving on to harsher ones:


Baking soda
Distilled white vinegar and cold water in equal amounts
Distilled white vinegar
Lemon or lime juice
As described above, you may add detergent to any of these. This makes the treatment more powerful, but also more likely to cause damage.
 Professional cleaners have access to specialized chemicals that can clean silk without damaging the fibers. This is especially important for brightly colored silks.
 If the stain has already set, it's worth taking the time to find a specialized product. A cleaning product intended to remove stains from silk should contain no acid or grease. Follow label instructions carefully to reduce risk of damage. Typically, you will apply a small amount of the product to the stain, then wash as described below.
 Normal laundry detergent can eat away at silk fibers. Find a specialized detergent for delicate materials instead, ideally one that specifically mentions silk on the label. Wash your silk garment on a delicate laundry cycle.

