 Dips can provide a tasty savory snack. Make sure you are eating healthy dips instead of ones full of unhealthy additives. For example, guacamole made with avocados and tomatoes is both healthy and delicious. Bean dips are full of protein.If possible, make the dips from scratch. Avocado, bean dip, or hummus can be made quickly and enjoyed for days.
When buying dips, make sure to read the label and check the nutritional information.
 Sweet potatoes are great for you when you’re pregnant. They contain a lot of beta carotene, which turns into vitamin A in your body. When pregnant, you need more vitamin A. Sweet potatoes also contain fiber.Bake a sweet potato, cut it open, and eat it.
Cover medallions in olive oil and bake them.
 Trail mix is an easy and healthy snack that will satisfy your sweet tooth and have a savory touch. When choosing ingredients, go for unsalted nuts, dried fruit without added sugars or candy coating, and dark chocolate.The best way to get nutritious trail mix is to make your own. Just buy the different nuts, dried fruit, and dark chocolate chips and mix together in a large bowl. Store in an airtight container.
If you want to buy trail mix, read the ingredients. Stay away from sugary mixes that contain milk chocolate pieces, marshmallows, yogurt covered fruit, or flavored candy pieces. Make sure the dried fruit has no added sugars. Some trail mixes claim to be healthy when they are full of sugar and sodium.
 Hard cheeses are good snacks during pregnancy. Cheese contains calcium, so you can eat it as one of your three servings each day. Hard cheeses include cheddar, Swiss, Parmesan, gouda, or Edam.


You can eat nuts along with your cheese for a protein boost. You may also try whole grain crackers or fruit with your cheese.
Don’t eat soft cheeses. They may contain bacteria that are harmful to your baby., Popcorn provides fiber, which many women need while pregnant. Plain popcorn can be a nutritious savory snack during your day. Make sure to get popcorn without added flavors or ingredients.Go for plain rather than salted, butter, or other flavors.
 Sandwiches can be filling snacks when you are hungry. Use whole wheat or whole grain bread instead of white bread or whole wheat pitas. Place low fat cheese, tuna salad, avocado, chicken salad, hummus, or natural sandwich meat inside.When buying sandwich meat, try to buy natural meats with no nitrates and lower sodium.
 When you need a snack, try a whole grain snack. Whole wheat chips can be paired with dips and cheeses for a snack. A bowl of brown rice, quinoa, or oatmeal can tide you over until your meal. You can even pair it with fruit or veggies.Try whole grain bread with a piece of lean meat or nut butter.
 Protein sources can make filling snacks when you’re pregnant. Try scrambling a few eggs or making an omelet with some cheese. Eat a piece of chicken or salmon, or try some tofu.Limit your consumption of red meat while you are pregnant.

