 The very first question for many people is, “What is business casual?” It seems like a contradiction and definitions can vary greatly from one person to another. One thing is sure, business casual is not suits and jackets. On the other hand, it’s not jeans and flip flops, but somewhere in between.The best way to define your specific company’s interpretation of business casual is to look around at your co-workers. If you’re new to the job, visit similar offices or ask around for advice from people in a similar field.
Part of the concept of business casual gets rid of the stuffy dress code and allows for more self-expression in your outfit. This will allow you more room to have fun and dress comfortably.
Business casual is more popular in part to busy lifestyles, which don’t allow time for people to go home before their evening plans. The business casual attire should be able to transform easily from the office to your after work hours.;
, Button-down shirts can be tricky for busty women who have trouble with gaps or “peep-holes” being created between the buttons. Choose a material which stretches to allow for movement without gaps. Some flattering styles will be cut to create more shape with features like darts or ruching.Layer a cardigan over a fitted button up to create a slimming effect by elongating the line of your midsection.
 For most offices, business casual still does not include jeans, except maybe on Fridays. On the other hand, you don’t need to wear slacks and pencil skirts every day. Stock up on some cotton pants. Khakis always work, but if you want to let your style shine, you can try some patterns. Make sure the pattern is proportional. Small patterns can be lost on large women.Choose material which is thicker and has more substance. The thicker material will show less bumps than a flimsy slack.These should be comfortable and wrinkle free.
Avoid pants which are too tight and are more suitable as leggings. You want your clothes to lie gently on your curves., Pant suits are flexible and allow you to slip a jacket on to transition from casual to an important meeting. Choose a neutral shade like black, beige, navy, or gray, and pair them with colorful blouses or sweaters., You probably have heard that large horizontal stripes should be avoided, but there are ways to use stripes to your advantage. Stripes which angle inward can create the illusion of shape and a smaller waistline. Thinner stripes are better stripes, and light colored stripes on a dark background are ideal., It is easiest to go for the little black dress which can be dressed up or down according to your need. One solid color, like black, can have a slimming effect by creating a straight line from head to toe. You can still add your own flavor with some colorful jewelry, a scarf or a cardigan., Your bra and underwear can have an effect on your look and comfort while at work. Consider going to a store which specializes in undergarments. Bring your measurements or have them measure you there to get the perfect fit.Spend the extra money here on quality. The support will be worth it.
Choose undergarments with smooth finishes to allow your clothing to lie smoothly on top.
 Open toe shoes are acceptable for the business casual style, but avoid sandals. Make sure your shoes are comfortable and leave enough room for your feet to breath.Choose flats or short heels.
Black shoes will match most of your outfits. Considered a nude shade too, these will go with anything.
 A nice long necklace can elongate your features from your neck to your chest. Choose a necklace which drapes in straight lines before curving., Avoid any cuffs which are too tight and pinch the skin around your wrist. If you have a chain necklace which is a little too short, you may be able to wrap it around your wrist a couple of times to make a rope bracelet., Avoid a ring for every finger and choose just one which has a little class and style. Go for a ring which has a more neutral color and can be work with several outfits.You can find rings which come in adjustable sizes at plus-size stores.
 Avoid a belt which is too thin. Try a nice wide belt, or a wrap-around belt for a little flare. Wear the belt over dresses, shirts, or even jackets., It can be frustrating to find only a small section of a store with a couple of items to choose from in your size. For more options and access to trends, check out some of the stores, in person or online, which cater to plus-size women.Fashion to Figure is an online store offering some of the trendiest items available to woman sizes 1X-3X.
Torrid not only provides clothing options, but you can find some heels and ankle boots in wide widths.
If you want to walk into a store and browse the racks, Lane Bryant caters to plus-sized professional women.
Have a dress made specifically to fit your body online at eShakti. Choose any dress style on the site, then add your measurements. They will tailor the dress accordingly before they ship it to you.
 It can seem like a pain to try everything on before you purchase it, but don’t write something off before you try it on. It may turn out to fit much better than you anticipated.On the other hand, it could fit much worse and the time you spent trying it on would have been much less time than it takes to return the item to the store.
Ask the store clerk for assistance with sizes. They can also make a good outside eye for a second opinion on the fit.
 If an item is too tight in one spot, opt for a slightly larger size. You can always have the item tailored for a better fit. Clothes which fit well are more flattering and professional than ill-fitting clothing.If you are wearing an item of clothing which is slightly large, match it with a more form-fitting item. You don’t want the whole outfit to look baggy., Use a flexible measuring tape like one found in a sewing kit. Measure your thighs, hips, waist and chest. These measurements will be extremely helpful when shopping online or from catalogues. Compare your measurements to the size charts listed by the seller.Take all of your measurements at the widest part of that section of the body.
Don’t pull the measuring tape too tightly around your body. The measuring tape should not cause your skin to cinch, but should be gently touching your body all the way around.
Don’t have any items of clothing in the way when you are taking your measurements.
Write your measurements on a piece of paper and keep it handy.
 It is difficult for anyone to find the perfect fit. All bodies are different. A tailor can adjust the size and shape of an item of clothing for the best fit to your particular body.If you are between sizes, choose the item which is slightly too big to give your tailor room to work.
 Plus size women still come in a variety of shapes. People carry their weight in different parts of their bodies. It is helpful to know your shape and how to accentuate your best features.Apple shaped women are wider in the middle with thinner legs. They look great in shorter sheath dresses which create a straight line from the top to the thighs, and allow the attention to go to their great legs. Just keep the length past your fingertips for work.
Pear-shaped women carry their weight in their hips. Jeans can be a tough fit here. Try a boxy top to even out your look, or embrace the shape with an a-line dress.
Hourglass refers to large hips and bust with a smaller waist. Try a retro-style fit and flare look to fit your curves.

