 Why are you traveling to the foreign country in question? Knowing the purpose of your travel is very important because if you know your purpose of travel, you will be able to determine what visa category applies to you and will, therefore, be able to file for the correct visa. Equally important is knowing that you should never try to file for a visa category that does not match the purpose of your travel (e.g. do not file for a visitor visa if you are intending to travel for work or study).;
, Are you visiting a foreign country for a holiday? If yes, then you need a visitor visa (a limited-term, non-immigrant visa) unless the country to which you are travelling does not require a tourist visa for persons who hold your nationality. E.g. Americans traveling for tourism do not need a visitor visa to travel to Finland for stays under 90 daysor to travel to Canada for stays under 180 days., Are you traveling to a foreign country to study? If yes, then you need a student visa unless the country to which you are traveling does not require student visas of persons who hold your nationality. For example, if you hold the nationality of a country that is a member of the European Union, then you do not need a student visa to study in another member state of the European Union.On the other hand, if you hold an American passport and wish to study in the United Kingdom for a period greater than 6 months, you do need a student visa., Did you just get a job in a foreign country? If yes, then you need a work visa, unless the country to which you are traveling does not require work visas of persons holding your nationality. E.g. If you are a citizen of a European Union member state, you may work in another member state without a work visa.On the other hand, if you are an American citizen wishing to work in, for example, Belgium, you will need a work visa, also known as a “work permit.”, Will you only be spending a very short period of time in Country A en route to Country B? If so, then you will need what is known as a transit visa unless Country A does not require a transit visa for persons holding the nationality that you hold and you meet certain requirements.


For example, if you hold American citizenship (and, therefore, an American passport), you can transit through Australia without a transit visa if you enter Australia by aircraft, hold a confirmed onward booking to leave Australia within 8 hours of arrival by the same or another aircraft, you do not leave the airport transit lounge except to continue your journey, and you hold the documentation necessary to enter your country of destination.On the other hand, you may hold a passport that does not belong to the list of exempt nationalities, in which case you will need a transit visa even if you meet the above criteria. Note that a transit visa is inappropriate if your transit period lasts greater than a few days, and in those cases, you will normally require a visitor or tourist visa.
 Are you traveling to a foreign country in order to settle there? If so, then you need to apply for an immigrant visa. Unlike non-immigrant visas, such as visitor, student, or temporary work visas, an immigrant visa requires the intention of permanently settling in the foreign country in question. You may be eligible for an immigrant visa, for example, if you have married a citizen of the foreign state in question or because you qualify on the basis of financial investment. If your purpose of travel is to immigrate to the foreign country in question, then the application process will generally be lengthier and will have more stringent requirements in terms of the documentation required.
 Once you have identified your purpose of travel, locate an online visa wizard at a consular website. These wizards can help you determine whether or not you require a visa, and what type of visa you require, when travelling to the foreign country in question. The wizard asks you certain questions (e.g. which country issued your passport and what your purpose of travel is) and guides you to the correct visa application based on your answers. You can locate a visa wizard by typing in a search engine the name of the country to which you are traveling followed by the words “embassy” or “consulate”. This should take you to the official website of the country’s embassy or consulate. On this website, you can check to see if that country’s consular website provides an online visa wizard.


If you are traveling to the United States, you can access the US State Department’s visa wizard at http://travel.state.gov/content/visas/en/general/visa-wizard.html.
If you are traveling to the United Kingdom, visit https://www.gov.uk/check-uk-visa/y to check if you require a visa (and if so, what type of visa) to travel to the United Kingdom.
If you are traveling to Australia, access the Australian Department of Immigration and Border Protection’s visa wizard at https://www.border.gov.au/Trav/Visa/Onli.
Similar visa wizards may be available for other countries. Check by typing in the name of the country to which you are traveling in a search engine to locate that country’s consular website to determine if that website offers a visa wizard. If it does not, you may use the contact information provided on that website for questions about visas. These websites generally answer the most common questions you might have about visas and provide detailed guidance on how to file for a visa and what visa categories, if any, apply to you.
 Now that you have located the consular website of the country to which you are traveling, you are in the position to find out detailed guidance on what visa category applies to you and how to file for that visa. If you are using a visa wizard, that wizard will generally ask you the following (or similarly worded) questions:What passport or travel document do you have? Depending on your answer, the wizard will take you to the next step. The next step may be the final step if the wizard determines that you do not need a visa for any reason to enter that country. E.g. if you enter “France” as the answer to this question in the UK Government’s visa wizard, you will be told in the next step that you do not need a visa for any reason to come to the UK because both states are members of the European Union.What are you coming to (name of country) to do? If you need a visa to come to the country in question, the visa wizard will then ask you this or a similarly worded question, designed to determine your purpose of travel. E.g. in the UK Government’s visa wizard, if you entered the answer to the question “What passport or travel document do you have” as “USA”, then the wizard will ask you the purpose of your travel.Click on the purpose of travel that applies to you.
Once you choose the purpose for which you are coming to the country in question, the visa wizard will tell you whether or not you need a visa, and, if so, what type of visa you require.
If you are travelling to a country whose consular website does not have a visa wizard, this information should still be available on the website. A visa wizard simply makes that same information easier to find.
 Once you have determined what visa category applies to you, fill out a visa application online. A visa application is normally available from the consular website of the country to which you intend to travel.


E.g. a non-immigrant visa application to the United States is available at https://ceac.state.gov/genniv/ while visa applications to the United Kingdom are available at https://www.visa4uk.fco.gov.uk/account/register.
These websites normally require registration, which means you provide your name, email, contact information, and you set up a username and password. Doing so helps you retrieve your application at a later date if you need to complete an incomplete application or need to check the status of a pending application.
 Most visa applications will require gathering supporting documentation, which will be used as evidence to determine your eligibility of the visa category for which you are applying.


For example, if you are applying for a student visa, you will generally require a letter from your university confirming that you have been offered a place to study there.
If you are applying for a work visa, you will normally require a letter from your employer confirming that you have been offered a job.
If you are applying for an immigrant visa based on marriage, you will have to provide evidence of your marriage, such as a certified marriage license.
If you are applying for a tourist visa, you may be asked to provide the address of where you will be staying (e.g. a hotel or relative's residence).
If you are applying for a business investment visa, you may be asked questions that seek to prove the bona fide nature of your business and to prove that your funds can be traced to a legitimate source (i.e. are not from a criminal or other illegitimate source).Check the visa wizard or information provided elsewhere on the consular website for information about the supporting documentation requirements that apply to you.
 After you have filled out your visa application, you must submit that application along with the application fee. You may submit an application and supporting documentation in person at an embassy or consulate. Alternatively, you may be expected to submit your application online and submit your supporting documentation separately by mail or in person. Follow the directions provided on the consular website carefully as to what the process is of submitting your application and supporting documentation.
 In some cases, you may be required to attend an interview with a consular officer at an embassy or consulate. At this interview, you will bring your supporting documentation, and the officer will ask you questions about the purpose of your visit and any other pertinent questions. After the interview, the officer may approve or reject your application based on your answers and supporting documentation.
 If your visa is rejected, you may be able to appeal the decision. Check the consular website of the country in question for information on the appeals process.

