 Kikyou NEVER becomes wild or shows out unless she is very upset (which is rare). If you do become angry, calm down and curse under your breath.;
, You could also try going to Academy (the store) and buy a few arrows and a bow. Also, Kikyou is shown as being quick and able to sense bad things, so build up your endurance and sixth sense.
 Kikyou wears red hakama pants and a white kosode. You can buy these from eBay, CosplayMagic, etc. Or you can be adventurous and make your own. The designs are simple and you can find patterns from folkwear.com. Kikyou goes barefoot, but plain sandals are fine too.
 If your hair is fairly a dark enough brown that's fine too! Hair extensions are good if it would take a very long time for you to grow you hair. Or a good wig will do wonders.
 In other words, a loose ponytail with a white bow to hold it in place. If needed, a little hairspray to keep flying hair in place.
 Kikyou has a cool, collected personality, and therefore tends to stay away from doing unnecessary things. She's precise in her ideas and does not waver. Neither should you.
 Kikyou LOVES children and heals the elderly. A way you can be kind is to help the old lady carry her bags, visit an animal shelter, be polite to adults, and give friendly smiles to young children. Your InuYasha will be impressed :)

, As you may know, Kikyou wears no (known) makeup. In the first episodes Kikyou is seen putting on lipstain/colored lipgloss so you can put lipgloss on. A little eyeliner and foundation to hide blemishes and you're done!

, Talk in a low yet loud enough to hear tone of voice. Kikyou is not one to raise her voice unless yelling at InuYasha or being mean (which is seldom shown). If upset, raise your voice to a clipped tone and try to use words/phrases like her such as 'insolent, fiend, fool, idiotic, damn you to the fiery pits of hell, is that all you have to say, etc.' Don't be too mean, but let the person you're talking to know you don't care enough about them to argue for hours. Also, be blunt if asked your opinion.
 This is a bit tricky, but don't worry! Steps 1, 6, and 7 will help for just the the batter of this cake, but you're going to need the icing. The icing is; being cold. Kikyou is stoic and unreadable almost all throughout the series. She is also very mysterious to most people, as she is the undead but looks alive.
 Doesn't really matter who plays as hum, as long as you know him and can interact with him and keep a level head and way of thinking. You could also substitute with a Naraku and have fun battles all over the place. But this is all optional. Kikyou is often a lone wolf, so going it alone is okay too.

