 Determine and measure where you will be placing your spider web so you know what size yarn to cut. Remember the wider the point, the larger your web.Any color will do but white or silver are more traditional colors.;
, Cut two pieces to form one vertical length of yarn and one horizontal length which will meet in the center to become the frame of your web.The length of each piece of string will depend on where you will be hanging it, so measure the string based on the location.


For example, if you want to hang the web from one tree to another, the area between the trees will define the length of the frame of the web. Alternatively, if your web is being hung on the front door, the width of the door is your limit.
You can tape to the wall or tie off to nails in the wall to secure the framework., Tie a string from one corner of the frame to the middle of the circle. Complete this for each corner, then the web will have eight spokes (framework threads).


Eight spokes should be sufficient but you can always add more at a later time if needed.
 Start from the center (where the vertical and horizontal pieces criss-cross) and weave the yarn around in a spiral shape. Each time you come to a supporting string, tie your yarn into an overhand knot to secure the shape of the web.Leave plenty of space between each capture thread layer to give the effect of the space that you see on a real web.
If you run out of a length of string, simply tie it off, tie on a new piece, and keep weaving.
Make sure the strings are taut to avoid drooping.
 Cut off or tighten loose pieces and generally tidy up the web as needed. The web is complete when you've finished weaving enough of the spiral to reach the edge of the frame.


If you need to strengthen parts of the web that might be affected by cutting off loose ends or knots, use hot glue. Hot glue is not only fast but it works well on fabrics and woods., Use store-bought plastic or furry spider toys, or make your own from pipe cleaners or similar items.

