 Recovery is much easier if you have a support network, so you will need your friends to help you get through.Consider if you know people who are sober or who don't drink very much, as they may be especially supportive and willing to show you ways to have fun without alcohol.


This may be a hard step to make. Admitting your addiction to others may make you feel embarrassed or uncomfortable, but it is an integral part of your recovery process.
Being honest with your friends will also help you be honest with yourself and work through your addiction.;
, Most people have many different groups of friends. You may only choose to tell your closest friends about your addiction. You may also want to tell the friends you often go out with so they know that you will no longer be drinking.


You don't have to tell all your friends together, either. If you want to do it on a one-on-one basis instead, or in small groups where you are all friends, you can decide that at this point as well.
 It's unfortunate, but you need to prepare yourself for the possibility that you may lose some of your friends, especially if they're really more "drinking buddies" than friends.They may say something like, "What? You're quitting drinking? But why? You're so much fun when you're drunk!" They may also initially offer support, but fade from your life as you stop going to bars or partying as much.If your friends have their own addictions (which they may or may not be aware of), it may be uncomfortable for them to hear you admit that you have a problem. They may see it as a commentary on their own use, and it may bring to light things they are not ready to face — they may think, Wow, if you think you're an alcoholic, what does that say about me? I drink as much as you do... Maybe more. But your decision to quit drinking is not about anyone else — it's about doing what is best for you.The thought of losing these friends may be frightening and seem lonely, but it is often necessary to avoid a social circle that parties so that you don't have a relapse. If all you have in common with those people is drinking and partying, then these friendships may end., You shouldn't go into your meeting with your friends without knowing what you are going to say. Put together a list of things you want to say or prepare a speech beforehand. This will give you time to think through what you really want to say and hope to accomplish during this conversation.It may help you feel more at ease when you tell your friends.


You can even make note cards with your talking points on them or read out your prepared speech, especially if you are extremely nervous.
Another method is to write a letter and present it to your friend or friends. They can read the letter and then ask you any questions they might have.
You may want to start by telling your friends, "I need to discuss something serious with you." This will prime them for the hard discussion that follows.
 You should also plan how you will respond to acquaintances when they offer you a drink or ask why you are not drinking alcohol.Though you may try to avoid situations where alcohol is available, this may be unavoidable at times. Preparing and practicing a few stock responses to the question, "Would you like a drink?" will help you build confidence and be firm when you say "No."Keep your responses short, clear, and firm. You don't need to give an excuse or explain yourself. A simple "No thanks" should be enough for most people.Look the person directly in the eye when you speak, don't hesitate, and try to remain friendly and respectful.If someone presses you, you may need to give a more assertive response, such as, "No, thank you. I don't want to," "No thanks. I don't drink," "Actually, I'm not drinking because my doctor advised me not to. Thanks, though.", When you tell your friends about your addiction, you want to make sure it is the right time and place. Make sure it is a neutral location or one where you feel comfortable and that it's not during a time when people will be preoccupied.Make sure it is a place where you can have privacy and speak honestly with your friends.


Also make sure it isn't a place that serves alcohol, which may be tempting for you.
For example, ask your friends to meet you at your home. If it isn't big enough, ask one of your friends if you can use his place. Just make sure it is somewhere you feel comfortable.
 Telling your friends will be a stressful experience for you. Although you are on your way to recovery, you may be tempted to deal with the stress by drinking. However, this will set back your recovery and not help the situation.


Even if extreme stress is one of your drinking triggers, avoid drinking anything before your discussion with your friends., Be as honest and candid as you can be, but remember that you don't have to say more than you need to, or tell anyone you don't want to tell.You may want to tell your best friend about the repercussions of your drinking, which may include some scary or embarrassing moments, but remember that this process is about you and your sobriety, and you don't need to disclose anything more than you want to.


You can share how you ended up realizing you needed help with your addiction, but only if you are comfortable sharing this information. This can help your friends understand where you've been. You may want to share a story such as, "I realized I needed help when I almost crashed my car into a telephone pole while I was drunk;" or, you may want to leave out those details and say something more vague, such as "It was making my life really difficult."You don't have to tell each of your friends exactly the same thing. Tell each friend as much as you need to, based on the closeness of your relationship or how comfortable you are with your friend., One way for your friends to understand your particular situation could be to explain exactly how you are working through your addiction, if you wish to share that information. This can give them an example of your commitment to your recovery.


You can discuss the specific programs you are working with, any support groups you've joined, or any other behavioral change you are making to aid in your recovery.
 You need to explain these stipulations to your friends so they can understand how your behaviors will change or what they will have to do to comply with them.


For example, you will likely not allow alcohol in your home.This is important for your friends to know for when they come to visit or for when you have get togethers at your home. Tell them, "I may get to a place where I can be around alcohol in the future, and I may be able to deal with others drinking if I'm at a get together at one of your houses, but I can't allow it in mine. It would be too hard to resist."
This could also mean that you will no longer be going to bars or places where drinking is a major component of the atmosphere. Talk to your friends and find out if they would be willing to do other things with you besides drinking — like going for hikes, to the movies, or to museums., An important part of recovery is acknowledging how your actions have affected others. You should do this on a separate occasion than your original disclosure of your addiction and when you are solid in your sobriety.This can be difficult, but start with phrases such as, "I know I have hurt you, and I'm sorry for that."
It may take some time to make amends with some friends that you have harmed with your addiction, and it is generally not recommended you do this until you have some sobriety under your belt. This is because you may not like the reaction you get from the person — What if she refuses to accept your apology? What if she flies off the handle and says something cruel and hurtful in response? — and this may be hard to deal with when you are newly sober. Once you have some coping skills that don't involve drinking, it may be a good idea to start making amends., Once you disclose your alcohol addiction to your friends, you should ask them not to drink around you.This is important in the early stages of your recovery in order to help you stay strong in your dedication.


This may change after you have been in recovery for a long time., You may need to your friends' help with keeping you away from your danger zones that may cause you to possibly relapse. These can be physical locations, times of days or particular days of the year where you are likely to relapse.Your friends can be helpful by keeping you away from these places when you go out together or giving you someone to call if you find yourself in these places.If you know you are likely to drink at a certain time of day, or you find yourself craving alcohol, call or text your friend to keep you distracted.If you have certain days of the year that might be hard for you, such as an anniversary of the death of a loved one, you may ask your friend to spend that day with you.
 Most people in recovery have a sponsor who can help in tenuous situations.However, you may want to have some backups in case you need help and your sponsor is not available. It may also be good to have a support system when you are hanging out with your friends.


This can help you by making you feel more secure because you have a larger support system.
 Just like for alcoholics, there are support groups for friends and family of alcoholics. This is especially helpful for your close friends who spend a great deal of time with you. This will give them the support they need and resources with which to help you.


These organizations help your friends understand what it is like to be part of recovery and how best to help you during these hard times.
These organization include Al-Anon and SMART Recovery Family & Friends., It may be difficult, but there may be situations where you have to cut ties with some of your friends.If you have friends who refuse to stop drinking around you or who may also have a drinking problem, you need to stop being around them for the safety of your recovery.


This may be difficult at first, but you have to do what is best for your own recovery.