
Does the patient have a more severe problem that requires standard braces or more advanced treatment? You will need to consult with a dentist or orthodontist later on, but considering this early will streamline the process.;
, You can help yourself to determine if invisible aligners will be a viable option by at least generally figuring out your teeth's condition. Remember that your dentist or orthodontist will make the official diagnosis.Look for signs of crowding. This the condition of your teeth being too close together or overlapping in some areas.
You might have spacing problems if your teeth are too far apart.
You may have an overbite problem if your top row of teeth bite forward ahead of your bottom teeth.
You may have an under-bite problem if your top row of teeth bite behind your bottom teeth.
You could have a combination of these or other problems, such as headaches, jaw pain, or TMJ disfunction (including grating or clicking).
 Invisible alignment treatments costs are similar to that of standard braces. Dental and orthodontic coverage may apply to Invisalign the same as braces.Invisalign, just like braces, costs between $5,000 and $6,000.
Insurance may cover half of the treatment cost, but contact your provider to be certain.
If you proceed with the Invisalign treatment, regardless of coverage, you can ask your doctor about a payment plan to help with managing the cost.
 You want to find an American Dental Association (ADA) licensed dentist or orthodontist near you that can administer the Invisalign treatment.This treatment can last for months or a couple of years so you want to make sure you find a health provider that is close by.
You want to also confirm that the provider you choose is covered by your insurance company.
 This treatment will have a major impact on you or your child's health and is a significant investment of time and money.Be especially clear on questions of daily life with the aligners, length of treatment, frequency of orthodontist visits, and cost.
You might start a consultation first with something such as, "Does my overbite and crowding condition need braces? Can I use Invisalign instead?"
If you are a parent asking for a teen then you will want to be especially careful if the teen breaks the Invisalign tray and you need extras. Learn what the contingency is for a broken tray.
Discuss the post-treatment plan. This will probably include retainer options. This is usually a step necessary for braces, and Invisalign is no exception. This will be discussed also in a later step.
 If your dentist has agreed to the Invisalign treatment, then coming up with a detailed treatment plan is the next step. Your dentist will need accurate image of your teeth to proceed.The dentist can accomplish this a number of ways, including molding, x-rays, and/or 3-D imaging. Your dentist may also take intra-oral photos and photos of your face and jaw for comparison after the treatment is completed.


If molding is used then a thick paste-like material is applied around both upper and lower sets of teeth (not both at once), allowed to dry, and removed, leaving an impression of your teeth in the substance. This mold will be used to create an accurate 3D model of your teeth.
The x-rays and 3D imaging allow for advanced visual recordings of your mouth that may reveal additional conditions within the teeth, jaw, etc.
The dentist may even be able to show you simulations of how your teeth could look with treatment.
 This will vary from patient to patient, but generally should fall within a year to two years for teens and adults.You should determine an estimated time to finish the treatment after your first consultation. Know that this time will shift after subsequent evaluations, and depend on your own cooperation with use of the invisible aligners.
This is a good time to also determine how often you will need to revisit the dentist to check your progress. While you will usually get new trays every two weeks, you may visit the dentist to check in every six weeks or so. This schedule also may need adjusting depending on your actual progress.
 These will be tailor made for your teeth based on the modeling done earlier, and then new ones will be modified to gradually shift your teeth into the desired positions.Generally, you will be wearing these all day and night. You will be taking them out only to eat, perform oral hygiene when cleaning the trays themselves, or swapping out for new trays.
You may need to wear the aligners up to 20 hours a day, or you risk the teeth not settling into the correct position before advancing to the next aligner.
Ask your dentist if they will be putting in your first set or if you will be. It is highly recommended that they help you learn how to put in and remove your first set.
 Sometimes just the tray is not enough for your condition. Additional bands or gripping points may be needed.Occasionally bands, just like with braces, are needed for certain corrective measures, such as fixing an overbite and under-bite. This is done by the bands between the top and bottom alignment trays.
Bands can also be used to rotate teeth.
Sometimes a tooth-colored plastic composite material is placed on certain teeth to serve as anchors to give the alignment trays a better fit and help shift the teeth in the correct direction.
 The Invisalign trays are usually a form of plastic or acrylic that is easily brushed and rinsed, but would not respond well to harsh chemical cleaners.There is a commercially available Invisalign cleaning kit, but it is costly compared to standard cleaning methods. The base kit is $75.
Ask your dentist what substances are safe to brush the trays with, and safe to rinse it under.
 You should have your dentist show you this the first time, but you will need to be able to do it yourself. It may be helpful to do it in front of a mirror the first few times.


To put the tray in, line it up with your teeth. Hold the tray with both hands near the back, in the area of your premolars or first molar. Press the trays up onto your teeth, moving back to front.
Do not bite them into place. This will damage the tray.
There may be tightness and/or pain upon initial wearing of the tray.
 Taking the tray out for eating, cleaning, or to get a new tray is a simple process but should be done delicately.


Slip your finger towards the back of the tray around the back teeth where it's anchored. You might use a fingernail to pry between the aligner and tooth.
Gently pull the aligner off of your teeth from the back towards the front teeth until it's completely off.
 Avoid any harsh chemicals or cleaners.This should be a simple and quick process of brushing and rinsing the tray(s).
Run them under lukewarm water and use a soft toothbrush to scrub off any excess particles from their surfaces.
You can brush the trays with standard toothpaste as well, but just be sure to rinse the trays thoroughly with lukewarm water afterwards. Eliminate any excess material on the trays and leave them clean and dry. Consider doing this especially when brushing your own teeth.
 This is essential to avoid trapping bacteria, food particles, and any other unwanted foreign objects in-between the tray and your teeth.You will need to remove your tray every time you eat. Being able to remove the tray easily, compared to braces, is one of its advantages.
Make sure you brush and rinse before you replace your tray in your mouth after a meal.
If brushing is not convenient, for example you are at work or traveling, then attempt at least to rinse your mouth before replacing the tray and then do a more thorough cleaning when the opportunity arises. Consider carrying a travel-size bottle of mouthwash with you so you can properly rinse.
 You need to wear your aligners approximately 20 to 22 hours a day.Maintain good dental hygiene

You will get new aligners in the next stage of movement for your teeth every couple of weeks if you stay on schedule.
See your orthodontist approximately every six weeks, unless you have scheduled something different to make sure you are making adequate progress or if changes need to be made.

