 You can find books that describe this ancient Asian practice in libraries or book stores. You can also find DVDs about Feng Shui online, through sites like Amazon.com.;
, You may be able to get your first introduction to Feng Shui through a Lifelong Learning Course at a local college, a center for integrative medicine or online. You will need a good introduction to the concepts before starting to organize yourself as a practitioner.
 Experiment with the basic principles you have been taught with your own home. It may take months or years to be able to figure out the practical applications of what you have learned.
 Contact the American Feng Shui Institute, The Center for Feng Shui, the Feng Shui Research Center or similar organizations to inquire about their programs. Some advanced programs include time training in China, learning the traditional methods of Feng Shui in its birthplace.
 A large part of Feng Shui consultation is taking into account the clients' feelings, needs and history. Practice as much as possible in order to develop your personal approach.
 You may need to go to a large metropolitan area in order to find a consultant who will not be a direct competitor. Propose an arrangement to give the mentor free help in exchange for a week or month observing their practice.
 Large metropolitan areas on the East and West coast are likely to offer you the largest potential customer base. Other places like Houston, Chicago and Las Vegas, where there is plenty of new development and building, would also be good choices.
 Some people cater to private homes, others to architects and builders, while still others work with Feng Shui organizations to provide services. Research what will work best in your chosen location.
 This plan should include a description of your business, its financial needs, marketing plan, competition, management plan and pricing structure. If you need help during this process, go to the US Small Business Administration website, sba.gov, for training on how to write this document.


Make sure to do extensive research about your competition and potential client pools when writing this document. Your pricing should be decided based on the location and demand for your services. Experienced Feng Shui consultants can make between $250 and $500 per consultation.
Some Feng Shui consultants offer telephone consultations as well as in-person consultations. You may want to add this as an option for growth in the future.
 If you are starting your own consulting business, you will need to choose a structure, such as a sole proprietorship, limited liability corporation (LLC) or partnership. File the applicable business documents, as required by your state.
 Become a member of a Feng Shui institute or society, in order to improve your reach. You will likely be required to pay a fee to be part of a directory.
 It is a good idea to create partnerships with local architects, alternative therapy practitioners, interior designers and other businesses. You can also advertise in journals, newspapers and at home improvement or new age conferences.
 A good amount of Feng Shui clients start by word of mouth. Offer discounts to regular clients or people who refer others to your practice.
 Since Feng Shui can be considered both an art and a philosophy, it requires constant thought and practice. Seek new certifications and advertise your expertise on your website or marketing materials.

