 Young children, especially ones who put the toys in their mouth, should have their stuffed toys cleaned in hot water using one of the other methods, in order to sterilize them. If the toy cannot withstand the other washing methods, it may not be suitable for young children., If you're cleaning toys without noticeable grime or stains, or extremely delicate toys, try one of these extra-gentle options. In most cases, you can skip down to the next step and start mixing soapy water instead.


To remove dust, wet a cloth in plain water, then wring it out until it is almost completely dry. Gently wipe away the dust. Alternatively, use the hose attachment on a vacuum cleaner.
To remove odor, put the toy in a paper bag with a spoonful or two of baking soda. Close and shake the bag to coat the toy, let it sit 30 minutes, then brush out the baking soda with a dry towel.
To remove light dirt on extra-fragile toys, put it in the bag with cornmeal instead, or brush the fur with a plastic comb that has not touched human hair or hair-styling products.
 Fill a medium bowl with water and add a small amount of mild soap, shampoo, or detergent. Mix to create suds.


Baby shampoo and mild wool detergent are especially soft on fur.
If using any other cleaner, including non-mild detergent, dab it on an inconspicuous area with a cotton swab first and let it dry, to test for color changes or damage.
 Wet the cloth and wring it out until it is almost dry. If the cloth is wet enough to soak into the stuffing, it can cause rot or other damage.


If you are worried about water damage, just pick up some suds from the surface. Suds alone may not be effective for significant grime.
 Concentrate on the dirty areas only, or on one area at a time if cleaning the whole toy. Wet and thoroughly wring the cloth occasionally to keep it damp, but not wet.
 Wet the cloth with plain water and wipe the toy to remove traces of soap. As before, wring the cloth out first so it is mostly dry.
 Wipe the toy down with a clean towel. Move between different parts of the towel as you go, as the towel becomes damp. Once the toy feels dry, give it one final rub against the nap of the fur to remove the last of the moisture.
 Leave it in a well-ventilated area away from direct sunlight, until the last remaining moisture has evaporated. This should take less than an hour, unless the moisture penetrated the surface.


Do not tumble dry or blow dry stuffed toys, as the heat can cause fading and damage.

