 UV light is a better purification system because it is also effective against chlorine-resistant microorganisms that may not be cleared by the municipal water system. Using UV is easy to use, extremely effective (kills 99.9% of microorganisms), and produces no harmful by-products.UV light is most effective in clear water where the light waves can penetrate into the water, killing all of the microbes.
An at-home UV system is easy to use because it connects directly to the water pipes of your home. It purifies the water as it flows through your faucets.
 The type of purification system you choose to install is dependent upon the needs of your house. The main things to consider when choosing a system are the quality and flow rate of the incoming water. You also need to consider whether you want just one faucet purified or the whole house.If the flow rate of the incoming water is too fast, the water will not be properly sterilized.
The water must be clear for UV to work effectively, so choose a system that combines a filter with the UV purification.
Housing of the device should be made of stainless steel to protect electronics from corrosion.
Choose a system that has an audible alarm to alert you when the light needs changed or if the system is failing.
 Whichever system you choose, install the purification device according to the manufacturer’s instructions. The system will either be attached directly to the pipes near a single faucet in your house or will be attached to the main pipe that brings water into your home. Alternatively, you can have someone come in and install it themselves. If you are unsure about how to do it, ask for help or a demonstration to make sure it is done properly.


Install the system in a location that is close to the water faucet. UV light is only effective for the water that passes through it. If that water then carries on through the contaminated pipes, it will become contaminated again. Installing it close to the source and occasionally cleaning your pipes prevents this from happening.The water flows directly through the purification system, so you don’t need to worry about doing anything once the device is installed.
 The UV lamp is the most essential part of the system. UV lamps do not burn out, but over time they lose intensity. As a general rule, the lamp will need to be replaced about once a year. If you have a system with an alarm, it will alert you when it is time to replace the bulb. It is also recommended to clean the glass around the lamp that may have collected mineral deposits.If the lamp intensity decreases too much, it will no longer be effective against microorganisms and your water will not be sterilized. You can use a UV light intensity meter to determine when your lamp needs to be replaced.
Anything that will obstruct the light from reaching the water will decrease the effectiveness of your system.

