 Webcams are out. The video and audio quality are not very good on webcams, so try to invest in a good video camera. It doesn't have to be a $500 camera, it could cost $20 as long as the quality for audio and visuals are good your video will be good too.


Many digital cameras now have excellent video capacity.
Look for used options on auction sites or classifieds if you haven't a lot of money to spare. Some great sites to find used cameras are eBay and Craigslist.
The latest mobile phones are also capable of creating good videos.
Consider using a tripod to avoid having a shaking video effect.
 This only applies if your video involves you recording your screen. HD video's are the norm nowadays, so make sure it can record at 720p or above.


It is best to invest in one rather than download a free one as they often have a "Free Trial" or "Demo" watermark across the screen on export.
If your screen recorder does not have options to record audio as well then you need to invest in a good quality microphone - or another screen recorder. One many YouTubers use is the "Blue Snowball" or "Blue Yeti", but any cheap, high quality microphone will do the job.
 Choosing tags is a pretty important step to the video upload process, choosing popular tags will make it harder for people to find your video. Choosing unique but accurate tags should bring you more views.


Use concise titles, descriptions and tags. YouTube sorts videos out based on the title of the video, the description and then the tags, in that order.
Consider which search terms you would like your video to be displayed under and also use those search terms in the title, description and tags.
Place tags in your description as well as it is more likely that you will get views on your YouTube video.
For example: If you were uploading a video about what you thought of Lil Wayne's music career, you wouldn't just put "Lil Wayne" because there would be too many results to sort through. But if you were to put Lil Wayne, Cash Money, Music, Career, and History, you would probably end up with a lot more views; not because there are more tags than just Lil Wayne but because it really narrows the search results down.
 Having subscribers is one of the most important things to have while on Youtube. When someone subscribes to a channel, they become your fan; this can be very rewarding to some people.


To gain subscribers: On every YouTube channel there is a box, called a description box. Many people take this space for granted but anytime someone views your channel they will see what you write there, so you may want to give clues about future videos or tell a little about yourself, if you write some good convincing material this can be a great way to gain subscribers.
To keep subscribers: The best way to keep subscribers is to always keep your word. For example, if you say your video will be out on Friday, you make sure you have a video posted by Friday (see the "planning" discussion above). Another way to keep subscribers is to have a steady pace of videos, like one per week, two per week, or whatever it may be; just keep it reliable.
A quick and easy way to get subscribers or even views is to use an online service that offers YouTube promotion. However by buying subscribers or views you are not guaranteed that these people will have many interactions with your account. If you use this method never give out your YouTube password and always choose safe payment methods such as PayPal.
 People will find you, there is no need to spam. The only thing spamming will do for your YouTube career is ruin your credibility and reputation. Spamming includes constantly commenting on other peoples videos with the same message, or something irrelevant to their videos. Or mass sending messages that promote a single video.

