 While you're waiting for it to warm up, grease a foil-lined roasting pan with cooking spray or a small amount of oil.
 In a bowl, mix flour, cinnamon, turmeric, and nutmeg. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper as you wish.
 If you intend to eat your chicken with no skin, remove it before the dredging process in the next step. Leaving the skin on increases the fat and calorie content of the meat, but it can taste great — the choice is up to you.To remove the skin, simply pry it away from the meat with the tip of a knife and peel it away. Use the knife to cut the skin away at the base.
 Take each piece of chicken and roll it in the flour mixture, coating both sides well. Transfer each coated piece to a new plate. If you run out of the mixture, make additional batches as needed.
 Once all the chicken pieces are dredged in flower, beat the egg with milk in a small bowl. Pour your breadcrumbs into a separate bowl. Now, take each piece of chicken, dip it in the egg wash, and roll it in the bread crumbs, giving each a thick coat.


You can use Panko or the breadcrumbs of your choice. Pick a breadcrumb style with a texture that appeals to you. You can even make your own if you have the time.
 Place the chicken pieces skin side-up (if you left the skins on) in the greased baking pan. Leave an inch or two of space between the pieces so they cook all over.


To help the chicken get a crispy exterior, you can spray them with a light coat of cooking spray or brush their tops with oil.
 After about 30 minutes, you can check on the chicken for done-ness. You're looking for a crisp, golden brown exterior and meat that's soft and white all the way through. The juices should run clear. As noted above, chicken is typically done at an internal temperature of 165 F.
 Melt butter in a small bowl, then mix in honey, cinnamon, and lemon juice. Give your chicken a delicious honey-cinnamon exterior by applying it to each piece with a brush or paper towel after about 25 minutes. Brush lightly to give the chicken a thin coat — you want the meat sweet but crisp, not dripping with sauce.
 When the chicken is done, remove it from the oven and transfer to a clean platter. Let the pieces sit for about five to ten minutes, then serve.
 Crisp fried chicken is a Southern delicacy. It goes well with almost anything, but a few sides that you may want to specially consider are:


Cornbread
Red beans and rice
Catfish

