 The toolbar has seven different tabs. They are: Home, Insert, Page Layout, References, Mailings, Review, and View.;
, This tab is the basic word processing tools, like for example, size, font, color, style, etc. You will find that you're going to go here most of the time.



Insert: This tab contains more tools than the Home tab, and it's really for inserting things. They are really helpful, and they're just not used for basic word processing. They're also used for a professional document. Some things you can do in this tab are add clip art, add links, etc.







Page Layout: This tab is mostly there for adding the final touch to your document and fixing it a little. You can change the orientation, the size of your document, and pretty much you can do things you normally can't do basically.







References: This tab is for inserting references. For example, adding citations, a table of contents, footnotes, bibliography, captions, etc.







Mailings: This tab is for making envelopes and labels, starting a mail merge (sending the same document to different people),







Review: This tab is for things like spelling and grammar, translating, a dictionary, a thesaurus, adding a comment, etc.







View: This tab has something to do with how your document looks like. It's sort of similar to Page Layout, except it's more of adjusting things, like zoom in, zoom out, etc.







Format: This tab only applies with pictures, clip art, word art, or photos. This tab is for adjusting the image(s) and text, like changing the brightness, contrast, effect, color, etc.
 Read on to find out what to do.
 You do this by clicking on the icon that looks like a blank page with one corner turned down.



To save, click on the circular Microsoft Office logo in the upper left hand corner of the window. You should see a little menu pop-up with multiple options.
Leave the cursor over the words Save As. You should always do Save As when you're making a new document. It gives you the option of what kind of document you want it to be, where you're going to save it, and what the name of the document will be.
Up will pop a window.
 Word 97-2003 Document allows other people to see it, even if they have older versions of Word and haven't installed the Office 2007 Compatibility Pack, while if you use Word Document, only people that have Word 2007 or the Compatibility Pack can open it. Either one is a good choice.
 Just type something like "Sample Documents" or something you want to name it.
 Choose a font that you think is a style you like. Some suggested fonts are Times New Roman, Calibri (Body), and Arial. The picture below shows you an example of what to do.
