 Get your daily workout in to reduce stress levels. Aerobic exercise produces endorphins while weight training increases the human growth hormone, both block and control cortisone levels. Avoid over exercising by keeping your workout between thirty and forty-five minutes in order to maximize cortisol control.Take care of your post-workout as well by preparing a carbohydrate-protein shake to help replenish your glucose and nitrate levels, which will help you recover your normal cortisol levels much faster.
Lifting weights will build muscle mass and increase the release of serotonin and dopamine. These chemicals reduce anxiety and depression. Take DHEA supplements to accelerate the building of muscle mass to increase the feeling of strength and energy and the motivation to continue.
Aerobic exercise also reduces stress, high blood pressure, and the regulation of blood sugar levels while maintaining a healthy weight.
 Loneliness has an important impact on heart disease than those people who are social and outgoing. Some researchers say loneliness is a bigger concern regarding health than quitting smoking or exercising.Join a club, gym, or volunteer activity to get you out of the house and moving around. Volunteering will make you feel good inside and out.
Try to set up a “friends night out” or meet colleagues after work.
Meeting and talking to people will give you a positive mental attitude.
 Surround yourself in a tranquil environment to reduce stress when you come back home from a busy day. Be wary of disorganized, chaotic, or conflicted situations that will stress you out. Instead, surround yourself with positive reinforcement.Place fresh flowers on your table, near the entrance way, and in your bedroom to calm the atmosphere.
Burning incense will also provide you with a feeling of calm and relaxation.
Natural sunlight is not only good for your body it is also good for your mental health.
Open the blinds and let the natural sunshine in. Sun provides warmth and happiness.
Clean up a dirty house. Clutter gives off negative feelings of chaos and disorder.
 If you want to regulate and reduce cortisol levels in your body then you will need to sleep deeper and longer for at least eight hours. Sleep impacts what we look like, how we perform daily, and affects the overall quality and length of life. Getting enough sleep is important.