 The Bichon Frise is a small dog with a medium activity level. He will likely have a few blasts of energy throughout the day. Having another dog around the house will help him get out most of this energy, or just taking him for one or two short walks for about 15 minutes each day.If you don’t have the patience for a dog running around the house in sudden bursts of energy, or if you aren’t in the physical condition to walk a dog a few times per day, this might not be the breed for you.;
, The Bichon Frise is a small dog, usually only getting up to about 10-20 pounds. So, he would be a good dog for a small house or even an apartment. Still, he does have a lot of energy, so make sure he gets enough outdoor time.If you live in a big city, or if there isn’t anywhere nearby that your dog could run around, you might consider a more mellow breed of dog. Locate neighborhood parks that are dog-friendly.
 These dogs are good with families, but there is a small concern when it comes to small children, or toddlers that are especially energetic. Smaller dogs could potentially be injured from any kind of rough play, and might nip or snap if they feel threatened.For the most part, the Bichon Frise is great with kids and families. They have a friendly, sweet temperament, and if treated nicely, will make great additions to any family.
 This breed is particularly curious and adventurous, and will get into all kinds of things if you let them. You will want to make sure you put up all electrical cords, valuables, and any plants that might be poisonous to dogs.They are also prone to chew on things, to make sure you discourage this behavior early on to prevent it from getting out of hand.
Get down on the floor and see things from their level to spot anything they might be able to get into, chew on, or destroy that might be harmful to them.
 This breed needs daily brushing, starting at about a year of age, after his full coat has grown in. Get him professionally clipped and groomed every 6-8 weeks, just to prevent matting or knotting in his coat. Clip his nails as needed, and use special wipes or cream to remove the tear stains under his eyes.Mats and knots, if allowed to build up too much, could end up causing an infection or skin irritation. Daily brushing should help keep this to a minimum or prevent it all together.
 This breed loves to be around people, and doesn’t do too well being left alone for long periods of time. If you have a long work dark or have to be out of the house most of the day or night, you might consider a different breed. These dogs love attention, and being alone for too long might lead to them becoming anxious or destructive.Their love for attention and closeness makes it easy for them to bond with their new families, and great buddies to have around.
 Fortunately, the Bichon Frise is a mostly healthy dog, and can live long lives into their teen years. But, things like cataracts and hip dysplasia could develop later in their lives. Make sure you are prepared to deal with these health issues should they arise.As a small breed, Bichons have a tendency to have issues with dental hygiene, so getting their teeth cleaned every 2 years is important.
If you get your dog from a breeder and the dog is certified, there should be records that prove the dog has no genetically-passed disorders or diseases. If you adopt your dog, this will likely not be available.
 If you are adopting or picking from a litter with a breeder, remember that not all Bichons are the same. Each dog will have its own personality and energy level. Consider fostering a dog for a short trial period to make sure that particular dog is right for your family, if that option is available to you.


Alternatively, if you are working with a breeder, visit the puppy often before it’s time for him to leave his mother. Spend time with him and see how well you and the puppy get along, how he behaves towards his littermates, and his personality.
 You will want to start training early on to make sure your Bichon can sit and stay on command to avoid him getting lost or put in danger.Fenced yards are safe for these dogs, especially if they aren’t doing too well listening to sit or stay commands. Still, you’ll want to make sure the fence is secure so the dog can’t get over or under it., This breed is known for how difficult they can be to housetrain, so make sure you are prepared for some accidents along the way. Some trainers recommend crate training when working on housebreaking the dog, so consider that option.Sometimes being left alone can contribute to issues with housetraining. The anxiety of being alone can lead to accidents or marking.
 The best method for training a Bichon is to let him know when he’s doing something correctly and praise him for it. Relying on this rather than correcting him or scolding him when he’s done something wrong will be more effective in the long run.Try using training treats. Keep these close by and give your dog one when he does something correctly, like uses the bathroom outside.
 Since this breed is known for difficulties with potty training and separation anxiety, crate training could be beneficial to the dog’s stress levels and housebreaking. Crate training is something you will want to work on right when you bring the dog home, so that he can learn to find comfort in his crate.


These dogs are also known for being a bit mischievous and curious, so crate training will keep the dog away from potential hazards or chewing opportunities at night and while you are out of the house.

