 Add the butter into a cast-iron skillet and place it into the oven. The butter will melt as the oven heats up.;
, Heat the milk in the microwave for 20 to 30 seconds first, then pour it into a large mixing bowl. Whisk the eggs into the milk until the mixture is pale yellow and no streaks remain. This will take about 1 minute., Keep beating until most of the lumps are gone, about 30 more seconds.The mixture will still be a little lumpy, which is fine.If you aren't a fan of vanilla, reduce the amount to ½ teaspoon.Add ½ teaspoon of ground cinnamon into the batter for extra flavor!, Using an oven mitt, take the skillet out of the oven. Swirl it around to distribute the melted butter across the bottom. This will grease the man and make the pancake easier to serve., Once the pan is coated, pour the rest of the melted butter into the batter. Set the skillet aside and beat the batter well., Tilt the skillet around so that the batter coats the bottom evenly.
 It is ready when it turns puffy in the middle and golden-brown around the sides., Place the blue berries into a bowl. Add the sugar and lemon zest. Stir the mixture until the blueberries are evenly coated, then set the bowl aside. By the time the pancake is done baking, the blueberries will be ready.Don't like blueberries? Mix together 1 pound (450 grams) of sliced strawberries and 2 tablespoons (15 grams) of powdered sugar instead.Don't like any berries? You can skip this step and serve the pancake with powdered sugar or whipped cream in the end.
 Using an oven mitt, take the skillet out of the oven and set it down onto a heat-safe surface. Slide a spatula under the pancake and transfer it onto a wire cooling rack. Let the pancake cool for a few minutes.This will allow the steam to escape. If you let the pancake cool in the pan, the steam will get trapped under the pancake and make it soggy., Once the pancake has cooled enough to touch, transfer it to a cutting board. Cut it into four wedges, then place each wedge onto a plate. For an added touch, sprinkle the wedges with some powdered sugar. Serve the blueberries (or strawberries) on top or next to the pancake.