 Be careful when using snail or slug baits as most commercial products contain metaldehyde which, when exposed to water, quickly breaks down to a harmless alcohol. (Fresh metaldehyde is toxic to slugs, snails, birds, cats, dogs, elephants, rabbits, humans and many more other creatures great and small)

, The other method is to spray with a systemic insecticide however this is always not effective as the insect is often gone when you notice the damage. If you have plants that are attacked it is best to remove them and replace with forms that do not suffer from Psyllids., Finally mulch well the soil around the base of the plant. The advantage of this method is eliminating the need to repot the plant every two years or so.
 That is why it is important not to remove any rotted stumps/fallen timber (unless a nest for white ants) and puddles in your desire to obsessively tidy up. You should be aiming for retaining a wide diversity of habitats., It has been found that rainfall contains small quantities of dissolved nitrate and ammonia, which are forms of nitrogen, hence the growth spurt.
 An example of this would be to pot on a plant growing in a 150 mm (6”) pot into a 200 mm (8”) or 250 mm (10”) pot size.

This is true because the potting mix can remain quite wet if there is no plant roots to take-up the excess moisture. This is especially so if the plant is potted on late into the growing season and their growth slows down, the roots can rot and you loose the plant. There are exceptions of course, like plants with a strong and quick growing root system (e.g. Prostanthera species). However, as a general guide follow this rule and you will increase your success when repotting plants.
 Another sign will be when the plant needs daily watering in summer.
 If you need large amounts of new “soil”, obtain it from a reliable supplier and make sure it is suitable for native plants., Sometimes when I plant new Grevilleas or Banksias they do not perform well and their new leaves are yellow. This is often a sign of phosphorous toxicity in native plants. Once phosphorous is present in the soil it takes a long time to leach out. So to lock-up the phosphorous and prevent the plant taking it up, water the plant with Chelated Iron as per the directions on the packet. At the same time, I usually water the plant with some trace elements just in case the soil is lacking in one or more of the minor elements.
 If this treatment does not work the first time do it again in two weeks time.,