 This is the route many couples go when the man has had a vasectomy and the couple wants to get pregnant.It is important to talk to a doctor who specializes in this area and who can provide additional information (as well as expected cost) for your case. The cost and complexity of the procedure can vary greatly between couples.
One of the main reasons that IVF is chosen is that the vasectomy reversal was unsuccessful, and the couple is still determined to have biological children of their own.
Success rates of the procedure vary greatly depending upon the reason for receiving it, as well as fertility factors for both the man and the woman. , If he has had his sperm frozen in the past, this can be used for the procedure.


If he has not, another option is to collect sperm directly from the man's vas deferens (the portion of the tube that is still intact and that was not cut by surgery) and to use this for in vitro fertilization.
 This is a procedure done in specialty medical labs.


Normally more than one egg is taken from the female, in order to maximize the chances of a successful embryo forming in the lab.
 Often more than one embryo will be implanted in order to maximize success rates of the conception (in hopes that at least one of the embryos will successfully survive and grow once placed in the uterus).


A complication of IVF, for this reason, is the risk of having multiples (twins, triplets, or perhaps more). Speak to your doctor about how many embryos he or she recommends to have implanted in your specific case. It would depend upon a number of factors specific to each couple, including cost (as if the procedure "fails" and has to be done again that gets expensive), as well as other "fertility factors" that can be assessed by your doctor. , Like any medical procedure, IVF has advantages and disadvantages.


The advantages of IVF include:

the vasectomy still exists as permanent birth control after your child is conceived
it is an easier procedure for the man (compared to undergoing surgery to have his vasectomy reversed)
conception can often occur within a faster time-frame (as compared with vasectomy reversal). The disadvantages of IVF include:

cost (quite expensive)
it is a more arduous procedure for the woman
the procedure may have to be repeated if you wanted additional children. This is not always the case, as sometimes extra embryos can be created that can be frozen for future pregnancies.
it may result in more than one child. Oftentimes more than one embryo is inserted into the woman's uterus, to increase the success rate of one surviving. However, this can result in more than one baby for some couples, so it is important to consider the possibility of having multiples. 