 One of the first steps toward overcoming fear involves noticing fear's onset. There may be times when you are acting out of fear without even consciously acknowledging it. Whenever you feel fear or hesitation, stop and notice the ways it manifests in your body. Once you have cataloged these symptoms, you can tune into them more quickly, and better cope.Some common symptoms of fear include:

Trouble breathing
Racing thoughts
Rapid heartbeat
Dizziness (or even fainting)
Sweating
Anxiety or panic
Feeling powerless to your fear, even if you know it’s irrational;
, Sit down with a piece of paper and pen, and carefully list every single thing you are afraid of. Keep the list handy and add to day by day until you feel you've listing everything that scares you. Be as specific as you can. For instance, if you are afraid of taking a promotion at work, what exactly is it that scares you? Are you afraid of what people might think? Or maybe you are afraid you can't handle the responsibility?If kept in the dark, fears have a way or magnifying themselves. When brought out into the open, you may not find your fears quite as scary.
 For every single fear on your list, try to come up with a practical solution. Do this when you feel calm and level-headed, not when you're in the midst of fear. It can also help to do this part with a friend, and get their ideas and perspective.

If you are afraid of physical harm, what can you do to keep yourself safe? You could wear a life jacket on boats, or a bike helmet on bikes.
If you are afraid of specific interpersonal interactions, try role-playing some conversations with a friend. What strategies can do you rely on to make the conversation run smoothly?
If you are afraid of a big change in your life, try envisioning every aspect of the change and how it will affect you. Do you feel like you would be better or worse off if you make this change?

, Being "fearless" does not actually mean living without fear. Rather, living fearlessly means coping with your fear, and proceeding in the face of it. When you feel fear taking hold of you, there are a few methods you can use to cope.You might try:

Reviewing the list of fears and solutions you made earlier
Asking a friend for perspective ("Is this a rational fear, or not?")
Practicing deep breathing


, Once you have learned to cope with anxiety and fear, it might be time to challenge yourself. You can face those things you fear by encountering them in small doses and seeing how to fare. Increase your level of exposure until that particular fear no longer bothers you.If you are afraid of heights, try going on a small rollercoaster with a friend.
If you are afraid  of speaking in front of people, try attending a supportive storytelling workshop.
 Fear is an evolutionary adaptive function that helps keep us safe. When you feel nervous around an exposed cliff, for instance, that is your fear telling you that the situations is dangerous, and you should exercise caution. Although fear is uncomfortable, it is there to serve a purpose. Accept that a healthy does of fear is a helpful component of modern life., A certain amount of fear is natural and understandable, especially if you are trying something new. However, if fear seems to be negatively affecting your life, you may need to take some steps to intervene and diffuse it. If you are experiencing intense fear, you may want to seek guidance from a doctor or therapist.Your fear may be a problem for you if:

Your fear triggers intense anxiety or panic.
You know that your fears are irrational.
Fear causes you to avoid specific places, people, or situations.
Fear has directly interfered with your life.
These feelings have persisted for 6 months or longer.

