 6.Listen closely and you will notice that bars are grouped in phrases that are usually 8, 16 or 32 bars. The notes that you make will help you learn the records. Your goal at first is to match phrases at the end of a particular record to the phrases at the beginning of another record.;
, Let the record 1 play through the speakers.Then cue up the record 2 in the earphones and search for the first good beat of the record. Wait for the one beat at the beginning of a new phrase on the record 1 and drop the one beat at the beginning of a phrase on the record 2 at the same time.Then you will be using pitch control on the same record to speed up and slow down record 2 until it is at the same bpm as the record 1. If necessary, pick up the needle on the record 2 and start over until the beats match.
 Not all these wacky phrase jumblings will work all the time. Use the notes you took while listening to the records and fit the song phrases together like a puzzle.
 Push any two keys on a keyboard, there is a certain feeling that the two notes give which is based on the interval of the notes to one another. You can use this to build or release tension in your set if you know what you are doing. You can mess around with your records and practice without knowing what you are doing, but it helps to look at the art like real musicians and learn theory.
 This is why sometimes you match 2 records together and the melodies and basslines match great, but when you try to do it later, when the pitches are different from where they were the first time you mixed the records, they will not sound matched.
 Learn to have fun and not care about learning more, otherwise you will be like most of the DJ that quit when they can't beatmatch like the professionals. Remember that people like the music, and if you are playing the jams, nobody will remember the one or two mess ups of the night.
 If the crowd is yelling "rewind, rewind," stop the record and play the jam you found once more. Also, remember that shouting "deal with the matter" at gurning little speedfreaks like blitzkrieg is like the staple diet of MC phrases.
