 If you want your children to be musically talented or interested, involve them in music at all times. Have music on in the car, in the kitchen, when eating dinner, all the time. Constantly having music playing is a very good way to integrate music into their lives.


Make music from everyday things. If you are cooking with your kids, use the wooden spoons and upturned bowls to make up a song while you bake. If you're out playing sport together, use the sporting gear to make musical sounds. Find music in the ordinary so that children can see how easy it is to make music a constant part of their lives.





;
, There are many ways to help your children see how enjoyable music is.


Take your children to a gig when they are a little older.
Go to music concerts especially made for kids. Many top and local artists will throw an occasional show at which they do numbers for kids. Some musicians always play for kids. Look online and in local papers for events.






Go to open air and outdoor musical festivals. Children love the freedom of being able to run about freely while music is playing all the time. Take along a rug, a picnic, some toys and make a day of it.






Integrate music and craft. Have children make their instruments first, then prepare a tune on them together afterward.






Teach your children about some of the most inspiring musicians of all time like Bob Dylan; play music from your top favorite artists of the past through to the present, to help give them a broad grounding in many types of music.






Include classical music experiences with fun activities like playing a board game (without lyrics, it won't interfere with thinking) or when you're all resting together as a family.
 If you leave it late, they may struggle to get involved with music or may be less interested in just enjoying listening to it.


Make use of technology such as MP3 players, tablets and the like to play music anywhere, from a picnic to bath time. The portability of music has never been easier––imagine what people from the past would think about our ability to carry entire orchestras around with us whenever we wish!

, Enjoying music is one thing, but being able to play or sing the song is a special feeling. Don’t let your child miss out on that, as being musically attuned is one of the most enjoyable things you can do to refresh your mind, reduce stress and just have fun in general. If your children are invested in the music choice, they are more likely to want to keep up the lessons.
 Music lessons for children are a great way to get your children involved, as they'll be around other students of their own age and will have access to quality teaching. Look for a place that employs teachers with specific training in teaching children, as they'll be receptive to making the experience interesting and enjoyable as well as focused.


Music is a potential career in the future for your child; music lessons are a huge part of the future learning environment for your child.
 More practical and enjoyable, most children enjoy music school over normal education, as the tutors keep the tasks varied and fun.


A summer camp focused on music is another excellent option for children to be completely immersed in all things musical, along with lots of other fun activities.
 Of course, if your child is going to learn, you have to learn too. It is your role to help them revise what they learn in music school, to make sure that they can do some additional learning with you in the house when they come home. It’s vital that your children feel like you are invested in their hobby too. If your child was to play for a sports team, you would be determined for them to enjoy themselves and succeed––music is just the same.
 Constant yelling and nagging to do music practice can soon turn both child and parent off the whole music lessons idea. Instead, aim for a calm environment that encourages music practice.


Ask gently if your child is doing the music practice needed to learn the next piece, prepare for a music exam, etc. without turning it into a do-or-die situation. Tension associated with practice will only make it seem more like a chore and less desirable to children.
 Back up the quality of the lessons with good home space for doing music practice. Some things that can help include:


Setting up a comfortable and quiet area away from others for music practice. Siblings and pets can be unhelpful distractions, so a quiet spot is very helpful.
Keeping all electronics off and out of sight. The less distractions, the better.






Providing appropriate seating or other support. If your children feel comfortable and relaxed, this frees them up to concentrate on the music instead of complain about the hard seating or cold room!

, There are likely ways that you can alleviate the complaints, such as changing teachers, rearranging a schedule so that things aren't so rushed or finding more interesting music to play, etc. Even if it means switching from violin to electric guitar, remember that it's still music.
