 Some practitioners will focus only on Shiatsu therapy, in which case they will likely have completed a specialized training program; others will offer Shiatsu as part of their array of services. You can do a quick Google search to determine massage therapists near you.


You can also use the search tool on the American Organization for Bodywork Therapies of Asia (AOBTA) website., Specifically, look for someone who is certified by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine or the National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork.This will ensure a regulated standard of quality for your therapy.
 Shiatsu massage styles vary and can range from gentle pressure to deep kneading using elbows, knees, and feet.Knowing the sort of massage you will be receiving will allow you to adequately prepare and plan out the rest of your day.


The AOBTA formally recognizes six forms of Shiatsu, which you can ask your practitioner specifically about. These are: Integrative Eclectic Shiatsu, Japanese Shiatsu, Five Element Shiatsu, Macrobiotic Shiatsu, Shiatsu Anma Therapy, and Zen Shiatsu., A one hour session will involve you lying fully clothed on a floor mat or on a massage table or sitting on a chair as the practitioner presses on acupressure points.The more comfortably dressed you are, the more you will get out of your visit.
 Mention that you would like to relieve the pain from your tension headache so that he or she can address specific acupressure points.


The Shiatsu massage session, which will typically last about an hour,will likely be comprehensive and focus on providing full-body stability. That being said, if you mention a particular pain you’re having, the Shiatsu practitioner will be able to direct additional attention to that area.
 The intensity will depend on the specific type of Shiatsu that your therapist has been trained in.


It is common for a session to begin with a discussion of your overall health, including any outstanding health concerns as well as exercise and eating patterns.Your session might also include advice on breathing techniques, diet, and exercise., The number of treatments needed varies from person to person, and Shiatsu may provide immediate relief from your headache. However, if your tension headache is a chronic problem then you may benefit from more Shiatsu sessions.Try to schedule subsequent sessions one to two weeks apart.