 Your boyfriend may have made plans for the prom before you started dating, or he may have no intention of going to the prom. If you want to go together, you need to ask him to make sure you're on the same page.


It's a good idea to ask a few months in advance so you can come up with other plans if your boyfriend can't go with you.;
, It may be that your boyfriend is already in the process of planning an elaborate promposal for you, in which case, you wouldn't want to ruin it by asking him first. Before you ask him, consider talking to his friends and/or family to find out if he has something in the works.


Certain guys may have a problem with a girl asking a guy, so make sure to think about how he will feel.
 If you decide that asking your boyfriend to prom is the right decision for you, it's important to keep his individual preferences in mind. If your boyfriend is shy or easily embarrassed, you may not want to go over the top with a public promposal. If he loves attention, then don't be afraid to make it a big spectacle.
 It's important to keep your boyfriend's interests in mind when deciding how you will ask. Show him that you put a lot of thought into the invitation by incorporating something personal,


If your boyfriend loves sports, think of a way to incorporate his favorite sport into your promposal. You could, for example, spell out your message with basketballs or baseball bats.
If your boyfriend is a movie buff, consider incorporating a funny quote or picture from his favorite movie into your invitation.
If your boyfriend belongs to the robotics club at your school, consider using a toy robot to deliver your invitation.
 If you want to keep things really simple, you can just ask your boyfriend directly if he would like to go to prom with you. You can make things a little sweeter by presenting him with a small gift or card.


Asking him when he least expects it can be a nice surprise!

, If you don't want to ask him in person, a note can do the trick! You can send it by mail, email, or social media, or you can slip it into his locker when he's not looking.If you want to get a little creative try writing a poem or using a silly pun in your note. You could, for example, give him a teddy bear with a note that says, "I can't bear to go to prom without you."You can also give him choices by providing check boxes on the note that say things like "yes," "definitely," or "can't wait." If you give him a "no" option, make it much smaller than the others., You can write "prom?" on just about anything, so get creative and write your message out in a totally unique way.If you can get your boyfriend's parents to let you in his room while he's not home, you can spell out "prom?" for him at home. You can use just about anything, from colorful paper or balloons, to basketballs for a sports-obsessed boyfriend.
If you can't get access to your boyfriend's house, you can decorate your own house and then invite him over.
Consider making a meal or sweet treat for your boyfriend and spelling out “prom?” with an edible ingredient, like small candies on a cake or pepperoni on a pizza.You can even write "prom?" with a simple marker in an unexpected place, like inside a pizza box or on a piece of paper that you hide in his textbook.
 Make your boyfriend do a little work to decode your promposal by giving him puzzle to work on..


If you are good at illustration, draw a promposal message on paper. Cut it up into puzzle pieces and wrap it for him to uncover.
You can also create a custom word-search or crossword puzzle that contains your message.
If you want to get a bit more elaborate, set up a scavenger hunt for your boyfriend, with each clue leading to a different part of the message.
 Before you decide on a public promposal, make sure you think carefully about the ramifications. If you think your boyfriend might be embarrassed by a public invitation, it may be best to stick to something more private. It's also important to consider the possibility that your boyfriend might say no, so a public invitation may be embarrassing for you as well.
 If you want to make a big display of your promposal, consider decorating something that everyone else will see, like his locker or his car. You can use sticky notes, streamers, wrapping paper, balloons, and anything else you can think of to make your message extra flashy.Consider hiding your message inside of a balloon to keep him guessing.If you want the message to be semi-private, you can decorate his front lawn or garage door so he will see your message as soon as he gets home (and so will all the neighbors).
 Get friends involved in your promposal by having them spell out a message for your boyfriend. They can each wear part of the message on their clothing, or they can carry large signs.You can make this kind of promposal as public as you want by choosing the right location. If you just want his friends to be there, arrange it around a small get-together. If you want the whole school to see it, you can have your friends display their message in the cafeteria or at a sporting event.
If your boyfriend plays a sport or is involved in a club, he might really appreciate it if you incorporated these interests into your promposal. For example, you could arrange for the members of his football team to spell out "prom?" with notes taped to their helmets, or you could ask the drama club to hold up a banner for him at the end of a performance.
You can even have your friends do a performance for him, like a choreographed dance or a skit, if they're willing.
 If you want a truly public promposal, try to put up a giant banner or sign where everyone will see it.If you have a large budget, you could rent space for your message on a billboard or jumbotron, or even have an airplane sky-write your message.
Only use this method if you're absolutely sure that your boyfriend will not mind a grand display and you're fairly confident that he will say yes.
If you're working with a limited budget, consider asking your school if you can hang a banner somewhere visible. You can also consider asking a nearby local business if you can hang your sign on their building or use their changeable sign to display your message for a few hours.
 If you're brave enough, you can try asking your school if you can make the daily announcements and ask your boyfriend to prom in front of the entire school.
 If your boyfriend is a social addict, post something on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, or another social media site. Make sure it is appropriate, because it will be on the Internet forever.


Depending on your own personal preferences, your message can be simple and to the point, or it can be more elaborate. You could, for example, consider posting a cryptic message that he needs to decode or picture of yourself holding up a sign asking him to prom.