 As any other hike, weather conditions must be checked prior to leaving. Because the hike is unpaved, you would want to check the conditions for the previous day(s) of any rain.;
, There are no shady spots on the hike (excluding being inside of the pillbox) and it will be hot on a sunny day.
 Have sturdy, hiking shoes, as you will be ascending rocks along the way.
 It is recommended to stay hydrated while hiking; a water camelbak type device is highly suggested, as the water stays in a bag that you wear like a backpack with a thin hose you can drink from.
 Lanikai is situated in the south-east corner of Kailua's shore, hidden behind Kailua town.
 The only city bus route that enters Lanikai is the 70. If you're coming from Honolulu, you can take Route 56 or 57 and transfer to the 70 at the Kailua Road/Hamakua Drive intersection in Kailua.
 There is only one public road that connects Kailua to Lanikai. It's important to know that you must park on the side of the street, as there is no public parking lot.


To get to Lanikai from Honolulu: Take the Pali Highway to Kailua Road. At the Kailua Road/Oneawa intersection, keep going straight to go on Kuulei Road. Turn right onto South Kalaheo Avenue and keep going straight. Turn left onto Alala Road. Go around the curve on Mokulua Drive. Lanikai's main road is one way, so you'll be merging on the right. Take the second right onto Kaelepulu Drive. Drive up the hill and near the top (on the left), you will see a "Private Driveway" sign. Walk by foot and you will approach a large rock next to the entrance of the hike.
To get to Lanikai from Kaneohe: Take Kamehameha Highway all the way south to the Pali Highway. Take a left onto Kalanianaole Highway and follow the directions as if you were coming from Honolulu.
 After hiking, you can go straight on Kaelepulu Drive and take a left onto Mokulua Drive, to go back towards Kailua Beach Park. Both Aalapapa Drive and Mokulua Drive in Lanikai are one way roads.
 Know that there are no handrails and that you are hiking up a mountain ridge.
 At times, rocks can be large to get up to the next "height". Using sturdy and thick branches will be a huge advantage.
 These pillboxes were once used as shelter bunkers during World War II by soldiers to keeping guard on the coast. The bunkers might stand above five feet, but if you can safely get up on top, the view is magnificent, even from a comfy seated position.
 While the Pacific Ocean and Mokulua Islands may be the special "highlight", turn around to see a great view of Kailua and Enchanted Lakes.
 There are three pillboxes in total, one leading to another section of the mountain ridge and ascending higher. Most people tend to climb to the first one, then descend back down.

