 There are other options for similar tools, but few support YouTube, are free, and contain no ads or malware. Yout.com is a fairly new site that presently meets these criteria.


Downloading a YouTube video may not be legal in your location, depending on how you want to use the file.Be familiar with the laws in your area and do any downloading at your own risk.
 You’ll want to do this in a separate tab so you can keep Yout open.
, Now you’ll start converting the streaming YouTube video to a format that can be embedded into Keynote.


If you chose an alternative online video converter, open it now. The following steps should be similar to what you see on any converter.
 This will open a new screen with several different settings you can adjust for your video download.



All .MP4 videos created with this tool are High-Definition (720p) quality., If you want to download the entire video, leave the sliders alone. If you want to start somewhere different, move the first slider to the exact time you’d like the video to start. Move the second slider to your desired end time.
 The original YouTube name is already in the box, so you only need to type a new title if you don’t want to use that one.
 This process could take several minutes, depending on the size of the video. When the video has finished converting, a download window will appear.
 Note that this process will probably be even longer than the conversion process, as the file must now be transferred to your computer over the Internet. This could take several minutes to an hour or more, depending on file size and the speed of your Internet connection.
,, You can also choose to create a brand new slide. To do this, click the “+” icon, then choose a layout for your new slide., Once you drop the video onto the slide, you can adjust its size by dragging the small squares at the edges.
 The video will now play in any Keynote view, including when you’re giving a live presentation.
 The presentation will be saved with the embedded video included. You won’t need to be online to play the video.


Because the video has been embedded into your presentation, the file size of the presentation will increase.

