 Before inviting a bunch of guests to your house for friendsgiving, ensure they’ll all be able to get a plate. Count your knives, spoons, plates, bowls, and forks. You should have at least one for every person who is attending, plus one of each for you.If you don’t have enough flatware and plates, purchase some sturdy disposable plates and plasticware for the event.
You could also ask a friend to bring a few extra plates and flatware sets for the friendsgiving.
 Hors d’oeuvres and appetizers provide an opportunity for friends who don’t know each other well to mingle and chat. They also provide a little something to stave off hunger if some of your guests are running late and you don’t want to start the friendsgiving dinner without them, or if some of your dishes aren’t quite ready on time.Pre-made snacks and appetizer platters are readily available at most grocery stores. You might consider getting a meat, cheese, and crackers platter, or a fruit salad.
Veggie trays with carrots, celery, and pepper sticks and ranch (or another veggie dip) is the perfect appetizer for healthy friends.
Have a variety of appetizers ready to appease the various tastes of your friends.
Since snacks should be ready to eat as soon as guests arrive, it’s best to provide the snacks and appetizers yourself unless you have a very trustworthy and reliable friend who you are sure can arrive before anyone else. If you arrange for your trustworthy friend to bring the appetizers and hors d’oeuvres, let them know that you’re counting on them.
 There are many ways to set the table. You could cover the table with an elegant and decorate tablecloth, or you could just leave the bare wood of the table showing. You could place candles or flowers in the center of the table to set the mood, but if you’re cramped for space, you could just reserve your table space for the dishes you and your friends will enjoy.You could set placemats in front of each seat.
You could also wrap silverware in a napkin and place it in front of each seat for a more formal dining experience.
Experiment with different styles before the friendsgiving and find one that works for you. Use your knowledge about your friends and their preferences to find something that will make the event enjoyable and memorable for them, too.
If your cuisine has a theme, your table-setting should conform to that theme, too. For instance, if your friendsgiving theme is Japanese food, you might place a small bust of a geisha or a folding fan in the middle of the table.

