 A fecal examination is the usual way this diagnosis is made.Diagnosis is made by identifying the eggs in the fecal stool.
Your doctor will ask you to submit specimens collected over several days confirm if you are infected or not.
 Usually the drug praziquantel is given for dwarf tapeworm infections.Praziquantel dissolves the dwarf tapeworm within the intestine.
Praziquantel is usually well tolerated. Sometimes more than one treatment is necessary--up to ten days.Follow your doctor's instructions when taking praziquantel. But usually it is taken by mouth, with food, three or four times a day (four to six hours apart).
You should take the medicine with a full glass of water.
Do NOT chew or suck the medicine tablets.
You should avoid consuming grapefruits or grapefruit products while taking praziquantel.
Contact your doctor immediately if your condition persists or worsens.
Sometimes Niclosamide or nitazoxanide are given as alternative medicines. Follow your doctor's instructions when taking any of these medicines., This disease is relatively minor if treated on time.Most patients fully recover with treatment.
More severe symptoms can result from prolonged infections, so treatment should be sought immediately.
 You do not want to spread the infectious eggs while you are receiving treatment.If you have multiple bathrooms at home, consider using one while your family/guests use the other.
Disinfect any bathroom equipment you use thoroughly after every use. Standard antibacterial sprays and soaps should be sufficient, but ask your doctor if they recommend something else.
Consider leaving food preparation to others until your doctor certifies you as clear of the infection.
Have an independent/portable food and water supply if you are traveling.
 Improving hygiene and sanitation not only can help prevent spreading the infection from a contaminated person, but prevent infection in the first place in the future.Wash your hands with soap and warm water. Do this after any task involving potential contaminants--especially after using the toilet, diaper changes, and during food preparation.
Be particularly mindful of educating children in your area about cleanliness around potential contaminants--especially with their higher risk for dwarf tapeworm infection.
If you are in a situation where food may be contaminated, you should wash, peel and/or cook all raw vegetables and fruits with safe/tested water before eating.

