 Use the US Census online at Ancestry.com. Start with the most recent ancestors: find their names on each census, and work backward into the past. The online censuses are indexed – so if you put in the name and birthday, it may bring up the correct person along with other possibilities. As you start building the family tree, note the details that suggest other areas to search – e.g. someone's occupation.If your family member doesn't show up on the census, try editing the search. Add or remove words to clarify the results.
Search for their maiden name as well as the married name of female ancestors. The census records may confirm or suggest a marriage date.
Be aware that the spelling of names may have changed. Some ancestors may not have been able to read or write well, and they may have used uncommon spellings. Old censuses may indicate whether or not a person was literate.
 After checking the census history, try a search of all records. It may help to narrow the records down to marriage and divorce, or immigration, or military. Search any census category that might include your ancestors. Try using tax and voter lists., If your ancestors came from another country, you may need to look for their immigration and naturalization papers. Naturalization papers have two parts: the papers and the final application. Unless you have that second paper, you can't be sure they were naturalized. They could have waited several years between the two, and the final paper could be in a different courthouse – even a different part of the country. Use the census to trace where your ancestors lived, and look for naturalization records in those places.


Consult the passenger lists of ships. If your ancestors immigrated across the sea, you might be able to figure out exactly when if you find their name.
 If you know where your ancestors were married, go to that location (church, courthouse, etc.) and ask for access to their records. Marriage certificates often feature the names of the parents of the bride and groom's parents. This may be a useful clue to get you on track. See if the location was used for other ancestors, and look for their records as well.
 If you know where your deceased relatives are buried or commemorated, visit the cemetery in person. Look for clues: birth and death dates, names that don't match your records, or other relatives buried nearby. Don't be afraid to travel to distant cemeteries if your ancestors lived and died in various places. You might find it valuable to physically trace your ancestry by making it a journey.
 If your ancestors' church baptized children, look through the baptism records. If you don't know an ancestors exact date of birth, the baptism can help you approximate when a given family member was born. Most baptisms are done soon after birth. You should also be able to find marriage and death records in the church archives.


Church records are not always complete. If the church is far from you, call before you travel.

