

Assess what in particular is troubling you about your relationship with your parents. There are several reasons you may want to improve your relationship.

You may feel that you parents give too much unwanted advice, treat you like a kid, do not respect your opinions, guilt you into spending time with them, or disrespect your friends or spouse. Be sure to have a good sense of the particular aspect of your relationship that you want to improve.,

Even if you do not agree with their parenting style, values or principles, be courteous to your parents; in doing so you will be less likely to put them into a defensive parenting mode. There are a number of ways in which you can be respectful. Try using polite language (such as "sorry" or "would you mind if"), speaking modestly ("it may be" instead of "it definitely is"), and letting them finish speaking before you take your turn.


If you have a fight with your parents, do everything you can to repair the relationship sooner rather than later. This will show that you care about the relationship. It will also mean you will have been fighting for less time total.,

Don’t overreact when talking to your parents, you may end up saying things you regret, which will only damage your relationship further and make you seem immature.When you are interacting with your parents and you feel a wave of strong emotion coming on, re-assess the situation that led to your strong feelings by asking yourself some questions. For example, if you are in a disagreement with your parents about mowing the lawn you might ask: "In the grand scheme of things, how bad will it really be to mow the lawn?"
Or, if you don't live with your parents but they are overly involved, asking you detailed questions about your job and giving unwanted advice, you might ask: "What is their motivation for wanting to be so involved? Is it that they care about me and are worried about my financial security?" Asking yourself questions like this may lead you to feel less upset and it may give you insight into how you should respond to your parents. In this case, you may try to improve your relationship by easing their worries about your financial future.
If re-assessing your situation doesn't work to reduce how emotional you feel, try asking politely whether you can continue the discussion once you have cooled your jets. Explain that you are feeling really upset and don’t want to accidently say something rude or regretful.,

Smile at your parents. Stay positive and warm. Let them know with your body language that you are happy to see them and that you care about their well-being. This will set the tone for your communication and will help to improve the relationship. Without thinking, your parents may even mimic your positive emotions. This emotional mimicry will aid in setting a mood that will foster positive relationship change. ,

Sometimes problems arise in relationships between parents and children, particularly at the teenage years and beyond, because parents can try to give advice in an overpowering way that infringes on your sense of autonomy.To get around this, try only asking for their advice when you are sure that you really want it. If you are just feeling lazy to think about things on your own, and so you ask your parents, you may be opening the door to frustration on your part.


One way to improve your relationship dynamic is to be more willing to talk to your parents about things that you may feel are uncomfortable. This will help to build trust in your relationship with your parents, which will improve your relationship with them. Keep in regular contact so your parents can get a better perspective on your life, what upsets you, and what makes you happy. If they do not know you that well, it will be difficult for them to try to improve the relationship. If you listen to your parents they will be more likely to listen to you, opening the door for you to try discussing improving the relationship.,

If you want to maintain a positive relationship with parents, but find that you always end up disagreeing, consider setting up some topics as off-limits. This may work better if you are older or no longer live with your parents. Also try creating rules that both you and your parents agree to abide by. Sit down with your parents and tell them you want to improve your relationship with them, but that in order to do so, you think it would be helpful if there were some rules. Ask that they make a list of the rules they would like implemented, and you do the same.
If you are a teenager or child, rules can include not bringing up certain topics, giving you a chance to try things on your own, or letting you stay out later at night as long as you check in by text or call and can prove that you are being responsible.
If you are an adult, rules can include asking your parents not to interfere with the way you are choosing to parent your own children, or asking your parents not to comment negatively about your significant other.
Discuss the different rules, and narrow them down to a list that you all agree on. Check in occasionally to see whether you and your parents are still happy in following the rules that you have agreed on.


Sometimes arguments are unavoidable, but do your best to refrain from unnecessary squabbles. This may mean that you have to bite your tongue when one of your parents says something controversial. Determine whether the need to respond is really necessary. If it is, make the point clearly and modestly in order to avoid an overly emotional argument.,

Be fair and logical about issues and demonstrate to your parents that you are mature, and they will likely reciprocate by acting mature themselves. Oftentimes if parents see you acting mature, they will treat you accordingly.