 Alba is known for her casual yet chic style, especially for day looks. Look for slightly ripped boyfriend jeans, which have a more relaxed fit than skinny jeans, and pair them with a bright sweater or top. You can also wear a collared shirt in a bold pattern with the jeans for a more put together casual look.Alba also wears patterned pants in bold, bright colors or black and white prints in a more relaxed fit. Look for printed jeans or jeans with interesting details as well as casual pants in an interesting pattern. Pair them with a more neutral top in black, gray, or white for a put together look.;
, Alba is not afraid to wear color or a bold statement piece, even for a casual day out running errands or having lunch with friends. Look for sweaters in bold colors like orange, pink, or green and wear them with boyfriend fit jeans and a jean jacket or a long coat. You can also wear tops in bold prints and interesting details like embroidery or delicate beading.When you create day outfits in the style of Alba, be sure to have one statement piece and then balance it with more neutral pieces. For example, pairing a top in a bold print with boyfriend jeans and a coat in a neutral tone like camel, gray, or black.
 Alba is also known for playing around with mens-wear inspired looks for a night out. For example, she may pair tuxedo pants with a collared shirt and high heels, or fitted slacks with a simple top and a blazer. This creates as interesting and strong look that is mens-wear inspired but also feminine., Alba is also known for showing off her feminine side by wearing patterned, fitted dresses that accentuate her hips and her chest. You can also get this look by wearing dresses that hit just above your knee with sandals for a day out or a longer dress in a pattern or interesting fabric like silk, satin, or leather, with heels or high heeled boots for a night out.
 Alba’s stylist notes that the celebrity often will mix up high and low pieces, pairing an expensive top with vintage jeans or a high end jacket with a cheaper dress. Adding a vintage piece can keep your style looking unique and create a look that feels interesting but also put together., Alba is also known for her preference for interesting jewellery, such as a bold ring or heavy bracelets. Accessories like jewellery can give your outfits a bit more umph and spice up even more neutral tones or cuts. For example, you could wear a pair of long earrings with a patterned, form fitting dress and heels for a night out or a big watch and bold rings to spruce up jeans and a t-shirt., Alba’s signature locks are often bleached blonde at the tips or colored with warm highlights. You can replicate this look by bringing in a picture of Alba’s hair and showing it to your hair stylist. You should discuss how to adjust your existing color to match Alba’s hair.Alba’s bleached blonde tip look can take up to 9-hours to do in one sitting, but can last up to six months with minimal touch ups. Alba often sports this hair color when her hair is long and flowy. You can opt for highlights in warm tones if you do not want to do such a drastic hair coloring job on your hair.
 Alba has been photographed with a sleek looking bob cut, where her hair is cut just above her shoulders and parted at one side or parted in the middle. You can ask your hairdresser to cut your hair into an Alba like bob and show you how to properly part it to one side just like Alba’s hair., Alba is also known for her longer hairstyles, where she has relaxed, curly hair. You can use a hair curler to create a casual day look, especially if you have longer hair.Alba’s curly look is often more loose and flowy, so be sure to curl strands of your hair and then run your fingers through the curls gently to break them up so they are not so tight and uniform.
 A chignon is a low bun at the nape of your neck or just above the nape of your neck, and often looks sophisticated and sleek for a night out.To create a chignon, use a comb to part your hair down the middle. Smooth your hair behind your ears and gather it at the base of your neck with your fingers.
Then, gently twist your hair from the nape of your neck to the ends of your hair, forming one long twist. Once you have one long twist, coil it counter-clockwise until the hair starts to gather at the nape of your neck. You can use your index finger to hold the coils in place until all of your hair is coiled at the base of your neck.
Use bobby pins to secure all four sides of the chignon. Then, gently pull the sides of the bun so it looks a little messy but is still secure. Add several more bobby pins to keep the chignon in place.
Finish the look by using the comb to shape and volumize the crown of your hair. Slide the flat end of the comb into the top layer of your hair and gently pull it downward toward the chignon, creating a little lift. Use finishing spray to keep the chignon in place.
 Alba is known for her olive toned complexion and her well proportioned facial features. You can imitate her skin tone by contouring your face with bronzer and highlighter.Always apply foundation first before putting on bronzer or highlighter. Then, use a make up brush to apply bronzer just below your cheekbones and highlighter under your eyes, on your chin, and on your forehead. You can then finish the look by applying light pink blush on your cheeks.
 Alba often appears very low maintenance in the make up department when she is out and about during the day. You can create a minimal day look by applying foundation on your face, using concealer in any trouble areas like around your nose or on your chin, and finishing with a small amount of blush on your cheekbones.


Keep your eyes simple and clean by applying mascara and curling your lashes. You can then add a light pink lip balm to create a put together day look.
 Alba will often bring the drama on the red carpet or at events, wearing more dramatic make up. You can create a smoky eye look and really define your eyebrows so they stand out like Alba’s using an eyebrow shaping kit.To fill your eyebrows so they appear fuller and bolder, like Alba's, you can use an eyebrow pencil and eyebrow powder. Use the right side front corner of your nose to mark a line on your right eyebrow where your right eyebrow should start and use the left side front corner of your nose to mark the line on your left eyebrow where your left eyebrow should start. Then, use eyebrow powder and a small slanted brush to fill in your eyebrow, using the marked line as a starting point.Finish your nighttime look with a bold red lip or a light pink lip to tie the dramatic, eye catching make up together with your outfit.

