;
,, For a $6 project, get plexiglass, and for a $20 get 'lexan'. Home Despot sells it in almost the perfect size somewhere around their window section. It can be a little smaller than the computer, or even a little bigger than the computer, but not much smaller than the keyboard area with a half inch all around. They also sell a plastic cutter for $4, if you need one.
 The ones I found were called '1/2" Vinyl Bumpers', but anything that is self adhesive on one side, and grippy on the other for putting on the bottom of things, and adds a little height will do fine.
,, If you'll need to cut it, don't remove the sticky plastic covering until after you've trimmed or drilled it.
 Normal wood-working drill bits and circular saws work OK, or even 'dremel' bits, though you might want a 'fine' bladed saw blade, or one made for plastic. If you have a jigsaw, get a plastic blade.
 You'll probably want to sand down any rough edges when you're done cutting/drilling/etc.
 Since it's clear, just hold it over the keyboard and stick the feet everywhere around the keyboard and mouse pad, as close as you can get them to the keyboard, but not over any keys. Make the sheet as stable as possible. You're trying to keep the cat from pushing the buttons. If the cat lays down and dislodges the sheet, buttons will probably be pressed. You can generally 'eyeball' where you will put the feet, but keep in mind that they don't usually peel off 'cleanly' if you make a mistake. Most of them can be placed for vertical accuracy by putting them where they go, then flipping it, but for horizontal accuracy around track pads or between segments of keyboard, you'll want to put something on the plastic like a bit of masking tape to show where it will go.
 If there still isn't enough circulation (the notebook gets warmer than usual), take the sheet out and drill lots of air holes in it, once again, making sure it's supported (i.e. on top of a piece of scrap plywood). Lay it on a piece of newspaper to protect it from scuffs. Or use bigger spacers.

