 In order to complete a writing project together, you’ll need to be clear from the get-go about who is responsible for what pieces. You don’t want to accidentally be working on the same parts as your partner, or be the only one working at all. Make your expectations clear so that each partner can move forward with a good understanding of what needs to be done.For example, perhaps you’ll begin working on the outline for the first chapter while your partner starts working on some of the dialogue that will appear in a particular scene in that chapter.
The work should be divided fairly evenly when possible.
 Different people work different ways. Luckily, there are plenty of ways to complete a writing project in today’s technological world. Whatever method you choose, make sure it is a way that you can both contribute to changes being made.Consider typing chapters up on the computer that you email to each other for review.
You could also create a Google document that you each simultaneously edit.
Or you may want to do it the old-fashioned way in a notebook that you pass back and forth between the two of you.
 When you begin undertaking a large writing project, it’s easy to get lost in the enormity of the thing – especially in the beginning stages. Try breaking the writing up into manageable parts with clear deadlines for each part.Focus on one smaller piece at a time instead of get freaked out by the entire project as a whole.
 Create a writing schedule, and then stick to it. If you're serious about writing this thing together, try to write at a set time at least once a week. Talk to your co-author about when you plan to be writing and what your writing schedule will be.Be honest with each other about your productivity and keep each other in the loop if something comes up.
Try to have (at least) weekly meetings, even if it is just by email or by phone, to keep each other updated on your progress.
 When you set deadlines, try to meet them by adhering to your planned writing schedule. If one person begins falling behind, offer encouragement and support to help get them back on track. Ask your writing partner to do the same for you.


It is often easier to stick to schedules when the pressure of letting down another person is factored into the situation.

