 Licensing transfers less than a full ownership interest in your patent, and may be limited by time, geographical area, or field of use.For example, you may have the connections and ability to distribute your product in North America, but need assistance to sell it in Asia. You wouldn't have to sell your patent to grant someone an exclusive license to market and distribute your product in Asia.
Licensing typically will be the more profitable route over assignment, because you retain ownership and control over the patent itself., You can use trade shows to let people in the industry know about your invention and present licensing opportunities.


For a fee, you can have a notice that your patent is available for license in the USPTO's official gazette.
Your invention has a better chance of taking off if you can license it to an established company that already has good brand recognition., Make sure that the licensing deal is in your best interest and the limitations are advantageous to you before you go forward with the deal.


You might consider consulting either a patent attorney or a business advisor who can provide advice on whether the license agreement will benefit you.
You want to decide whether the license will be exclusive or non-exclusive. If it is exclusive, you are granting the licensee sole rights to take a particular action regarding your patented invention, usually only for a specific period of time or in a particular geographic area.
 When you grant a patent license, you effectively agree that you won't sue the licensee for patent infringement as long as they operate within the agreed-upon limitations of the license.Unlike an assignment, no particular form is required for a license. The terms may consist of whatever you want and be styled however you wish.
Consider hiring an intellectual property to assist you with drafting your agreement. Licensing agreements can be complicated and you may forget to cover an important term that results in a significant loss to you.
Make sure you include provisions for advance payments, royalty percentages, and infringement issues. Since you remain the owner of the patent, your licensee needs to know that he can count on you to sue if an unauthorized third party infringes on his licensed territory.
Providing for yearly minimum payments, or requiring royalty percentages to escalate each year, is a contractual way to give the licensee incentive to market and distribute your product aggressively.Include the ability to have an accounting firm perform audits periodically to ensure you're receiving the royalties due to you under the licensing agreement.If you want to reserve your ability to practice certain patent rights, for example to make limited quantities of your product for research purposes, make sure that's carved out in writing in your licensing agreement.
 Once you've agreed on the terms and conditions of the license, get together with your licensee and sign the agreement.


Unlike an assignment, a license doesn't have to be recorded with the USPTO since it doesn't transfer any ownership interest.

