 Hands-on experience in entry-level positions, such as being an insurance claims representative can help you understand the processes and daily duties of a life insurance broker.


Assist customers directly in regards to their insurance claims.
Look for a position where you can build strong problem solving, interpersonal, customer service and communication skills.
 There are numerous benefits to each side of the coin. Going with an agency can provide a little bit more stability. Agencies will receive more leads and distribute them among their employees. Agents working in an agency setting will also have more time to spend on cases instead of searching for clients. However, working with an agency limits the choice you may have on what type of cases and clients you can to work with.


The Independent Life Insurance Agent Association provides materials, guides and free webinars to those who take the solo route.
Independent life insurance agents have to find their own leads, which can take more time and work. This, however, is an ideal situation for people who want to work on specific cases., Typically insurance agents are considered independent contractors instead of full-time employees so working from home is common even if you are working within an agency.Purchase a desk, computer, business cards, stationery and printer. Your home will be your office so provide yourself with all the supplies you need to be successful.
Create a clean space where you can focus, ideally in a corner or separate room.
Find a local coffee shop or cafe where you can meet with new and potential clients.
 Create a website, allocate monthly funds to advertisements and build your personal network.If you’re working independently, building strong relationships is especially important. Word of mouth is key to success, so think of yourself as a brand.
Always be on the ready to sell yourself as a representative. Always have business cards, flyers and any other marketing materials handy.
Start a blog. Written content is a handy tool to show potential clients that you are educated and can provide valuable information. Start a blog with how-to articles and listicles that are easy to read.
Utilize social media for advertisements, like Facebook and Instagram advertisements.
Create a more personal online brand by uploading videos with valuable information to your website and social media channels.
 The National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisers, the National Alliance of Life Companies and the National Association of Independent Life Brokerage Agencies are reputable organizations.Join organizations with a strong presence in your area to get the most from group training and networking opportunities.
Some agencies will pay your membership fee for industry associations.
Organizations often host conferences over the nation and being a member means you typically get a discounted ticket.
Membership dues vary and can reach up to several hundred dollars. Members, however, get access to educational opportunities to learn about new products, services and more.
 Organizations like the American Institute for Chartered Property and Casualty Underwriters and the National Alliance for Insurance Education and Research offer courses and exams to gain different designations and levels of expertise.


Though completely voluntary, certification can help you stand out from the competition.
Being certified is similar to earning your master’s degree or additional certifications in other careers.
 It’s required by most states that life insurance consultants must renew their license every two years. Keep yourself abreast of updates in law, tax and ethics policies.


Attend webinars, conferences and local gatherings with fellow industry professionals.
Network with new circles in your area to learn about different methods and services.
 Make sure your sales pitch and presentation are thorough and practiced, highlighting the key areas of interest to your potential customer.


Listening is important. You have to be able to hear what the potential client really wants and be able to provide them with a plan that fits their needs.
Explain the parts of a life insurance policy that will benefit a customer most.
Be persistent at following up after every appointment but be careful about not being too aggressive. No client wants to feel bullied into buying a policy.

