 Going all the way to the gym, or getting decked out in your jogging gear, or doing whatever it is you feel you should be doing obviously seems like too much work. So just do ten push-ups or jumping jacks. Easy. And usually, it's just enough to get your heart rate going a little bit and make you feel like a little more exercise wouldn't be so bad.


Half the battle may be that working out seems like it just takes so much damn time. Between getting ready, going, working out, showering, getting home, and getting back into your day, hours have just disappeared. But doing small things can be effective, too! Don't write 'em off just because you're not drenched in sweat.
 If someone hands you a book on something you have zero interest in reading, you're gonna glance at the front cover, the back cover, maybe flip through the pages, and set it down to gather dust. So if you hand your body and mind an equivalent workout, don't expect anything different. Do something that you enjoy, will stick to, and want to see through to the end.


This may take readjusting your concept of "working out." It's anything that gets you moving! You don't have to go pounding the pavement or asking for a spotter at the gym. Go swimming, go for a walk in the park, take a dance class -- anything. If you like it, do it. It counts!

, Let's stick with the book metaphor. If someone hands you the unabridged, Latin version of the Bible, what would you do? You might be fascinated for a while and tell yourself you're gonna do it(!)...and then two Latin lessons in you decide Oprah's Book Club is more up your alley. Basically, when it comes to working out (and reading), to stay motivated, don't bite off more than you can chew. Make it doable -- make it small.


It's easy to sit on the couch on Sunday evening and say, "Okay -- I'm starting. I'm running 4 miles (6.4 km) a day every day until I shed these 20 pounds!" Yeah. About that. You might be revved up for the first few days, but then you stumble so quickly it's impossible to get back up on the horse. So start with 20 minutes a day. A mile walk. Then, up it as you go. If it's doable, guess what? You can do it. And you will.
 Your favorite author just wrote a new novel that's supposed to be really good -- but it's only available at a store across town, the hours are 1:30-2:00 on Thursdays, and there's no parking lot. Are you gonna get that book? Probably not. Same goes for your workout. If it's inconvenient, it's not gonna happen. Pick one that you can get done that doesn't cut into your day so you get 'er done (or else you'll end up resentful, too).



Pick a gym that makes sense. Even if the best one is 30 minutes away, you'll be better off going to a decent one that's on your way home from work. Alternatively, plan out a routine you can do at home (yoga, anyone?) and fix it into your schedule. When there are no two ways around it, you'll feel obligated to do it.
 This is similar to the "make yourself accountable" step. When you have another person depending on you (for a ride, for a partner at the gym, whatever), the guilt of letting that person down forces you to do what you promised you'd do. And since you definitely know at least one person that works out, too, this is an easy resource to tap into.


Okay, so you're not close enough to anyone that you feel is "on your level?" Join a class or get a trainer. You'll have the added pressure of getting your money's worth -- many places will still charge you if you skip out.
 Kill the "I don't have time" excuse by developing a routine that engages every muscle in your body in just a few minutes. Just because a workout is long doesn't mean it's good and just because a workout is short doesn't mean it's bad. Kill those misconceptions!



Get into interval training. If your schedule is jammed pack, this is the workout for you. If you haven't heard of it, where have you been? High intensity interval training is one of the fastest fat-blasting workouts on the planet (at least right now). You simply alternate between super intense bouts of exercise and rest.The easiest example is 30 seconds full out on the treadmill followed by 20 seconds of rest, but you can do it with weights, too.
 If you've been going for a walk around the same park three times a week for the past 2 1/2 years, you may feel a little bored of your current routine and lose the drive to keep going. Such an easily solvable problem! Do something new! The novelty of a new activity will excite you and keep your brain going.


If you like the idea of sticking to a routine that requires zero weights and zero gym memberships, don't think you have to work these two in. If you're a runner, try running someplace else, running at a different time of day, or concentrating on sprints, a better time, or a better overall distance. You can change your goals, too! As long as you keep your body wondering what the heck is going on, your mind will stay awake, rejuvenated, and motivated.

