 You want input from different people, but not too many voices that it becomes difficult to reach a consensus.


Select between 3 and 5 people to help draft the mission statement. Include someone from the organization's leadership, staff and Board of Directors. You might want to ask someone that your organization serves to participate as well.
 Use this opportunity to ask questions about the organization's purpose.


Ask why the organization exists. Think about the purpose and the role your organization aims to play in your community.
Consider the people you serve. Whether you consider them customers, clients or constituents, define who they are and what they need from you.
Think about the level of service you provide, and what makes you different from other nonprofit organizations. Come up with specifics as you brainstorm so you have a lot of information to use when drafting your mission statement.
 Use your brainstorming to succinctly explain your mission. Mission statements should be no more than a sentence or 2.


Create several different versions. Do not scrap your early drafts. Keep working and develop a few different mission statements.
Use radiant words. When writing your mission statement, use words that convey positive energy and dynamic imagery. Use active verbs and colorful adjectives to attract interest.



Ask yourselves if the mission statement generates excitement about your organization and the work it does.
Proofread your mission statement for clarity as well as spelling and grammar errors.
Make sure the mission statement is easy to remember. Your staff, leaders and board should be able to memorize it quickly so they can share it with others when asked.
 A Board of Directors often governs most nonprofit organizations. Get the board to vote on approving the mission statement.
 Once you have finalized the mission statement, spread the word.


Put the mission statement on your organization's website and any marketing materials.
Print and frame your organization's mission statement. It should be visible in the office for anyone to see when they come in.

