 As the saying goes, “The best defense is a good offense.” If you think you can pull it off, one way to avoid being teased is to stop it before it starts. If you always get teased by a certain person in 4th period, for example, try addressing them right when you sit down. In a casual, joking tone, say something like, “Oh, right – it's 2:00. It must be time to talk about my hair again.” The trick is to make your tormenter look like they are being boring and predictable.


If you can get the other person's friends to laugh with you, you can deflect their teasing onto the bully instead. People who pick on others a lot usually run in groups where they all tease each other, too.
The last thing a bully wants is to be embarrassed in front of his friends.
 If you feel confident you can handle a more aggressive tactic, you can try to take back control of the conversation. You may be able to calm them down if you can figure out their underlying motive for harassing you. Also, if you can figure out why they are bullying you, you may be able to find another way to work things out that doesn't involve fighting.Every time the bully asks a question, reply by asking her to explain herself. (“Why do you believe that?” or “What makes you think I did that?”)
Be careful not to lose your temper or come across as sarcastic, as this will only make them angrier.
 You immediately lose the moral high ground if you are caught teasing other people, even if you are teasing the friends who are the worst at teasing you. If you start to tease them, they will just think it's part of the game. Some kids actually enjoy teasing and don't mind giving it or getting it – these are usually tough girls with four older brothers. The minute you start making fun of other people, you become fair game. Defend yourself, but don't be cruel.
 If the situation gets too bad, and you can't find a way to get it under control, you may need to talk to a parent or teacher. They may be able to find a way to deal with the situation without anyone knowing it was you who said something.You have to be careful with this approach, because if the bully finds out you reported them, they will treat you even worse.
Your safety and your mental well-being are more important than your reputation. If you think a bully might become violent, you owe it to yourself – and to the other kids who are being abused – to say something.

