 This will allow you to prepare place settings and seating for all of your guests. A full head count will also allow you to calculate how large of a turkey (or other main dish) you’ll need to buy, and to approximate the amount of sides, drinks, and desserts you’ll need.Let your guests know that, if they plan to bring a “plus one” or to change the number of attendees in their party, they should let you know as soon as possible.
If guests respond with a “maybe,” count that as a “yes”—it’s better to have leftover food than to run out of food mid-potluck.;
, As the potluck host, you’ll have your hands full with preparing your house, cleaning dishes and furniture, and preparing whatever food you choose to provide. In order to be overwhelmed by responsibilities, don’t hesitate to delegate tasks to your guests.Ask a guest to purchase soda and alcohol (or other beverage choices) for everyone, or ask each guest to each bring their own.
 Once you have a guest list, ask around to find out if your guests have any notable food allergies or other serious dietary restrictions. Communicate these restrictions to the other guests; the potluck could be disastrous if someone brings a peanut-heavy dish while another guest has a severe peanut allergy.


If you have guests who are vegans, vegetarians, or gluten-free, make sure that there will be at least two or three side dishes that they can eat. As long as you’re delegating, consider asking gluten-free and vegan individuals to bring their own gluten-free or vegan side dishes., Planning a Thanksgiving potluck is a large operation, especially if you have a large guest list. If one of your guests offers to come over early and help you cook, or if one wants to provide more than their own share of food, let them.Don’t turn down extra help!

, Thanksgiving potluck hosts typically assume the responsibility of cooking the turkey (or whatever your potluck’s main dish may be). This helps to avoid complications that can result from tasking a guest to transport a large, cooked turkey, and lets you retain control over the central fixture of the meal.If you have a standard or favorite turkey-preparation method, use that. A Thanksgiving potluck is not the time to experiment with a new method of food preparation.
 Since you’re cooking the main dish, each guest should bring a side dish to share. Encourage guests to bring Thanksgiving favorites and home-made dishes, rather than picking up a generic side dish from the store. If you’re concerned that multiple guests may bring similar side dishes, you can always decide who should bring what ahead of time, and simply assign a specific side dish to each guest.It’s important to communicate during this stage of the planning—especially if you’re allowing guests to choose their own side dishes—so that guests don’t double (or triple) up on dishes.
Make sure that the meal will include vegetables, salads, bread-based dishes, and desserts.
 In order to have a stress-free Thanksgiving day, and to be able to deal with any guest-related problems as they arise, try to get the majority of the preparations done a day in advance. This includes cooking the turkey (or other main dish), setting the table, and picking up any last-minute supplies that you hadn’t anticipated needing.You can also pull out all of the Thanksgiving flatware or silverware, plates, glasses, and serving dishes a day in advance, both to save hassle on Thanksgiving and to make sure you have enough of each.
If you’re going to serve drinks that require chilling (e.g. white wine or sangria), put these in the fridge the day before, too.
 To save yourself stress and extra work, don’t bother with a complicated seating chart. Ask guests to seat themselves around the main dining room table; each guest should sit by an already-set place setting. If you’re comfortable, let guests know that they’re free to improvise by sitting on sofas or eating at card tables, as long as they don’t make a mess of your house.If you don’t have a large dining room table and are worried that your guests will be cramped during the meal, re-purpose other side tables, coffee tables, and chairs from your home. Improvise seating where you can., Since you’ll know in advance what each of your guests will be bringing, it’s up to you to coordinate the timing in the kitchen. Some guests will have brought dishes that can be served at room-temperature, while other sides will need to be refrigerated, and some may need to be re-heated in the oven. Time the dishes as effectively as possible, so that the sides and main dish are at their optimal temperature when the meal is served.If a guest needs to heat a dish and the oven is already in use, suggest that they use the microwave or stovetop, if one of these options is appropriate for their dish.
 As the host, it’s your job to have enough backup supplies, in case someone drops a glass (or worse, a serving tray full of food), forgets a crucial ingredient, or cancels at the last minute.Always have extra glasses on hand (even if you’re only using plastic cups), and keep a variety of extra serving plates and utensils in case a guest forgets their own.


Also have extra common cooking supplies such as butter and cream for last-minute emergencies. Pick up a couple extra bottles of wine before the potluck, in case your guests drink more than anticipated or someone else forgets the wine.

