 Greasy foods make your body primed to experience nausea.And alcohol can cause hangover symptoms that can worsen car sickness, such as dizziness, headache, nausea, and sweating.If you know you will have to ride in a car soon, stay away from high-fat meals and alcoholic beverages to avoid car sickness.
 Heavy meals can make it easier to experience feelings of nausea. If you are riding in a car--especially on a long trip--stick to light, healthy, low-fat, small meals that you eat more frequently. If you can find a meal that is low in fat but high in protein, that is the ideal food to prevent car sickness.For example, do not eat a hamburger on a road trip. Instead, buy a salad with grilled chicken. Do not drink a milkshake on a road trip. Instead, drink a lowfat yogurt smoothie with added protein powder.
 Plain, bland, flavorless snacks can help settle a turbulent stomach. Snacks such as dry toast, saltines, and pretzels can help absorb stomach acids and make a stomach feel calmer. They are also a good way to ease your hunger pangs without causing indigestion.These snacks also do not have much of an odor, which is helpful because strong food odors and flavors can exacerbate car sickness., Dehydration can exacerbate the symptoms of car sickness. Be sure that you drink plenty of water before and during a car trip in order to avoid feelings of sickness.While water is the best way to stay hydrated, a flavored beverage might help serve as a needed distraction from your feelings of dizziness or nausea: feel free to treat yourself to a soda without added caffeine, such as ginger ale.


High-protein beverages have been shown to help reduce nausea as well., Ginger has been shown to help mitigate car sickness and other forms of motion sickness.You can eat (or drink) ginger in many different forms. There are ginger lollipops, ginger lozenges, ginger teas, ginger sodas, ginger pills, candied ginger, and ginger cookies.Any of these will help settle your stomach. Just be sure that your snack is made from actual ginger--not imitation flavoring.


Ask your doctor about whether ginger is safe for you to take. It is possible that ginger can interfere with certain medications., Peppermint, like ginger, is a natural remedy for nausea. Mint gums and candies also help your body produce more saliva, which can neutralize stomach acids. Moreover, these flavors can serve as welcome distractions when you can think about nothing other than your symptoms.Suck on a peppermint candy or chew some mint gum to help calm your stomach and focus on something else.

