 Even if you know that you are going to say when a coworker approaches you, it is respectful hear them out. Being rude only builds enemies. Let your coworker finish talking before making your response.After they are done talking, allow a respectful pause to follow before giving a polite “no.”;
, There is no reason for you to be rude to your coworker. You are already telling them “no,” which is hard enough for most people to hear. Apologizing for not being able to help your coworker is polite, and so is smiling and having a good attitude.You can try statements like, “I’m so sorry that I couldn’t help you this time.”

, An extension of being polite is explaining why you are saying no. You don’t have to give an explanation, but doing so helps the other person not feel quite so disappointed or upset. Giving an explanation may also ensure that you will continue to have a pleasant work environment.Avoid lying in your explanation. Tell your coworker the real reason you can’t help them. Making up prior engagements or projects that don’t exist does not respect your coworker. This also ruins your credibility and damages your reputation.
Say something like, “I really can’t help with that project today because of a prior engagement I scheduled after work.”

, In order to prevent your coworker from feeling further upset, make sure you make your refusal all about yourself. Say things like, “I’m sorry I can’t help. It’s my fault that I’m behind on this other project that prevents me from having time to help you.” Keeping your refusal limited to things that are your responsibility can prevent your coworker from getting angry.


Don’t tell your coworker that they are lazy or that it’s their fault they need help now.
 Since you can’t help today, maybe you can help another day. Offer your coworker alternatives to the request they have made if it doesn’t fit your time schedule. For example, if they help today but you aren’t free from a current project until Friday, offer to help them on Friday. Alternatives can feel like less of a refusal and make you look like you are still interested in helping.Truly intend to help in the different way that you offer as an alternative—don’t just make up alternatives to put a coworker off.
You can say, “Are you flexible about the deadline? I can help tomorrow, but I can’t today.”
If you don't really want to help the coworker, then don't offer alternative. Stick to being polite, saying no, and offering a short explanation.

