 Do not reply with anger just because the customer is being immature and working through their anger in an unhealthy way. For instance, if you’re on the phone with a customer, do not hang up on them as soon as they start cursing.If you react angrily, you might escalate the situation and both you and the customer could end up even more aggravated than you already are.


Pay attention to your volume and tone of voice. Use a gentle, even tone when replying to angry customers.
Remain aware of your emotions. If you don’t think you can handle a certain call, tell the person that you’ll transfer them to a manager or another third party, even if it’s just your coworker. “I’m going to transfer you to someone who can help you better than I can,” you could explain.
It is easier to tune out or forgive swearing against a product, company, or service than it is to forgive someone swearing at you personally. In either case, however, stay calm and do not respond in anger.
Remember, the irate customer does not know you, and you did not personally cause whatever misfortune he or she is experiencing. Don’t let their foul language rattle you or make you feel personally guilty, angry, or incompetent.;
, For instance, if they are upset because their books arrived with a torn spine, and utilize various curse words when explaining their problem, demonstrate that you understand their predicament by saying, “I’m so sorry that happened to you. I would be frustrated as well if that happened to me.” Express to the customer that you recognize what they are feeling. “I can tell you’re upset,” you might say.
 They’ve been waiting a while and you tell them their computer is not made anymore and therefore not subject to tech support assistance. The customer replies with a string of expletives. Remind that customer that while you are sorry, no amount of cursing will put the computer back into mass production.


You could suggest that they might want to call back when they have calmed down.,

For instance, imagine you’re a worker at a pizza joint. An irate customer calls back complaining that his pizza is cold and uses some harsh language to explain the situation. Tell the customer gently that while you sympathize with them, they will get no assistance if they continue to swear.

Be unambiguous with your warning. Don’t say, “I don’t like the way you’re talking.” Say instead, “I’m sorry, but I cannot help you if you curse at me.”
If you're in a retail setting, insist that the customer leaves immediately. Say, "I am sorry, but we cannot help you today. I'd like you to leave immediately."

, If you're dealing with a customer over the phone, hang up on them. This is a last resort that should only be utilized in extreme cases.The foul-mouthed customer is likely to call back even angrier than before. However, if you have a customer who does not relax after repeated attempts to calm them, ending the call is the best option. Sometimes ending a call can give angry people the time they need to calm down.


Always be polite as you end your call. Let your customer know you’re hanging up. A goodbye like, “I’m going to hang up now because I do not want to be cursed at. I hope your day improves,” is appropriate. Be succinct.
Follow through on your warnings to your customer that you’re going to hang up.


If one of your customers continues to curse and threatens you, inform them you will contact the police. Leave to do so. Explain the situation to the police and, assuming the customer has fled before the police arrive, give them as much information as possible about the customer. Allow the threatening customer to leave and do not antagonize them.

Do not shout, threaten, or scream when dealing with a customer who threatens you. This might panic them and escalate the situation.
If you believe the customer is armed, do not announce, “I’m calling the police.” This will only agitate them.
Flee from an armed customer at the first opportunity. If the exit is blocked, look for safe spaces to hide within your workplace like under or behind a bar counter. Contact the police when you have a chance.
 Perhaps at your call center, you must make an entry in the customer’s account describing the exchange and your course of action. At another workplace, you might just share with your coworkers what happened and warn them to be aware of the customer if he or she calls back looking to cuss you or your coworkers out again.

