 When you set goals for yourself, make sure they are doable. You don't want to set goals that are impossible to reach, especially with ADHD. This will help you learn the limits of your disorder but also teach you to work around it. Don't try to get a paper done in one night if you know that isn't possible. Leave yourself enough time to get to school or work on time.


If you continuously make unrealistic goals, you will get discouraged and be less likely to finish tasks you set for yourself.For example, don't say you want to make a 100 on your next test. Set a goal to improve your score from the last assignment you did. This way, you don't focus on the impossible tasks and then get upset when you don't achieve them. Instead, you focus on something you can actually do and strive towards that.
 When you have ADHD as a teen, life can be hectic. Your friends, parents, and teachers may not understand how you act sometimes and respond in negative ways. When this happens, don't focus on it. Focus on the moments that are positive in your life, such as when you and your friends are hanging out and enjoying yourself, when your parents were proud of you for getting your chores done, or when your teacher commended you for a great paper.


If you focus too much on the negative, you may fall into a loop of depression and anxiety as you wait for the next negative thing to happen.This can be easier said than done. If you are having a hard time staying away from negative thoughts, start writing them down. Whenever you have a negative thought, write it down in a journal. Next to it, write one or two positive thoughts from your life. It doesnt' have to be about the same thing, just anything positive about your life that you can think of. Balancing the negative with the positive will help you see how promising your life can be.
 Many people with ADHD have a problem with impulse control. If this is the case for you, try to think about your actions before you do them. If you want to make an inappropriate joke in class, think about what would happen if you do. If you want to blow off your homework to go out with your friends, think about how your teachers and parents will react as well as how much your grades will suffer.


If you train yourself to think about how each action will effect your life, you can better decide how to approach each situation and get better outcomes.
If you are still having trouble, write down the activity you want to do. Write out beside it the possible outcome of doing or not doing what you listed, making a kind of pro/con list of your actions. This will help you see the tangible effects of what your are going to do. After awhile, you might be able to do this in your head and skip the paper., Balancing school, work, and a social life can be hard for any teen, but it is even harder when you have ADHD. Schoolwork can be one of the hardest things to remember to do, especially when compared to other parts of you life since your social life is much more fun and work provides you with money to do things. Every week, write yourself a schedule of all you have to do. Make it as time specific as needed, breaking things down by days or hours when necessary. Include school assignments, homework, your work schedule, household chores, and time with friends.


Make sure to prioritize the activities by what needs to get done first and then leaving the non-essential tasks for last.
This will help keep you on track for every aspect of your life. It will also help you be on time and more prepared for each aspect of your life.
If you don't like writing things down, use the calendar app in your phone or other electronic device. Set reminders to help you remember to do all the tasks you need to do., One common problem among individuals with ADHD is the inability to stop themselves from interrupting. This can be in class, with your friends and family, or at work. If you feel the urge to interrupt someone talking, take a minute to consider what you are going to say. Ask yourself if it is important to the current topic, if it needs to be said at that exact moment, and if you think the person you are interrupting will appreciate the content of what you want to say.


If any of these answers are not positive, don't interrupt them. Try to hold in your comment to a more appropriate time. If it is an inappropriate comment, rethink saying it at all., Being disorganized can cause you to feel even more scattered. In all the different aspects of your life, try to come up with an organization plan that works best for you. Organize your schoolwork by class in color coded folders. Get a binder for any handouts that you get from each class and keep them all together. Organize your bedroom to make it easier to find things when you look for them. The more ordered and less chaotic your life is, the better you will be at focusing on the tasks at hand that need to get done.


This goes for clothing and personal items as well. The less you have to focus your energy and attention on these aspects of your life, the more focused you will be in life.There are many ways to help you do well in school, despite your ADHD. Keep working with your schedule and organization to help you find what is best for you.
 In many cases, people with ADHD have trouble getting tasks done, especially if no one is making them do them. By the time you become a teen, your parents are less focused on making sure each part of your school work or daily tasks gets done, giving you more personal responsibility and freedom. This can be detrimental to you if your ADHD makes it difficult to get things done. In order to help with this, find a person who you respect and will listen to that will make you be accountable for your tasks and actions. Provide them with your schedule or list of tasks you have to get done and ask them to check in with you to see how much you've gotten done.


Although most things, such as school work and chores at home, have people who you are accountable to, it is unlikely that your teacher or parent will be on you every day to make sure you get them done.
This person may be your parent. Reaching out for help from a friends, family member, or trusted mentor can help you take control of your tasks and help you succeed in school, at home, and make you a better person., Teen with ADHD have more trouble driving than most teens. You may be more prone to distraction, which leads to an increase in speeding and the possibility of accidents. Statistically, in the first few years of driving, teens with ADHD are four times more likely to get in accidents. Try your best to reduce your distractions while you drive. Don't have your phone out at all, listen to music only if it helps you focus, and avoid getting involved with intense conversations with others if you can't also focus on your driving.Practice driving without distractions or focusing despite distractions. Make sure you practice in a less populated area so you are less likely to get in a car accident while you get your ADHD under control.
If you have a lot of problems focusing while driving, have your friends drive you around instead.

