 This step is a must if you have dark hair. If you skip this step, you probably won’t get the look you wanted. Use an applicator brush to apply the bleach. Move in gentle downward strokes.


If you have blonde or light red hair and are dyeing your hair darker colors, you may skip this step.
 You’ll need several pieces of foil for this step. Wrap each separated section. Allow the bleach to process for at least 10 minutes. Unfold one piece of oil to check the progress. If you want your hair to be lighter, let the bleach set longer.


Your processing time could take up to 45 minutes, depending on how light you want your hair to be., Gently unwrap each piece of foil. Give them a good rinse to remove the bleach. Toss them in the recycling bin.
 Use a hydrating shampoo and conditioner. This will remove the bleach from your hair. Blow dry your hair. Otherwise, it won’t absorb the dye.
 Use a comb to divide your hair horizontally at the back of your head. Use a comb to create a slight zigzag pattern. This will prevent an odd-looking line of the lower layer from popping through the top., Comb your hair. Separate it into a right and a left section. Divide it again into top and bottom segment. Clip each part to the top third of your head.
 Comb your hair. Separate it into right and left sections. Divide again into top and bottom sections. Make sure your hair clips are a different color for this step so that you don’t confuse your top and bottom layers.
 Pour the dye into an old container. If the dye is separated into powder and liquid, mix the ingredients until you don’t see any powder particles. Make sure every last bit of powder gets stirred into the mixture.
 Use the applicator brush. Sweep the dye on individual locks with gentle downward strokes. After you finish each lock, fold it in a piece of foil.
 Repeat the steps you took with the first color. Use a separate container for this dye mixture. You will also need a separate applicator brush, if it’s not included in the kit.
 Brush or comb out this section. Do this gently, being careful not to puncture the foil.
 Use a separate applicator brush for this step. Apply the dye with gentle downward strokes. Fold up each segment into a piece of foil., Follow the instructions on the box. Set a timer for the recommended amount of time. This is usually about an hour., Gently unwrap the foil from each section of hair you dyed. Wash the foil to remove the dye. Toss it in the recycling bin.
 In a pot large enough to fit your head, mix one part apple cider vinegar and three parts water. Dunk your hair in the pot. This step helps the color to last longer.Use the rinse every time you wash your hair.

