 How you wear your hood will depend on your whether you put it on yourself, or a professor places the hood on you at your ceremony. If you’re participating in a hooding ceremony, you may need to drape your hood over your arm or shoulder while you wait for it to be placed over your neck. Ask your university about your specific hooding timeline and instructions., Your hood will likely come folded up in a plastic bag or on a hanger. Shake out the hood so it’s fully extended. Then place it on a flat surface so you can ensure that it’s properly prepared before you put it on or drape it over your arm or shoulder.
 Your hood will have a velvet lining that extends down from the top, or where you’ll be putting your head. This brightly colored velvet indicates your degree, so it should be facing out. You don’t want to hide the colors that show your accomplishments!, About halfway down the velvet lining, most hoods will have a satin trim that reflects the school colors. Fold this out so that the velvet remains visible on the top half of the hood, and the trim is showing on the bottom half. Hoods will also generally include a small button and cord that you can secure horizontally across this halfway-point to keep the satin trim visible.This fold should be right below your shoulder blades when the hood is placed over your head.
 An academic hood is meant to drape down your back. You should also make sure the small, pointed end of the hood, usually also lined in velvet, is laid flat at the base of your neck.Remove your graduation cap or tam when you put on your hood, as you don't want your hat to get tangled up in your hood.
 Most hoods include a small cord that hangs off the triangular end that goes around your neck. Loop this cord around a shirt button or a purposefully made button inside your graduation gown to keep the hood safely in place. Once the hood has been secured to your clothing or the inside of your academic gown, you may close your robe.If you are not wearing a shirt or dress with buttons and your gown does not come with a specially made button, you can use a safety pin instead.
If your hood doesn’t come with a cord, or the cord breaks, use a thick needle and sturdy yarn to create a homemade cord. Be sure to use a color that won’t clash with the hood, likely black.
 You may jostle the folding when you put the hood over your head. Because it will be out of easy reach once it’s down your back, you’ll want another person handy in case they need to fix it.