 You can tell a lot about the quality of the jacket by examining the stitching, both inside and outside. Are there loose ends on the thread? Does the thread look thin in areas? To help determine if the jacket is good quality, make sure to look for dense and even stitching throughout the jacket., Lower quality leather jackets will have a thin or cheap-feeling synthetic lining. This type of lining is more likely to rip and to be less breathable. Higher quality jackets will have two separate linings—one in the body, and another in the sleeves. The lining of the body should be a thick cotton or high-quality synthetic fabric, and the sleeves should have a soft, silky lining., Try zipping the jacket up and down a few times to see how it feels. A high quality zipper will zip up easily, and will feel relatively heavy. Look to see what brand the zipper is to help you determine the jacket’s quality. YKK is a common zipper brand that is quite cheap. More expensive jackets may use the zipper brand RiRi, or another custom zipper that feels heavy and sturdy., Different jackets are made from leathers with a different grain. If you want a breathable jacket that looks more natural, with natural markings of the animal and natural oils, go for full grain leather. If you want a thinner, more comfortable leather, choose naked top grain leather instead.


"Naked" top grain is top grain leather that has not been sanded down and that still retains its natural grain.
 Corrected leathers are sanded down, and then coated with oils and dyes. These processes remove the original grain of the leather, and can often make it look fake, plasticky, and without character. Often, the leather is stamped with an artificial animal skin grain. If you want leather that looks more natural, stick with leather that is uncorrected or minimally corrected.


One thing to keep in mind is that all corrected leather is made from top grain, but not all top grain leather is corrected. For a more natural looking jacket, stick with either full grain or naked top grain leather.

