 The camera must be able to take good quality images.
 It's important to be comfortable with how it works, and which of its features are likely to produce the effects you're after. If you haven't read the manual yet, now is the perfect time to do so.
 This is essential, as it makes for perfectly still shots.
 The longer the story, the longer you will be taking images, so keep it very short to begin with.


For example, a short sketch could be about a mini-figure attacking or robbing another mini-figure and another one coming to the rescue. Or, it could be about one mini-figure pranking another. Or, have a bunch of mini-figures sitting around a table having coffee and talking about life.;
, Include dialog if relevant. All of this will make it much easier for you, as you'll know what props you need, how involved the whole scene will be and what dialog you want to add later (if any).
 The base plate is a large square with pegs that allow figures and blocks to be attached to it. Choose the color according to the story theme, for example, green for grass, grey for a factory or office floor, yellow for a party, etc.
 Place pieces of rolled up tape or two-sided tape underneath the base plate. Then press the base plate down firmly on the surface where you intend to do the filming from.


It's a really good idea to place the set where it won't be disturbed for several days. That way, you can take breaks and come back to the filming later, when you feel refreshed.
 Include animals, flowers, trees, etc. If you need to have buildings, vehicles, trees, etc., sketch a design, as this will help you to know where everything should go.
 Build the design onto the base plate set, as per your sketch or ideas. Check that all the supporting pieces are firmly in place and can't be knocked over easily.
 Position the figures where they're meant to be.
, The more frames you take, the better the final movie will be, so only move a fraction each time. Sure, it's painful but good art requires effort.


It is also possible to move the set slightly. Experiment a little.
, Transfer the photos and piece the movie together.
 Or, simply print comments, etc. along the base of the movie.
 If you're happy with the end result, upload it to YouTube.

