 Take the lid off the shoebox, and, using your largest piece of currency (eg, quarter, half-dollar, etc.) as a guide, draw a rectangular coin slot wide enough for it to fit.


You can draw the coin slot on either the lid or one of the long sides of the box, depending on your preference.
 Using a craft knife (scissors will leave a ragged edge), cut out the rectangle to make the coin slot.If a child will be doing this project, have an adult do this part.
 You’ll use these measurements to cut out pieces of paper or fabric to fit the box.


Use a ruler to measure the height, width, and length of the shoebox on its four sides and its lid. Write these measurements down.
Use a ruler to measure the length and width of the top of the lid. Measure the height of the lip of the top and add that onto both the length and width measurements. Write the measurements down.
 Lay the paper or fabric upside down on a flat surface. Using a ruler, outline the dimensions each of the four sides and the lid.


Cut out each shape. If necessary, you can label each piece along with the part of the box with which it corresponds so as to avoid confusion.
 After you’ve glued the paper or fabric to the top of the lid, turn the lid upside down and set it on a flat surface.


Use a craft knife to cut out the paper covering the lid’s coin slot.
If a child will be doing this craft, have an adult do this part.
 Begin decorating the pieces of paper with which you’ll cover the box before gluing the paper.


Add any desired drawings or writing.
Glue on any desired decorations like ribbon, buttons, charms, etc. If the coin slot looks ragged, line it with a ribbon to disguise any roughness.
Wait for the glue to dry so the decorations are securely in place before proceeding.
 Cover the back side of each cutout with a thin layer of glue.


Press it into place against the corresponding part of the box.
When gluing the paper or fabric to the lid, use the additional allowance to drape over the sides of the lid.
Wait for the glue to dry. Replace the lid and start using your money box!

