


Some people go to sweets as a comfort food to ease the pain of other problems going on in their lives.
Some people are ignorant of the workings of the human body and the role of nutrition.
Some people such as those trying to quit smoking may start consuming large amounts of candy for the oral fixation they crave as they recover from nicotine addiction.
Some people may have their sweets limited throughout the year so on certain holidays they tend to binge eat sweets.;
,, This includes small snacks, gum, candy, etc. Have them list the size of the portions. Once the diary has been handed over you should try to calculate the daily intake of sugar, calories, proteins and other essential nutritional amounts.


Explain what the extra calories is doing to their overall weight. For example, someone would need to run 2 miles (3.2 km) to burn off the calories in one sweetened soda or a small bag of M&M's.
Help them replace the empty calories they got from sugar with nutritious options.
 Encourage a trip to the dentist to fix any decay.
 If you do grocery shopping for anyone eating to much sugar you should take a step back and refocus. You can't attack one member of the household when the bad foods are purchased and brought in on a weekly basis. Start shopping healthy for the whole family. Don't buy fruity or high sugar cereals and opt for Special K or other health cereals. Don't buy candy, flavored drink mixes or anything with lots of sugar, or high fructose corn syrup as an ingredient.


Empty the cupboards, throw out all the candy, PopTarts, sweet foods, sugar drinks and mixes. Buy everyone a water bottle. Get sugar free sweeteners like stevia or use honey to sweeten teas and cereals. Eliminate all sodas and avoid the diet versions of sodas. They may not have sugar but the are loaded with harmful chemicals. It's best to look for more natural diet options.
 Most schools have a nutritionist on hand and they can help you help your children while at school for the day. They can help your child make smart ordering decisions and discuss the benefits of eating better. See if the assistance is available for your student.
 Your local YMCA, community center, diabetics association or hospital may offer a class.
 If there are no appropriate and healthy options available as a student meal parents should complain to the school boards. In the mean time parents and families should work to make sure the student is eating as much food from home as possible. Instead of eating a cinnamon roll for breakfast at school they should take a packed breakfast from home or eat breakfast at home.
,