 You should make a basic list of what you're looking for before going to a store searching for furniture. A list can help remind you of your needs and prevent impulse purchases. You do not need to list the exact items you want, but you should list your general needs in terms of patio furniture.Begin by thinking about what kind of space you're hoping to create. Do you want a kitchen area to eat outdoors on summer nights? Do you merely want to create a place to lounge outside on nice days? Do you want to host cocktail parties outdoors?
Your list of needs can help guide your purchases. For a formal dining area, you need sturdy dining chairs and tables. For a casual lounge, you need lounge chairs and side tables.;
, You want your furniture to match with your home to a degree. If you have existing patio furniture, you should also keep this in mind. Try to go for furniture that matches with your style so it does not look out of place on your patio.Your patio furniture should be treated like any other furniture in your home. You want styles that match with your color scheme and taste. Very formal furniture may not pair well if your home has a more laid back vibe, for example.
You should also keep the size of your patio in mind. A very tiny patio will not look good with large, bulky furniture. Choose pieces that fit nicely into your existing space.
 If you're in an area prone to certain types of weather, this can affect the type of furniture you should buy. Keep weather conditions in mind when selecting outdoor furniture.You should also consider investing in an umbrella, awning, or patio tent.


If you live in an area prone to rain, you may want to invest in umbrellas.You should also look for furniture that's waterproof, or that comes with a waterproof covering.
Think about storage, as well. If you live in an area that's sunny year-round, you may be able to leave your furniture out all year. However, in most areas you'll need to store furniture at least some of the year. Choose pieces that will fit into the designated storage area in your home.
 Is there anything specific to your home you should keep in mind? Ask yourself this before selecting furniture. Maybe you have young children, so you'll need furniture that's very durable and stain resistant. Maybe you have pets who are likely to climb on the furniture, so you'll need to choose a material that's easy to clean. Jot down any special considerations, and what this means for the type of furniture you should buy, before heading to the store., Wicker furniture is one of the most popular materials for outdoor furniture. It's a very versatile material, and you can get many varieties of patio furniture with wicker.Wicker comes in a variety of colors. Many different types of furniture (tables, chairs, end tables) come in wicker varieties. You should be able to find something in wicker that fits your style and color scheme.
Wicker generally holds up against water. However, you should make sure your wicker is made out of polyethylene as this will be most weather resistant.
 Wood is another classic material for patio furniture. If you're looking for a practical, old fashioned style, wood may be your best option.Like wicker, wood comes in many different styles and colors. If you want wood furniture, you should be able to find a piece that matches your needs in wood. It should say somewhere on the label whether the wood is authentic.
However, make sure you're buying real wood. Many patio furniture labeled as wood is actually made of synthetic materials. Only real wood will hold up well long term.
 Plastic can be a cheaper option if your'e on a budget. Quality plastics are also very durable and resistant to many different types of weather. Plastics can be great if you're looking for patio furniture to last year round.Look for recycled plastic and polymer for best results. You should also keep your eyes out for plastics that come with UV-stabilizing pigments, as these will prevent colors from fading.
 Iron may work great if you live in an area prone to heavy wind or rain. Iron is of a heavier weight than other varieties, so it can stand its ground during volatile weather conditions.Iron works best for year round patio furniture that does not need to be moved much throughout the year. If you live in an area where it snows during winter, iron furniture must be stored inside.
Look for powder-coated, UV resistant finishes when choosing iron furniture.
 Fabric can be a great addition to patio furniture as it adds comfort. However, if you're choosing fabric, be careful. You want a fabric that is weather resistant and easy to store.Solution-dyed acrylic are best for fabric furniture. These fabrics are designed for outside use.
Choose cushions you can easily carry so you can move them indoors during rain or snowfall.
 Storage is a big factor when it comes to selecting patio furniture, especially if you live in an area where you can't keep furniture out year-round. Find furniture that's easily movable and will fit in your garage, storage shed, attic, or other area of your home.If you don't have a lot of storage space, invest in furniture that can be folded or taken apart easily.
 Oftentimes, patio furniture comes in sets. This can be cheaper than buying individual pieces. When looking for furniture, keep an eye peeled for patio furniture sold in sets.For example, say you're looking for a dining room furniture for your patio to host outdoor dinner parties. Many stores sell dining room sets. You may be able to get the chairs and tables you need at a bundled price.
Be willing to compromise a little on sets. If you find a set that's very cheap, it may be in your second choice color, style, or material. As long as the set still meets your needs otherwise, and is made of materials that work well given your climate and area, it may be worth it to save the money and go with your second choice.
 When choosing chairs, make sure you select chairs based on your needs. Lounge chairs will not go well if you want chairs to place around a dinner table. Stiff dining chairs won't work well if you're looking for a chair to relax in while reading outdoors.Many chairs also come in bundled packages with accessories, which can benefit you. If you're, say, looking for a relaxing outdoor lounge space, a chair that comes with an ottoman can be a nice touch.
 Dual purpose pieces can save you money and space on your patio. Look for, say, an ottoman that can also be used as an extra chair. Select a side table roughly the same length and width as your dining room table. This way, you can use it to extend the table during gatherings., Patio furniture can be purchased at hardware stores, antique shops, and department stores. You can also buy patio furniture online and have it delivered. If you're not fairly certain what you're looking for, it's probably best to see patio furniture prior to purchase rather than purchasing it online.
 If you bought furniture that does not come with its own cushioning, consider buying outdoor cushions of your own. Adding cushioning to patio chairs can increase their comfort.Outdoor cushions should be waterproof, resistant to mildew, and easily washable. Look for cushions specifically made to be used outdoors.
Measure chairs before buying cushions to make sure they will fit.
 An outdoor rug can add a nice touch to your patio space after you've assembled your furniture. As with any outdoor fabrics, look for UV-resistance to prevent fading. You should also make sure rugs are water resistant so they can hold up in all types of weather., Many types of patio furniture can be painted. If you've found the perfect piece, but it doesn't quite match with your color scheme, invest in some outdoor paint. You can paint your furniture the right color when you get home.