 Removing yourself from the flow of traffic will reduce the risk of accident and a pile-up. Make sure you have a safe place where you and the other driver can get out of the car., If the other car does not pull over, try to view and remember their license plate once you are stopped on the side of the road. Write the license plate number down as soon as you can.
, You will want to address any injuries when you call the Emergency Services, if paramedics need to be called.
 If there is any worry that harm may have been caused, the police will serve as a neutral third-party and document the scene of the accident. If the other person drove off, you can tell them the license number when they arrive.


There are cases when the fender bender is so minor that the parties skip this step and simply exchange car insurance information. Consider this only if both sides agree to it and there doesn’t seem to be any risk of injury.
 Some good Samaritans and pedestrians will pull over to see if everyone is ok after an accident. You will want to ask them to stay in order to give a statement to the police.
 Take a few deep breaths and try to avoid anger in your next interactions. Staying calm will reduce the likelihood of other altercations.
 Don’t admit fault if you are unsure about the accident situations.
 Grab your insurance information from your car or wallet. Also, grab a cell phone or pen and paper that you can use to write down the other driver’s insurance information.


If the driver is uninsured, ask for their name, driver’s license number, license plate number, address and contact number. They will face legal consequences and you can report this information to the police.
Do not accept any arrangement whereby money exchanges hands without notifying insurance companies, even if you are not at fault.
 You can submit these photos to your insurance company. The police are likely to take their own photos if they have been called.


Don’t put yourself in the way of traffic to take the photos.
 Arrange to pick up a copy of the police report. Make a note of the police officer’s name, precinct and badge number so that you can follow up., Don’t leave abruptly, or it may appear you are trying to run away from the situation.
 Look on your insurance card for an “in case of accident/claim” number. You may want to program this number into your phone for easy access.


Calling your insurance company to report an accident will protect your property, but it will also give your insurance company a chance to prepare to argue on your behalf.

