 Adding specific detail to anecdotes in your humor column will give the writing more dimension and paint a vivid picture for your readers. Generalizations can be boring, and an engaging humor column should grab and hold a reader’s interest and leave a unique impression. Include details that are distinctive or bizarre enough to stand out.For instance, instead of writing something like, “the cat was behaving badly that morning”, write, “that morning, the cat knocked twelve books out of my bookcase, ran laps around the apartment, and rolled across every inch of my brand new winter coat - collar and cuffs included.”

, One key to good writing is painting a vivid picture for your readers with interesting vocabulary and wording. Using colorful, or even exaggerated descriptive words can intensify certain points of your story or anecdote. For instance, choose to write something like, “her outfit was disastrously uncoordinated” rather than “her outfit was very uncoordinated”., The rule of three humor writing technique can add rhythm to your column that is both funny and accessible to readers. To employ this technique, write two items that set up a straightforward pattern, then add a third element that derails the initial idea. This setup can be used with many different patterns, for instance:ordinary trait/ordinary trait/unusual trait (e.g. "She was fair, beautiful, and an excellent golf player.")
something good/something good/something terrible (e.g. "Looking forward to sun, sand, and hours of punishing exercise.")
something ordinary/something ordinary/something ridiculous (e.g. "I'm going to stop by the dry cleaners, go grocery shopping, then rob the bank down the street.")

, Satire uses irony and sarcasm to convey the silliness or absurdity of people, organizations, or situations. To be sure that you reach readers with this style of writing, choose a well-known subject to satirize and exaggerate the details of said subject. For example, you could satirize relationship advice columns by writing something like, "To really show your commitment, you should call your significant other at least 12 times a day, for no reason in particular.", When you first write a column, have friends or family read your work. Second opinions are important in understanding whether or not the humor you’ve injected into your work is universal or subjective. If too many people fail to laugh at what you’ve written, take it as a sign that the anecdotes you found funny were an inside joke, and re-write your piece.