 Shiba Inus were originally bred as hunting dogs who flushed out small game (birds) and occasionally larger, more dangerous game (wild boars).However, today, they are primarily owned as loyal companion animals, not hunting partners. Still, despite the Shiba Inu's small size (Shibas weigh in at between 17 and 23 lbs.), it is a strong and bold dog with a strong prey instinct.Shibas are known to escape fencing or run away off-leash if they see something they want to chase. They are agile and stronger than they look, so they will need obedience training.;
, Some owners report that their dog seems to "plot" and devise ways to outwit them or to overcome restrictions or training. In short, the Shiba Inu is not always an easy dog to train. However, if you have experience with dogs and are looking for a challenge, training a Shiba can be a fulfilling experience. Watching how they put their sharp minds to use can be a delight.


The ideal Shiba owner has a lot of patience and plenty of time to devote to training. The breed has working origins, and this energy is often directed in destructive ways by bored dogs. Be ready to train the dog not to chew through possessions or escape from enclosed yards.
Keep in mind that, just like people, there are always individual dogs that break generalizations. Some Shibas are compliant and fit in easily.
 They are content in their own company and independent minded. This lack of motivation to please people can also make training more challenging, as they don't need the reward of human attention as much as some other breeds.


The breed's independent spirit is a beloved trait among Shiba owners. These are not slavish dogs who fawn over people, but dogs who project an aura of dignity and composure., They can be "drama queens," in that they overreact to the minor health problems. Even with minor pain, they can release a particularly piercing scream. Beyond a pain response, though, many Shibas don't like being touched or lifted up, and most won't curl up on the couch with you to cuddle like some breeds will.


Shibas are a good option for owners who don't want the constant body contact you might get from cuddlier breeds. A Shiba Inu will be loyal and loving without crowding your physical space.
 As stated, Shibas prefer to be left alone physically, and they have a tendency to be aggressive and bite if their personal boundaries are overstepped. Thus, they are not the best breed to have with young children. They also tend not to tolerate other pets well, and are known to chase and herd dogs they perceive as weaker than they are.They tend to be possessive with their belongings and food, and will need to be monitored, especially if other pets or small children are in the household.
 Females tend to be more laid back and less attention seeking than their male counterparts. Choose the sex that aligns more closely with what you want from your pet.
 Be prepared for a snowstorm of hair at these times. They have a dense double coat; you'll want to brush weekly in order to spread its natural oils and keep the top coat in good order. If you're willing to put in a little effort and put up with some shedding, you can enjoy a Shiba's gorgeous coat.
 Shiba Inus have a general lifespan of about 12 to 15 years.One of the biggest health concerns for Shiba Inus is chronic allergies, which result in extreme itchiness. There is no cure for allergic conditions, but they can be controlled. Treatments, however, can be costly. They also are prone to develop hypothyroidism and cataracts. While Shibas have been known to have hip dysplasia, they aren't as subject to this as some larger breeds. It is also thought that the Shiba Inu has a higher incidence of seizures and epilepsy that the average dog. If you're considering the breed, make sure you can afford to care for your pet should these problems develop.
 The list of traits gathered here might look negative, but they are only intended to warn the uninformed about potential problems. Shiba Inus have strong personalities, and are extremely loyal companions when they bond with their owners. Fans of the breed are completely smitten with them.

