 Allow the oil or jelly to soak in for 15 minutes. This will soften and loosen the crusts, making them easier to remove.Because chemicals can be absorbed through the skin, including the scalp, be sure to read the manufacturers’ labels on the products to be sure that they are safe for babies.
Don’t leave the oil/jelly on the baby, because this will make the crusts sticky and prevent them from naturally coming off.
Coconut oil and shea butter are common natural remedies that can be applied.Don’t use olive oil because it may encourage the growth of skin yeasts, or malassezia, and this may make the cradle cap worse.Wash the oil off with warm water.;
, This will also remove any natural oils that may have built up and caused dead skin cells to stick to the scalp, forming scales.While shampooing gently massage the scalp to soften and loosen the scales. This can be done with your fingers, a washcloth, or a soft bristled baby brush. Don't scrub your baby's skin too hard, or you could irritate it.Don’t use dandruff shampoos because they may contain chemicals that aren’t recommended for babies and could be absorbed through the skin.Thoroughly rinse all of the shampoo out of the baby’s hair to prevent irritation and if necessary, shampoo the baby daily.
 Strands of hair may come away with the flakes, but the hair will grow back. Don’t pick at the scales as this may cause an open wound which will make the baby vulnerable to an infection.Brushing the flakes out will be easiest after the bath when the baby is dry. When the flakes are wet, they will stick to the hair.
 This will help prevent the growth of bacteria or fungus.Mix one part apple cider vinegar with two parts water. Massage this solution into the cradle cap. Let it sit for 15 minutes or until dry. This will help dissolve and loosen the scales.
Mix a paste of baking soda and water. Use 1-2 teaspoons of baking soda and a 1:1 ratio of water. Dab the paste onto the infected area and let it dry on the baby for 15 minutes.
Do not apply vinegar or baking soda to broken skin or open wounds because it may sting. Instead, seek medical attention from a doctor.
 Gently comb against the hair slowly lifting and removing the loosened flakes.


A lice comb works particularly well. The thin narrow teeth will catch even the smallest flakes.
Do not scrape off flakes that are still attached to the scalp as this may hurt the baby.
 Be careful to avoid rinsing the apple cider vinegar or baking soda mixture into the baby's eyes.


Use a mild shampoo that is approved for babies' sensitive skin.
 Signs that your baby should be seen by a doctor include:


Symptoms of infection, such as bleeding, pus oozing from below the scales, or extreme redness, pain, or fever.
Swelling and severe itching causing the baby to scratch. This may be a symptom of another skin condition called eczema.Cradle cap occurring on areas of the body other than the scalp, particularly the face.
 If your baby’s cradle cap becomes infected or very inflamed or itchy, the doctor may prescribe one or more of the following to treat the infection and reduce inflammation:Antibiotics
Antifungal cream
A dandruff shampoo containing tar, antifungal medications such as ketoconazole, or selenium sulfide
A mild steroid cream such as hydrocortisone 1% cream

, Steroid creams, antifungal medications, or dandruff shampoos containing salicylic acid may be dangerous for the baby when absorbed through the skin. Your doctor may recommend steroid creams or antifungal medications in some cases, and you should always follow her instructions.


Dandruff shampoos containing salicylic acid are never used on babies.
Also consult your doctor before applying natural remedies with medicinal properties, like Calendula. Calendula is antiseptic and anti-inflammatory, but talk to your doctor before applying it to a baby.