 A lot of research shows that people make emotional decisions when they buy things. So consider what emotional triggers might make a person want to buy your product, and incorporate them in your advertising.


Realize that people often respond to stories about other people, not just dry facts. For example, if you can include a testimonial from a person who has used your product, that will have an emotional response in people.
People do still need facts to rationalize a purchase, though. So, do still include specific facts about the product, such as its condition and manufacturer.People often respond to testimonials because many people follow the crowd.;
, Determine how your product is different from the competition. Perhaps it’s cheaper or in particularly good condition. Maybe it performs better in a certain way than other products do.


You can hinge your advertising wording or campaigns on this unique factor that separates you from the competition. People need to be told how your product will meet a need (or want). What direct benefit will they get? And how is it different from every other product?

, You will want to take great care when determining pricing. You need to understand the price the market will bear.


Determine the profit margin you are seeking. This means you will subtract the cost of the product from your purchase price. You can use online calculators to determine the purchase price based on the gross profit margin you are desiring. This takes research. You need to know what your competition sells its products for, so you can price your product competitively, while still making a profit. If you are selling a used product, make sure you know what it sells for new by going to the manufacturer’s website. If you are selling a product on an online site, search for the pricing used by other people who are selling similar products. Look up the prices of competitor businesses.
Don’t under or over price your product. Either approach can be disastrous for your business in the long run. For example, if you try to sell, say, a used car too cheaply, because might wonder if something is wrong with it.Write down all of your expenses before determining the price. Keep detailed track of them. Cnet is a website that allows you to compare pricing for electronics. , It's critical that you understand your potential audience. Don't try to generically sell something to the entire world. Narrowing your audience to a target consumer will help you fine tune your advertising language.


Selling something to a younger person can be very different from selling something to an elderly person. Younger generations might be more likely to purchase a product online, and the language you use to sell the product should be less formal. For example, an older person might not be on Facebook enough (or be on it at all) to receive your Facebook ad.
Some questions to ask yourself when determining a target market are who has already bought from you, whose problems would be solved by the product you offer, whether you are overreaching in determining audience, and whether you’re making assumptions or have done research on your target audience’s interests and needs. Once you understand your market, you will want to link your product’s benefits to outcomes they are interested in receiving. Do your homework. Know your target market as well as you can. Research demographics, purchasing patterns, and so forth. Know your product as well as you can. , Make sure you actually get the customer to buy the product. This is called "closing," and it's a key part of selling. You might close the deal by getting a customer’s signature. An assumptive sale is when the seller assumes the customer is ready to buy and tells the customer how they will complete the sale.
Be patient. Sometimes you don’t need to make the close immediately because you are nurturing a customer. People are suspicious of high-pressure sales tactics. Ask and listen when talking to a target consumer. Figure out what they are looking for, and try to figure out what really matters to them.
After you close the deal, you need to make sure you deliver the product as promised.

