 Although exercise is a great way to support weight loss, you'll most likely also need to change how much you're eating. If you cut out about 500 calories a day you may be able to lose 1-2 pounds per week. This in combination with exercise can produce great weight loss.In general, it may be difficult to lose weight with exercise alone. Try to make small modifications in your diet to maximize weight loss.
Try using a food journal or food journal app to help you figure out where you can cut out excess calories.
Do not try to cut out too many calories or eat fewer than 1,200 calories daily. You run the risk of nutrient deficiencies and slower weight loss over time., This type of eating pattern will help support your weight loss.Include a source of lean protein at each meal - portion sizes should be around 85 to 110 grams, or the size of your palm. Include items like: poultry, eggs, lean beef, legumes, dairy products or tofu.
Also include a variety of fruits and vegetables. These foods are high in nutrients, but low in calories. Filling up on these foods can help cut down on your overall caloric intake.When you're including grains in your diet, try to choose 100% whole grains. These are higher in fiber and other nutrients that are beneficial to your health., Snacks can also be a part of a healthy diet that can support your weight loss. It may help tide you over to your next meal or help you recover from a workout.Try to keep snacks to 100-200 calories per snack. Also try to include lean protein and a fruit or vegetable to keep calories low.
Healthy snacks can be: greek yogurt with fruit and nuts, protein bar or shake, 2 hard boiled eggs or celery and peanut butter.
 Try to consume the recommended amount of fluids daily. In general, aim for about 2 liters or 8 glasses.If you're working out at an intense level or are active for more than 60 minutes, you may need significantly more water each day.Try to keep a water bottle close by. That way you can monitor and track how much fluid you're consuming each day.

