 No two kid’s feet are the same and walking differently does not necessarily mean there’s a development problem. But keep your eyes open for any abnormal gaits or walking styles.Common problems include intoeing, outtoeing or clubfoot. These problems usually correct themselves but if you have a concern, make sure to consult your doctor during your next check-up.Common acute injuries in children and adolescents consist of friction blisters, wounds to the sole of the foot, and stubbed toes.
 Making sure you trim your child’s toenails properly can help their toenails stay healthy. Always be sure to cut the nail straight across and not rounded.


Cutting improperly can cause ingrown toenails. An ingrown toenail occurs when one or both sides of your child’s nail begins to break through and grow into the skin of the toe. If you notice an ingrown toenail, never try to fix it yourself. Call your doctor and make an appointment. Never cut into the toenail too far. This can lead to an ingrown toenail as well. Sometimes ingrown toenails are so painful/tender that they bleed and become infected. If this is the case, you need to take your child to see a Podiatrist. He/She will cut the nail out including part of the nail bed, this will allow for the nail to grow back in naturally and comfortably.
 Warts are viral, contagious callous looking bumps and can be painful. They can be relatively common in kids and most often appear on the bottom of their feet. There are many at-home treatments for warts, but if they’re on your kid’s feet, it would be best to let a doctor have a look to prevent their spread or pain.
Topical salicylic acid and cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen are the most common treatments for plantar warts. Cryotherapy involves the use of liquid nitrogen. The doctor will apply nitrogen to the wart to freeze if off. Sometimes the doctor has to cut wart first so that the nitrogen penetrates the root of the wart. Often if warts are involved you may need to get multiple applications of cryotherapy.
 If the arch of your child’s foot shrinks or disappears when they stand, they could suffer from “pediatric flatfoot.” Many children have flat feet and grow out of it. But if you child’s flat arch is accompanied by pain and tenderness it could be an issue worth visiting the doctor for. , This is an exaggerated outward bend of a kid’s legs when their feet are placed together. This can be caused by improper foot development and is worth nothing to your doctor if noticed. 