 You'll be going faster while doing the manual wheelie than when doing the pedal wheelie, making a potential fall more dangerous. You'll feel more at ease wearing a helmet by knowing that if you make a mistake and fall, you'll be well protected.
 It will be easier to coast with this wheelie on a decline once you've figured out your balance. Since you won't be pedaling, the downhill slope will help keep the bike moving at a steady speed.
 Set the cranks level with each other at the 9 o’clock and 3 o’clock position, and stand up on the pedals with your knees slightly bent. Your weight should be just back of center. The cranks will rotate slightly as you move backwards, but otherwise you won't need to pedal., The front wheel should be lifted mostly by the shift of your weight backwards, and only slightly by lifting the handlebars. Lock your arms straight, keeping your feet level with each other on the pedals. Your rear end should be behind the seat at this point, and your body should have a “U” shape, with the arms and legs straightened., To be able to coast with the front wheel off the ground, you’ll need to find a point of balance over the rear wheel and hold it there. As your arms straighten and you lean back, push forward on the pedals with your feet (but don’t pedal) to adjust your balance. , Steady your balance and coast for as long as you need to. If you feel yourself falling too far backward, feather the rear brakes to bring the wheel down.If the front wheel begins to fall forward, rock your hips in a backward motion while pushing outward on the pedals. Most obstacles on the trail won’t be much higher than a few inches (tree branches, rocks). But in order for you to be able to coast with the front wheel off the ground, you need to fix your center of balance over the rear wheel, and this should bring up the front wheel at least one foot.
 Either feather the rear brakes or shift your center of gravity forward to bring the wheel softly down. If you're avoiding obstacles on the trail, make sure the path is clear before finishing the wheelie--bringing the wheel down directly onto a rock or branch could cause a fall.

