 It’s normal to feel depressed when the guy you are interested in doesn't care about you, but avoid isolating yourself from the people who love and support you. Cutting yourself off from friends and family will make you feel worse, so reach out to the people in your life you can count on.


Ask your friends and family for their feedback and help. They will probably be happy to talk with you about your feelings and brainstorm about how you can feel better. There's also a good chance they have dealt with a similar situation and can relate to how you are feeling.
 To take your mind off your troubles and to help you move forward with your life, organize fun activities with people you enjoy being around.Go out to dinner, see a movie, plan a trip, or take a spa day.
It might be tempting to spend the whole time talking about your unrequited love, but everyone will have a better time if you enjoy the moment. Don’t focus on the past.
 Meeting new people can be a healthy way to recover from rejection because the people you meet were not a part of these painful experiences. Here are some ideas to make new friends:Introduce yourself to someone you see regularly at work, school, or in your gym class. There are many people we see every day, but have never taken the time to actually meet. You might get to know someone who could be a great friend.
Visit new places such as restaurants, bookstores, and coffee shops. When you become stuck in a routine, you don’t encounter many new people.
Instead of spending all your time telling your new friends about past relationship woes, try asking them about their lives and interests. You’re meeting new people to move forward, so don’t let your past pain intrude on your fresh start.
 When you are dealing with a painful or potentially hurtful situation such as learning that someone doesn’t care about you, it can be tempting to fixate on your own pain. A good way to feel better and take your mind off your troubles, however, is to help someone else.Helping other people has a way of placing your own problems in perspective and making them seem less significant and all-encompassing.
Consider volunteering for a community organization. Offer to help out a friend, or just do something nice for someone in need.
You can also be supportive of other people by being friendly and encouraging in meetings, therapy sessions, or online forums.
 Meeting with a mental-health professional, counselor, or therapist is an excellent way to get over a guy who doesn’t care about you. They are trained to guide people through the grieving process and help them move forward with their lives and future relationships.If you worry that your loved ones or friends are tired of hearing you talk about the guy who doesn't care about you or are impatient with you for not moving on, talking with a mental-health professional is a good solution. Their job is not to judge you or your progress. Instead, they will offer a supportive and safe environment in which to express your feelings.
If you are depressed and having a hard time getting past the guy who doesn’t care about you, a trained mental-health professional may be able to recommend therapy options, support-group meetings, or even medicine that can help you feel better.

