 It should be compact, so that it can fit in your handbag, desk drawer or a car pocket with ease but it shouldn't be so small that you can't fit what you need inside of it.;
, One of the most frustrating things is dropping sauce, drink, or other food items on your clothing, only to leave spattering of stains. If you have some stain remover handy, you can take care of it immediately, making full removal of the stain later much easier too.


Stain remover comes in sticks, pens, wipes and small bottles. Choose one that suits the fabrics you prefer preferring and comes in a convenient size.
Even baby wipes or personal wipes will remove many a stain if you can't find suitable portable stain removal items.
Deodorant remover wipes can be handy to have too, especially if you like wearing dark colors and haven't switched to invisible deodorant.
 Fluff, cat and dog hair, dandruff, you name it, it doesn't look great clinging to clothing. Unfortunately, it's often not noticed until you're well on your way out of home and into the bright light of day. A lint roller will fix it in a jiffy.
 If you're wearing pantyhose or stockings, pack a spare pair. Keep the spare pair as neutral as possible so that it can match any outfit. Replace it after each emergency usage.


Pack clear nail polish. It stops pantyhose runs from continuing their merry path down your leg. Plus, it's pretty useful for touching up chipped nails too.
 A small can of hairspray is the ideal way to stop static cling from hassling you out all day long. Simply spray it on bare legs or pantyhose to stop lighter material from doing the cling dance on your legs.


A dryer sheet or two is useful for the same purpose. Rub it up and down the offending area and the static will cease.
 Should your shoe heel break off, the sole start lifting up, the strap of a shoe or bag snap off, or the rivets on your handbag start popping out, add a quick dab of glue to right things until you can get to the shoe repairer.


Fashion tape or double-sided tape could be added as well as, or instead of, glue. Tape can also be used to remove lint as well as hold up hems.
 After a candle has had most of its use in your house, keep the small stub of the base. Cut it neatly if you like, although that's optional. Tuck it into a small resealable bag. Whenever a zipper gets stuck, simply rub the wax over it and the zipper will glide with ease again.


A small piece of soap can do the same, plus is doubles as soap should you need that for stain removal or germ-free hands.
 It can be very useful for adding back color to scuffed shoes or bags.
 All it needs to consist of is: average-size needle, three small loops of thread (black, white and clear) and a spare basic button. A few safety pins can be added to the sewing kit, or added in their own right. Should any rip or tear befall you, or a button pop off, you can mend it quickly and fix it properly later.


Safety pins are an absolute must. They can hold hems up, act as temporary buttons or zippers, keep broken straps in place or even pull clothing over areas that feel too exposed for one reason or other.
 If you wear heels, these inexpensive little extras may just save the day if your heel decides to take a break.
 Should a nail do anything as painful and unsightly as catch on something and rip, you can at least cut it neatly and file it back. It'll do you until you get back to the salon or home-fix.
 Some people like to have both, some are happy to cope with one or the other. Either way, have something to keep your curls, bangs and strays in place and the tangles out.
 Pack a couple of hair ties or elastics, a clip, some bobby pins and anything else you consider standard for your hair.
 It can be used to quell flyaway hairs, moisten your lips and even give your teeth a bit of a shine.


Pack a mini hairspray. Yes, it's useful here too, for the hair this time. Pack it for the reason stated above (anti-static) and for your hair.
 Ideal for quick brushing pick-me-ups, especially to get the parsley off your teeth after a business lunch.


Pack some floss too. It's very small, always handy and it can fit anywhere, even in your purse.
 Gone will be the horror of realizing you ran out the door forgetting to put it on that morning. You have back-up.
 A few of these will keep you feeling secure should the need arise.



Pack a few band-aids. For bumps, scratches and itchy spots, put a sticking plaster on it.
Pack some headache tablets. Whatever your preferred variety, have at least two in your fashion emergency kit. Not quite a fashion emergency unless you're prone to overspending on fashion when having a headache but it will help you to keep your head high.
 For those times when washing your hands isn't possible.
 Go through the suggested items in the above sections to help you decide. Purchase or find these items, then set about filling your fashion first aid kit.
 You might even like to make several kits, just to be on the safe side and you can vary the contents and size depending on where you are using it. Some places it might be useful to have a fashion first aid kit include:


Drawer in a desk at your office, workplace or study area
In your handbag, backpack, briefcase, courier bag or schoolbag
In a locker
In the car
In your suitcase when traveling
In your vacation/holiday house or cottage.
 Make it a rule to always replace used items in the kit as quickly as possible; you never know when you might need them again.

