 Before you go to the courthouse, make sure you have enough information for the court staff to find the documents you need.


If you're not sure whether you can see the records you want, you can check with the court clerk or the website for your state court system to find out which records are available to the public. Some records may be generally unavailable, such as juvenile records. Others, such as family court documents with sensitive personal information, may have been sealed by the court. To see those documents, you would have to get a court order unsealing the records.To request court records in person at the clerk's office, you typically must have the case number. If you don't have the case number, there may be a computer at the clerk's office that you can use to search for the case number using the names of one of the parties to the case.#Find out where the records you need are stored. Most courts house older records off site and have a different process for retrieving them.
For example, the Orange County Superior Court in California allows a search of all civil court records from 1889 to the present. Current cases can be viewed online, or at computers located at the clerk's office.Older files, such as those for cases closed more than 10 years ago, must be retrieved from an archival facility.Keep in mind also that some jurisdictions will charge a fee to retrieve older case files in addition to copying those files. Fees typically must be paid in advance when you file your request for the records., To view records from a particular case you must request the file from the clerk of the court where the case was heard.


Some courts may require you to fill out a specific request form, while for others you simply go up to the counter and give the clerk the file or case number.You may not have to provide any personal identification to view a court record. However, some courts such as the Orange County Superior Court in California require you to leave a photo identification with the clerk while you view paper court records., If your records are housed in another location, you may have to return to the courthouse at a later date to view them.


While most courts will allow you to view records for free, you typically cannot leave the clerk's office or the courthouse with the records. You can make copies if you need more time to read the records, but you'll have to pay a fee for the copies.If you requested court records for an older case that has been archived, you may have to return to the courthouse after the clerk has had enough time to retrieve the records from the off-site location. If you purchased copies, some courts will mail your copies to you if you provide a self-addressed, stamped envelope.