 The movie he suggests you watch can be a big indicator if he wants to kiss you during the movie. A movie that he is very excited to watch might mean he wants to focus more on the movie than on kissing you. If he chooses a movie he does not seem excited about, he might have chosen it so he can kiss you during the movie.


If he has seen the movie before, he might want to kiss you more than pay attention to the movie.
He might be hoping the movie sparks your interest in kissing him if he chooses a romantic movie.Keep in mind that the movie he chooses might not necessarily be an indicator if he wants to kiss you or not.;
, If he suggests somewhere to sit, it might be an indicator of whether he wants to kiss you or not. Kissing might not be the first thing on his mind if he wants to sit right in the front or next to a group of people. He might be thinking about kissing you if he suggests you sit in the back or in an isolated corner.If you are hoping to kiss him, you can suggest sitting in the back if he doesn’t: “There are a lot of empty seats in the back. Let’s sit over there!”

, If he does not get food, he might be worried about it getting in the way of kissing you or making his breath smell bad. However, sharing food can spark physical contact and break barriers. Sharing food might lead to accidentally touching hands when reaching for the popcorn or breaking germ barriers when sharing a soda.Eating together can also make you become more comfortable around each other and make you both less nervous.
 A guy might be interested in kissing you if he is being playful with you and giving you compliments. He will probably talk to you before the movie starts and might try to initiate conversation and flirty commentary during the movie too.


Whispering and getting close to your ear when he talks is a sign he might want to kiss.He might say something complimentary: “You look very pretty in your dress!”
He might make funny comments about the previews or the movie to make you laugh: “Wow! That horror movie looks like a great movie to bring my baby sister to!”

, What he is looking at during the movie can be a sign if he is trying to kiss you. Looking at you during the movie, especially at your eyes or lips, it is a good sign he wants to kiss. Looking into your eyes a lot could mean he is about to kiss you.


Watch his facial expressions and see if he seems happy or nervous. This could mean he wants to kiss you.If he is giving you sideways glances and turning away quickly, he probably wants to kiss., Where he is sitting in his chair can be a sign if he wants to kiss you. If he is sitting as close to you as he can or is resting his legs and feet on yours, he might want to kiss. If he is completely leaned over toward the opposite direction as you, he probably does not want to kiss., If he is holding your hand, has his arm around you, or is resting his hand on your leg, he probably wants to kiss you. He might not be trying to kiss you if he keeps his hands to himself or is more focused on eating snacks than on you., It does not necessarily mean he wants to kiss if he is chewing gum or has a breath mint, but it might be a sign. This could show he is preparing himself to kiss you and wants it to go well., Some guys might be really scared to kiss you, even if they want to. If he seems nervous and is sweating a lot and looking down and away from you often, he might be too scared to kiss you. You can always scoot closer to him, hold his hand, or flirt with him if you want to make him feel less nervous. If you think he wants to kiss you but is too nervous, you can make the move if you want to kiss him.

