 How you use the pillow depends on how you position your body during breastfeeding. Choose a position that provides you and your child the most comfort.


Some women choose to breastfeed while lying back, or on their side, which is a popular position for breast feeding. You can cuddle the baby by laying him across your chest or stomach to feed him, or have him lay right next to you on a bed or sofa. A breastfeeding pillow might not be necessary if you use one of these positions.If you breastfeed while sitting on a chair or sofa, with the baby lying across your lap, the breastfeeding pillow is particularly useful. It can support the baby's head and neck while you breastfeed.Many women tuck the baby under their underarm for support and breastfeed from the side. Some kind of pillow is usually necessary in such cases. A breastfeeding pillow, especially a crescent shaped pillow, can help with such feedings., When you sit down to breastfeed, regardless of the position and pillow type you chose, make sure your breastfeed with you and your baby's safety in mind.


Place the breastfeeding pillow along the arm, lap, or side of your body where the baby will be seated during feeding.Gently, take your baby and place his feet under your arm, facing your back. Position him so his tummy is facing your body.Ease your baby down onto the breastfeeding pillow. The pillow will do some work for you in regards to supporting your baby.Make sure your baby is positioned on his side with his tummy facing you. Improper positioning could lead to gastric reflux or difficulty swallowing., If you're weaning your baby, or your partner also feeds the baby, you can also safely use the breastfeeding pillow when bottle feeding.


Find a comfortable place to sit and position the pillow on your lap or side. Lie with whichever arm you're using to support the baby's head on the pillow.When bottle feeding, your baby should be lying on a slight incline. His head should be tilted upward slightly.While you'll need to use your arm to keep the baby from wriggling too much, the pillow will still provide some support and take some of your baby's weight off of you.