 This practice will allow you to narrow the search results for the clothing items you are looking for; especially if you are looking for clothing by a specific designer or brand name.


Search for spelling variations if an item you are looking for cannot be found in search results. Some sellers may incorrectly spell the name of an item; especially if the designer's name is in a language different from yours or is difficult to spell.;
, If a seller posts an item you have been searching for, you will receive an email about the listing.


Visit the eBay website featured in the Sources section of this article and click on the "My eBay" link at the top of the page to log into your account.
Enter search criteria for an item you want to buy into the search field at the top of your session, then click on the "Search" button.
Click on "Save search" to the right of your search results and type a name for your search.
Place a check mark next to "Email me daily when new items match my search" and click on the "Save" button.
 For example, if you shop at a particular brand-name store and every shirt you buy is a size "medium," you may want to purchase "medium" shirts if you buy the same brand-name on eBay.


When you are buying clothing for toddlers or children, choose the larger size if you are unsure of the correct size. Children will most likely grow into the clothes later if they don't fit properly at the time you purchase them.
 This will help you determine if the clothes will fit you before you buy them.


Request measurements specific to the item you are buying; such as the lengths of sleeves or pants.
If you want an item that is available in a larger size than you need, you may want to buy the item and take it to an alteration shop; especially if the item is a vintage or designer piece of clothing.
 Sometimes the photos provided by eBay sellers contain shadows or lack brightness, which can make it difficult to interpret the true color of the item.
 This will help you determine if the seller has honest and trustworthy selling habits before you buy their items.


Look for the feedback stars displayed to the right of a seller's username on eBay. Feedback stars represent positive feedback points that have been awarded to sellers from buyers that have had positive buying experiences.
Click directly on the feedback score to read all feedback comments provided by buyers that have performed business with the seller. Negative and positive feedback comments will be displayed in this area.

