 A varied diet is important for everyone, whether or not you eat meat or animal products. Whether you are a vegan, lacto-ovo vegetarian, pescatarian, or another type of non-meat eater, it is essential to recognize potential nutrient gaps in your diet and plan to compensate.


Aim for a rainbow of colors everyday. Many nutritionists recommend that your daily meal plan include fruits and vegetables of as many colors as possible. Not only does this encourage a diverse menu, but it also helps you consume as many different vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, and other important nutrients as possible. Try to eat something white or yellow, orange, red, purple or black, and green everyday. Often, the darker a vegetable or fruit is in color, the more antioxidants it contains.






Try a new food or recipe every week. This can help you incorporate different foods with new nutrients into your diet and expose you to new tastes. Try ethnic foods and creative one-dish meals to get a variety of flavors, vegetables, grains, and sauces into your diet.






Avoid settling into a food routine. If you always have oatmeal and fruit for breakfast, try switching to peanut butter toast or homemade muesli a few days each week. Similarly, mix up the types of snacks you prepare as well, substituting red pepper sticks and hummus for cheese and crackers, or choosing an avocado with salsa over tortilla chips and bean dip occasionally.






Look to professionals, TV or Internet shows, and cookbooks for ideas. Often, recipes and foods championed on vegetarian websites and in specialty cookbooks or magazines will include a wide variety of foods, flavors, and nutrients. They can help you incorporate flavor and nutrition into your daily menu.





;
, If you prefer to skip dairy, try a fortified dairy substitute such as soy milk or buy fruit juice, cereals, or tofu with added calcium. Dark green vegetables such as broccoli and collard greens also contain calcium, but if you rely only on dark green vegetables for calcium you may run the risk of having too little.






Vitamin B-12 is essential for healthy red blood cells and can help prevent anemia. It is principally found in animal products, although some cereals and soy products come with added vitamin B-12. If you do not regularly eat fortified cereals and enriched soy or animal products, it is important to take a B-12 supplement, especially for vegans.






Vitamin D is also important for healthy bone growth and maintenance. If you receive regular sun exposure or if you drink fortified milk, juice, or soy products with added vitamin D, you likely consume enough vitamin D. If you do not drink milk or juice, you may need to consider a supplement that provides vitamin D.


Iron is vital for energy and for the proper function of your red blood cells. It is difficult for vegetarians to consume iron in sufficient quantities because it is more easily absorbed from meat products than from plant sources. Eat plenty of dark leafy vegetables, whole grains, dried beans or peas, lentils, enriched cereals, and dried fruit. To boost your body’s absorption of iron, eat it with foods high in vitamin C, such as cabbage, tomatoes, broccoli, strawberries, and citrus fruits.






Protein helps build and maintain healthy muscles, organs, skin, and bones. Small amounts of dairy and eggs provide sufficient protein for most vegetarians, but if you prefer to get your protein from plant sources, you will need a variety of certain products everyday. Try eating nuts, seeds, soy products, legumes, lentils, and whole grains regularly to get enough protein.






Omega-3 fatty acids help promote healthy tissue, eye and brain development, and cardiovascular health. If you do not eat fish or eggs, you can try to find products enriched with Omega-3 fatty acids, but these can be rare and expensive, so you may want to consider a supplement.
 Simple blood tests and other quick checks can help determine whether you are deficient in key nutrients. If your healthcare provider is familiar with your particular dietary needs and habits, they may also be able to recommend additional strategies or supplements to help you get and use the appropriate amount of important vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients.

