 Instead of reciting the tired and boring "Happy Birthday," come up with a different phrase to tell the birthday girl or boy. The point of a birthday message is to wish her happiness, luck, and warm wishes on her special day. Think of a way you can pass this along in a unique, different way. If you can't think of any, try some of the following:


Many happy returns! or Many happy returns of the day!
Warm wishes on your birthday!
Wishing you a year that's blessed.Hope you have a day/year to remember.
Happy day-you-entered-this-world.
Wishing you all the best/that your dreams come true/you happiness and luck.Eat, drink, and be merry!;
, Milestone birthdays occur when a person hits a significant age. This may vary from culture to culture, but common milestone birthdays are: 13, 16, 18, 21, 30, 40, 50. After 60, every 5 years is a milestone.For a milestone birthday wish, make sure to emphasize the age. Tailor the wish around why the milestone is so important. At 13 a child is finally a teenager, at 16 the child can finally drive, and 50 is considered over the hill.
Milestone birthdays are a great time for humor, especially as people grow older. Before you make a joke about someone's age, determine if it is appropriate to joke about it. Some people are extremely sensitive about their age. You don't want to hurt her on her birthday.
For a generic joke about getting older, try: That's a lot of candles. Try not to burn down the house!; At this age, everything either hurts or doesn't work; or a joke about being over the hill.For something more positive about getting older, try: 40/50 and fabulous!; 50 is nifty; Like a fine wine, you just get better with age; Don't think of it as getting older, think of it as getting better; Count the age, not the wrinkles; You look too good to be this old; You have to grow older, but you don't have to grow up.For someone turning 16, make a message about driving: I hope the world can handle you on the road!; I can't believe I used to help you cross the street, and now you're going to be driving down it.As children hit milestones, focus on her transitioning from a kid to an adult: Welcome to the world of adults!; I'm proud you've become such a responsible young man/woman., Instead of wishing someone happy birthday in English, try sending her wishes in another language. Choose the language of a place the person loves or has always wanted to go to. Find audio clips of the phrase online so you can practice. Try learning happy birthday in the following languages:


Mandarin: qu ni sheng er kuai le
Japanese: Otanjou-bi Omedetou Gozaimasu!
Punjabi: Janam din mubarak!
Spanish: Feliz Cumplea–os!
Afrikaans: Gelukkige Verjaarsdag!
Arabic: Eid milad sa'aid! or Kul sana wa inta/i tayeb/a! (masculine/feminine)
French: Joyeux Anniversaire!
German: Alles Gute zum Geburtstag!
Hawaiian: Hau`oli la hanau!
Yoruba: Eku Ojobi!, Instead of finding an alternate way to say the words "happy birthday," send a longer message with "happy birthday" at the end. If you don't know the person very well, you can send her a message wishing her happiness and prosperity. If you are close to the person, you can let her know how much she means to you. Try some of the following messages:


Blowing out another candle means you've lived another year. Make every day and every candle count. Happy birthday!
Be happy because today was the day you were brought into this world. You make the world a better place by being in it. You deserve all the happiness in the world.
Instead of a message, try famous quotes: Life is a journey. Enjoy every mile; It's the journey that counts, not the destination., Wishing a coworker happy birthday can be a bit tricky. Maybe you work alongside each other, but don't know each other. You don't want to be impersonal with a simple "happy birthday," but you also don't want to be too personal and overstep boundaries. Decide if you should be professional or funny with the co-worker. That will determine the message you leave for her. Try some of the following:


All the best in the year to come!
It's a pleasure to work with you. Warm wishes on your special day.
You work hard all year round, so don't work too hard on your birthday. Have a great day!
You make work feel a lot less like work. Thanks for all you do around here! Happy birthday.
I didn't bring the cake, but I'll absolutely eat a slice in your honor. Here's to you!, Instead of a message, write the person a letter. Let her know how much you appreciate her, share memories with her, and make her feel appreciated and loved. When you close, try some of the following birthday phrases:


Celebrating you
Cheers
Let us eat cake
Party on
Here's to youThinking of you
Hugs to you on your special day