 When choosing an oil to deep fry your butternut squash in, it’s important to pick one that has a higher smoke point than the cooking temperature. For example, if you have a food that needs to be cooked at 350 degrees F (176 C), then use an oil that doesn’t smoke until 375-400 degrees F (190-204 C). Oils like sunflower, soybean, and peanut are the best for frying at high temperatures.You can also use vegetable shortening or lard. However, avoid olive oil and butter as they have low smoking points and burn easily.;
, If you don’t have a deep fryer, use a large pot with high walls. Ideally, there should be ten centimeters to four inches of space between the oil and the top of the pot. However, you want to make sure that you have enough oil to submerge your food, so use your best judgment. For deep fryers, simply fill the fryer up to the oil line with the oil of your choice.When working without a deep fryer, try filling the pot only halfway. This will help prevent spillover and splattering.
Heat the oil to 350 degrees F (175 C). You can use a candy thermometer or other kitchen thermometer that hooks onto the pot to monitor the temperature.
 You can prepare your squash in any manner that you like. However, make sure to cut it up before you put it into the deep fryer as it is too large to fry whole. Try cutting it vertically into one inch strips for fries or into small, thin rounds for chips. You can even shred or mash the squash to mix with flour and egg for butternut squash fritters., Depending on what recipe you’re using, you may season your squash before or after you deep fry it. For example, if you are making butternut squash fries, try putting the cut up slices into a plastic bag with a tablespoon or two of cornstarch and shaking it. You can also add a bit of paprika and garlic salt for a kick.


If you are making fritters, try mixing flour, baking powder, and salt with milk, maple syrup, and an egg. You can then add your mashed or shredded butternut squash to this mixture., Be very careful when placing your squash into the heated oil. Use tongs or a slotted spoon to set the squash in gently. Try not to drop the pieces in as this can cause splash back that is dangerous. You should also only deep fry a small batch at a time, as overcrowding the fryer can cause the butternut squash to stick together.


If you notice pieces beginning to clump together, lightly separate them with your tongs or spoon.
 Once the squash is golden brown it is usually a good sign that the squash has finished cooking. However, you should still check the inside to see if it has truly cooked through. If it hasn’t, reduce the temperature and cook a little longer. This should take anywhere between two to eight minutes., As the butternut squash cooks, remove finished portions to drain on a paper towel. You may have to change the sheets as you continue cooking, however, you should only need a few pieces. You can also use an extra paper towel to gently dab oil from the cooked squash.


Once dry, allow everything three to five minutes to sit and cool.
 Cut your squash into small, thin rounds and soak them in a bowl of ice water for 10-15 minutes. This will help get your chips crisp. After they've soaked, pat the slices dry with a paper towel. You can then drop them into the deep fryer in small batches for two to three minutes until they reach a chip-like texture. Once you've removed them from the fryer, drain them on paper towels and season them with Parmesan cheese and salt., Rather than the usual taco accompaniments of ground meat, chicken, or fish, try adding your fried butternut squash to healthy, vegetarian tacos. You can keep the usual ingredients like cheese, shredded lettuce, and salsa, or you can try adding sliced red pepper, avocado, and sprouts. You can also bread the squash with a mix of Panko crumbs, garlic powder, chili powder, and cumin before frying., For this recipe, cut the butternut squash into cubes and bake at 400 degrees F (204 C) for 12-15 minutes. Then place the squash into a food processor with spices like garlic, paprika, and salt, as well as a bit of flour like chickpea or wheat flour. Once blended, simply roll the ingredients into tater tot shaped cylinders and deep fry.