 Before you start exposing yourself to your fears, you will need to establish some ways to handle the anxiety that exposing yourself to your fears may cause. Otherwise, facing your fears can be traumatic.A good way to handle the anxiety you may feel is to teach yourself to use one or more relaxation techniques. Then, when you are feeling anxious, you can calm yourself down by using one of these techniques. Some good techniques include:


Deep breathing
Progressive muscle relaxation
Meditation;
, If you want to overcome a phobia, you need to expose yourself to your fear in small increments. To start this process, think about what triggers your fear. You can use this list later to work on gradually exposing yourself to your triggers until they lose their power.Your list should include the obvious. You are likely afraid of a stranger staring at you in public, acting in a way that calls attention to yourself, and being watched during your day-to-day life.
In addition to the obvious, try to think outside the box. Are there any subtle triggers that fuel your phobia? For example, do you feel frightened when you are watching TV and an actor looks into the camera? Do you get anxious when you have to walk past a large group of people? Do you feel nervous if you make eye contact during casual conversation?

, Once you've made your list, rank your fears. This will help you know when to start when it comes to exposing yourself to your phobia and your triggers. Try to think about what fears affect you the most. Maybe having a stranger stare at you on public transportation produces the most intense anxiety for you. You can place this fear near the top of your list. Eye contact with a close friend, while it causes you some unease, may not produce as acute of an anxious reaction. You can place this fear near the bottom of your list., Once your ranked list is ready, you can begin gradually exposing yourself to your fears. Make sure that you start small. Begin by exposing yourself to the items on your list that produce the least anxiety.For example, you could look into a mirror and practice staring at yourself before you interact with another person. This is great practice and often less intense than exposing yourself to someone else staring at you.
If you sometimes feel nervous looking at pictures of people who are looking directly into the camera, then go on Facebook or do a Google image search until you find a picture of someone looking directly into a camera. Stare at this image until you no longer feel nervous.
Keep in mind that it may be difficult to intentionally expose yourself to an anxiety-producing stimuli, but it's important you do so. The longer you expose yourself to a fear, the less power that fear will have over you.
Remember to use a relaxation technique to calm yourself down if you start to feel anxious. The items that are lower on your list may not cause you too much anxiety, but it is important to calm yourself down even if you are a little anxious.
 Once you've exposed yourself to a few items on the bottom of your list, work your way up. Put yourself in situations that make you feel uncomfortable, and try to stay in these situations long enough so you can practice being in that situation multiple times. Practice each new situation until you feel like you are used to the feeling of being in that situation.The idea is to keep practicing until you move from feeling uncomfortable to feeling comfortable with the situation.


Maybe public transportation is a big trigger for you. When riding a train or bus, you get the unshakeable feeling you are being watched, judged or stared at. Force yourself to take the train to work a few mornings instead of driving.
You may have an inclination to hide yourself due to your phobia. You may, for example, wear sunglasses or hide your face with a book. Resist these inclinations. Try to simply sit and relax. Listen to music on your iPod and look out the window. While you may feel intense fear at first, if you regularly expose yourself to these situations, that fear will gradually taper off.
Make sure that you use a relaxation technique to calm yourself down if you become anxious.
 Consistency is key when it comes to overcoming any phobia. You need to practice regularly. Work on exposing yourself to each situation on your list multiple times per week. The more your practice, the faster you'll eliminate your anxiety.While you should practice regularly, do so at your own pace. If you're still experiencing some anxiety looking at photos of people staring at a camera, do not hop on public transportation. If you push yourself too hard, things could backfire. Allow yourself to progress gradually.
 Phobias are by nature irrational. Sometimes, acknowledging your irrationality by writing it down can help. By writing down your thoughts, you may be able to reduce the effects of ophthalmophobia.


Make a mood log. Write down when you feel anxious, depressed, or scared due to your phobia. You should also record the thoughts fueling this fear or anxiety. For example, you could write something like, "Saw someone glance at me on the train and felt intense anxiety. I was worried they were watching me because I was doing something foolish, or they were planning on following me."
At the end of the day, reread your journal and examine your thoughts. Did you have any reason to believe you had done something foolish or embarrassing? Were there other people staring? Probably not. In all likelihood, the person on the train accidentally glanced at you, or was looking at something just next to you or just beside you.
 Distraction can be very helpful to cope with troublesome thoughts in the moment. It can take a while to completely overcome a phobia. If you're not in a situation where you can immediately examine and deconstruct your fears, have a distraction on hand to help you avoid feeling panicked or anxious.When you're in a situation where you're likely to experience fear, make sure you have something on hand. Bring a crossword puzzle or a book with you on public transportation. Bring a journal where you can jot down random lists, like list of names that start with "A."
If you're ruminating on anxious thoughts at home, engage in some kind of hobby. Bake a batch of cookies or do a vigorous workout to curb your anxiety.
 Sometimes, phobias stem from a deep underlying fear or personal issue that's being ignored. Spend some time considering whether your fear of being stared at or watched stems from a deeper place. If it does, you may want to consult a professional to help you better address this fear.Review your day-to-day life and think about situations where you feel fear. Are these situations indicative of a greater insecurity? Look into your past as well. How long have you had this phobia? Were there any events that occurred around the time the phobia developed that could have caused it?
For example, maybe you tend to feel most anxious about being watched or stared at when out at a bar or a social setting. Maybe you were once harassed or confronted in a bar by a rude or aggressive stranger. Since then, you may have become increasingly fearful of being watched or stared at, as you believe this a sign of potential aggression.
 When you find yourself engaging in phobia-based thinking, pause to challenge your thoughts. Phobias are irrational, and you should work to make yourself better aware of that irrationality in the moment.Ask yourself if there's any evidence when you find yourself thinking irrational thoughts. For example, you may see someone staring and think, "I've made of a fool of myself. That's why they're staring. Everyone is going to judge me for this." Stop and ask if this is rational. Are you actually doing anything to call attention to yourself? Is anyone else staring?
Think about whether there's anything you can do to resolve a situation. For example, say someone is staring at you in a bar. On the off chance this person is dangerous or aggressive, you could ask a friend to stay by your side. You could also talk to the bartender in the event the person began to harass you. You are reasonably safe in this situation, and there are ways to get out of it quickly.
Keep in mind that some people stare for positive reasons, such as because they find someone attractive or interesting. For example, someone might stare at you because you are wearing a cool outfit, or because you have a unique hairstyle. Try to consider the positive reasons someone might have for staring at you.
Try to disengage from the situation. Imagine a friend is having the same fears as you. What would you say to this friend? You would probably tell that friend they're being irrational. Try to do the same for yourself.
 When you're having a fearful reaction, it can be helpful to stop and remind yourself that you are okay. While phobias can be frightening, they are rarely based in reality. When you're in a moment of panic, remember you are okay.In dull moments, remind yourself that you're okay. When you're doing the dishes, for example, say to yourself, "I am okay right now. I am safe right now."
When you find yourself beginning to panic, remember the moments when you were okay and safe. Try to think to yourself, "I am still okay. I am still safe."
It can help to take a few deep breaths, as this can slow down the mind and encourage feelings of relaxation.
 Sometimes, phobias can become unmanageable. A phobia like ophthalmophobia, which is often triggered in social situations, can become particularly limiting. You may be afraid to leave your home or become antisocial for fear of being stared at or watched. If your phobia has become intense, to the point it's affecting your ability to function, seek out the help of a qualified therapist.You can find a therapist through your insurance or by asking your regular doctor for a referral. If you're a student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your university.
Phobias are often treated with cognitive behavioral therapy, a form of therapy where you confront and examine irrational thoughts and behaviors. In some cases, antidepressants may help you deal with your anxiety.
 It can help to know you are not alone. See if there is a support at a local hospital or mental health clinic for those suffering from phobias. If you cannot find a support group in person, there are many support groups available online for a wide range of phobias and fears. It can be cathartic to talk out your fears with others, and you also may learn some coping mechanisms from others.
 Let your friends and family know you're suffering from a phobia. Ask them for support as you try to confront and overcome your fear. It's important to have loved ones on your side when you're working through a mental health issue.


You should also let your loved ones know what they can do to help. For example, you can ask a friend to help you practice making eye contact.

