 The kibble you provide should have a least 35% to 45% protein, 18% to 20% fat and no more than 3% fiber. The kibble has to be meat based because ferrets are obligate carnivores (just like cats). It would be best to get a grain free all natural ferret food like Evo ferret food or Zupreem grain free ferret food. If these types of ferret food are hard to find, you can get Wellness Core kitten food, Wellness Core original cat food or Felidae grain-free Pure Elements cat food.;
, Choose foods such as egg yolk or scrambled egg and boiled or raw chicken.
 Most of them are high in sugar. Ferret N Bones appear to be fine as occasional treats though.
 Tap water contains too many minerals for the ferret to handle, which can cause health problems.
 Even if it looks like they have some already, they need fresh food and water. Remove uneaten food after 24 hours.
 Let your veterinarian check its immunity every year instead of overloading the ferret with annual vaccinations. If it still has immunity to distemper, it will not need a vaccine. By doing this you prevent your ferret from being over-vaccinated, which can cause health problems.


Try to avoid the rabies vaccine. It can be harmful to your ferret and the chances of your ferret catching rabies is very rare unless rabid bats, foxes, raccoons, coyotes and other wild animals are very common where you live and can find their way into your house.
 Advantage flea protection for cats and Heartguard heartworm prevention for cats can be used. Interceptor for cats is another heartworm prevention you can use. Revolution for kittens or cats can be used to prevent fleas, heartworms, ear mites and certain intestinal parasites. Be sure to talk with your vet on what dosage of flea and/or heartworm prevention is safe for your ferret.
 If your ferrets are especially hyperactive, let them run around twice a day, about 3 to 4 hours at a time. The safest place to walk your ferret is probably in your yard.


Make sure the room your ferret is in is safe.
You can take the ferret for walks during fine, cool weather. Walking your ferret is optional.
If you don't have a yard, look for a safe place where dogs are not too common. If you live in an area where large birds are common be careful - it might want to make your ferret its next meal!

, Play with it and provide toys. Rotate toys to help keep boredom at bay.
,,


If you don't want your ferret to smell, change its bedding once a week and clean the cage and litter box daily.
 Use a ferret teeth gel or water and a baby toothbrush, at least once a week.
 Use a flea comb, slicker brush or bristle brush to brush its coat for a few minutes and give it no more than a teaspoon of olive oil twice a week. Olive oil helps move hairballs.
 White vinegar with water is all natural and safe for your ferret. It is good at killing bacteria and odors.
, It's okay to use dish liquid to wash your ferrets food and water bowls.
 Be cautious about what you use to clean your floor.
 If necessary, put a little heater on to low (optional).

