 If you or someone you know is interested in the field, it is best to become immersed into the industry young. Begin auditioning for all types of gigs for radio, TV, theater, or anything available to you. The best way to understand the roles of casting directors is to see them at their work. Begin by getting head shots and try your luck at acting opportunities near you.


You can also get a taste of the industry by becoming an extra. This will bring you into contact with directors and actors.As you grow up, you’ll be closer to directing roles that will better prepare you for the casting director.
 Sign up and pursue whatever play your school is putting on. Even if you aren’t cast, you can learn from the experience of auditioning. School plays are a great way to become involved with set designs, lighting, and even directing. Any experience in the world of drama can increase your chances of breaking into the professional industry.
 In high school you can sign up for theater classes that will teach you much of what goes in a theatrical production. Don’t worry if you aren’t being cast as the lead roles. Try to absorb all the information your teacher has to offer. Remember you are pursuing a career that is “offstage” not in center stage.


Become involved with the directing side of theater when available.
Look into arts magnet schools in your community. Arts high schools will typically offer more opportunities for directing/producing education., Consult your theater teachers about prominent colleges for theater. Some schools even offer education for cast directing. College is not required to become a casting director, but many times you can gain contacts and experience from certain programs.


Your high school should also have college counselors that will have the resources to guide your decision., Once you reach your junior year of college, you should seriously consider applying for internships. Internships are critical today for first hand experience in a professional setting. Even if a local theater, studio, or radio program doesn’t offer an official internship, you can email them asking for opportunities.Explain to them your interests in becoming a casting director and what you hope to learn from them. Most internships are unpaid, but don’t let this stop you from becoming involved. Look into local talent agencies for additional internships.
 The department of drama at Syracuse University and the Casting Society of America have partnered up to offer an apprenticeship program. All college students and graduate students are eligible to apply for an extensive semester. The program educates students on the fundamentals of being a casting director like character and script analysis, serving a director's vision, and working with systems and technologies., While in college you should be as involved as you can with the drama department. Pairing business or communication with a theater degree is a great combination to prepare you for cast directing. Keep your grades up to ensure your GPA never falls from a 3.0.