 On the flip-side of negative self-talk, is the one surefire way to combat berating yourself, positive self-talk.First, notice and catch yourself - when you have a negative thought change that thought in that very moment to something more positive.


Think of your negative thoughts as a parrot that keeps repeating unhelpful things over and over to you.You can choose to listen to the parrot, or tell the parrot that he’s wrong!

, You can use affirmations such as, “I can do this. This will pass. I can be angry and still deal with this. Right now I am safe. I will learn from this and it will be easier next time.”Now that you have a list of negative self-talk patterns, you can identify ways to turn those negative thoughts into positive or more realistic ones. For example, if you think, “I’m so stupid,” when you drop something or make a mistake, you can immediately tell yourself, “That’s not a nice thought about myself. I’m not stupid. It’s okay that I made a mistake and I will focus on doing better next time.” In this way, you are having a conversation with yourself. The more you do this, the better you will become at correcting your negative thoughts.
You can use a self-compassion thought record sheet to organize your ideas.With this, you can identify your: triggering events, feelings or images, unhelpful thoughts and images, feelings, self-compassionate alternatives to unhelpful thoughts and images (i.e. what would you say to a friend in this situation?), understanding of your change in feelings and what you did that helped.
 Anxiety influences and increases negative self-talk. The more anxious you are, the more critical you may be about yourself.One of the best ways to stay calm is to use relaxation or deep-breathing techniques.Sit in a comfortable position with your eyes closed. Breathe slowly and deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth. Focus solely on your breathing and how it feels throughout your body, especially the movement of your diaphragm/stomach in and out as you breathe. Do this for a few minutes or until you feel more relaxed.
 Sometimes, you may berate yourself through your interpretation of how others think of you. This practice is a common thought pattern called mind-reading.This means you believe you know what others are thinking. The problem is, you can’t mind-read so you don’t really know what they are thinking. Make a conscious decision to stop trying to live up to how you think others expect you to act. It can be quite liberating.


If you find yourself thinking that others have negative thoughts about you, ask yourself, “Am I assuming that I know how others are thinking? What’s the evidence? Those are my own thoughts. Is there another, more balanced way of looking at it?