 Papillons have a long, silky coat that needs brushing every day. Brush your dog’s coat by using a slicker brush to remove tangles. Once the tangles are removed, brush your Papillon’s coat with a bristle brush, and finish by combing its hair.Before brushing the hair, spritz it with water or a leave-in conditioner. Brushing the hair while it is dry can damage it.Be sure to regularly trim the hair around your dog’s feet. Any hair growing out past the pads should be trimmed back. Use either scissors or an electric trimmer to trim the hair.;
, The plaque and tartar build-up on a Papillon’s teeth can cause infections, rotted teeth, and disease. It is recommended that you brush your dog’s teeth every day. Use canine toothpaste, and either a small toothbrush designed specifically for small breeds, or a finger toothbrush.


Lift your dog’s lip. Then, place the toothbrush or your finger at the margin where the teeth and gum meet at a 45-degree angle. Slowly move the toothbrush in an oval motion. Gently force the bristle ends into the space between the teeth, and the area around the base of the tooth.Chew toys and dog chews also help with tartar control. However, they should not replace regular brushing.
 Papillon’s nails grow pretty fast. It is time to trim its nails when you can hear the nails clacking on the floor as your Papillon walks, or once every 10 to 15 days. Since Papillon’s nails are so small, it is recommended that you use a grinder to trim its nails. Grinders are less stressful, as well.Take your dog’s paw and spread it gently. Remove any dirt and debris between the toes. Then, firmly, but gently, hold one toe. Take the nail grinder and lightly grind the tip of the nail. Papillon nails are small, so one quick “zip-zip” is all it takes to trim the nail.If you or your dog is extremely uncomfortable with nail cutting, you can always take your dog to the vet or a grooming service to have their nails clipped.
 Because Papillon’s have a lot of hair in and around their ears, check their ears once a week for debris and wax build. If your Papillon’s inner ears appear dirty, dampen a cotton ball or piece of gauze with mineral oil, hydrogen peroxide, or a liquid cleaner especially formulated for dogs. Then wipe its ears.Fold your Papillon’s ear back and wipe away any wax and debris. Be careful not to push or rub the debris farther into your dog’s ear. Instead, lift the debris out of your dog’s ear.
Try not to clean your dog’s ears too frequently, or deeply, as this can cause irritation or infection.

