 Knowing why you must cutting carbs, start exercising, and eat differently will help you adapt your diet accordingly. There are 3,500 calories in a pound of fat, and losing weight rapidly requires dropping a lot of these calories from your diet. For the rest, exercise burns calories and kick starts your metabolism to burn more calories while you sleep. 3,500 calories a day is a lot -- and you need to be ready to sacrifice to make this possible. It won't be a comfortable 7 days, but you can get through it if you keep your end goal in sight.A calorie is a calorie. This means that, at the end of the day, weight loss is about decreasing the number of calories you eat, no matter what source they're from. A professor in Kentucky once ate Twinkies and lost 27-lbs to prove this point. How? He ate very, very few.If you feel dangerously nauseous, light-headed, woozy, or tired while on this diet. stop and have a snack. You can still lose a lot of weight by following the basic tenants of this diet, even if you need to "cheat" for your safety once or twice.;
, Get a dieting app, use a calorie counting website, or simply write down your calories in a journal. You need to know how many calories you eat each day to figure out where your diet can change. You will need to eat roughly 1,000 or fewer calories a day to drop a pound every day for a week.
 If you can do this slowly, before your one-week challenge, you'll have the best results. Carbs are a dietary staple, but they hold a lot of water weight (binding to more water than fat or protein) and are easy to overeat. Try to get yourself below 50g of cards (roughly a scoop of pasta) a day.


Switch spaghetti squash for pasta -- it contains less than 1/4 of the calories.
Swap an English Muffin for bagels or hamburger buns to save 100 calories.
Make a taco salad instead of a burrito.Try to slowly lower your carb diet in the 2-3 weeks before the major weight loss. You body will adapt to the change, and by the time your "7 days-7pounds" comes around your body will be ready to drop the weight. That said, dropping carbs for one week will still make a difference., It is very hard to overeat vegetables. That's not a joke about how vegetables taste bad, that's actual science based on the concept of a "bliss point," which is the amount of calories you need to eat to feel full. Processed foods are specifically made with higher bliss points, but the all-natural goodness of vegetables allows you to eat fewer calories and still feel full.


Make a salad with your favorite fruits and vegetables: lettuce, carrots, tomatoes, cucumbers, kale, celery, apples, strawberries, red onions, etc. Keep the dressing to a bare minimum;1-2 teaspoons of oil and vinegar is your best bet.
 Once you've subbed out carbs, you'll likely feel constantly hungry. You can avoid this, however, by making a source of lean, fat-free protein a part of every meal. Some proteins to include in your diet are:


Grilled or baked chicken.
Beans, chickpeas, and legumes.
Tuna and other white fishes.
Nuts
Eggs, IF is one of the best ways to lose weight fast, but no one ever said it was fun. Most commonly, IF involves skipping breakfast, leading to 18 hours or more between meals. Instead of breakfast, eat a single banana when you wake up as a snack. Then you can eat lunch and dinner, with a small snack in between (especially if you're exercising) and start again the next day.


This is only a strategy for short-term weight loss. A balanced breakfast each morning is important for long-term dieting, as skipping breakfast often leads to overeating later on.
Fasting can increase fat oxidation, helping you shed fat weight much quicker., Many companies make "snack packs," and low-cal options, and indulging in something sweet, if in moderation, can actually prevent overeating later.That said, you want to space these snacks out. Instead of having that single low-cal cookie right after lunch, as dessert wait 1-2 hours and have it as a snack. This will keep you less hungry for longer and make it easier to space out your calories. Some good snacks include:


A banana
A handful of berries.
1-2 tablespoons of nuts.
Low-cal bars, snacks, and energy drinks., Caffeine, when taken in moderation, is an effective appetite suppressant.While there is no strong evidence that caffeine consumption leads to long-term weight loss, it can help you make short term gains by increasing your metabolism and simultaneously turning down your appetite.
 Regular water drinkers have a much, much easier time avoiding snacks or overeating, so keep a water bottle on hand throughout the entire day.When you're hungry in between meals, sip some water-- it will likely hold you over until meal time.
 You will not be eating a whole lot of food to lose weight. A diet for rapid weight loss should be around 1,000 calories a day, which is eaten up faster than you might think. A sample diet (including breakfast) could include:



Breakfast: An apple, a hard boiled egg, and a handful of nuts.

Lunch: Small piece of grilled chicken, 1 cup of low-fat yogurt, banana.

Snack: Small salad.

Dinner: 1-2 hard boiled eggs, cucumber, pepper, and chickpea salad. You can also try out these meals, each under 300 calories.