 Alkaline diet resources frequently claim that stress is either a cause or an effect of bodily acid levels that are too high.The exact connection between stresses and acidity hasn't been confirmed by science. However, what is definitively known is that a low-stress lifestyle is a healthy one. Reducing stress is associated with lower rates of major health problems, like heart disease, so it's a good idea regardless of what diet you're on.Keeping stress low can be a lifelong challenge. Though everyone's needs are different, here are just a few solutions doctors often prescribe for stress:Getting plenty of exercise
Slowing down and taking deep breaths
Talking to friends and family when you're stressed
Spending time outdoors
Laughing
Meditation

, Getting plenty of exercise is a vital part of staying healthy for virtually everyone. However, if you've ever had sore muscles after a few hours at the gym, you'll know that intense exercise can lead to a painful buildup of lactic acid in the muscles. To lessen this acid buildup, make an effort to give yourself time to recover after you push your body hard. Your body needs time to break down this acid and rebuild damaged tissue — if it doesn't get it, you may be left with painful cramps.


If you've got an intense fitness routine, try working different muscle groups on alternate days to ensure that each group gets a chance to rest. For example, if you work out your upper body on Monday, spend Tuesday working on your lower body.
 Alkaline diets will often recommend against using any sort of mind-or-body-altering substance with the claim that they are acidifying. In fact, at least for caffeine, this claim is doubtful.However, it's still a wise piece of advice — these sorts of substances have a range of negative health effects that are well-publicized.


Even caffeine, by far the least harmful of these substances, can occasionally cause long-term health issues, especially if you're already predisposed to certain health disorders like heart disease, high blood pressure, anxiety, and more.