 Purchase or borrow a camera that is good for use in landscape photography. The camera must have the capability for manual focus and remote shutter release. A digital display is also useful for lining up your shot and for correcting unforeseen image quality issues mid-shoot.


Digital single-lens reflex (DSLR) cameras are ideal for photographing lightning.
Compact "point and shoot" cameras often respond too slowly and don't always have the required features. If you would like to use a compact camera, test it out first.;
, While not necessary, a wide-angle zoom lens works best for lightning photography. The wide angle will allow you to fit more into the shot, maximizing your chances of catching an interesting lightning strike. Meanwhile, a zoom lense will give you the ability of adjusting the focal length to target a specific area. This option is especially useful in case the storm shifts position or you decide to focus on an interesting nearby object instead of the horizon., Not only is trying to take photographs in the middle of a storm dangerous, but it is also unlikely to produce quality photos. The optimal distance for lightning photographs is somewhere between roughly 6 and 10 miles from the storm. Any closer is too dangerous. Any further will likely give you small, blurry lightning strikes that look relatively unimpressive.


Figure out which direction the storm is moving. It's best to position yourself so that the storm moves across your field of view rather that towards or away from it. This will ensure that the storm will remain an optimal distance from you for as long as possible.There are a few ways to determine a storm's direction. If the storm is moving fast enough, you can easily see its pattern of movement and use a compass. However, if you have access to the Internet, the most accurate way is to check your local meteorologist for details or use a storm tracking application.Pick an interesting vantage point. The best lightning photographs are usually framed in such a way to include something else that's visually interesting, such as a city skyline or a natural monument. This gives the viewer a frame of reference for understanding the storm's large size., For lightning photographs, you will be using camera settings that cause the slightest movement to ruin an otherwise great shot. Don't try to hold your camera in your hands. You can use any object that keeps still to mount your camera. While a traditional tripod can work great, you can place your camera on something as simple as a bean bag chair for greater flexibility.No matter what you use for support, try to skew your camera's field of view up towards the sky., It is important to have a good view of the storm, but don't get too close. Successive lightning strikes often occur two to three miles apart,so keep in mind that you will need to stay a significantly larger distance away. Even so, lightning can also strike far from a storm's center and certain additional precautions should be taken:


Don't use an umbrella.
When using a tripod, you should also use an extra long shutter release cable. A metal tripod can act as a lightning rod, and you want to be as far away from a potential lightning strike as possible.
If possible, stay inside a building or a car with the windows rolled up.
Stay at least 50 feet away from water and tall structures like trees and buildings., Lightning strikes are too fast for your camera's autofocus to follow. Keeping autofocus turned on will probably give you blurry photos, since the autofocus will continuously "hunt" for an object to focus on between shots. Many cameras have an external physical switch to change between automatic and manual focus. If your camera doesn't, try looking through the camera's advanced settings via its digital display., You will not have time to focus on an individual lightning strike, so it's best to keep your camera focused on a static position. Infinity focus will keep your camera focused where lightning is likely to strike. Infinity focus will bring everything past a certain point on the horizon into focus.The infinity focus setting is typically indicated by the infinity symbol, which looks like a sideways figure 8.
When using a detachable lens, the infinity focus setting is usually part of its focus ring.Infinity focus is becoming less common of a feature on newer model cameras. Many of these cameras have lenses that can focus beyond what was previously termed infinity. When photographing lightning with these cameras, try shifting the manual focus as far away as possible at first. You may need to take a few test shots to find the perfect focus for capturing lightning on film., ISO is essentially a measurement of how sensitive your camera is to light. If you're working under brighter conditions, a lower ISO is appropriate. For darker situations, you will need a higher, more sensitive ISO. The exact ISO best for your particular situation will vary, so it's best to find it through trial and error with a few test shots.


An ISO of around 200 is often recommended as a good place to start for lightning photography.
Most DSLR cameras have a physical button for ISO settings, while compact cameras typically have them under a digital menu.
The lower the ISO or film speed, the less noise you will have. Because of this, it's best to use the lowest ISO that gives you a clear picture., This setting will allow you to manually control your camera's shutter and, consequently, its exposure time.


Tripping the shutter on a camera at the exact moment that lightning strikes is nearly impossible to do. Using the bulb setting keeps the shutter open until you manually close it again.
If your camera does not let you manually control the shutter, set its speed to the longest available, which should be between 10 to 30 seconds., Once your setup is perfect, you can finally start to photograph lightning. Start the process by opening the shutter.


A remote shutter will both keep you out of harm's way and eliminate blurriness caused by manually pressing a button on the camera.
 Wait a few seconds for lightning to strike. After it does, close the shutter using your remote control.


When fairly close to a storm, exposure time should be no longer than 15 seconds.
For storms that are further away, exposure time can be anywhere from 20 seconds to 2 minutes.In photography, "exposure time" is the length of time that light is allowed to enter the camera, creating an image. It's the time period between when you open and close the shutter.Most lightning photography techniques use long exposure times.
 When it comes to photographing lightning, there is no one size fits all list of settings that will get you perfect pictures every time. Every situation is unique, so you will need to use your own judgment.


Because most cameras now have screens that let you immediately see your shots, you can check to see if your image quality is acceptable during your shoot.
If the photographs seem overexposed or too noisy, try reducing the ISO.
If the photographs are too dim, try increasing the ISO.
If the lightning seems out of focus, try adjusting your lens.
If the lightning isn't sharp and adjusting the focus doesn't help, try increasing the shutter speed. The less time the shutter is left open, the sharper your pictures will be.