 If you've got some time on your hands, your sister will be away for awhile, and if you can afford to buy several rolls of aluminum foil, you've got all you need for this prank. Wrap up as much of your sister's room in aluminum foil as you can.


Start with all of the small objects on her dressers and bookshelves, and then move to the large objects in her room, including her bed.
 Find a totally goofy picture of you and make multiple copies. When your sister is away, plaster them over every square inch of her room and wait for her reaction when she comes home and opens the door.


Alternatively, you can be more subtle, and hide the pictures of you in random places. Place one over her computer monitor, another over the bathroom mirror, one in her closet, another on her pillow, etc.
You don't need to hide all of the pictures all at once. This one can be a running joke, where you randomly hide one picture every day or two.
 This is a great prank to play before you sister has friends or her partner over. Choose a celebrity that your sister liked in the past but has outgrown now (like Justin Bieber, for example).


Buy a few fan magazines and print out pictures from the internet, and then go wild making over your sister's room to make her look like the biggest fan-girl ever.
If you can afford it, spend some cash to get a full-sized cardboard cut-out to place in a prominent place in the room.
Now just be ready to watch her try to explain to her friends that she's really not this lame!

, This prank is a bit time-consuming and fairly subtle, but is still pretty devious. When your sister is out (or even better, staying overnight with a friend), flip her room completely:


For example, if her bed is on the left side of the room, move it to the right, switch all of the items on her dresser to the opposite sides, reverse her closet, etc.
Make sure to keep everything neat, folded, and organized (assuming that's how it all started), but just in reverse-order.
When your sister comes home and asks who rearranged her room, pretend that you have no idea what she's talking about: “Everything looks exactly the same to me—are you feeling ok?”

