 This is the hardest part, but be sure you need a stall. If you're distributing less than either 50 magazines/50 slim newspapers/200 A4 or A5 leaflets, then you don't need a stall, you just need a decent bag. Even an ordinary rucksack will generally hold this.


Choose a location where lots of people pass by and are likely to stop ie. not on their way to work/school.;
, If you're not using a car, you'll need an idea of the weight. Generally, in order of weight from lightest to heaviest these are per unit.


Leaflets (lightest per unit).
Newspapers.
Magazines.
Pamphlets/booklets.
Books (heaviest per unit).
 If you're not using a car, get one lighter than a bag of potatoes.
 If you're not using a car, then use a mini-suitcase with wheels and handle rather than a holdall for heavy materials.
 Attach posters (A2 size is about right) to the front. Tape is better if its windy, blu-tack is better if you want to reuse the posters. Put them a plastic cover to waterproof them. Always store these rolled outwards (in a rigid card tube) so they don't curl inwards when being displayed (or crumple from being folded). Get wire coat hangers and bend them into props or stands to display your material upright.


Sometimes using a table cover can look good. But it will be difficult to attach posters to and be vulnerable to rain. Use metal clamps or pegs to hold it in place.
 You can check the weather forecast but don't rely on it.


Sun will require sun-tan lotion, sunglasses, hats for you and your volunteers. Bring water bottles although these will be heavy so maybe buy them on location. If you can get a stall in the shade.
Rain will require a waterproof cover. Thin clear plastic document sleeves will work for this. Bring a waterproof jacket. If you have a car then bring a towel.
Wind will require something to stop things blowing away. Clothes pegs are best for this. Elastic bands could be used but can be awkward and damage material. Bananas are good too as they can be eaten for energy and even write prices of materials on their skin.
, Smile and say hello. If there's no people stopping, at least read your literature to make it look interesting. Don't sit in front of your stall as you'll obstruct it, sit behind your stall or stand in front of it.
 Anything that you distribute that is dropped nearby, you have a duty to pick up. Respect your surroundings and keep them tidy. If you can't reuse the litter, recycle it or dispose of it properly.
 Don't expect to persuade anyone in the public but maybe invite them to the meal afterwards.
 What are you going to dump and where and what are you going to take back for another day?

