 Label where you want each vegetable and flower to grow. Remember to add room for you to maneuver around your garden for harvesting and picking if your garden is for vegetables.;
, Ideally, you should select a place that sits in the sun at least 6 hours in a day.
 If you cannot till your current land, then the plants or flowers you grow will have to depend on the soil in your garden bed. Therefore, expect to build a raised bed that is approximately 3 feet (0.91 m) high. If your land is conducive to planting, then you only need to build a raised bed that is 8 inches (20.32 cm) high.
 If you choose to use corner posts, lay out a hose or string to define the boundaries of your garden. Position your corner posts and dig a trench approximately 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 cm) deep from post to post along the marked edges. Alternatively, for a more simple design, omit the corner posts and lay out your two side walls and front/end boards so that they form a rectangle.
 Secure each side wall by screwing it together with the neighboring front or end board. The front and end boards can be placed either inside or outside of the side walls but be sure to be consistent on both ends.
 Dig and add soil where necessary to level the frame. Make sure that the frame is securely in place since it will be keeping your soil and growing plants or flowers from eroding.
 If you have Bermuda grass, you will have to remove it with a shovel; otherwise, just get rid of the big weeds, rocks and other debris. Pour the topsoil into the frame. You can also mix in some compost for added nutrition, should you feel it necessary. Just make sure that your soil, whether it's amended or not, feeds your plants and retains some moisture while providing drainage and ventilation. Additionally, you should mix the compost into the topsoil before pouring it into the frame. Once the soil is added, spread it out and rake it down.
 Consider drip irrigation that waters the area. A sprinkle system with perforated hoses is also adequate. Whatever you decide, make sure that your system will not overwater your garden or waste water.

