 You don't want your acrylic overlays lifting, which is exactly what happens if your hands and nails are constantly wet. To keep your overlays from lifting, try:









Drying your hands thoroughly with a cloth or paper towel whenever you wash your hands, step out of the shower, or go swimming.
Wearing rubber or latex gloves whenever you're doing the dishes.
Dusting your hands with a bit of baby powder if you have naturally moist hands. The baby powder helps wick away any moisture.;
, Bacteria can attack your natural nails quite easily, leading to damage and infection.Make sure to wash your hands, or alternate washing your hands, with an antibacterial soap to cut down on the possibility of bacterial infection.
 If you chip a section of your nail, go back to the salon and have a beautician take a look at it. Many salons will fix nails that break a few days after your initial appointment, and if not, they should charge less for a quick fix than they would normally.
 Touch your acrylics up by applying clear nail polish, letting dry, and filing. You'll preserve the clean look of your nails and help the acrylic paint last longer.









Every two weeks, go to the salon and have your nails refilled.Refilling will help bond the acrylic nail to your natural nail plate, reduce the risk of infection, and help your nails shine.
 If you do decide to take off paint, don't reach for any old remover. Acetone can make acrylic deteriorate, making it a bad go-to for acrylic nails. Instead, look for nail polish remover that conditions your nails and cuticles while it wipes away the paint.
 Look for dryness, redness, or peeling of the skin around your acrylics. This may be a sign of contact dermatitis, a sign that your skin does not react well to acrylic.If your skin does not respond well to acrylics, that might be a sign to discontinue use.
 Overly dry hands could ruin the look of the acrylic. On the other hand, bacteria and fungi breed in damp places, so try not to allow your hands to stay moist for long periods of time.
 Oil your nails with a neutral oil such as rapeseed oil.








