 Tight clothing also puts extra pressure on your stomach, which may lead to heartburn. Choose clothes that are loose and comfortable to help reduce this factor. For example, you might try wearing clothes that have an elastic waistband or clothes that provide a few extra inches of room around your waist., Raising the entire head of your bed up by about eight inches (20 centimeters) can help with heartburn. Make sure that you raise the entire head of the bed and do not just use extra pillows. Place a couple of bricks or pieces of wood under the legs at the head of your bed., Severe stress may worsen heartburn for some people, so it is important to find ways of keeping stress under control.There are many positive ways to manage stress. Some good options include:



Getting more exercise. Regular exercise can help to reduce stress and provide other health benefits as well. Take 30 minutes per day to go for a walk, ride a bike, or take an exercise class. Find something that you enjoy and make it part of your daily routine.

Reaching out to someone. Talking to a friend or loved one may also help to reduce stress. The next time you are feeling stressed, call a friend or meet up with someone to talk.

Setting aside time for yourself each day. Another great way to reduce stress is to take time to do something that you want to do every day. For example, you might read a book, take a bubble bath, or watch a funny movie., Smoking can make heartburn symptoms worse as well as cause many other health problems. If you smoke, then do whatever you can to quit. Try asking your doctor for information about medications and smoking cessation programs that may help., Being overweight can also make heartburn symptoms worse, especially if you carry most of your excess weight around your abdomen. If you are overweight or obese, then try to lose weight and maintain a healthy weight to help control your heartburn., Not getting enough sleep may also be contributing to your heartburn. Try to get more sleep and see if that improves your heartburn. If heartburn is interfering with your ability to fall asleep or stay asleep, talk to your doctor. You may need to take an antacid at night to help you get more sleep., If you take medications, try asking your doctor if any of your medications could be causing your heartburn. If heartburn is a side effect of one of your medications, then your doctor may be able to change your dosage or switch you to a different medication to see if that helps.


If you are taking an over-the-counter medicine, such as an NSAID, then this might be causing your heartburn. Try not taking it for a few days to see if that helps.
Other medications that may cause heartburn include antibiotics, bisphosphonates, iron supplements, quinidine, and potassium supplements.Do not stop taking any of your medications without talking to your doctor first.

