 It isn’t professional or collegiate football, but at a high school level coaching football still takes up a lot of time. Depending on your position, the job can take anywhere from 15-60 hours a week, often on top of a full-time job.Possible commitments include leading game film studies, weightlifting, coaches’ meetings, drawing up game plans, scouting, recruitment, and parent meetings.
Those that have a significant other or a family should speak with them first. The time commitment involved means less time you get to spend with them, so if they aren’t on the same page with your goals, relationship problems will occur down the line.;
, To become better at not just winning games but inspiring players in their personal lives, there’s no better way to learn than to hear it from the people who have been there. Pick up media from actual coaches, including books and interviews, as well as discussing the sport with others.You can start with books such as 'Finding the Winning Edge by Bill Walsh for on-field coaching, Faith in the Game by Tom Osborne for impacting the lives of players off the field, and Quiet Strength by Tony Dungy and Wooden by John Wooden for living a balanced life.

Don’t forget to study up on plays! While a positional coach can get by learning the position, a head coach needs to know offense, defense, and special teams inside and out. Read books and study game film.
Dig deep to find football documentaries that offer insight on coaching, such as those in ESPN’s 30 for 30 series. Popular movies can help too, but keep in mind that movies such as “Remember The Titans” and “The Blind Side” are criticized for placing feel-good messages over historical accuracy.Online reading is always an option. Seek out discussion forums, coaching interviews, and other places where you can meet and benefit from avid fans, former players, and coaches.
 Chances are you're already doing this in some capacity. If you live near a city with a professional team, you can get tickets to the games. If you have a child, you may attend their games. Either opportunity gives you a chance to expose yourself to not only plays, but how people learn. Naturally, as a potential high school coach you want to focus most of all on the high school level, so show up to those games.


While you watch the game, observe how strategy changes on the fly and how the coaches communicate with the players.
Before and after the games, as well as during practices, you will find more opportunities to observe the proceedings and even introduce yourself to the coaches.
 You’re probably shaking your head at this, but the truth is that most high school football coaches are not full-time, single-job coaches. Most high schools don’t have the money to hire coaches, so they depend on other professionals, particularly teachers.Remember that high school coaches play a large role in the lives of their players. Teachers are already familiar with that role and are in the school system, so that’s why teachers are the easiest hire.
A physical education degree is an obvious choice, since gym class and sports go hand in hand, but the subject you teach doesn’t matter. In fact, teachers are more in demand for other subjects than physical education.
This degree is your backup plan, since most schools cannot afford to hire a full-time coach. Check with your local universities for bachelor programs in education.
 This is if you plan on becoming a teacher first. Certificates, if your country has them, permit you to put your teaching degree to use. In order to become a teacher, you’ll have to fulfill the requirements of your state.


In Ohio, for example, after your bachelor’s degree, you have to take a test in both basic skills and your area of expertise, sit in on class lectures, complete an internship, and pass a background check.Potential coaches that already have an unrelated bachelor’s degree should check with their local government for alternative certification that will allow them to work in the classroom while completing additional teaching classes.Take as many physical education and sports science classes that you can, as these will help you understand how to get the best out of your players.
 Medical knowledge is necessary for coaches given that they are the quickest responders on a level where medical staff is limited. In an age when concussions and players collapsing on the field from heart defects has become a headline, coaches more than ever need CPR certification.CPR is cardiopulmonary resuscitation. It involves chest compressions to circulate blood until a person’s stopped heart can be restarted.CPR certification occurs in inexpensive classes from sources such as the Red Cross. Use their website to locate a class near you.
 These can be tough to master, but they’re necessary for a coach who needs to be able to pose as both authority and guidance to players. It is important for you to not only be able to speak with clarity and certainty, but to hold your body in a way that emphasizes what you say.


Know how to carry yourself. Amongst strong teenagers, you’ll need to be able to stand straight, maintain eye contact, speak in an inspiring but forceful way, keep your posture open, and appear genuine.Practice achieving confidence by holding yourself in a mirror and around friends, then move on to giving speeches in a group such as Toastmasters.
Your goal will be to motivate your players, so learn how to think quickly, interweaving life stories into messages you tailor to your audience.
Be sure to listen to your audience and respond to them in a way that shows you heard and understood every word. Coaches need to take feedback and keep everyone on the same page., It’s not enough for a coach to be an effective communicator. As a coach, you’ll need to adjust to being responsible for motivating even the most difficult of teenagers, getting them to give their all both at home and on the field. You’ll need to set examples of decision-making, authority, honesty, and accountability.


Head coaches in particular have to weather the judgment and scrutiny of parents and fans in addition to players and school administrators. Learn to stand by bold decisions.Take a test that informs you of your leadership style, then emphasize your strengths and shore up your weaknesses by reading and practicing in settings such as at work or in a workshop.You can learn these skills in work, particularly as a teacher, but working for nonprofit organizations also provides an opportunity. Also take leadership workshops and online classes.
 In order to land a job as a coach, it helps to know people who can get you in the door. By talking to people, they introduce you to other people who, when hearing your goal, can help lead you there. Hanging around the football field and around coaches themselves will help you not only find a job, but pick up more information on how to be a better coach.


Talking to teachers is a simple way to start. Even if the coach isn’t a teacher, the teachers may know the coach and be able to introduce you.Hang around the athletics office. Make friends with the athletic directors, administrators, weight room managers, and coaches from other sports, as these people all can help you get hired.
Introduce yourself to the football coaches. Some schools may have multiple coaches and multiple tiers of football, such as freshman and varsity. The more time you spend learning and becoming close with the coaches, the more likely they’ll serve as a reference for you finding a coaching job.
Search online, too. Find forums for coaches, former players, and others involved in the sport. These people have the best insight on finding and performing the job, and many still have connections to coaching positions.
 Former high school football players have an advantage, but for everyone else, it isn’t too late to learn. This may however require you to work your way up from the bottom of opportunities that aren’t your end goal, but use this as a chance to learn and build your resumé.Respond to advertisements for coaching jobs. Search your local newspapers and school websites for openings.
In addition to studying game film and playbooks, spend time at the field with coaches and players.
 If your goal is to be the head coach of the program, you’ll need experience to get there. Don’t be afraid to take a job coaching football at the community center, a lower level such as freshman or junior varsity, or other football-related positions to get your foot in the door.


Keep in mind that different levels of the sport require different time commitments and teaching methods. For instance, coaches can work their way up from a Pop Warner (youth) level, building from a level of having to teach proper tackling and breaking strategy down for the youngest set of diversified minds.
 Once you’ve managed to land a position that allows you to hone your coaching skills, you’ll need to perform. A critical step is getting to know the players you’ll be mentoring. Your job means doing what is best for the program, but it also means doing what is best for your players.


Remember why teaching degrees are valuable to high school coaches. Even if you don’t have one, you are still very much a mentor to teenagers going through a vulnerable time in their lives. Prepare to serve as a father figure.
Extra hours come from handling player problems and staying in touch with parents. You have a hand in making sure they pay attention to schoolwork and stay out of legal trouble, in addition to staying physically and mentally healthy.
 Most of this is up to the head coach, but even if you are not one, you are influential in the lives of the players you manage. It’s important for a coach to be able to minimize the risks that most athletes face, such as tardiness, drugs, or law-breaking, by creating a culture where the concept of a team is powerful but not more than the rest of life.


Football is the biggest, most expensive sport in many high schools. Athletes, including ones disaffected in school, abuse their status or find the additional pressure overwhelming.Ensure that your players know there are serious consequences for misbehaving, including losing their position on the team, but allow enough flexibility that they feel able to be honest with you about their problems.
As a coach, you’ll work with players from a variety of backgrounds. You’ll need to provide all of them with respect, treat them all the same, and find ways to help all of them succeed in high school.
 Head coaches run practice, but all coaches have input. The defense requires different training than running backs, so whatever area you are responsible for is the one you have to learn how to improve.


If you’re working with the defense, for instance, you’ll spend additional time working on strength and tackling instead of running or catching the ball.
 There is a lot you can learn from watching professional football, but all levels of football are different. As an educator, you are expected to be able to take strategies and break them down into pieces that your players can understand and inject into the game. Once you can do this, your team will have more success and you’ll win more games.


Examples of books include The Quick Passing Game and The Bunch Attack by Coverdale and Robinson and Football’s Eagle and Stack Defenses by Ron Vanderlinden.
You are very much a student of the game, and you need to pass your enthusiasm onto the players. This not only inspires them to play for you, but your dedication leaves a lasting impression throughout their lives.

