 There are lots of different styles and designs of Nerf guns, but the basic models are usually the best for modifying, since they're the most common. If you want to get started, getting a basic spring or pump gun will be the cheapest option that will allow you the most variety.You can start master-keying a sniper rifle later. Start small and learn the two basic categories of Nerf weaponry:


Spring guns are activated by an internal spring that is compressed by racking a plastic slide on the back of the gun between every shot. This compresses the spring, which launches the foam dart. The Nerf Maverick is the most commonly modified spring gun.
Pump guns are activated with air pressure created by pumping the gun, much like some water guns work. These guns have a great potential to increase the power and accuracy of shots with some simple mods. The basic pump model is the Big Blast, though this isn't made by Nerf, technically.;
, You don't need to actually do much to make some slight modifications on basic Nerf guns, but you will need a few tools aside from the blaster itself. If you're under 15, it's a good idea to have your parents help you with any tools or cutting that might be necessary. To do the modifications described in the following sections, you'll need:


A hand-saw
Philips head screwdriver
Sandpaper
Dremel drill or metal file
Wire clippers
Replacement parts, if you want to upgrade

, The word Nerf is an acronym that stands for "non-expanding recreational foam," which is made mostly of polyurethane. Each blaster you buy at the store with come with a short supply of Nerf darts, but get real. The little things are easy to lose and too expensive to buy at the store. One of the best basic mods to learn as you're getting started is how to make your own darts and save money. A general method has been developed by Nerf-enthusiasts, and they're usually referred to as "stefans." There are various ways of making stefans, but the simplest is described here. You'll need to complete the mods described below to use them.You will need half-inch foam backer rod to cut the darts. This is also sometimes called "caulk saver" and is available at any home repair store, usually with the winterizing supplies and caulking materials. It should look familiar (it's the same basic material as Nerf darts). The backer rod will usually be curled up in a loop, which means you'll have to straighten it out before you cut it into individual darts. Most people do this by taping them flat, to a table or some other flat surface for about a day and letting it flatten out naturally.
To weight the darts, most people use either BB's or fishing weights. You'll also need scissors and hot glue to make stefans.
Cut the foam rod into two-inch sections and make a tiny hole in one end to insert the BB or the fishing weight. Use a small dab of hot glue and attach the weight, then let it dry.
 Everybody's got their own little tricks and opinions about the best hacks and mods for Nerf guns, and everybody likes different guns. There's no "right" way to do it. The best way to learn is to learn to take apart the gun and see how it works, then start developing your own ideas and mods and trying them out. Check out some other articles about specific mods for specific models below:


Make a homemade Nerf sniper scope
Paint a Nerf gun
Make a Nerf gun shot farther
Easily modify a Nerf Longshot
Mod a Nerf Maverick
Mod a Nerf Recon CS 6
Mod a Nerf Nite Finder

