 Before you can clean and serve a Dungeness crab, it must be cooked. If you have purchased your crabs live, you’ll need to be begin by bringing a large pot of water (enough that the crabs are completely submerged) to a rolling boil., Carefully drop your crabs into the water and allow it to return to a boil. Once it is boiling again, start your timer. You want to boil the crabs for 7-8 minutes per pound., You will be able to tell that your crabs are cooked because their shells should have turned from a blue/grey color to a bright orange hue. Once cooks, pour the pot of water over a colander to drain the crabs.
 After your crabs have been drained, run cool water over them. Do this until they are cool enough to handle with bare hands. If you will be serving them right away, be careful not to make them too cool., Then carefully remove the triangular shaped flap, known as the “apron.” Discard this. If there is liquid inside the crab, drain this now., You can wash the top shell and set it aside, in case you want to use in your presentation., With the crab on your work surface belly side down, carefully pull off the spongy gills and mouth on the front of the crab. Discard these., After you have discarded all the unnecessary parts, hold the body under running water to remove any dark matter or debris. Be careful not to remove any of the meat while doing so., With the crab belly side down, grab it on either side using both of your hands. Using a firm motion, push down on both sides and crack the crab in half., Insert your thumb and forefinger at each leg joint, and twist off each claw and leg. You should remove a bit of the body with each leg. Then, using a mallet, small hammer, or the flat side of a meat tenderizer, crack the legs at each joint., If you will be serving the crab cold, your best choices of sauce include cocktail sauce, fresh lemon wedges, garlic aioli, or Russian dressing. If you’ll be serving your crab hot, instead opt for melted butter, lemon, or garlic butter.If serving cold, chill in refrigerator until ready.
If serving hot, serve immediately or re-steam just before serving.
 If you will be serving just the crab legs, arrange these on individual plates. Include your choice of sauce in a ramekin, a wedge of lemon, and a sprig of parsley on each plate., If you plan to present the whole crab, arrange the legs just as they would appear on a live crab (with the body pieces toward the center). Then place the cleaned top shell (carapace) on top. You can still include sauce, lemon, and parsley.