 If not, most toddlers need to get supplementary nutrients from other sources of milk and food, such as either a formula-based milk, or a cow's milk of some sort (whole milk is best for some smaller children, while others may necessitate the need to use two percent milk). Mother's milk may be best for most of the time while your child was an infant, but now that they've grown up a little, they may need a bit more and extra supplements of other milks may now be necessary to use.;
, While some are still able to be closely held in their mother's arms, some are growing ever so much heavier and may need a little assistance to help them suckle from their mother's breasts effectively now. Either have their doctor weigh them, or try to gauge their weight, when you hold them.


The comparison to most bags of flour, may provide you a good estimate of how much they should weigh before you must allow them not to lay in your arms to suckle your breasts, as like a traditional baby.

Knowing their weight may help provide you an answer as to if they are still able to be properly held the traditional way or not.
 You may need to have them either kneel in front of you or in some other position, but to get them to continue (and still be quite comfy) to breastfeed, they'll still need to get a good latch (which requires the still close-bond between the two of you) on both your breasts' locations.
 Provide a massaging motion with your hands on your breasts, to give your breasts some time to recuperate between suckles.


Although most toddlers know how to burp and can now do it on their own without help, you won't need to help situate them on your shoulder. But you must encourage them to take a break occasionally, just like you were forced into doing when they were an infant/baby.



The only times when her feeding times can take longer is during naptime, nighttime, and waking up nursing sessions.
 Some toddlers may begin to spot activity around and may then become too involved and begin to want to wander off again to join in with the activity.
 Although toddlers need to get used to not belching every few moments, some will still need to release the gas build up inside them, but this will all depend on the age of the child and the length of time for which the child has been closely and effectively suckling at your breast.
 Nothing will have changed, with this part of the process.

