 Coming up with a birth plan is an important part of any pregnancy and a great way to get your partner involved. Whether you choose a natural non-medicated home birth or a plan that includes having a C-section, make sure your partner is involved in all aspects of the process.Try reading a book on birthing plans together. This can give your partner an idea of the different options and provide an opportunity for the two of you to come up with a plan as a couple.
 Involving your partner in the education process is key to getting and keeping them involved in your pregnancy. A childbirth class is a great way to bond and to learn about what to expect during childbirth.Aim for a class that fits into their schedule, as well as yours.
 One way to get your partner more involved with your pregnancy and preparing for the arrival of your bundle if joy is through the naming process. Rather than choosing a name on your own, make it a group decision. Explore names in books and online until you settle on one (or several) that you are both excited about., Chances are your friends, co-workers, or family are planning a baby shower for you and have asked you to create a registry for items you will need. These will include things like a crib and playpen to make your home baby-ready. Involve your partner in picking out items for the registry., Preparing your home for the arrival of an infant can be a time consuming and costly endeavor. Working together as a couple to set a budget and stick to it will involve your partner in the pregnancy as well as help you avoid unexpected arguments over how much to spend on a crib or a changing table.
 An important part of the nesting process will be setting up the nursery. Rather than making all the decorating decisions yourself, involve them in the process. You might be pleasantly surprised with the results!Let your partner assemble the nursery furniture if possible.
 As your due date approaches, there will be lots to do. This includes packing a hospital bag, planning the route to the hospital, and installing the infant car seat. Put your partner in charge of these important tasks! Accomplishing them will help your partner feel more intimately involved in the childbirth process.

