 Add the olive oil to a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute. Add the olives, red pepper flakes, and capers to the pan and cook for 2 minutes. Stir it often. Pour in the cans of tomatoes and juice and stir. Bring to a simmer. Stir in 1/4 cup of the fresh basil. Add salt and pepper to taste. Simmer for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.


To make this sauce less spicy, remove the red pepper flakes.
 Wash and dry the eggplant. Cut off the top and bottom of the eggplant and cut them into long 1/2 inch thick strips.
 Add the flour to a shallow dish. Beat 3 eggs in another shallow dish. Combine the oregano, breadcrumbs, and garlic powder in a third shallow dish. Season each dish with salt and pepper to taste. Place the eggplant and the three dishes near the stove.


Arrange the dishes in the order you prepared them, with the eggplant beside the flour, then the egg and the breadcrumb mixture.
 Pour olive oil 1/4 inch high in a skillet and heat it over medium heat. Take a slice of eggplant and dip it in the flour, covering both sides. Next, cover both sides of the slice in egg. Then, dip the slice into the breadcrumb mixture, coating both sides. Place the slice in the hot oil. Repeat until your skillet it full. Once the eggplant is golden brown on both sides, remove the slices and place them on paper towels to drain. Repeat until all your eggplant is fried.


If you run low on olive oil, add more as necessary.
 Mix the ricotta cheese with 1/2 cup of Parmesan Romano cheese. Add in 1/2 cup of basil, 2 eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir until it is mixed well.
 Before you layer your dish, you need to preheat the oven at 350 degrees. Coat a large casserole dish in butter.
 Spoon a generous amount of the tomato sauce on the bottom of the pan. Layer the eggplant along the bottom of the dish. Take half the ricotta mixture and spread it on top of the eggplant. Spoon another layer of the sauce on top of the ricotta. Sprinkle 1/3 of the mozzarella on top of the sauce. Add another layer of eggplant and the rest of the ricotta. Cover with more sauce and another 1/3 of the mozzarella. Add the last eggplant to the top. Cover it with the rest of the sauce and mozzarella. Cover the whole dish with 3/4 cup of Parmesan Romano cheese.
 Cook the eggplant Parmesan for 1 hour, or until golden on top. Let the dish sit for 20 minutes before you serve.