 Click on the community icon and click My Alliance. Type in an alliance name and tag. The tag will be the flag flying above your castle and your alliance member's castles.;
, The more players that join your alliance, the higher your alliance's rank will be. Click on the castle of the player you want to invite and click Send Alliance Invitation. It will cost you 1 mana. When the player receives the invitation, he will have a choice to either accept or decline your invitation.
 If a player doesn't accept your invitation immediately, he might be considering whether to join your alliance or join another alliance. Sending the player a polite and encouraging message often helps to persuade the player to join.
 At the bottom of the game window, you can broadcast a message for the whole era to see. It will cost you 1 mana. It is a good idea to advertise your alliance to let more people see that you are recruiting players.
 If everybody does whatever they want in your alliance, the alliance will not be strong against intruders. Set rules about what kind of army units to build, what time deadline to set for player inactivity, and what punishments for disobeying orders.
 Make sure that you mark hostile alliances hostile and friendly alliances friendly. If you don't do this, it is very possible that one of your alliance members might attack a friendly alliance by accident.


An alliance tagged red is hostile.
An alliance tagged blue is friendly.
An untagged alliance is neutral. Try to tag them as soon as possible.
An alliance tagged purple is for custom uses. You can use purple to mean a NAP (Non-Aggression Pact) or some other meaning.
 If a player refuses to follow the alliance rules, or isn't active enough, than kick him. If you don't enforce your rules, then your other alliance members will get the impression that you do not keep your word. They might then also do as they please.
 If an alliance member is being attacked, be sure you send enough resources, such as troops to withstand the attack. If you don't have enough resources, create an alliance order for other alliance members to see so they can help also.
 During the game, a player might be attacked while he is off-the-game. In that case, you will need to contact him quickly and tell him to get back in the game! Skype is the best option for this.

