 Use the forklift to move around pallets of beer and many other brewery items.


Ensure that you have enough pallets to use in conjunction with the forklift. Use the pallets to store and move beer and other items.
 Obtain sacks of grain and/or fill grain silos so that enough grain is on hand for the scheduled brews. Also make sure that the malt meets the required specifications. The specifications should be provided by the maltster and can be tested for by the brewery. Specifications include indexes of modification, kernel plumpness, friability (friable grain is easier to mill), protein content as well as free amino nitrogen (FAN) content, enzyme activity or content, and moisture content. There is no one perfect set of specifications, as different types of brewing equipment and methods works best with different types of barley malt. For example, a traditional British 2-row malt works well with a 2-roll mill and an un-stirred infusion mash tun, while American six-row malt can mashed in a stirred mash tun with rice or corn adjuncts. Different types of malt with different degrees of modification, enzyme contents, and so forth are used with different types of equipment to make different types of beer.


Move grain from grain silos with an auger system. This enables grain to be moved through pipes.
 Arrange a contract with a hop supplier in order to secure a steady supply of hops at a certain reasonable price, if possible. Hops can be expensive and in short supply. Make sure that the hops are stored in sealed, airtight containers under refrigeration and that they have the right alpha acid content so that the proper amount of bittering will be contributed to the beer from the hops during boiling. Alpha acids become iso-alpha acids when they are boiled in the sweet wort that is produced during mashing and lautering. Hops may take the form of whole cone hops or pelletized hops. Pelletized hops are more resistant to spoilage or deterioration, and are merely whole cone hops that have been pulverized into a powder and shaped into pellets. Liquid hop extracts that are concentrated sources of alpha acids and, in some instances, already isomerized iso-alpha acids, are also available. Pre-isomerized extracts may be added directly to finished beer, although it is always still necessary to boil the sweet wort when making beer.
 Find a yeast strain from a yeast lab or use your proprietary yeast that will produce the type of beer that you want to brew, and have the proper quantity to pitch into the fermenter. Use absolutely hygienic, aseptic conditions and equipment when handling yeast so that the yeast does not become contaminated with wild yeast, unwanted strains of brewers yeast, or with bacteria. Wyeast Laboratories and White Labs will grow pure yeast strains for breweries as well as store and grow proprietary yeast strains in aseptic facilities. An industry standard for the amount of yeast to be pitched into beer is one million cells per milliliter wort per degree Plato of wort, although exact pitching rates are variable for different types of beer. Degrees Plato can be converted to or derived from specific gravity. Also use a quantity that will enable the yeast to multiply about five times before the fermentable wort sugars are consumed by the yeast. Buy liquid or dry yeast, depending on the sophistication of your brewing facilities. Store or propagate the yeast in a yeast propagator if necessary or desired. Also store yeast in the cooled cones of cylindroconical fermenters or in other vessels that are sanitary, cool, and sealed from incoming air. Be sure to let the CO2 that yeast generates vent out of the vessel so that too much pressure does not accumulate and create an explosive event.
 Start the steam boiler and keep it running so that steam is always available. Breweries require steam for various heating duties. Also have a hot conventional water heater for hot water, which is always required. Also use heated water that is returned from the heat exchanger.


Pipe the steam to the vessel heating jackets and other destinations.
Run the steam condensate back to a condensate reservoir that feeds the boiler. Condensate is a liquid that forms as steam condenses and forms liquid. When steam condenses, it gives up much energy, and therefore transfers heat to the material to be heated.
 Maintain cold glycol or other refrigerant to cool hot wort, maintain fermentation temperatures, and chill beer so that a consistent, quality product is produced. Pipe chilled glycol to cooling jackets and other destinations. Use a glycol tank as a glycol reservoir.
 A supply of carbon dioxide is required for pressurizing tanks, carbonation, and other brewery tasks. Use gas tubing to connect CO2 nozzles.


Pipe the CO2 to output nozzles inside the brewery.
Connect the CO2 to nozzles (often inputs) that are connected to tanks and other equipment.
 Clean hot-side brewery equipment prior to brewing. Clean and sanitize all hoses, pipes, fittings, pumps, heat exchangers, tanks, filters, and other equipment that will contact the cold-side wort and beer. Use caustic soda as a cleaner and chemicals such as peroxyacetic acid for sanitization. Ensure that all caustic and other cleaning chemicals are rinsed from the equipment before adding the sanitizer. Ensure that correct temperatures are used for all chemicals. Sanitize equipment soon before use to limit the chance that contaminating organisms will grow.


Use CIP (cleaning-in-place) for most brewery vessels. Use spray balls, gamma jets, or other CIP technology for cleaning duties whenever possible. CIP devices disperse water, cleaning agents, and sanitizer in closed vessels causing the entire inside surface of the vessel to be cleaned and sanitized. Also use CIP devices to heat and cool vessels with hot and cold water, respectively.
Use a centralized reservoir of cleaning and sanitizer solutions. Pump the solutions to the desired locations.
Use a keg washer to effectively clean and sanitize kegs. Keg washers also purge and fill kegs with carbon dioxide so that the beer that they are filled with does not become oxidized.
 Connect vessels such as the heat exchanger and fermenters with hoses and pipes, and ensure a sanitary connection that is not exposed to the atmosphere. Run cleaning solution and sanitizer through the pipes and hoses while they are connected to the vessels before using them.


Use gaskets between hoses and valves or other fittings to form a sanitary, leak-proof seal.
Keep a supply of hoses and hang them up to keep them clean and dry.
Use sanitary butterfly valves and ball valves for many brewery applications. Direct product and service fluids and gases to desired locations with such valves.


