


Hunting. This will require that the rifle will comply with hunting regulations in your area. Some regulations specify a minimum cartridge power for large game hunting. For instance, a .22 Long Rifle cartridge is not suitable for deer, bear, or elk, whereas in most areas, a .223 Remington, 22-250, or 220 Swift, which are also .22 caliber weapons, would have adequate power for thin-skinned animals such as deer, antelope, or coyote.
Target shooting.

Consider the cost of ammunition. Rimfire cartridges are much less expensive than center fire rounds.
Consider the distance you intend to shoot. For long range shooting, you may select a high velocity, lighter weight bullet, a heavier barrel, and a good scope. Shorter range "plinking" can be done with a semiautomatic rifle and "iron sights."


Self (home) defense. Here, you may choose a semiautomatic rifle with a large magazine, but in some circumstances, a handgun or shotgun is more effective for this application.;
, For an occasional weekend outing to the gun range or other appropriate shooting location, you will not need a high-end rifle that may cost thousands of dollars (U.S.). Select a good, sound rifle within your budget. Don't forget about older rifles including military surplus, which can be perfectly safe and enjoyable for both target shooting and hunting after being inspected by a qualified gunsmith, while offering a very high quality vs. price ratio.
 In many places, owning an "assault" type weapon is illegal in any circumstance, while other jurisdictions may require you to obtain special licenses, registrations, and/or courses on safely handling a firearm. Most, if not all, jurisdictions require a gun owner to be "legal age" (either 18 or 21 years old, depending on where you live).
 You may not want to go to a high-end sporting goods or shooting supply store for your first rifle. Big box stores in many locations sell rifles and other guns at lower prices than specialty stores.
 Very large, heavy rifles may not be suitable for small or petite persons. The rifle should "fit" into your shoulder "pocket" comfortably, and the sight should be easy to see. You may also want to consider the "hand" of the rifle. Some have "left hand" models specifically manufactured for left-handed shooters.
 Talk to the sales person so that you are completely familiar with the weapon you have chosen. This includes:


Loading and unloading.
Bullet caliber, weight, and range.
Features. This includes the safety, sight adjustments, magazine capacities, and other accessories.
 For the first ten rounds or so, you should wet-swab (oil-dampened cotton cloth on a rod) then dry-swab your barrel between every shot. Then for another ten, do it every three rounds. After that, every ten rounds for the next one hundred. Now your rifle's barrel is "broken in" and cleaning it after every time you are out at the range should be easy.
 If safety is ever disregarded, it could end your rifle shooting fun - permanently!


One of the most fundamental firearm safety rules is to keep your muzzle pointed in a safe direction at all times. Always point it downrange or down at the ground. When you are ready to fire, no one should be in front of you, and you should be aware of what you target is, what is behind it, and what is around it.
 This makes it easy to hit, but it allows you to sight in your rifle as the sights may not be exactly where you want them. As you get better, you can increase the distance.



Place the butt of the stock on the inside of the "pocket" of your shoulder (slightly on your pectoral muscle). The support hand should be holding up the front of the rifle, with the elbow bent and pointed down toward the ground. The firing hand should be on the grip just rear of your trigger guard. Never put your finger inside of your trigger guard until you intend to fire. Place your cheek on the stock so you can look down the rifle.
For an un-scoped rifle, focus hard on your front sight, then place the center post in the middle of the intended target. For a scoped rifle, the center of the crosshairs should be on the center of the target.
 Slowly take deep breaths and exhale. Focus on your front sight (or your reticle) and attempt to keep the rifle as steady as possible. Exhale most of the air from your lungs; you want to be in a completely relaxed state (do not force the air out of your lungs; just let it flow out slowly).
 The slower you do it, the better. Eventually you will hear a "click" (remember, you are unloaded right now). Cycle the action, then repeat the process a few times. Dry-practice is never something you stop doing; even world-class firearms shooters dry-practice!

, Load a magazine or en-bloc system (alternatively, most rifles allow you to load a round directly into your chamber). Repeat the process above (the dry-run), remembering to relax your body, lower your heart rate, and slowly apply pressure to your trigger.
 Firing while prone (laying down) is often the best way to be accurate (aside from bench resting). Try it out - all the same rules apply. Remain relaxed and comfortable; you will find that while crouching or prone, the sway of the gun is minimized.
 Take a few steps back and challenge yourself; that is the only way you will get better.


Most shooters cut their groupings in half (are twice as accurate) the second time they go out shooting, and again the third time. You will find that if you keep up on your practice, and you continually challenge yourself to new levels of marksmanship, you will be better every time you are at the range!

, The barrel is the most important part of an accurate rifle, so wet-swab the barrel with clean swabs until they come out of the barrel clean. While the barrel is important for accuracy, the receiver is important for reliability. Refer to either the rifle's manual or an experienced shooter to tell you how to best clean the receiver. Remember to clean your weapon before and after every shooting exercise.
 Be vigilant to store your firearms and ammunition in a safe place that is inaccessible to children or pets. Teach your children to respect the power of a firearm.
