 This is a simple way to get an easy, naturally flattering hairstyle. When you air drying your hair, you accentuate its natural texture and shape. Letting your hair air dry also protects it from the damaging heat of a blow dryer.If you have naturally curly or wavy hair, try putting some type of curling gel or mousse in your hair before it dries. This will help boost your hair's natural curls. Flip your hair upside down, and gently scrunch your hair with your fingers to shape the curls.
If you have naturally straight hair, give anti-frizz serum or sleek cream a shot. Use your fingers to gently break up tangles and smooth any errant wavy strands.
If you have long hair, try using salt infused sprays in damp hair to give your hair waves that say, "hello.", Ponytails are an easy style that still looks great with just about any outfit. All you need to make a ponytail is a hair tie and maybe a few bobby pins. Gather your hair together toward the top of the back of your head, creating a "tail," and then fasten it with a hair tie.
 Pull your hair low and to the side so it hangs over your shoulder, and secure it with a hair tie. This side ponytail is a chic style that looks good with casual or dress clothes, so it's good for both a day out with friends or your workplace. If you want to hide the hair tie fastening your 'tail, wrap a strand of your hair around it and tuck the strand into the elastic.


Create a volume ponytail by back combing your hair at the crown. Start near the back, and comb it in 1-inch segments as you make your way towards the front. Brush your hair into the ponytail shape, secure tightly with a hair tie, and then push on the pony tail to adjust your hair volume. Wrap a strand of hair around the hair tie to cover it. , A bun is a great, easy style that looks polished without you having to put in a lot of effort. You can wear this versatile style out shopping, to a dinner party, to work, or on a date. Don't forget how awesome it will look when you release your ultra-long hair from its bun.


Make a quick bun by starting with your hair in a ponytail and wrapping the hair around its base. Secure the coiled hair with bobby pins.
For a messy bun, straighten your hair by coming your fingers through it. Twist and wrap your hair without securing it into a ponytail, and then place a hair tie over it to hold it. You can also secure a messy bun it with bobby pins instead of a hair tie.
 Braided hair is awesome in that it's perfect for bad hair days or when you're pressed for time. By separating your hair into three strands and crossing them until you get to the end of your hair, you can transform a messy hairdo into something more sophisticated.


A traditional braid can be made by pulling your hair into a ponytail and securing it with a hair tie before dividing it into three strands. Cross your left strand over the middle so that it becomes the new middle section, then cross the right strand over the new middle strand, repeating this motion until the braid is complete.The loose end of your braid can be fastened with a hair tie.
If you want something a little more complicated, try French braids, fishtail braids, or Dutch braids.
 Sleek styles, where every hair is perfectly cemented into place, combed, and tidy might not be the kind of awesome style you're looking for. Trends in hairstyle change over time, and with a little product, the artfully unkempt look could be your winner. This style is also ideal for those days when you roll out of bed and don't have time to fix your hair. Brush your hair to make sure it is untangled, and then:Use a volumizing powder or mousse to give your hair some lift. If you decide on mousse, avoid putting too much in. Focus on the roots and apply just enough to give your hair a little extra volume. To add even more volume, use your fingers to scrunch hair towards the roots.
Run some styling cream through your hair, and comb it with your fingers. Style it like you would any hairstyle. Align your part as necessary and finger comb any areas that have become knotted. This should give you a messy-chic look.Running your fingers through your hair will help keep it tangle free, but avoid using a brush or comb. These can ruin the bedhead look.
You can take this messy look and then add other styles on top of it. Try a messy: braid, French braid, side ponytail, volume ponytail, half-up do.