 No matter whether you're using a gas or charcoal grill, aluminum foil is your friend in a pinch. It's easy to improvise a grilling pan from a single large sheet of aluminum foil — simply fold the sheet in half over itself (to give it added thickness), then fold the edges up an inch or so so that they'll hold in grease from the bacon's fat. Lay the bacon strips directly into this "pan" and turn as normal during the cooking process. When the bacon is done, remove it from the pan and into a paper towel-lined plate. Carefully remove and dispose of the foil once the grill has cooled.


Note that using an aluminum foil "dish" makes it less necessary to offset your coal pile in a charcoal grill. Since the rendered fat isn't falling directly into the grill unless the aluminum tears, you have the option to cook directly over the coals. Note, though, that this can give faster cooking times.
 When buying bacon specifically for grilling, look for the thickest cut you can find. Thick slices of bacon are easier to handle on the grill, as thinner slices pose a risk of breaking in half, falling through the grates, or burning onto them. This quality is especially important because grill cooking usually requires using a pair of tongs for handling the meat, which can make it difficult to keep a hold on to slippery pieces of uncooked bacon.
 Bacon is unique among meats in that it tastes perfectly delicious without any seasoning at all (beyond the ingredients used to cure it, of course). However, this doesn't mean you can't spice it up! By seasoning your bacon before cooking with your favorite ingredients or spices, you can give it delicious new flavor and increase its versatility in a huge variety of dishes. Here are just a few examples of seasonings that work well with bacon — simply sprinkle these directly on the bacon right before cooking:


RosemaryRed pepper flakes
Minced garlic
Cajun seasoning
Black pepper
Steak seasoning
Brown sugar

, Grilling bacon on its own is fine and dandy, but why stop there? Below are just a few basic barbecue dishes that use bacon or can easily be made to accommodate it — feel free to add bacon to any other dishes you know as well:Bacon-wrapped asparagus stalks
Bacon-wrapped chicken
Bacon cheeseburgers
Barbecue beans
Chili
Roasts (pork, beef, venison, turkey, etc.)

