 If you have young children, they will usually be happy making simple crafts like paper chains. Keep them occupied by challenging them to create new masterpieces or asking them to decorate something for you. Only let them do things that you trust them to do alone, or have an older child help them and watch over them if you can't be in the same room at all times.


If there is a holiday coming up (big or small), give your kids some colorful paper and markers and ask them to make holiday-themed cards or decorations.
Find something that could use some embellishment and ask them to decorate it. You can buy plain items like picture frames, t-shirts, birdhouses, or plaques at a crafts store, or you can find something around the house that could use a creative touch.
You can use lots of ordinary household items as arts and crafts supplies. For example, have your kids make snowflakes out of paper plates, let them use old socks to make hand puppets, or task them with creating some creatures out of materials like empty tissue boxes, toilet paper rolls, and paper cups. You can also give them old magazines to make a collage.;
, If your children are young, give them some coloring books or blank paper, provide them with lots of felt tip pens or crayons, and let them draw or color. If you don't mind them getting things messy, painting, either with brushes or with their fingers, is a great way for your kids to express themselves.


Be sure to stick any of their creations on the fridge or a wall afterwards to show them that you are proud of what they have done.
You can also give them some Play-Doh, along with lots of plastic cutters, and let them sculpt something.
 If your children like to dance, put on their favorite music and encourage them to make up their own dance moves.


They could play Musical Statues, where they dance until the music stops. Get an older child to put on some music and operate the stereo/CD player. Musical Chairs is also a good choice.
Try telling them to make up a dance routine that they can perform for you when you have finished cleaning or doing whatever you have to do.
 If your children are old enough, have them write down their stories or plays. If they are not old enough to write, you can write them down or ask an older child to write them down for them.


You can incorporate an arts and crafts aspect into this activity by having children illustrate their stories or create puppets or costumes for a later performance.
If your kids are having a hard time thinking of a story, ask them to make up a sequel or prequel to a story they already know. You can also try providing them with the first few sentences and then ask them to expand upon your story.
You can also have kids work together by each telling a small part of the story, building off of what the others have already said.