 Hitting rock bottom can be the moment at which you finally accept that what you have been doing to this point simply isn't working and to try doing the same things again would be madness. This time, you have little choice but to make changes. This is a good thing though, as it is the start of progress in the right direction, a new direction.;
, During the stages leading up to hitting rock bottom, it's common to cling to what you know best, to try and keep and make survive all that which you have striven to be, obtain and make. The sudden jolt of everything no longer working out for you is a clarion call to transformation. You no longer have to divert all those energies into making the unworkable work––you can now instead concentrate on transforming yourself and trying something completely new and different with your life.
 It's fear and the voices of the past and the expectations of the people you carry around in your head. Hitting rock bottom shows you that trying to match up to those imagined fears and expectations didn't exactly help now, did they? So, let go and feel the fear but do it anyway, as the infamous and late Susan Jeffers always used to say.
 Having been to the bottom of the chasm, the only way left is... up. And laughter helps to raise you, to give you a sense of joy long robbed from you during the descent. Finding your sense of humor again is a sign of becoming more human again and seeing that despite the dire things that have happened to you, you can find the lighter side to it and help yourself to recover.


Notice the little things. Having gratitude for the natural wonders around you, the inquisitiveness of children and the friendliness of animals are just some of the things that can bring a smile, even in the midst of hardship.
 Make building a new life your new mission. What will it be? That's for you to decide, the go about it as best you can. Consider writing a plan with goals to reach, simple and truly doable goals, not lofty and nonsensical ones. Such realistic and wholesome goals as getting a roof you own back over your head, starting your own tiny business that brings in a living wage and keeping the kids well educated.
 Don't be too proud but most of all, realize that it's absolutely okay to seek help and it is not a sign of weakness. Human beings are social beings, bound to one another and in need of making connections to thrive. Enough people care out there to lend a helping hand, offer advice, mentor you, shelter you and even feed you in times of need. Just be sure to give back what you can by way of respect, delivery on promises, reliability and friendship.
 Time is a resource few have much of. Even if you do not have gainful employment, behave as though you do and treat your job-hunting, business planning and re-nesting as seriously as going to work every day. If you do have a job, take care not to use it as a crutch for not working through the other issues that caused you to hit rock bottom. Seek balance in all things and use that time you have wisely.


Spend more time with friends and family if you haven't been doing so. Their love and support will be a source of comfort.
 As you follow your new goals and hopes, take stock now and then to ensure that you're still going in the way you wish to go and to be certain that you're not repeating some of the mistakes made in the past that caused you to hit rock bottom.

