 Shake the interviewer's hand and smile. A firm handshake indicates confidence and self-assuredness. Coupled with a smile, you'll give off a positive, make-the-company-better attitude.


Smile as genuinely as possible. A fake smile can be detected from a mile away. Think about how happy you are to have obtained the interview and how great it would be get started working there.
 This is absolutely vital. If you shy away from connecting, the interviewer may feel awkward and sense that you're not in it to win it.


If you appear too nervous, the interviewer might draw the wrong conclusions about your ability to do the job – especially if it involves interacting with people. Maintaining eye contact is a surefire way of conveying confidence and proving that you're the right person for the job.
 This is the part that will go easiest if you've done a bit of practicing. Sell yourself. Talk about your skills and experiences. Come prepared with answers to typical questions ("Why would our team be better if you were a part of it? How have you handled obstacles at previous employers?) and a few questions yourself to seem engaged and dedicated.


In general, follow where the interviewer leads the meeting. However, if they mention something that spawns a question in your mind, don't hesitate to ask. It may make you seem interested, thoughtful, and clearly indicate that you're actively listening.Don't be shy to ask what you want to know! Asking about the position, the requirements, and the expectations will voice your interest and let you know what you're getting into.
 Even if you're saying all the right things, your body language can be a dead giveaway that you don't believe what you're saying or that you're just plain uncomfortable.


Keep your arms uncrossed. Keep your head high and face your interviewer. You want to seem open, approachable, and confident. Mirroring their body language will make them unconsciously pick up on your "familiarity," making them comfortable and like you., The more you can stay calm, the more you can be yourself. You'll be able to be funny, smart, and likeable. If you're nervous and shy, the interviewer will be hesitant to view you as competent. Coming prepared is the easiest way to relax.


Practicing the night before, picking an outfit, knowing where the location is, doing your research, and coming up with questions will put you at ease. Do whatever it is that will make you feel comfortable, ensuring a successful interview.
 Though it may not be explicitly said, it may be a good idea to come with documents in hand. This will show your forward-thinking and professionalism. Grab a folder and be as organized as possible.


Consider bringing references, another copy of your resume, citizenship documents (if applicable), or portfolio of your work. Make sure they're neat and not covered in coffee stains!

