 Even within the same class and fare, some seats are far superior to others. Consider an aisle or exit row seat for leg room, or a window if you want to sleep. Try to avoid seats near the toilets/lavatories, as other passengers will be accessing these regularly. It is common on long-haul flights for there to be lines, and people walking to or from the toilets may bump or knock your seat. Also keep in mind that the noise and light that escapes when the door is opened may be disturbing, particularly when trying to sleep.


However, remember to never choose an exit row seat if you will have an infant or small child with you.;
, Take a travel pillow or head restraint, and try to avoid using the inflatable ones unless you know you will be comfortable.
 Usually, movies don't start for some time, and the built-in music/movie selection can be quite poor, so take an iPod (the night before you go away try to download some of the latest songs or movies as it will be more entertainment than the old movies you already have), iPhone, iPad, Game Boy, Nintendo D.S, or CD player. You could also take a new book that you like or portable game.
 Pick out some new magazines at the airport before you leave, it is a fun way to start your trip.
 It is very useful to help let time pass by.  But be careful - this can be VERY expensive!!

, The headphones, usually available on the plane (whether for purchase or for free) are usually of poor quality. Noise-canceling headphones and in-ear headphones are great if you have them, and can help block out engine noise.
 One backpack is fine for the plane, and it is easier to find a place in the overhead bins or under the seat for a small backpack than for a larger roller bag.
 If someone is meeting you there, and your neighbors in-flight, will be glad you did.
 On some airlines, plane food is quite poor. Check airlinemeals.net before and look through the reviews and decide if you should buy food before the flight.
 Many airlines offer vegetarian, Kosher, Halal and other "special" meals if you order up to two or three days in advance. And because the airlines have to specially prepare your meal, it is usually better than the standard food fare. Plus, passengers with special meal requests are almost always served first. If your airline doesn't offer a free meal, be sure to bring your own or buy one at the airport.
 Protein bars are particularly helpful if on a long-flight. Most airline meals tend to be low in protein and high in carbohydrates.
 This is especially important on longer flights, to prevent your body from aching due to poor circulation. Some airlines provide guidance on in-seat exercises you can do (such as circling ankles and stretching arms). The long mid-flight stretch on overnight flights is an excellent time to take a stroll up and down the aisle a few times. There is usually room to do some back stretches at the back of some of the cabins.
 Certain aircraft, such as the Boeing 747 series, have a large area behind the last row of seat in the back of the aircraft that give you plenty of space to stretch.


However, do not sit in the absolute rear of the plane. There will undoubtedly be noises and smells from people using the bathrooms and other areas in the plane's rear. Also, these seats might not recline.
 These are designed to help with body circulation and reduce fatigue. If your flight does not include such a video, you can still do your own stretches and exercises.
 The air in a plane is very dry and may dehydrate your system.



Drink plenty of water. Although you can request water from your flight attendants, it is a good idea to take plenty of water on board with you. You may either purchase bottled water once you pass security or bring an empty bottle with you to fill from a water fountain. Remember that you should never drink the water from airplane bathrooms; it may contain bacteria.
Use eye drops (eye drops may now be carried through security) whenever your eyes feel dry. If you are really uncomfortable, don't hesitate to inform cabin crew.
Consider saline nasal gel if your nostrils feel uncomfortable breathing dry air. Saline nasal gel, which can usually be found near the saline nasal wash at a drugstore, can help keep the inside of your nose moist and make breathing more comfortable. Apply in the restroom and wash your hands before and after. You can put it on a cotton swab and coat the inner 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of your nasal passages. It may seem gross, but it really works for preventing your nose from painfully drying out.
Take lip balm in a 3 oz or smaller container and use it to protect your lips from becoming painfully dry. Take a small container of hand lotion or cocoa butter if your skin dries easily.
 You can't do anything about it and the flight will feel a lot longer if you keep looking at the time. Don't check your watch regularly and avoid looking at the in-flight map showing the current position of the plane.
 If you brought a pillow, put it on the tray in front of you and rest on that. If you have a window seat, leaning against the wall or window can be much more comfortable than leaning back. Recline your seat as far as possible to make leaning back more comfortable.