 If you do not have enough wood, make sure you stock up 275 wood, and then build the town center. Building more town centers is extremely important to your civilization as you can create more villagers using both town centers. Town centers, along with the 275 wood, also cost 100 stone. If you need to, trade resources in the market. In the Castle Age, you'll want to build 2 to 3 more town centers for optimal growth.



Create more villagers from your town center. In order to continue with the steady flow of villager creation, you'll need to remember to frequently build houses with your lumberjacks. New villagers should be allocated evenly to food, wood, and gold, but it is important to have about 8 villagers on stone.
 This costs 125 food and wood, so you may have to wait a while before researching. Additionally, as you get more wood, you'll want to reseed farms using the queue in the mill.
There are other technologies that can be researched. Examples include Bow Saw, Gold Mining, and Wheelbarrow. Remember when you are researching Wheelbarrow, it is common sense to make sure the other town center(s) keep on creating more villagers.
 Universities have useful technologies, both related to the economy and military. When you have 650 stone, build a castle using four villagers from stone mining. If 650 stone is too far out, especially if you are getting rushed, a monastery may be built (or a castle age military building), fulfilling the two Castle Age buildings requirement.

Keep building more farms with your newly created villagers. Reseeding is important, as manually reseeding is annoying and, when you're micromanaging your military during rushes or simply all-out attacks, very frustrating. The town centers being created should prevent you from having to build another mill.


Unlike the mills, more lumber camps should be built. This is especially important in the castle age, as rushers will target lumberjacks that are normally found outside the town center vicinity (when you garrison, the lumberjacks will not head to the town center). Lumber camps should also be built because forests will be cut down, and new lumber camps will decrease the walking time that is gradually being increased.

Villagers should be allocated to mining gold. Thus, more mining camps should be built. If you are not steadily allocating villagers to mine gold, then the 800 gold requirement suddenly becomes a much harder target. The allocation to mining gold is especially important in the Castle Age because that is when you should be developing your military. Most military units will cost gold (for some civilizations, it is even more critical as their militaries are expensive). Mining stone is a much lesser priority as stone is primarily only used for towers, town centers, castles, walls, and Murder Holes.
 The relics, which can only be picked up by monks, provides a constant stream of gold to your economy and is an excellent source of gold when there is a lack of it (and when trading in the market becomes very inefficient).
 The farther away their market is away from yours, the more gold the cart gets per round trip. Additionally, researching Caravan doubles the speed of the carts. Beware that these carts are highly vulnerable to attack by cavalry units.


The population will vary once you research the Imperial Age. As the game continues, more and more of your resources will be used for military units, upgrades, and technologies, and less on the economics. Keep in mind that your population should still be increasing during Imperial research.
 The time when you click the research button will vary. Assuming you are not rushing and building a military (which you should be doing, except in the wonder race mode), your goal is 25:00. Ideally, you'll want to use your very first town center to research as the land around it will have been developed. During the Imperial Age research, you can research Handcart from another town center (Wheelbarrow is prerequisite).


Often times, you will ignore your population limit. One villager should frequently be building houses as the game progresses (not necessarily the same villager, however).

