 If there is an earthquake, you may lose power and cell service, access to clean water, food, and medication. Putting together a survival kit will ensure your family has their basic needs covered should anything happen.For your home, try to have enough supplies for up to 2 weeks. This means 1 gallon of water per person for each day, non-perishable foods (and a can opener if they are in cans), medications for each day, bottles and diapers for babies, and hygiene products.Vehicle survival kits should include maps, jumper cables, enough water for at least 3 days (1 gallon per person), non-perishable foods, blankets, flashlights.Don't forget your pets! Make sure you have water, food, bowls, medication, a leash and collar or carrier for your furry friends.Check out a more extensive list of items on the Red Cross website or .
 One of the biggest dangers of an earthquake is unstable buildings and the things inside the buildings that can fall and crush you.Anchoring heavy furniture to the wall will make your home much safer if there is an earthquake.


Bookshelves, wardrobes, armoires, hutches, and china cabinets are all examples of furniture that should be bolted to the wall.Mirrors and flat screen TVs should also be secured to the wall so that they can't fall off and shatter. Don't hang them over couches or beds., Contrary to popular belief, a door frame is not the safest place to be in an earthquake. You want to drop to your knees so the quake doesn't knock you over. Cover the back of your head and neck with your arms. Or, if you can safely crawl under a solid table or desk, do so and then hold on to one of the legs so you move along with it.You may only have a few seconds to act, and practicing will allow you to react faster.If there is no cover, try to get to an inside corner of the room and get low to the ground.If you are outdoors, try to get to an open area away from buildings, live wires, and other things that might fall on you, and drop, cover, and hold on.If you are in a city, it may be safer to go inside and find cover.If you are in a vehicle, get out from under any bridges or overpasses. Stay in the car and come to a stop as soon as possible, avoiding buildings, trees, or wires that might fall on your car., Agree upon where you will meet if there is an emergency. Learn important phone numbers (like your parents work and cell phone numbers).Choose a person who lives in another town or state as a contact. It is sometimes easier to reach someone who is not in the disaster area. If you are separated from your family, this person can relay your location and that you are safe.