 The idea of independent music is the artist being autonomous, or they own their rights directly and just about all of their sales go directly to them. Indie is also a genre of music in itself, as it is a more "artistic version of rock." This makes it so the genre itself, and any independent labels are widely diverse in countless ways.;
, If you don't know where to find an Indie album. Just go to any store and ask about that genre, or just go rooting around through the Pop/Rock section. There's also TONS of indie music on streaming services like Rhapsody, and Spotify. You can buy directly from the artists at places like Bandcamp, Soundcloud, etc. One of the most popular places for any indie, or independent music is on the iTunes store.
 This is the most important step. But right now, don't sit there and over-analyze it, that ruins the review before you've even started it. When you hear pop music on the radio, most people don't immediately look to see if a certain instrument was being played well, or if the vocalist sounds like they were half awake or not. Listen to it as casually as you can, relax, open a book, or drink a coffee. This is that special one on one time you get with it.
 This is the bread and butter to writing the review, this is where you get to pick at those little things. First, listen to each track one by one, and form an opinion based off of that.
 Second, analyze those songs by listening to them again, this time think of a certain thing that you'll be listening to, or listening for.
 You don't necessarily have to speak, but the idea is to get your thoughts out there, either to yourself or a friend, because this will ingrain your opinion of the album in your head. It sounds odd, but it really helps to commit oath to memory instead of winging it trying to remember the whole thing.
 Yeah! This is the moment of truth, this is where you sit down and right down a detailed (or not detailed) opinion piece on the album. Always be sure to mention the artist's name, album name, and if you're talking about specifics parts of songs, them too. Be prepared to spend anywhere from 30 minutes to a few hours writing it up, however long it takes to finish it.
 The last step. This is where you do the fun bit of putting your thoughts out there for curious others to see, or in most cases now, enraging the people who are very fond of it and want to complain about a certain tidbit that you said. If you're looking for a good site. I suggest Blogger. But there's also Wordpress, Tumblr, even Google+. There's a plethora of places, just pick one that's best for you.

