 To make a fan fold, you will need a pressed square napkin, a flat surface to work on, and either a glass or plate. You can either place the finished fan fold on a dinner plate, or in an empty glass.

You can use either cloth or paper napkins, though cloth will look more elegant and refined. Cloth napkins are also reusable so you can continue to use them for other special occasions.;
, The bigger the napkin, the larger your fan will be. Smooth the napkin out by hand so there aren’t any wrinkles., The napkin should now be a rectangle.


Orient the open half where the two edges meet towards you.
 Starting on one end, take approximately two inches of fabric and fold it in towards the center. You will continue folding the napkin like an accordion, taking two inches of fabric and folding it towards the center of the napkin.Stop folding when you have approximately four inches of unfolded napkin left.
 Now, fold the napkin in half horizontally bringing the two bottom edges of the fan together. Your fan should now be folded in half with the extra four inches of unfolded napkin hanging on the inside fold of the fan.


If the unfolded napkin is on the outside of the fan, unfold the fan and refold it the opposite way.
 Take the unfolded corners that are part of the four inches of unfolded napkin section. Tuck the top corners unfolded napkin section into where the two halves of the fan meet. This will make a triangular edge along the unfolded section.


Make sure to tuck it securely to make a sturdy base.
 Let the napkin fan out into a semi-circle. The base that you’ve created from folding the unfolded corners of the napkin will act as a base to keep your napkin fan standing.Be aware that this fan is delicate. The fan may fall and unfold if you try to move the dinner plate that it is resting on.
 You can use the same basic technique of the standing fold to create a fan that can be placed inside of a glass. Rather than leaving four unfolded inches, fold the entire napkin like an accordion.Now that the napkin is fully folded, take one end of the fan and fold approximately one inch over. Allow the fan to open up.
Place the folded end of the fan into your glass and spread the rest of the fan out. This technique is called the goblet fan.

