 If you are changing the way your family eats, don’t do it all at once. Instead, make gradual changes so that everyone gets used to your new way of eating. Simple changes go a long way. Pace out your nutrition goals until your family is eating healthier.For example, you may want to incorporate more vegetables, reduce sugars, reduce refined carbs, switch to low-fat cuts of meat, and eliminate unnecessary snack foods. Instead of doing all of this in one week, do a few things at a time.
Try incorporating one more vegetable and fruit each day. Buy one less box of snack foods. Make one less serving of bread. Cut out one junk food full of sugar. Increase the frequency of these small steps until your family has hit your nutrition goals.
 Teaching your child how to eat healthy means involving them in your family’s meal and snack planning. Ask them to choose meals for your weekly menu and suggest snacks. This helps them learn how to make good choices and makes them feel like they have a say in the family’s food choice.For example, once a week, you can sit down with your child to talk about the menu. Ask them, “What meals would you like for breakfast, lunch, or dinner this week? What about snacks?”
If they suggest unhealthy options, discuss healthier options. For example, you can say, “Instead of french fries with our hamburgers, why don’t we eat kale chips, sweet potato medallions, or a fun colorful salad?”
You can discuss healthier substitutions with your child if they are old enough. For example, if they want pasta, talk about choosing whole wheat, rice, or quinoa pasta instead of white pasta. You can suggest pasta alternatives, like spaghetti squash or zucchini. Explain how hamburgers will be made from low-fat grass-fed beef, like 93/7, or hot dogs will be natural versions containing no nitrates.
 Get your child involved in the food choices by letting them help buy groceries. Encourage your kids to choose vegetables and fruits they want to eat, along with lean meats or healthy grains. Use the time to teach your children about choosing healthy food items and the importance of reading food labels.Let your children pick recipes and help shop for the ingredients.
Use your grocery store visit to talk about healthy food options and the importance of healthy eating.
 There are foods in each food groups that everyone dislikes. Ask your child’s opinions about the foods you are eating. If they really hate carrots but love green beans, cook green beans more often and don’t force them to eat carrots. Fix a wide variety of vegetables, fruits, meats, and grains so everyone in your home can find foods they like.Try fixing vegetables and meats different ways. For example, your child may like sauteed green beans with pecans but hate them boiled. They may not like cauliflower that’s been boiled or roasted, but they like mashed cauliflower or cauliflower in a casserole.

