 There are several disabilities that may make your child eligible for an IEP. If your child has already been diagnosed with a disability, then you can use this diagnosis as a reason why an IEP is necessary. Some disabilities that may qualify your child for an IEP include:learning disabilities
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
emotional disorders
cognitive challenges
autism
hearing, vision, or speech impairment
developmental delays;
, To get the IEP process started, you will need to schedule a conference with your child’s teacher. During this meeting, you can express your concerns about the challenges your child has been having with school.Keep in mind that your child’s teacher may or may not be aware of your child’s struggles. You might start by saying something like, “I am not sure if you have noticed anything unusual in the classroom, but here’s what I have noticed at home…”
Your child’s teacher may also recommend a conference that includes your child, an observation of your child, and an evaluation of school work that your child has produced.
 If you have concerns about your child’s performance in school and you think he or she would benefit from an IEP, then you can request to have your child assessed. There is no cost to have your child assessed. Your child will be assessed by specialists in the school system, which may include a:psychologist
physical therapist and/or occupational therapist
speech therapist
vision or hearing specialist
special education teacher
any other specialists who may be able to evaluate your child’s needs

, You have the right to take your child for an Independent Educational Evaluation (IEE) if you do not agree with the findings of your child’s evaluation. The person who evaluates your child can request that the school system pay for the evaluation.Do not hesitate to get a second opinion if you think that the school’s assessment is incorrect. For example, if you disagree with the school’s assessment of your child’s hearing abilities, then you could take your child to a hearing specialist for a second opinion.
 You have the right to add other members to your child’s IEP planning team if you choose to do so. This may include a specialist who has worked with your child or someone who works with your child outside of school, such as a coach. You can also hire an attorney to serve as an advocate for you and your child during the IEP planning process.If you cannot afford an attorney, then the school system can provide one for you.
 All members of the IEP planning team are required to attend the IEP planning meeting. You are a member of this team, so you are entitled to attend the meeting.


Keep in mind that your input is quite valuable since your know your child best. Speak up if you disagree with something someone says or if you have ideas about what would be the most helpful measures for your child.
You have the right to have the meeting recorded if you provide written notice at least 24 hours before the meeting. You can provide this request to your child’s school principal or to the special education chairperson.Be sure to ask questions and express your concerns during the IEP meeting as well. For example, if something does not make sense to you, then you might say something like, “I am not sure that I understand what that means. Can you please clarify it for me?”

, After the IEP has been drawn up, you are entitled to receive a paper copy of the plan. Make sure that you request on if you do not receive one within a week of the meeting.


If you disagree with any aspect of the IEP, then you can also request mediation or a hearing. You can hire your own attorney for this process or ask to have one appointed to you if you cannot afford an attorney., To ensure that the IEP is providing the maximum benefit to your child, it is important for him or her to be reevaluated at least once every three years. This reevaluation will also identify whether your child still has the disability or if it has improved or become more severe.Depending on the findings of the “triennial” reevaluation, your child’s IEP may need to be adjusted.

