 The first step in addressing your concerns is to talk to your roommate. Set aside some time that works well for the both of you so that you can have an open and honest conversation. Don’t hold back in expressing how you feel; your roommate should know how this is affecting you. See if your roommate is willing to develop a plan to help keep their abuser away and out of your home.Talk in your own home and limit distractions, like music or TV.;
, You may be upset and feel like your roommate put both of you in danger, but keep in mind that the last thing they need is to feel attacked. Being accusatory or angry will not lead to a productive conversation. Your roommate may have an overwhelming fear for their own safety, as well as feelings of guilt, shame, worthlessness, and embarrassment. This is a complicated situation, and your roommate will surely have mixed emotions. They may love the person, but hate the abusive behavior. When you speak to your roommate, do your best to be empathetic and supportive.


Listen carefully to your roommate during this discussion. Tell your roommate that you will help them make a safety plan and strategize how to keep the person out of the house.
Understand your roommate may deny that their partner is abusive or be defensive at first. Try not to take this personally, but do make it clear that you feel unsafe in your own home and something will have to change.
 Begin brainstorming on ways to keep your home abuser-free. If your roommate is resistant to this idea, tell them that you cannot live in a space where there is violence. You can say something like “I know you still love this person but I can’t continue to be your roommate if they have a way to get into our home. Their behavior scares me and I can’t live in this environment.”, There are several ways to help assure that their abuser is unable to access your home, including installing a home alarm system or having your roommate file a restraining order against them. Discuss these options with your roommate and see if you can come up with solutions to help the both of you feel safe., If you feel that living with your current roommate is not worth the stress attached to the situation, consider moving elsewhere. You might want to live alone during your next living situation or perhaps move in with another friend. Either way, remember that this is an option. Though you don’t want your roommate to be in danger, remember that it is also your job to protect yourself.
 A very important and simple way to keep your roommate’s abusive partner out is by utilizing your windows and peephole before ever opening the door. Though many a knock could come from a friendly visitor or neighbor, you should still be very cautious and alert before opening the door.


If the person at the door has on a hood or you cannot make out their face, ask them to remove their hood or look directly into the peephole so you can see them.
 Another way to maintain your safety is by keeping your doors and windows locked, including your car doors. Ensure that all of your doors and windows are locked at all times, even if you are home or feel that your neighborhood is safe.You may even want to install bars on the windows.


Lock the doors every time you enter and exit your house.
Check the locks before you go to sleep at night.
If you come home and the locks appear to be broken, do not enter the house. Call the police immediately.
 Having the locks changed at your place is a step you should take immediately if your roommate’s abuser has a key. Locked doors and windows are useless if they can be opened by the abuser. If you live in an apartment or other rental property, talk to your landlord about having the locks changed.
Do not keep an extra key outside under the welcome mat or outside in general.
Before you go to sleep at night, make sure the doors are all locked.
 Alarm systems are a great way to have greater peace of mind in your home, both while you are away and while you are home. If the abuser comes in while the alarm is enabled, you will be alerted via a siren and the police will be called, as well.Select a code for the alarm that won’t be easy to guess and that the abuser has no knowledge of. For instance, don't choose your roommate's birthday as the code, as the abuser may be able to guess that.

Install motion detection lights. If someone should walk outside of your home, a light will come on, alerting you to their presence.
 You may feel nervous to leave your home unattended if you fear that your roommate’s abuser may come in without your knowledge. Though a home security system can certainly alleviate some of those fears, another option is to install security cameras or use free apps like Alfred to record your home.


With Alfred, you simply download the app, place an old cell phone near an entrance in your home, and you can subsequently watch your home from your own smartphone. The software has motion detection software so you are alerted any time someone enters your home.
You can also install more sophisticated camera systems, but these will likely be expensive.
 Neighbors might be the first people who notice if something is not right with or around your home. Take some time to get to know the neighbors around so that they can keep an eye out for your home., Dogs can sometimes sense danger well before their owners. Often times, before someone even knocks on the door, they are aware of their presence outside. They can alert you so that you are ready should an unexpected guest arrives. In addition, if the abuser finds their way in, many dogs will attack, which will give you time to get out and call the police., Try to avoid leaving for work at the same time every day and coming home via the same route. The abuser may be watching your patterns just as they may be watching your roommate’s.Avoid going to the same restaurants, bars, or stores as well, particularly if you typically go on certain days.
 Should the abuser show up at the home you share with your roommate, call the police. Even if your roommate objects to you doing so, you must remember that it is your right to live in a violence-free home, especially if you are paying rent. Alert the police to this potential danger immediately. Doing so could save your friend, and even yourself., Your friend likely has feelings for their abuser and you should not make them feel badly or guilty about that. Love is a complicated emotion that exists and persists even in the most sad situations; however, you should remind your roommate that they deserve peace and to be free from abuse. Suggest that they obtain a protective order, which will ban the abuser from coming near your residence. Protective orders place several mandates in place, including:Banning the abuser from coming to your home and your roommate’s place of work
Banning the abuser from purchasing or owning firearms
Ordering the abuser to return any personal belongings

, Though you personally cannot obtain this order since the abuse was not directed at you and you were not in the romantic relationship, you can still help your roommate obtain one. Go to your local magistrate’s office, which is typically located in the courthouse, and ask to obtain a protective order. The staff there will assist your roommate in filling out all of the associated paperwork and will give them a court date.If your roommate feels in immediate danger, they can apply for an emergency order which will be in effect until your court hearing.
This process is completely free and you do not need a lawyer to obtain one.
 Once a court date is set, make sure to write down this date so that you and your roommate do not forget. You may be called to the stand as a witness since you live in the home where the abuse occurred. Your roommate may also need some emotional support during this time, so try to provide that if the two of your are close or if you are not too overwhelmed by the situation., Though you cannot obtain a protective order, you can still apply for a no contact order to protect yourself from potential abuse. Consider obtaining a no contact order when you are at the magistrate’s office with your roommate. The abuser will not be allowed to go near you in any setting. You will need to go to court and will be provided an attorney should you want one., Any time the abuser is seen near your home, approaches your home, knocks on the door, or reaches out, document the information. This will be needed should you or your roommate ever need to return to court about this issue.


Consider documenting it on a Google Document so that the information will never be lost or deleted.
 Even if you safeguard your home and obtain protection from the law, things can happen. Though you should call the police the minute you believe you are in danger, you should also be aware that it may take them time to respond to you. In the event that the abuser is in your home or is about to enter, you should have a bag packed with any necessary items including money, important documents, medications, and a change of clothes. It can be helpful as well, if possible, to have a prepaid cellphone in that bag to make emergency calls.Keep the bag in an easily accessible location.
 Though you may sometimes tend to forget to charge your phone, make it a habit to keep it charged throughout the day. Should you need to call 911 or get in touch with a friend immediately, a dead cellphone will be of no use to you and could be dangerous.


Try to charge your phone anytime it is at 50% battery life and make it a habit to not let it get below that level.
 Your roommate’s abuser may find their way into your home without your knowledge. Decide on a code word between the two of you to express that there is danger. You can say this code should either of you see the abuser in the home when the other one is out of sight or in another room.It could be something very sneaky like, “I’m gonna sleep like a baby tonight,” or, “I wish I had a slice of cake.”

, Though you should alert the police first if there is potential danger, keep a friend who is close by on speed dial as well. Brief them on the details of the situation beforehand and make sure that they are comfortable with being your second call if an issue arises. Consider choosing someone who is brave, smart, and calm as these characteristics will be helpful to you if an issue occurs., A great way to protect yourself and to even perhaps bond with your roommate is to take a self defense class. During these classes, you can learn valuable techniques about being aware of your surroundings as well as how to take down an attacker who is larger than you. These skills will not only be useful to you in your current situation, but perhaps beyond it should you ever find yourself in a dangerous situation.
 In addition to being trained to protect yourself, realize that often you are all the more powerful if you have a weapon. Consider getting a gun permit so that you can buy a gun. In the interim, keep a knife or mace in your room that is easily accessible to you, but that would not be easily found by an attacker.


If you should get a gun, take gun safety courses as well so that you can learn to use a gun and store it properly.
Go to a gun range should you get a new gun so that you can learn how to shoot better.
 This is particularly useful when the attacker is unarmed. Try aiming for the temple and the groin. No need to make elaborate moves; just do whatever is practical and effective in keeping yourself safe.


Use a palm heel strike to fight back. Your palm heel is the hard bone between your palm and your wrist. Keep your fingers back and stiff and thrust your palm heel forward.

