 What is loss? Why are you affected by it? To what degree are you suffering from the loss? Philosophy asks questions and finds the answers behind these.


The editor, Alexander George, of 'I Am, Therefore I Think' confirms that the essence of philosophy lies in questioning: " Most people do not realise that many of the questions they have been mulling over...are at the very root of philosophy.". To be philosophical, you must ask several questions which will lead you, through rational thinking, in the right direction of understanding the nature of loss and how you relate to it.;
, In the book 'Call to Love', Anthony de Mello defines attachment as: "a state of clinging that comes from the false belief that something or someone is necessary for your happiness."Why would you cling to something? You hold on because you (the subject) become attached to the object (e.g. job) because it caters to you in different ways.
A. Parthasarathy describes the meanings of subject and object in the 'Vedanta Treatise: The Eternities', as follows: "...word subject means the perceiver, knowing, experiencer. While object means that which is perceived, known, experienced."So when the object, which you perceive as giving you enjoyment, is gone, you feel loss. How much you suffer depends on how much the object catered to you.
 You can become attached to your thinking. Certain thoughts about an object produces pleasure and you may want to continue indulging in these thoughts but when the object is no longer there, you will experience the pain of loss. The more you dwell on the object after it is gone, the more ingrained your beliefs are about losing it.


Thought itself is an object and when you are able to scan your thoughts, you will be able to make a selection as to what thoughts you would like to experience for yourself. A. Parthasarathy states: "You can conceive your mind. Know it. Experience it."In other words, you are able to witness your thinking and if you can see your thoughts, you can choose not to add further thoughts of pain to your present feelings of loss.
 When you deeply understand the pain and loss that attachment can bring you, you will no longer want to feel it and will prefer to detach. Anthony de Mello informs us about the four truths of attachment:


1) "You must choose between your attachment and happiness." The obvious decision for you to make is happiness and joy.
2) "sprang from a lie that your society and your culture have told you, or a lie that you have told yourself, namely, that...without this person or the other, you can't be happy."Other people have lived without the object you are missing and can still be happy.
3) "Life is infinitely greater than this trifle your heart is attached to and which you have given the power to so upset you."By looking at the situation from a different perspective, you learn to detach and not suffer. You cannot control the object but you can control your inner self. When you lose a well paid job, for example, think about the extra time you can spend with your family. Think about finding a new and better job. Seeing the positives in the outcome will assist you in getting over the loss you are feeling. Ten or twenty years from now, you will look back and wonder why you spent so much time in pain over your loss when there are an infinite number of positive experiences you could have chosen from instead. You may not even remember what you lost as you are enjoying your new job.
4) "...thing or person outside of you has the power to make you happy or unhappy."Happiness or pain is not within the object but in you. The loss only exists in you because you choose it to be so. If you are predominantly an emotional person, you may resist de Mello's statements regarding attachment but if you are able to perceive something greater (a better life) that is beyond your pain of loss, his argument is sound.
 Think about something else that will contribute to your growth and development. If you have just lost your job, for example, you may want to take up a new and an enjoyable interest such as writing a book, learning to play a musical instrument or travel. It will consume your old thoughts of loss and direct these to higher states of consciousness.


Learn from the wisdom of James Allen's words in 'As a Man Thinketh': "Man is buffeted by circumstances so long as he believes himself to be the creature of outside conditions, but when he realises that he is a creative power and that he may command the hidden soil and seeds of his being out of which circumstances grow he then becomes the rightful master of himself."The beauty about thought is that we can steer it towards happiness, peace and an all encompassing love despite any circumstance. If you are able to master your thoughts, there is no such thing as loss.

