 Keep in mind that no matter how well the relationship starts off, the workplace romance itself can be a recipe for disaster.


Since you are in constant interaction with your partner, you may encounter friction within the relationship because you may need your alone time to pursue your interests like hanging out with friends. Your time alone may become a subject of discussion.
You may be distracted while at work and you will be unable to perform your professional responsibilities as outstandingly as possible. You should also be sure to avoid accusation of favoritism or conflict of interest.
You may also feel jealous if you are keeping your relationship a secret while others may flirt with your partner. You should deal with these matters as a mature individual.
 Before you indulge in a relationship carefully consider whom should you be involved with, what could be the possible consequences of being in a relationship or ultimately breaking up.


The situation may become awkward if you are in a relationship with a colleague and the break up occurs at the time when career advancement planning is at its peak.
If you are involved with a subordinate, false accusations of favoritism or harassment may arise after the break up.
If the breakup negatively affects workplace relations or ends in a harassment claim, it may result in you getting fired.
 On the other hand, office relationships can be a positive thing. If you've found someone whose company you enjoy and who shares the same interests as you, then that's something to be celebrated, not something to feel guilty about.


When you're in a job that requires spending a lot of time in the office, it limits the opportunities to meet someone outside of work. Dating someone in your work takes pressure off trying to meet someone and ensures that the other person understands your schedule and the demands of your work.
The second advantage is that you spend many hours together which gives you a much better idea of what the other person is actually like, before things get too serious. This can save you from a lot of stress and heartbreak down the line.
Furthermore, if you carpool to work with the person you're dating, you can save on gas expenses!

