 Sometimes, you might hire a project manager to implement a pre-existing plan. However, you probably need the project manager to plan the project. Identify the specific duties involved in planning the project, such as the following:Work with senior management to set the parameters of the project.
Devise a work plan for the project, including the sequence of tasks.
Identify the resources needed to complete the project, such as the money, equipment, staff and time.
Review the project schedule with senior management and other relevant staff.
Revise the project schedule, if necessary, after consultation with management.
Come up with benchmarks for evaluating the project at completion.;
, No one is better situated to staff the project than the project manager. Think about giving them the following duties:Select staff or volunteers in consultation with appropriate management.
Oversee staff and volunteers.
Enforce organization policies when working with staff, including coaching, counseling, and disciplining.Maintain personnel files and ensure their confidentiality.
Identify and hire consultants as appropriate to assist in the project.
 Proper implementation includes completing the project on time and ensuring the work is high-quality. Break down this responsibility into a set of specific tasks, such as the following:Follow the plan to implement the project.
Document the project with appropriate records.
Keep all project information and files safe.
Monitor the project and adjust project tasks as necessary to complete the project on time and under budget.
Develop a schedule to communicate with stakeholders on the project.
Review the project team’s work and confirm it meets quality standards.
 Financial budgeting and planning are crucial tasks most project managers will perform. You should consider whether your manager will do any of the following:Approve budgeted expenditures and monitor the spending.
Create cash flow projections and monitor the cash flow on a monthly or other basis.
Update the project’s financial records.
Prepare financial reports and gather necessary documentation in support for the review by funders.
Write status reports for management and key funders.
Communicate will all project funders.
 Your candidates need to know if they will be working out of an office, working in the field, or travelling a lot. They also need to know their hours. Accordingly, consider adding a couple bullet points that explain the work conditions.For example, you might write: “The Project Manager will typically work out of our office but may be required to communicate with stakeholders once a month.”
Also mention hours: “The Project Manger will generally work a standard workweek, 9:00 am to 5:00 pm. However, occasionally the Project Manager may need to work in the evenings or during the weekend.”

, You’ll need to decide two things: the minimum education acceptable and whether the person should have a degree in a specific field.For example, you might require a bachelor’s degree as a minimum educational credential.
You can also require a degree in a related field. If your project manager is overseeing a government program for children, for example, you could require a degree in social work or early childhood education.
 You might want a project manager to be a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), lawyer (JD), or another professional. Make sure to identify any requirement in your job description.In the U.K., project managers can belong to the Association of Project Managers.State whether you want membership in this or a similar organization.
 Generally, you’ll want your project manager to have certain computer skills. These skills are necessary for tracking the project and budgets, as well as for preparing reports for funders and management. You might also want other technical skills. Consider the following:word processing
email
internet research
spreadsheets
database management and data entry
basic accounting

, These are your “soft skills.” Soft skills separate a great project manager from a good one. Consider what personal traits or attributes you want the project manager to have. If you’ve hired a project manager in the past, think about what you liked and didn’t like about them. Consider the following:Leadership. A good leader can encourage others to meet and exceed their expectations. A leader also boosts morale when it is low.
Team player. Your project manager should be able to work effectively with their staff as well as with management.
Organization. A project manager should be able to prioritize conflicting demands and monitor progress toward the completion of the project.
Strategic insight. Your project manager should be a problem solver, as well as someone who can plan effectively. Your project will run into many snags, and only a good strategist can keep it on track.
Communication skills. Effective communication requires clear thinking and writing, as well as listening skills. Your project manager should be able to communicate orally as well as in writing.
Ethical behavior. You want the project manager to be aligned with your organization’s values, including transparency and honesty.
Creativity. A project manager should be able to think on their feet and come up with creative solutions to unusual problems.
 It’s up to you how much experience you want your project manager to have. You can welcome applications from people with no experience or with several years of experience.


You might also list a preference: “At least two to three years of project management experience preferred.” This way, you don’t exclude people who are new to project management.
 To get talented staff, you need to pay a reasonable rate. Accordingly, you should determine the market rate for the position. Ask another organization that employs project managers what they pay. Make sure the manager does equivalent work as your manager and has similar skills or experience.


You can also check online. Visit websites like Indeed.com, Glassdoor, Salary.com or PayScale.Search for salaries in your location and industry. You can also use the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics surveys.
 Using a range gives you some flexibility about what you offer people. Your minimum should be around the market rate for your area. However, excellent employees often command 20-30% more, because they easily add that much more value.If your minimum is $50,000, you might want to budget for an upper-range of $60,000. If a great candidate comes along, you can offer them close to the maximum.
 Take out your compensation plan and review job designations. See which ones are close to the project manager’s in terms of education, responsibility, and required skills. You will want to make sure the project manager’s salary is in line with the salaries of other comparable professionals.


If the salary is out of line, then your other staff could resent the new hire.Also the new project manager might be angry if they are paid less than current staff.

