 Take a look at the cartoon as a whole and make a note of the drawings you see. Make a list of the visual elements, including people, animals, other objects, and the setting or background.
 Find the portion of the cartoon that most stands out. Most often, this will be a caricature, which is an exaggeration or distortion of a person or object with the goal of providing a comic effect.
 Some metaphors are commonly used by political cartoonists.For example:


Uncle Sam or an eagle for the United States
John Bull, Britannia or a lion for the United Kingdom
A beaver for Canada
A bear for Russia
A dragon for China
A sun for Japan
A kangaroo for Australia
A donkey for the Democratic Party in the U.S.
An elephant for the Republican Party in the U.S.
 Look at the visual elements and pay attention to how they are drawn. People or animals may be exaggerated or distorted in some way., Some of the visual elements may be stereotypes. This might help the reader identify the visual elements more clearly. These can also call attention to the stereotypes as offensive and outdated.


For example, a cartoon about immigration along the southwestern U.S. border may present Mexicans dressed in ponchos. This calls attention to the view that some people have about who immigrates to the U.S.
 Some cartoons will link their subject matter to a current event or trend that is widely recognized.For example, a cartoon about voting might include a voting ballot with political candidates and celebrities, indicating that more people may be interested in voting for celebrities than government officials.
The effect of these allusions often diminish over time as people forget about those trends or events.
 Often the cartoon will have minor details that contribute to the humor or the point of the cartoon. Pictorial symbols convey minor themes or ideas. These are usually found in the background or on the sides of the cartoon.
 Think about how different symbols are drawn in relation to each other. If there is a person, where is he standing? What is he doing? Is he talking to another person? Is he interacting with an object?

