 You might have gradual thinning on the top of your head or circular or patchy bald spots. Does your hair come out in fistfuls? Are you losing hair on your head or all over your body? Do you have patches of scaling on your scalp?Noting your symptoms will help you diagnose what is causing your hair loss.
 Hair loss can happen at any time in one’s life due to many reasons. Changes in hormones, illness, burns, and trauma all might cause hair loss. A family history of androgenetic alopecia, or baldness caused by variations in the androgen dihydrotestosterone, also is a contributing factor.Hair loss is not caused, however, by poor circulation to the scalp, vitamin deficiencies, dandruff, or excessive hat or cap-wearing. Furthermore, it is untrue that a gene passed from a person’s maternal grandfather causes baldness.Androgenetic alopecia (pattern baldness) affects both men and women. In men, hair begins to recede from the forehead in a line resembling the letter M. Women usually keep their hairline but their part widens.
Patchy hair loss, which appears as smooth, coin-sized bald spots usually on the scalp can indicate that one has alopecia areata.If you are experiencing significant changes in your hormones, like if you are a woman going through menopause, you may experience hair loss. Talk to your doctor about treating your hair loss at the hormonal level.
Physical or emotional shocks can cause hair to loosen. You might lose handfuls of hair when combing or washing your hair. Generally, your hair will feel and look thinner overall. Patches of baldness are unlikely.
Hypothyroidism, or an underactive thyroid, may cause hair loss.Treating the hypothyroidism may halt your hair loss.
If you have lost hair all over your body, this could be a result of some medical treatments like chemotherapy for cancer. Your hair usually will grow back with time.
Ringworm is another cause of hair loss. Patches of scaling can spread over your scalp. Further symptoms are broken hair, redness, and oozing., If you have androgenetic alopecia rather than hair loss caused by illness or trauma, understand associated risk factors. Men with alopecia are more likely to suffer from coronary heart disease, prostate enlargement and cancer, diabetes, obesity, and high blood pressure. Women who suffer from androgenetic alopecia have an increased risk of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).