 Graduating from high school is the only educational requirement to become a medical coder.Courses in high school algebra, biology, chemistry, typing, and other computer skills can be helpful in your medical coding career. You should also have a good understanding of anatomy, physiology, and medical terms., Although they are not required, having an associate or bachelor's degree will help your career as a medical coder.An associates degree typically takes 2 years to complete, and a bachelor's degree typically takes 4 years to complete. A college degree will provide with more opportunities for advancement and growth in the field.


Consider getting a degree in health information technology or health care administration. A degree program will include general education classes in addition to medical coding specific courses

, Many community colleges offer associate degrees in medical coding or medical coding certificates. Classes may be in person, online, or a combination.Make sure you enroll in a school that is accredited by either the American Health Information Management Association(AHIMA) or the American Academy of Professional Coders(AAPC). Both of these organizations maintain a list of accredited programs on their websites.


Ask the school about their pass rate on medical coder certification exams and the career placement services they offer.
If you have plans to attend a four year institution later on you should enroll in an associate's degree program instead of a certificate program. You should also clarify which courses you will be able to transfer to another school.
 For-profit colleges offer medical coding training as well and often cater to the needs of older students and students who also work full time jobs. These schools are often more expensive than local community colleges. These schools also have less student support services and career placement services. Some of these schools also present misleading information about their accreditation status , Professional organizations are a great way to learn about the field, network with other medical coders, find information about career opportunities, and and stay up to date on new developments in the field. These organizations also have local chapters throughout the United States. The American Health Information Management Association(AHIMA) and the American Academy of Professional Coders(AAPC) are the main professional organizations for medical coders.

