 To explain PTSD to others, you’ll need to have a good understanding of the condition yourself. You’ll also need to be able to explain how PTSD affects you personally, since this condition is a little different for everyone who has it. Equip yourself with knowledge about PTSD so you can help your loved ones understand what you’re going through.


Search for more information through reputable sources such as the National Institutes of Mental Health or the Anxiety and Depression Association of America.;
, Choose a setting that’s comfortable for you and your family. Make sure to choose a time and place you’ll have your family’s complete attention. You’re telling them something significant, so it’s important that you won’t be interrupted or distracted during the conversation.You might broach the subject by saying "I want to take some time out and share with you all some things I've been going through. When is a good time for us to sit down and talk?"

, There is stigma associated with mental illness, PTSD included. Not everyone will be supportive or understanding of your condition. Although educating your loved ones can go a long way, you may want to start with just a few family members before telling everyone. That way you'll have support to help you explain your condition to those who may not be understanding.


If you’re not comfortable sharing your diagnosis with your whole family, arrange to meet with family members individually.
 Thanks to the media’s portrayal of PTSD, many people don’t understand this condition very well. For instance, some people have the mistaken idea that everyone with PTSD is violent or that PTSD is a sign of mental weakness.Become an advocate for yourself by helping your family understand what PTSD really is, what its effects are, and which particular situations are stressful for you.
You might say "I was recently diagnosed with PTSD. It's a condition that a person develops after going through a very scary or life-threatening situation..."

, If your loved ones don’t know much about PTSD, they may not understand how the condition affects you. Explain to them that people with PTSD often feel threatened or afraid in situations that aren’t actually dangerous, and the nervous system can get “stuck” in a state of fear.Explain fight-or-flight by saying "When we face danger, our bodies release chemicals in our brains and prime us to face the danger or flea. This is called the fight-or-flight response. Because I have PTSD, my body responds this way even when I am not facing any immediate danger."
By explaining what PTSD does to your mind, you’ll help your family understand that your condition needs to be taken seriously and is not something you can “just get over.”

, When you first tell your family about your diagnosis, the news may come as a surprise to them. They may not know how to react. And, no matter how well you explain the condition to them, they may not understand or absorb everything you tell them right away. Help them find resources to learn about PTSD for themselves, and make sure they know how much it means to you that they are willing to try to understand your condition.Encourage them to learn more by saying "There are many websites that can help you all better understand PTSD and how it is affecting me. Please take the time to check some of them out. It would really mean a lot to me."
Military.com and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs have information available online for the families of people with PTSD.
 If your family is supportive and understanding, they will want to help you through your PTSD to the best of their ability. However, if they have little or no prior knowledge of PTSD, they may not know the best way to support you. Give them specific examples of what you need or what is most helpful to you.


Don’t be tempted to try to recover alone. The biggest predictor of whether someone will successfully recover from PTSD is whether they have the support of their family and friends.Examples of how they can help may include sharing in some of your responsibilities (e.g. household chores or childcare duties) to ease your overwhelm, helping you manage anxiety, and ensuring that you eat a well-balanced diet and get plenty of exercise to fight stress.
 Try to create a network of several people you can count on for support. Don’t lean too heavily on just one family member. Your experience with PTSD may be stressful and intense for people close to you, and your loved ones may suffer burnout if they try to shoulder too many of your emotional difficulties without taking care of themselves, too., Your loved ones may struggle with feeling confused, sad, or helpless after you share your diagnosis with them. Tell them about the stress management techniques you’ve discovered, and encourage them to take time for themselves and look after their own needs.It may be helpful to assign certain days to loved ones in the event you need someone to sit with you or talk on the phone with you. This can help them relieve stress by having a “night off” to themselves. If you are upset or anxious, call the “on-call” person for help.
 It’s important to process your feelings and memories on your own before sharing them with other people. Telling your family about your trauma before you’re psychologically ready to talk about it can make you feel worse. A therapist can help you come to terms with what happened and mentally reframe the event in a way that makes you feel empowered to recover instead of fearful and helpless.Cognitive therapy helps people with PTSD deal mentally with the trauma they’ve been through. This type of therapy teaches people to identify irrational and harmful thoughts, such as the idea that the trauma was their fault, and replace those thoughts with healthier ones.Exposure therapy takes a controlled approach to re-introducing people with PTSD to situations that remind them of their traumatic event. This helps them get used to being in these situations again without experiencing a debilitating fight-or-flight response., Being part of a support group gives you the opportunity to ask other people with PTSD how they disclosed their traumatic event to their loved ones. Talking with people who understand what you’re going through can also speed up the healing process and provide a sense of community.If you can’t find a support group in person, try looking online. There are plenty of virtual PTSD support groups for people who can’t find a group in their area or who don’t feel comfortable meeting in person., You don’t have to tell everyone about your trauma. What you’ve been through is intensely personal. Although it’s important to let your family know what happened so they can support you, it’s also natural to want to keep your experience somewhat private. Disclose your trauma story only to your most trusted loved ones.
 It’s OK if you don’t want to go into detail about your experience. Some things take time to feel comfortable talking about, and there may be parts of your story that you’ll never want to share. Don’t feel obligated to tell your loved ones everything.Your family may be curious about your experience and ask you questions. If they ask about something you don’t want to discuss, it’s fine to say “I’m sorry, but I’d rather not talk about that.” Set boundaries you’re comfortable with.

