 This will help you choose your product when you make a gold bar purchase from the mint you select later.Gold bars for personal purchase typically come in measurements of ounces and/or grams such as: 1 ounce; 10 ounces; 100 grams; or 1 kilogram (32.15 ounces).
The exact price you pay per ounce or gram will depend on market value at the time of your order. Sometimes you can see the real-time stock exchange rate for gold on the seller's website you are choosing. You can also check prices on an exchange (such as the New York Stock Exchange) directly at other websites, or financial information locations.
Save the gold market value information to compare against the prices you get per ounce or gram with your gold sellers later on.;
, You might want to separate the list by domestic and international sellers. The seller location will have a significant impact on shipping costs.Examine if the company you are looking at is selling the gold bars to you directly or is simply a go-between for another seller. If they are a go-between, there may be additional fees and costs that are increasing your price.
If you are looking at companies that are themselves internationally based in addition to using international mints, you may be dealing with higher shipping fees. For example, if the mint and seller are both based in Switzerland, but you are shipping to the United States, you will pay higher shipping fees than if at least the seller is U.S. based.
Companies that don't have active and up to date websites should be considered potential scams. Save yourself some investigation time later by crossing them off your list early.
 You want to make sure their information is accurate, easy to understand, and up to date.If you see the Better Business Bureau logo, this is a good sign, but don't just assume it's legitimate. Go to the BBB's website and search for the company on that end. Anyone can copy a logo and paste it onto their website with some testimonials.
Search for some reviews of the mint and seller to see if business with them has gone smoothly. Look particularly for treatment of customers that had problems. Did they get resolutions to whatever issue in an efficient manner? If there is a frequent case of reviews reflecting poor customer service, you should select another company.
Check the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to see if the seller and/or mint has had any misconduct problems. If they have, you should consider using another company.
If you have any trouble getting information from the company in the first place such as contact information, gold prices, source of their gold, shipping and storage practices, etc., do not do business of any kind with them. Use another company.
 This is to be done once you've confirmed what seller you will use, the source mint, and number of gold bars you want to buy.Make sure there have been no significant changes in price between the time you researched the purchase and when you actually submitted the order. Delay times in the readout for the stock market chart you used to see the trading price for gold could affect this too.
The time-lag for web-based stock market readouts can vary from a few seconds to several minutes.
Check if there is a minimum order amount and be sure you've met those requirements along with any other reasonable requests made by the seller.
Let the gold seller know if you're selling another investment (including another precious metal) to pay for this purchase.
Confer with the seller about making sure the proper sale information is reported to the Internal Revenue Service if you exceed the $10,000 threshold for trade or business transactions.
 Gather details for shipping and storage coming up once the gold bar purchase order is complete.


Make sure you have copies of all receipts of: the purchase order; trade; and shipping invoice(s).
Thoroughly check that the seller and you have the same address for the destination of the gold bar(s) shipment.
Contact the destination location at this time to let them know the gold bars are coming. These shipment times may vary, so you can factor in the security of waiting until closer to the delivery date. If more preparation is needed at the storage site, such as installation of more security or a vault, then give more advanced notice.
 This is a potential avenue of purchasing gold bars at lower prices in expectation of their value going up. But there are higher risks."We Buy Gold" type places may not sell gold bars. These businesses may only buy your jewelry, so you will want to look elsewhere.
Pawn shops are another place you can look, but this is also extremely risky. The dealer may overcharge or undercharge you for the gold bars. Knowing the right price will be as much up to your own research. Additionally, pawn shops may not have a wide selection of purchasing options, or have an accurate account of the history of the product. Sometimes the goods can even be stolen, and you may not be able to verify the weight and purity of the gold.
Personal or local sellers can at least offer a more relaxed shopping environment than other choices. This will offer both you and the seller time to explore collecting options, work out details of shipment and storage, and this method offers the benefit of potentially faster fulfillment of your order.
 These sellers will likely be experienced at negotiating deals. Go in prepared.Have accurate price listings for the sellers you're interested in. Keep the price list out of sight to avoid looking like a newcomer.
Don't rush or feel rushed by other hurried buyers and collectors.
Be prepared to come back late in a show to take advantage of last minute sales.
Have multiple means of payment prepared including cash. You should take an early look around to gauge how much money you will need to have prepared.
 If you can find a specialty shop, then this is a potential option to buy gold bars. Like the pawn shops, these specialty gold shops are a limited option.Local gold/coin shops may have limited selections and may not even have gold bullion in the form of bars.
There could be a price trade off using a local shop. The local shop may help you save on shipping and handling fees by allowing you to pick up your order immediately. But the costs of the seller running the shop, and taxes, will be factored into the sale price.
Local shops do have the advantage of the security of a direct transfer of the gold bar product to the purchaser, rather than shipping to an intermediary. You can see the product you will buy immediately.
You will not have the rush or hectic situation you would encounter during a show, but you may still have to engage in some negotiating for price. However, you will be able to get more individualized attention including exchange of knowledge about the gold bars you are dealing with. Investment advice may also be exchanged.
For example, you might go to a local dealer and ask about his selection of bars, but start off saying, "Is this a good time to buy gold bars compared to other precious metals like silver or platinum?" or "How do your rates compare to the market rate of gold prices?"
Payment options will vary, so be prepared to have many options available including cash and credit.
 There is a great risk for scams with this option. This is a method that should generally be avoided unless you have thorough knowledge of the person you are dealing with, and the technical ability to evaluate the gold bar(s) product for authenticity.Get accurate specifications for each bar you are purchasing. Have means to measure the size and weight of them when you are ready to take possession. Calipers and a scale are good ideas to bring along for the latter.
Have up-to-date information on the market price of gold. If the seller is charging much less than the market price, then the deal may be "too good to be true."
There is frequently a risk that you will pay and get sold nothing. Have some arrangement of secure payment for goods set up. PayPal is a possibility. PayPal is at least a secure form of payment, but does not guarantee you will receive goods.
Walking around with cash in large amounts for the exchange, while feasible, is dangerous.
You and the seller need to make arrangements, besides payment, for a safe place to exchange the gold bars (or ship them) that allows you a reasonable amount of security to track and confirm the order. Because both of you are private owners, insurance for the gold bars will need to be arranged early in this process, either on the seller or buyer end.
Trust your instincts. If anything about the seller or deal seems uncertain, call it off.
 You want to be sure that the bars you bought have the proper certification.Gold bars can come brand new from the mint or have passed through several owners before they get to you.
Gold bars direct from the mint have the highest "visual" appeal, and lowest chance of being counterfeit. These bars should come with a certificate of authenticity from the mint. Online dealers usually sell these bars.
Second-hand gold bars, ones that have lost some shine due to oxidation, do not lose their gold value. These bars are usually sold by local shops and/or collectors. If you buy these bars, insist on getting their assay certificates or "Certicards" issued by the original mint upon their resale.
 This could be an added expense, but a good idea for such a valuable package as gold bars. The insurance may be provided by the shipper and/or your own company.Most sellers will take the insurance burden onto themselves at least while the gold bars are in transit. This is full insurance, meaning total reimbursement for loss, while the gold bars are on the move.
Once the gold reaches its destination, the insurance coverage usually ends, and the burden shifts to the recipient. So your own insurance company should be informed of your taking possession usually at the storage point.
If you have a seller that is not insuring the gold in transit, you should ask your insurance company if they will cover gold bars from the mint to destination before you make the purchase. If not, you might need to change sellers.
 Sellers should use standard shipping companies such as Federal Express, United Parcel Service or the United States Postal Service.You should get a tracking number and estimated delivery duration/time as soon as the gold bars leave for the destination.
Ideally, the seller will use discreet methods to ship the bars. This means hiding the contents of the package such as: leaving names off invoices; use of plain wrappings; avoiding re-directs of the shipping route; and anything else that might risk the security of the gold bars or your information.
 Once the shipment of gold bars is en route, then it is a good idea to contact the storage destination to make sure there are no problems with receiving a secure shipment.If you are shipping to a commercial location such as a UPS Store you might want to be sure you are okay with them taking possession of such a valuable package. Make sure the commercial location representatives are comfortable with it as well. Otherwise, you need to make other arrangements.
If you are sending this to a bank, make sure you have pre-arranged storage in a safe deposit box as will be mentioned in a later step.
If you are sending this to your home you should consider increasing security in and around your house as will be mentioned in a later step. If you cannot be home at the time of delivery see the next step.
If you are sending this to a storage facility operated or authorized by the seller, then be sure you know by what means you can confirm your gold bar shipment's arrival and storage, and ask about a visual inspection.
 You want to be sure delivery is confirmed especially since insurance from the seller usually lapses once the gold bars reach their destination.


Try to be home yourself if you have the bars shipped to your home. If you can't make it, then arrange for someone you trust to sign for the bars instead.
You can leave instructions for the gold bars to be left with another party, such as a building manager in an apartment complex or UPS Store clerk, but this is risky. You cannot be sure of who will be on duty in third-party situations, and will not be immediately available to inspect the gold bars package for an accurate count. There is no guarantee the package will be stored safely.
If you've shipped the bars to a bank you will need to be present to put the bar package into the safe deposit box.
 Theft, transportation accidents, and errors in shipment are but a few of the problems that could happen to your order. Make sure you've asked the seller what the steps are to correct such problems if they occur.Ask who is liable for problems while the gold is in transit. This ties into the insurance step. If the seller is insuring the shipment they should be handling the risk with any reimbursement going to you.
Ask who is liable once the gold bars reach the destination. Usually this shifts the risk back to you, the recipient, though if you have an agreement with the storage facility they may take some of the risk. Also, your own insurance may be covering the gold bars at this point.
Make sure you know what risks are covered and which are not. Physical problems like theft and accidents are insured, but financial problems such as recessions are not.
 You want a facility with the right combination of: high levels of security; accessibility for legitimate customers; and trustworthy personnel.As with examining the company for selling and/or minting you want to make sure the storage facility has legitimate information, positive independent reviews, and handles customer service decently.
Consider the location of the storage facility. Is it close enough for you to check on the gold bars visually if you want to? How often would you do these visual inspections? If you are going to check on them frequently you want a storage vault at least in your region of the country.
If you are using your bank, then you should arrange for an inspection of the safe deposit box that will store the gold bar(s) to make sure it's adequate for your needs.
 Consult with your insurance company to see how much of the gold bar investment in each storage facility would be covered. It could be that one facility has security arrangements that rate a better coverage profile than another.Storage facilities are usually insured, so confirm their insurance company's coverage as well.
If you are using your bank's safe deposit box, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation does not cover its contents, but standard insurance might.
 You should be able to get in and out of your chosen storage facility whenever you want while observing security protocols.


If you're using a bank safe deposit box, this should be standard access hours for any bank.
If you're using a seller's facility or another vault facility, then you should ask for a full schedule of their hours and any holidays or limits.
 This is a risky idea consider the danger of theft to a home, but it does put the gold bars in your immediate reach.You might consider placing a vault within the structure of your home. This includes putting the vault somewhere out of sight of a thief and even casual onlookers.
You should have a vault or safe that guards against theft, fire, water, and other kinds of damage. These can cost up to several hundreds even thousands of dollars for elaborate models. But some inexpensive ones can be found. Just as important is to keep them hidden such as in a wall or under a floor.
 Check on alarms, entry procedures, staffing, auditing, and the like at your chosen storage facility.You want to be sure your gold bars are well kept even if they are insured.
Have a conversation with your storage facility's manager/representative about their alarms. You might ask, "Are they working and tested regularly?" If not, then this is a bad sign of too relaxed security.
Look at the entry methods. Does the facility use photo identification, swipe-cards, biometrics (fingerprint scanners, eye scans, or similar), key pads, or some combination of these for entry? If the entry is too simple, then this is a warning sign of an easily breached system. Though if it's too complex, then it can be inconvenient.
Ask them if they do thorough background checks on employees and avoid hiring people with a criminal record. If not, then this leaves the facility vulnerable to personnel trouble.
Ask the facility representative about their auditing reports. You should get information at regular intervals about the seller/storage facilities activities so you know your bars aren't being mishandled.
In the case of a bank safe deposit box you may expect the bank manager to reveal only so much about their security. Get as much as you need to feel comfortable.

