 You prime your canvas to finish getting it ready for painting. You use a paint like material called gesso. The gesso creates a surface for the paint adhere to once it's applied. Once your second layer of size has dried, you need to prime your canvas. The primer you use will depend on the medium that you intend to paint with. They come in white or translucent colors that provide natural lighting for your painting.


Oil, acrylic, and watercolors all have different types of gesso associated with them. However, acrylic gesso is now used most for both acrylic and oil painting. It is also used underneath the ground needed to paint watercolors on a canvas., Pour the gesso, such as Opus acrylic gesso, on your canvas. Paint it on the canvas in even strokes with a large brush. Wait 30 minutes to 1 hour for the gesso to dry., Turn your canvas 90 degrees. Apply another coat of gesso in the same manner you applied the first. Let dry and repeat until you have enough layers.


You need three layers of gesso for acrylic paint. You need four layers of gesso for oil paint.
If you don't want to bother with sizing or priming, you can buy pre-primed canvases that don't need the size or gesso applied to them., Some painters prefer a smooth surface for painting. If you do, add one layer of gesso to your sized canvas. After the gesso dries, rub a piece of coarse sandpaper across your canvas. Apply as many coats of gesso as you need on top of the first. Sand between each one and after the last., If you want to use watercolors on the canvas, you need something extra on the canvas. Apply two coats of gesso in the same manner you applied it for acrylics and oils. On top of that, apply an absorbent ground such as Golden's Absorbent Ground.


Using a brush or roller, paint the ground on the surface in a thin layer across the canvas. Wait 30 minutes to 1 hour between coats to let it dry, then apply another layer. You should apply 5-6 layers of the ground to the surface of the canvas. Let the ground dry for 24 hours before you start to paint.