 Looking into trustworthy online resources and forums to find out what other people have done in similar situations may help you to form a plan. You can connect with other people who are struggling with this disorder and get ideas from their experiences.

Try to find a forum that is targeted at people with the disorder your partner has been diagnosed with.
 If, after conducting research and monitoring your partner’s behavior, you still have strong suspicions that they may have a personality disorder, you need to take action. People rarely seek help for personality disorders on their own. Generally, they get treatment after a loved one has intervened.The first step of intervention is sharing your concerns with your partner.


Choose a time when both you and your partner are calm and free to talk with no distractions. Schedule the discussion ahead of time, if you must. Start by saying, “I love you, Georgia. I am concerned about your well-being lately. You don’t have any friends. You avoid family. I’m the only person you talk to, and I don’t feel like we have as deep an emotional connection as we could. I want you to flourish socially and have rich relationships. Will you talk to someone so we can figure out what’s going on with you?”

, It is important to try to work things out with your partner first before involving other people. However, if this does not work, then you may have to reach out to other loved ones and state your case. Contact others who have close relationships with your partner—best friends, immediate family members, etc.—and ask these people to join you in staging an intervention. Avoid getting your partner’s coworkers involved or anyone else who is not close to your partner and extremely trustworthy.


A mental health intervention involves working with a professional who can facilitate the process of you asking your partner to get help. To have a successful intervention, loved ones will take turns explaining how the person’s disorder has negatively affected them and making a plea for them to enter treatment.Contact a local mental health treatment center to see if someone there has experience facilitating interventions.
 Although it will be up to your partner to seek and participate in treatment for a personality disorder, you can demonstrate a unified front during the process. Talk to your partner’s therapist to see how you can best help in the treatment process. It may be helpful to accompany your partner to therapy sessions or even attend couples therapy., When a loved one needs your help, it can be easy to neglect your own health and well-being. Keep in mind that to be of any help to your partner you need to practice self-care. Make sure you are getting regular exercise, eating nutritious meals, and getting enough rest each night. Also, take time out for yourself to do things you enjoy like reading a novel, going for a hike, or having dinner with your close friends.


It may also help for you to join a support group for loved ones of those with personality disorders. In these groups, you will meet with others who are coping with the same disorders and learn ways to better support your partner and your own health and well-being. Ask your partner’s therapist for suggestions about local or online support groups.