 You might have to stop taking medications such as NSAIDs up to two weeks before your surgery. You will also want to know how long before your procedure you must fast. It is often from midnight the night before surgery on, but there are exceptions, so be sure to go over this with your surgeon.
 This may include a brace/immobilizer, an ice machine/ice packs, pillows and blankets for comfort in the car on the way home from the hospital, or a prescription for pain meds (some surgeons will give you the prescription ahead of time, others will only give it on the day of surgery).,, If you are in school, try to get your homework ahead of time so you can do it before your surgery. If you can't do this for one reason or another (such as surgery being booked for the next day, it does happen), try to email your teachers at least, and this way they will hopefully give you an extension on the work being done on your surgery day, and potentially for a few days after your surgery (in case you need to stay out of town overnight, or are in too much pain to go back the day after)., Especially in rural areas, there may not be an orthopaedic surgeon in your town/city, so you may have to stay in a hotel before and/or after your surgery, especially if you need to have a drain removed the morning after surgery. Make sure to ask for a medical rate, as many hotels offer discounts for medical appointment-related stays., If you are to discontinue the use of some medications, this is especially important. You also need to know when to stop eating and drinking the night before surgery.,, You won't be able to eat after midnight (with exceptions) on this night, so make sure you are well-fed, and well-hydrated., This means no food or drink after a set time, usually midnight.,, Even though you will be "sleeping" with the anaesthesia the next day, you don't get rest with anaesthesia, so you still need to get a good sleep., This is for your safety, as you don't want to choke on your stomach contents while under general anaesthesia.

Remember, if you eat or drink, your surgery may be cancelled.
 It helps to wear short baggy shorts, as if you need a drain after surgery, this will make it easy to get your bottoms over the drain, and also the bulky dressing that will be on your knee after surgery. You may also have a knee immobilizer, which is also quite bulky., If you don't, you will have to wait even longer to get your knee fixed., Bring entertainment such as a phone or tablet, so you have something to do while you wait., After surgery, you will fell very tired, hungry and thirsty, and maybe a bit nauseous. You will also likely be in quite a bit of pain, and you may have a drain in your knee to drain excess blood and fluid from your knee. This will be removed about 18-36 hours after your surgery., Your surgeon should tell you or your parents all of this information.