 In order to pay off outstanding debts, you'll need some extra cash each month so that you can pay more than the minimum payment. Once you've established an emergency fund for your family, you should put any extra money into debt repayment until you are completely out of debt.


The interest costs on debt is generally higher than what can be received on investments, so makes sense to pay off debt before investing.
It's ok to live on a tighter budget for a few years in order to pay off debt; living within your means is a huge part of being good with money.You can cut costs on entertainment, clothing, or your food budget. If there are no areas you think you can cut, but you still have significant debt to pay off, consider downsizing your home or trading in your car for a cheaper model.
 You might have one credit card or student loan debt with a very high interest rate-- that makes it a more expensive debt than another loan with a lower rate, because you are forced to add additional money onto your repayment every time you pay the bill.


Put your excess money each month into the debt with the highest interest rate until the balance is completely paid off. You will still need to make the minimum payment on all your other debts each month.If you only have one major source of debt, then try to put as much extra money into each payment as you can each month. If the payment is $50 each month, try to pay $100 or even $200 or more. The more you pay on each payment, the faster your debt will disappear., Various government programs can offer you help paying off your debts. Specifically, your student debt might be consolidated or forgiven through the Obama Student Loan Forgiveness program. Under this program, your student loans may be consolidated and refinanced to make payments more affordable. In addition, your loans might be completely forgiven after a period of 20-25 years or as part of public service loan forgiveness.The government also has programs to ease mortgage debt, particularly for those affected by the housing crisis.
HARP helps those borrowers who have experienced a decline in home value, while HAMP helps those who cannot make their monthly payments. Both involve refinancing your home and reducing payments., While you're trying to pay off existing credit card debt, student loan debt, or any other debt you may have, you might simultaneously be using a credit card or taking out other loans. But this could just be adding more debt to your existing problem.Use a cash-only system until your spending is under control. That will prevent you from going into additional debt if you are unable to pay off your credit card statement each month.
 If you happen to inherit a bit of money, receive a tax rebate, obtain a court settlement, or receive a bonus at work, remember your goal of being good with money and getting out of debt. Don't let yourself imagine ways to spend the money; instead, immediately use the money to make a additional payment on your debt.While a little vacation or a new outfit might feel nice in the short term, getting out of debt will set you up for success and reduce your longterm stress.

