 Research suggests that multitasking makes a person feel more drained and less satisfied overall. You won't be able to focus on the tasks you need to complete. Plus, even if you complete them all well enough, you're more likely to exhaust your mental resources earlier than if those tasks were handled separately.
 Know your limitations, and don’t over-commit your time and energy. Focus on the tasks that you already manage instead of taking on more. Remember to allow time for yourself., There are many advantages to being connected 24/7, but that level of connection to the outside world can quickly cause mental fatigue. Artificial TV and computer screen lights can strain your eyes, cause headaches, and alter melatonin production as well as circadian rhythms. These changes may not allow you to experience daily, restorative sleep. Be sure to turn off all electronics at least an hour before bedtime.Being connected to people even when you're alone means that you never have the chance to unwind and focus only on yourself.
When it’s time to go to sleep, be sure to turn off your phone, log out of your social media accounts and turn off your computer completely. To avoid the temptation of switching everything back on, physically pick yourself up and move away from your technological goodies.
 When you focus on long-term goals, the returns can seem minimal and distant. By breaking those goals into smaller, short-term chunks, you can celebrate numerous, small victories on a regular basis. This, in turn, makes it easier to focus on your goals.


For example, if you want to drop several dress sizes over six months, break that goal down by aiming to lose one to two pounds each week.
 Even if you have the physical energy to keep up with a busy schedule, you may not have the mental energy to do so. Remove anything from your calendar that isn't a necessity. Freeing up more time, even if it's only a few hours each month, can make your mind feel less tense and more focused.
 Stop thinking about tomorrow and relax. If you tend to fixate on everything you have left to do right before you go to bed, write about it in a notebook or on your computer. Doing this can make it easier for your mind to rest so you can get quality sleep.


You could even take things a step further by scheduling everything for the next day before you go to sleep., The decision-making process requires a lot of mental energy. Limit the time that you spend procrastinating or deliberating on a decision. This can save some energy and leave you feeling more recharged, especially when a big, unavoidable decision does come along.


Decisions that require action arise constantly throughout the day. For example, do you want cereal or toast for breakfast? Should you wear the black pants or brown? Should you go out after work with your co-workers when they invite you?
Understand that most of the choices you need to make are fairly minor, so you probably won’t lose much if you happen to make the less than ideal decision. If the consequences are minimal, just go with your gut instinct, and don't question it. Save that energy, and spend it on important decisions with long-lasting consequences.
Note that excessive decision-making can deplete your ability to think in abstract terms, plan, or focus.