 Designate your bed as a place only for sleep and sexual activity. Don't watch TV or read in bed. Your bed should be firm enough to give you support, but still be comfortable. Consider placing a few drops of lavender essential oil on or near your pillow to create a calm, relaxing environment.While specific sleep disorders are treated differently, good sleep hygiene can improve anyone's sleep (even people without a sleep disorder).
Reduce the light in your room with blackout curtains, removing sources of ambient light and possibly wearing a sleep mask.
Keep your room at a comfortable temperature. It is recommended you keep your room at about 65°F (18.3°C) when sleeping.Use a fan, earplugs, or a sound machine to neutralize any disruptive sounds that might wake you up.
Keep the use of electronic devices, such as smartphones, tablets, laptops, and TV, to a minimum in the evening. These devices emit something called blue light, which can make it difficult for you to fall asleep.;
, Start winding down before you go to bed. Avoid eating within two hours of going to bed and don't drink coffee (especially after noon), caffeinated drinks, or alcohol. These can keep you awake or cause discomfort that prevents you from sleeping. You should also avoid strenuous exercise at night. If you're taking any medications, talk with your doctor to determine if any are causing sleep issues.Always tell your physician if you're using herbs and supplements. These can interact with prescription medicines.
Instead of strenuous evening exercise, go for walks, do weight training, or simply stretch. Save the strenuous activity for the morning or afternoon.
Try not to go to bed when you're stressed out. Try writing out your thoughts in a journal and tell yourself you'll deal with the issue in the morning.
 Create a simple sleep routine that you can follow. Be sure to include something relaxing, like taking a hot shower a few hours before you go to bed. While research is needed, many people believe this can increase melatonin secretion, making sleep come easier.You may also want to listen to calming music or use white noise to help you sleep, especially if you live in a noisy area.


Your sleep bedtime routine can be anything you prefer. Consider reading, brushing your teeth, preparing your bedsheets, changing into pajamas, meditation, dimming the lights, or doing a relaxation technique. A routine will eventually signal to your body to get ready for sleep.
 Help your body develop consistent sleep habits by going to bed and waking at the same time every day. While this may be hard if you have a flexible work schedule, your body will begin to expect sleep at consistent intervals.You can be a little flexible, but try not to deviate from your bedtimes and wake times by more than 30 minutes. For example, you may allow yourself to sleep in half an hour on the weekend.
You should also try to wake up at the same time every day.
 To prepare for a good night's sleep, gradually relax the muscles in your entire body. Start at your toes and tense the muscles of your toes for five seconds, then relax the toes for about 30 seconds. Then, move to your ankles and legs. Tense the muscles for five seconds and then relax them for 30 seconds. Move your way up toward your neck and finally your face.


Research has shown that relaxation techniques can reduce the frequency of sleep paralysis.You might also relax by doing Tai Chi, Qigong, or yoga.
 As you lay in bed, try to focus on positive things or experiences. For example, ask yourself if you can remember your favorite place (real or imagined) or your favorite memory. Then, visualize that place or memory being as detailed as possible. Try to remember the smells, sounds, and touches. Breathe deeply as you visualize to help you relax. Positive visualization can remove negative thoughts, preparing you for a restful night's sleep.


For example, if your memory or visualization is at the beach, you may want to play sounds of the ocean and hold a handful of sand. After some practice, you won’t need the extra sounds or that sand, but to begin with, these “props” can be helpful.

