 If your judgment comes from a car accident in which the debtor was at fault, you can ask to have the debtor's driver's license suspended., Depending on the amount owed by the debtor, you will have to wait a certain period before filing the required form.


In California, if the judgment is over $750.00, you must wait for 30 days after judgment is entered.In California, if the judgment is under $750.00, you must wait for 90 days after judgment is entered., After you have waited for the required period, you should obtain and fill out the necessary form with the court that handed down the judgment. These forms can usually be found online at your local court's website, or in person by going to your local courthouse.


In California, if the judgment is over $750.00, you will need to fill out a Certificate of Facts Re Unsatisfied Judgment.This form will ask you to briefly explain your situation and state that you are eligible to request this service.
In California, if the judgment is under $750.00, you will need to fill out a Notice of Unsatisfied Judgment.This form will ask you to briefly explain your situation and state that you are eligible to request this service.
 Once you have filled out the required form, file it with the clerk of courts where the trial was held that found the debtor responsible for the car accident., When you file the form with the clerk of courts, you will be required to pay some sort of filing fee. Check with your local court in order to obtain information about the fee and if there is a potential fee waiver.
 After your debt has been satisfied, you will need to obtain and fill out an Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Judgment form. This form can be accessed online at your local court's website, or by going to your local courthouse and talking with the clerk of courts.


In addition, you will need to sign a form that will be sent to you by the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) and you will have to send this form to the debtor so they can have their driver's license reinstated.Mail a copy of these forms to the debtor, file a copy with the court, and keep a copy for yourself.
If you fail to file an Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Judgment, or fail to notify the debtor by sending them a copy, you could be liable for any damages suffered by the debtor.

