 Unfortunately, some people will not be able to return to being "just friends" after one person makes a move. The attraction gets in the way, one side is thinking of what "could have been," and it becomes awkward to be alone. This does not mean, however, that you should not make a move. You need to be willing to risk a friendship for something more -- but if becoming a couple is important to you than this is a risk worth taking.
 Body language is often the forgotten branch of flirting, but it is a key way to tell someone you are interested. It also helps you see if they feel the same way. While everyone is different, there are a few gestures that universally signal attraction and respect:


Turning shoulders and hips to face each other.
Making clear, consistent eye contact.
Fixing, brushing, or playing with hair and clothing.
Mimicking posture or speech patterns.
Leaning in or close to each other., Before you make a move, you should see if she/he is going to be receptive to a romantic relationship. While you don’t want to go overboard, subtle advances show someone that you are interested in moving to the next level. This is a great way to get them thinking about romance. As you try the following tips, ask yourself how they respond—do they shy away or laugh it off? If so, they may want to stay friends. However, if they respond with similar behavior, make good eye contact, or make romantic gestures of their own, you may have found a match. To start the flirting:


Make eye contact and smile. Smiling is proven to be the most effective flirting technique you have.Break the touch barrier: a simple hand on the shoulder or upper back, brushing someone’s arm, or going for a longer hug (2-3 seconds) are all paramount to signal attraction.
Use genuine compliments to make them feel good. Everyone loves being complimented, and it shows someone that you care. Make your compliments specific for added effect – “You crushed that last math test” instead of “you seem really smart.”

, Sitting and thinking about asking someone out is not only excruciating, it is detrimental to your chances at starting a relationship. Once you are sure you want to take this to the next level, get them alone and go for it. This doesn’t have to be anything grand or romantic; it just has to be honest. Any answer will be better than no answer at all. Remember this as you muster up the courage to ask the question. Pull them aside or ask them on a casual date and say:


“I’ve really enjoyed our friendship, but I want to take things to another level. Would you want to go on a few dates?”
"We're great friends, but I have feelings for you beyond friendship. I would love the chance to get to know you even more on a date."
Even something as simple as "Let's go out on a date next Thursday" can work perfectly.
Except for large tragedies or life-changing events, there is no “perfect time” to ask someone out. Just go for it!

, No matter how you feel, telling someone that "they are the only one for you" and that they "complete you" will only scare them away by turning the dial from friendship to relationship too quickly. Keep your calm, and be respectful but sincere when you talk. Some things to consider saying are:


"I care about you and our friendship a lot, and I think we could be really good together."
"Getting to know you has been incredible, and I would love the chance to get to know you even more."
"You are a great person, and I'm very lucky to call you a friend.
 If they feel the same way, then you're about to start your relationship together. But if they say no it's time to move on and start getting over your feelings. Continually asking them out, begging for another chance, or giving them the cold-shoulder will prevent your friendship from returning.


If you think you can be friends again, you'll still need to spend some time alone. Try not to hang out for several weeks and see what happens when you return. Though you shouldn't expect to be best friends, time can help you get over your feelings and return to friendship.
Know, however, that some people struggle to return to friendship after romance. This is unfortunately a risk you will need to take.