 Before you buy clothes, try them on. Those jeans may be your size, but how will you know they will fit perfectly? Trust me, you'll never shun a pair of pants to the back of the closet again. Buy what you feel beautiful wearing. You can be wearing the simplest t-shirt and jeans, but if they fit well, you will look amazingly put together.;
, This may sound shallow, but trendy items are popular for a reason; they look good! You can find lots of outfit ideas in magazine or online.

Stores like forever 21, American eagle (USA) or Primark and New look (UK) sell stylish clothes that aren't too expensive. This is great for on trend items, as they will probably go out of style quite soon.






As fashions are generally aimed at adults and older teens, some may be unsuitable for your age. Steer clear from booty shorts, low cut tops, very short crop tops and super clingy dresses. A good rule for tops is: if you can see your bra, it's too small.
 Wearing a ton of make-up makes every girl look fake and plastic-y, and not in a good way. Just wear a little eyeliner, some mascara, lipgloss and concealer (but only if you need it) to highlight your best features and make you feel more confident. For special occasions, like a school dance, wear a little bit of eyeshadow a touch of blusher and maybe a brighter lipstick. It makes you look special and not too over the top.
 Just go simple for regular school days. Straighten or curl your hair everyday. Learn how to do a French Braid. A French Braid turns you normal straight hair into something very attractive. Just adding a little twist will make a huge difference.
 Everyone feels most confident when they have clear skin. If you do get a zit though, (which everyone does) then don't pick at it, it will inflame the skin and make it even more noticeable then before you touched it.
 No one enjoys looking at yellow teeth. And no one enjoys kissing nasty teeth either. Brush your teeth twice a day without fail. You can get some whitening toothpaste if you want.
 Talking and hanging out with boys will definitely make you more hotter and more wanted by everyone. But don't just invite yourself into their group. Get close to one or two of the guys in your desired group. Becoming friends with guys is so much easier then you think. But just remember that guys aren't everything. Make sure you spend more time with your best girl friends.

