 Some people like write, while others prefer typing. If you want to hand write, you'll need lined paper or a notebook, a pencil, and an eraser. It would also be handy to carry a notebook around, so you can jot down any ideas that come to you. Look at the Things You'll Need list for a more details.;
, It would be a good idea to look at them in different formats. The movie for Divergent is coming out in the spring and the book has already been written. You could also look at Blade Runner, Hunger Games and the Phoenix Files. Think about what is different from today and why this has happened.
 When writing dystopian, you have to think of a problem with the world, government or society. Next, you must enlarge it. Government control can be an issue now, for instance, with the NSA. What if the entire government decided that its citizens must follow strict rules? What are some of the rules and how are they enforced? How would the people fight back? You should write or type any ideas you come up with.
 If it is an existing place, do some research. If it is based off a real location, learn about that location. Example: Veronica Roth set Divergent in Chicago. She'd never been to Chicago, but learned that trains run everywhere. Trains play an important part in her novel. Factor in the weather conditions. Does it snow or rain? Is it cold or dry or hot or humid or wet?

, Figure out any basic details about them, such as age, height, and name, as well as some more specific things, like fears and desires. There are some apps and websites that give you a form to fill out. Think about how the characters will change over the course of the story.
 You don't have to know every twist or turn in the story is, just at least have a basic idea of the plot events, or the beginning, middle, ad end. It's also nice to know about any spoilers or secrets that will be revealed so you can put in some foreshadowing. You should also know the main events that happen throughout.
, Make the the beginning introduces your setting, main character, and topic. It should draw your reader in, even if you don't want to skip to the exciting parts right away. Try looking at some unique first sentences for inspiration. Unless you're going for a mysterious, creepy feel, name the setting and all the characters in the scene. Try not to tell things to the reader; rather, show them through the words and phrases you use. Do this throughout your story.
 This should be exciting, dramatic, and tense. Put everything you can into writing the body of your story. It would pay off to research and use some language features, and describe everything of importance, especially characters. The events in the beginning should lead up to the events in your middle. Again, if you want any surprises, you might want to leave a few hints, but don't make them too obvious!

, This comes when you feel like all of the action is over or you can't write any more. If this is a single story, tie up any loose ends. If you are writing a series, your end can be a cliffhanger. Before you write, think about the vibes you want the ending to have. Will it be a happy ending, or an unsatisfactory outcome? Will the main character live or die? What about his friends? Is the problem fixed completely or are there still loose ends for the characters to tie up? (If you want to write a sequel, be sure to leave some problems unsolved.)

, Go over your story and make sure that it sounds the way you want it and has correct spelling and grammar. This is more important than it sounds! Also add in any other descriptive or figurative language you can, but make sure that the story doesn't drag on. It needs to be concise, otherwise the reader will lose track and/or get bored.
 Ask a trusted friend to read your story over with you and tell you if parts are confusing, need more description, etc. Listen to their suggestions and correct anything that needs correction The more you repeat this step, the better!

, You should pick a title that sounds good and fits the story. A way to do this is by writing down quotes from the most important section of the story and listing possible titles. If you named it, "The Intellect," you should make sure that the intellect in your story has emphasized intelligence or intelligence comes in handy.
 You might consider typing the final draft if you haven't already, or using a website to put it into a format. You can always just show the first draft with corrections, but that might be slightly confusing. Another option is to enter a writing contest or publish your story online. (Look up Storybird if this sounds like something you want to do.)

,