 The first step to using a digital camera is simply turning the device on. Most cameras have a small on button located somewhere on the side of the camera. If you don't see your camera's on button, read your manufacturer's instructions. They should explain how to find the on button.


Most digital cameras have to charge. If your camera's battery is dead, it will not turn on. Don't panic if your camera is not turning on. Usually, a charger comes with the camera. The charger plugs into the wall and then into your camera. In the event your camera does not turn on, try plugging it into the charger, waiting a few minutes, and then trying again.;
, Most digital cameras only have enough storage to hold a few pictures on their own. You'll need to insert a memory card into your camera so it can hold a large amount of photos. You can buy a memory card at most electronic stores or supermarkets.


The most common type of memory card is the Secure Digital (SD) memory card. These are compatible with the vast majority of digital cameras. A Secure Digital 'Xtra Capacity (SDXD) memory card holds more pictures than the SD, but may not be compatible with older digital cameras. xD memory cards are also compatible with the majority of digital cameras, as are Multi Media Cards (MMC).Other types of memory cards, like xD Picture Memory Cards and Memory Stick Duo Memory Cards, are only compatible with certain types of cameras. Your camera's user manual should say which memory cards are compatible with your camera. The packaging of a memory card should also indicate which cameras are compatible with that card.
 Digital cameras come with a variety of buttons. You should spend some time familiarizing yourself with what these buttons do. Some buttons help you zoom in and take pictures. Others allow you to adjust settings on your camera.


The shutter button is a small button, usually on the top right corner of the camera, you press down when taking a picture. The zoom button is usually a long line, which you toggle back and forth to zoom in and out on a subject. These are the basic buttons you need to take a picture.The "mode" button is usually a rectangular button labeled "mode." You press down on this button to switch from picture mode to video mode, in the event you want to shoot videos. A rectangular button labeled "menu" allows you to switch the settings on your camera. You usually navigate through the menu mode with the hep of a scroll wheel you rotate to select and adjust settings.A triangle-shaped button, much like the play button on your VCR, allows you to playback pictures you just took. You can scroll through pictures using the scroll wheel., If you want to start using your camera, begin by taking a few pictures. Choose a subject, like a landscape or a pet, focus your camera for a moment, and then press the shutter button. The camera should capture this image. To get the hang of using your digital camera, take a few pictures around your house.
 Once you've taken a few practice pictures, review your pictures. Press down on the play button. The pictures you just took should appear on your camera's screen. You can scroll through the pictures using the scroll wheel.


As these are just practice pictures, you may want to delete them. You can usually select an image on screen using the scroll wheel, shaped something like a trash can, to delete unwanted pictures.
 Once you've taken enough photos, you can upload your photos onto your computer. The process is usually fairly self-explanatory and depends on the type of camera you have. If you're confused, refer to your instruction manual.


You would plug your camera into your computer using a USB cord or a similar device. From there, something should comes up saying something along the lines of "Get photos" or "Download pictures." You would click that button and the pictures should upload smoothly.You should delete the photos off your camera once they're on your computer. This will free up space for more photos.