 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.;
, Doing so takes you to the user screen.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen and takes you to the Settings menu.
 It's in the center of the "My Account" section of the menu.
 It will turn green. Doing so enables your iPhone to make a sound and/or vibrate when you receive a new Snap or message.
 It will turn green. Now your iPhone will ring when someone tries to call you by audio or video over Snapchat.
 It's the first selection on the screen.



Tap Everyone if you want to be notified when anyone on Snapchat sends you a Snap or a message.
Tap My Friends if you want to get a notification only when you receive content from your Snapchat friends.
 It's in the upper-left corner. Now Snapchat will send a notification when someone tries to contact you.
 It's a gray app containing gears (⚙️) on your home screen.
 It's near the top of the menu.
 The apps are listed in alphabetical order.
 It's at the top of the screen.


Turn on Show in Notification Center if you'd like to see your Snapchat notifications when you swipe down from the home screen.
Turn on Sounds to hear audio alerts when you receive Snapchat content.
Turn on Badge App Icon if you'd like to see a red circle containing the number of unseen alerts in the upper-right corner of the Snapchat app icon.
Turn on Show on Lock Screen to show Snapchat alerts on the screen when your device is locked.
 This allows you to choose the type of alert you see when your device is unlocked.


Tap None for no visual notifications.
Tap Banners for notifications that appear briefly at the top of your screen and then go away.
Tap Alerts for notifications that you have to manually clear from the top of your screen.
Now you will receive Snapchat notifications on your iPhone or iPad.
 It's an app containing a gear (⚙️) on your home screen.
 It's in the middle of the Device menu.
 The list of apps is alphabetical.
 The button will turn bluish-green. This sets Snapchat to the normal notifications mode.


If you'd like to receive Snapchat notifications even when you're in "Do Not Disturb" mode, turn on Treat as priority, as well.
Make sure Block all is turned off.
 It's in the upper left corner. Now Snapchat notifications are enabled for your Android device.

