 Extremely tight clothing will always bring out a panty line if there is one to bring out. If you don't feel comfortable going commando or wearing a thong, but you don't want panty lines, avoid wearing super clingy pants and skirts.


Leggings are especially likely to show panty lines. If you want to wear them with regular panties, consider wearing a tunic-length shirt with them. The shirt will cover your butt, so you won't have to worry about whether or not your panty lines are visible through your leggings.
If you love to wear skirts, consider wearing a loose-fitting style that will not show panty lines as much. For example, instead of wearing a tight pencil skirt, wear an A-line skirt.
 Pants and skirts made from thick, textured fabrics are much less likely to show panty lines than silky, clingy fabrics. If you don't want to have to worry about panty lines, choose fabrics like denim and tweed over fabrics like jersey and silk.Rear pockets add extra fabric to the seat of your pants, so they may also help hide panty lines.
Keep in mind that not all denim is created equal. Some is much thicker, while some is thinner and stretchier. Opt for thicker, less clingy styles if you are trying to avoid panty lines.
 Prints are better at disguising panty lines than solid colors, so if you want to wear some tight leggings or yoga pants with your regular undies, you may want to choose a patterned pair.Remember that prints will not eliminate panty lines; they will only help disguise them. It's a good idea to check for panty lines in the mirror before you go out.
 You definitely have to put a lot of thought into choosing the right underwear when you are wearing pants that are even remotely see-through. If you don't want to have to worry about it, avoid wearing any bottoms that may show more than you want.White pants are common culprits, so always make sure you can't see your underwear through them before you buy them.
Leggings and yoga pants can also be see-through, so make sure you buy a pair that is thick and opaque.

