 Dressing inappropriately could negatively impact your coworkers’ assessment of you, and lead to embarrassment. Ask your superior if there is a dress code and dress appropriately. No matter what you wear, remember, the holiday office party is a business event and your manner of dress should be relatively conservative., A holiday office party has an informal atmosphere, but it is still on company property and your relationship with your coworkers does not end when you have a party. Inappropriate comments or actions could result in a reprimand from your company’s HR division.Don’t tell off-color jokes.
Don’t dance romantically with a fellow employee. This might be unwanted, and could lead to office gossip.
Kissing or hugging your coworkers, likewise, is inappropriate.
Do not play inappropriate party games, even if they are available.Do not comment on your coworkers’ appearance.
 If you’ve done exceptionally well at your firm, you might be recognized by your superiors with a toast. Show your appreciation for their acknowledgment and thank them cordially. Do not drink to yourself – this indicates bad manners.If you’re not the subject of a toast yourself, consider toasting a coworker or manager – but only if you have something sincere to say., Otherwise, you might become the subject of office gossip. Eat a light dinner or have some snacks while you’re at the party so you’re not drinking on an empty stomach.Drinking in front of coworkers is okay, but eating in front of them can be awkward. If the party overlaps with dinner time, you should eat dinner before arriving.Stop drinking about one hour before you intend to leave. If necessary, call a cab or get a ride from a friend.Even if you did drink too much, go to work the next day anyways. It will reduce the quantity of gossip being spread about your bad behavior.Don’t eat too many snacks or hors d’oeuvres, either., December is a month in which many seasonal holidays occur. For instance, Christmas, Kwanzaa, and Hanukkah are some of the holidays that occur toward the end of the year. Instead of wishing someone a “Happy Kwanzaa” as you depart, say to coworkers, “Happy Holidays.”If you know which holiday the person you’re bidding farewell to celebrates, bid them farewell using a reference to the appropriate holiday., If you post images from the holiday office party on social media, only express positive or neutral thoughts. Never post negative content that could hurt your relationships with coworkers or insult your superiors. For instance, do not go home and write, “The holiday party was very boring and dumb” on your social media account.Always ask the people in the pictures if it’s okay for you to post them before doing so.

