 Complete this step from a web browser, not the Uber smartphone app.
 It’s the green button at the top right corner of the screen.


To drive for Uber, you must be 21 or older, have a valid driver’s license, insurance and a legally registered car that meets Uber’s criteria for your city.
 Type the requested information, such as your name and phone number, into the form on the right side of the screen. When the form is complete, click Next to continue.

If you’ve already signed up for Uber as a passenger, just click the Log In link beneath the form instead.
When choosing an option from the “What type of vehicle will you drive?” dropdown, select Personal Vehicle if you’ll be driving your own vehicle, or Taxi or Livery if you’ll be driving a licensed taxi.
, Type the number in the spaces provided, then click Continue. Uber will use this number to perform a background check.,

Uber does not check your credit or share your data with others.


If you’re using your smartphone or tablet to fill out the form, tap Take Photo With My Phone and follow the on-screen instructions to upload the photo.
If you are using a computer, take a photo of your license using a smartphone, then send the photo to your computer. Click “Upload Photo.”

, Before you can proceed, you’ll need to have your car inspected by a certified Uber inspection agent. Once the inspection is complete, you can move to the next step.

Uber will attempt to locate the nearest inspection center. If you want to use that center, click Choose this location beneath the location. Otherwise, click Choose a different location for an alternate option.
Bring your license, registration, and insurance card with you to the inspection.
,,, A pop-up will appear, asking whether you’ve completed your inspection. Click Yes, then Browse to navigate to the photo or scanned inspection form., Now you’ll be prompted to upload a copy of your insurance card, registration card, and business license (if required by your city or state).

San Francisco CA, Portland OR, and Las Vegas NV all require that Uber drivers acquire business licenses.To find out if your city requires a business license to drive for Uber, call your city’s revenue division.
 Choose iPhone or Android to send a download link directly to your smartphone. The link will launch your phone’s app store, where you’ll download it as you would any other app.
 This video will teach you more about driving with Uber, including information about using the app on your smartphone., As long as your documents are approved and your background check is successful, you should receive a welcome kit from Uber in a few days (though it can take up to 2 weeks if there is high demand). This kit will include all of the information you need to get on the road, including an Uber sticker for your windshield.