 Want to find an outdoor maze to explore? The Worldwide Labyrinth locator can be found by clicking here. Wherever you are in the world, you can find the closest local labyrinth to you. Plan an expedition with your friends and bring supplies.


If you can't find a close enough labyrinth, go exploring a part of your town you're unfamiliar with, or explore the woods, or walk around your own neighborhood and look for bird houses, funny dogs, or dumb mailboxes.;
, It's a real thing and it's not boring. According to the manifesto of the Cloud Appreciation Society, members pledge to fight ‘blue-sky thinking’ wherever it is found. If you think life would be dull if we had to look up at cloudless monotony day after day, consider linking up with your kindred spirits by clicking here.


You can learn to distinguish between the specific types of clouds, form stories about the different cloud shapes, or just relax sitting in the grass and gazing up at them.
 Tired of hearing your parents tell you to go outside and play? Spice it up a bit. You don't have to sit, idly playing in the dirt. Treat your backyard like an Epic Arena for Ultra Athletic Sport. To the Backyard Olympics!


The first event, solo tree climbing, features a field of one. Race the clock and climb the limbs of your favorite climbing tree. Make it your personal best.
For the next event, you have to complete a magic trick that involves throwing a spherical rubber ball behind your head and making it fly through a hoop that's 12 feet in the air. You get ten tries. In some cultures, this is called "basketball."
For the third event, you have to defy physics. Make a Frisbee disc fly through the air and strike a variety of targets, including trees, upside down cans, a deck chair, and no windows whatsoever. You get ten throws. Best score wins.
For the final round, it's a parkour for the ages. That means you run around like crazy and jump off stuff and under stuff and over stuff. Style points are all that counts. To the winner goes the popsicle.
 If you've got a big yard or field nearby, check out the grass in a close way, looking for the white whale of foliage. The four-leaf clover. If you do, press it into your favorite book and keep it for good luck. Or give it to your crush. Or just look at it and leave it there.

