 Tell your teen that talking on the phone is dangerous not only for them, but for their passengers and other drivers around them, too. Plus, in many states and municipalities, it is also illegal.


If your teen has a hard time staying off the phone while driving, suggest that they turn the phone off when driving, or leave it at home.
Remind your teen that talking and driving is impolite as well as unsafe, since he or she won’t be able to devote their full attention to the conversation.
Discourage your teen from using hands-free phone headsets or in-car audio systems, too. Just because they are hands-free doesn’t mean they aren’t a distraction.
More than 25% of all car crashes involve phone use, including hands-free phones., Many people of all ages use the phone in front of others. However, it is not always acceptable to do so. Using the phone when others are present can make other people feel that they are not important or aren’t being listened to.Ask your teen how they would feel if someone did this to them, or to recall a time when they actually experienced this situation.


Using the phone in formal situations – weddings, conferences, and club meetings, for instance – is usually not a good idea. Encourage your teen to ask themselves, “Would anyone be upset if I was using my phone instead of paying attention to the proceedings?”
On the other hand, when teens are hanging out in a casual environment with their friends, it might be acceptable for them to use their phone. Let your teen know that on these occasions, it is probably alright for them to use their phone. However, encourage your teen to stay off their phone if their friend is trying to communicate something important, emotional, or serious.
Advise your teen to pay attention to social cues to help them understand when it is and is not okay to use their phone. For instance, if their conversation partner remarks sarcastically about their phone use, they should take this as a sign that they are overusing their phone.
 If your teen needs to communicate with someone, instruct them to simply excuse themselves and go somewhere where their conversation will not disrupt those around them.


The 10-foot rule is also important for texting.If your teen is texting furiously, they might forget that they’re in a public space. To avoid other people looking over their shoulder at their conversation and snooping into their private business, encourage your teen to find a private space to send text messages and browse the web.

