 If you can afford to hire someone to coordinate your wedding, this is often the best way to go. A professional event planner can usually get discounts on the things you'll need, and will alleviate the stress of arranging every little detail yourself., Beach weather can be unpredictable, and some of your guests may be uncomfortable in the heat. It can also be difficult to hear when it's windy. Plan the exchange of vows to take as little time as possible, and your guests will be grateful for it.Skip long readings or singing performances – save them for the reception instead.
 Whether you are married in the United States or abroad, be sure you are allowed to hold your wedding on the beach of your choice. Check with the local authorities early in the planning stages, and file for the necessary permits well in advance. While you are getting your permit, ask the officials if there are any laws concerning noise levels and how long you're allowed to remain on the beach.
National parks are a good choice for a U.S. beach wedding. They are accustomed to holding beach weddings, and will have a clear system of rules and regulations for you to follow.
 Outdoor weddings can be very noisy, so it's a good idea to have a microphone, amp, and speakers available so the guests can hear the couple's vows., Try to find a photographer who has a lot of experience with beach weddings, because they will know how to find just the right settings and angles. Before hiring a photographer, always check out their portfolio. Most photographers keep an online portfolio showcasing their work at other weddings.
 If you are having your wedding in an exotic locale, arrange for local companies to manage the food, music and flowers. You could hire professionals in your home town and fly them to your wedding, but that would be very expensive., Plan to wear insect repellent, to keep biting bugs away while you say your vows. You might also have a few cans available near the entrance, so your guests can use it, too.Test a small spritz of the bug spray you will be using on an inconspicuous area of your wedding dress. You want to be sure it won't stain your gown.
 Set up an area near the entrance of your event where guests can leave their shoes and exchange them for flip-flops. Everyone will be more comfortable, and your guests won't risk destroying their street shoes.