 You can use 4 to 6 ramekins or an 8-cup (2 liters) casserole dish Whatever you choose to use, make sure that it is made out of glass or ceramic, and is safe to put into the oven. Set the dish aside when you are done.;
, Separate the yolks from the whites. Place the yolks into a small mixing bowl and set the whites aside. Beat the sugar into the yolks by hand or using an electric mixer until light and creamy.


You will be using the remaining 1 tablespoon of sugar later in the recipe.
 Sift the flour first, so as to avoid any lumps or clumps. This will give you a smoother, silkier pudding in the end.


Whole milk is best. For a lighter option, use reduced-fat milk., Beat the egg whites using an electric mixer until stiff peaks form. Add the sugar gradually; this will help the egg whites remain stiff.
 Stir the mixture gently until everything is evenly combined. There should be no streaks or swirls.
 If you are pouring the pudding into ramekins, make sure that you distribute it evenly.
 The water level should come halfway up the pudding dish.If there is too much water, pour some out.
 If you are baking the pudding in ramekins, test the pudding after 25 minutes. The pudding is ready if it springs back when you touch it lightly.Another way to test whether or not the pudding is done is by inserting a fork into the middle; if the fork comes out clean, it is done.
 Pull the casserole dish or ramekins out of the water-filled pan using potholders, and set it down on the table. You can serve it as is, or add some whipped cream or ice cream.A few grated pieces of lemon rind over the cream or ice cream make for a nice final touch.
 You can use six 1-cup (240 milliliters) ramekins or an 8-cup (2 liters) casserole dish.Whatever you choose to use, make sure that it is made out of oven-safe glass or ceramic.
 Pour everything into an electric mixer, and beat together using a high or medium speed. If you don't have one, you can use a food processor fitted with whisks instead.
 Separate the egg yolks from the whites first, and set the whites aside. Add the egg yolks into the butter mixture one at a time. Beat the mixture well after each egg that you add.
 When you add the lemon juice, the mixture will start to curdle. Don't worry; it will turn out fine in the end. Add the flour and milk next, and combine using a lower speed setting on your mixer. The mixture will start to look a little like thin batter.
 Make sure that the bowl is clean and dry, and that you are using a whisk attachment or a balloon whisk. Use a medium or high speed setting.
 Use a spatula to fold half of the whisked egg whites into the butter mixture. This will loosen the mixture up a bit, and make it easier to blend. Next, fold the rest of the beaten egg whites until everything is just combined., If you are using ramekins, make sure that you distribute the mixture evenly between them.
 The water should come up halfway up the sides of your casserole dish or ramekins. If there is too much water, pour some out.
 Another way to test it is by inserting a fork into the middle; if the fork comes out clean, it's done.


Pudding baked in ramekins will be finished sooner than pudding baked in a casserole dish.
If you are using a glass dish, you will notice a creamy sauce under the sponge topping. This indicates that the pudding is done., Use potholders to take the casserole dish or ramekins out of the water, and set it down on a table. You can serve it as is, or garnish it with powdered sugar, whipped cream, or ice cream.

