 There will naturally be a size difference between your bare foot and your foot in a wool sock. So be sure at every stage of the fitting process to wear your ski socks.


It’s best to wear thin wool socks when skiing. These will keep your feet warm, but still allow you to feel the sole of your boot as you ski.;
, Asking someone to help you with this will yield a more accurate outline, but you can also do it by yourself. While standing on a blank piece of paper, trace the edge of your foot all the way around with a pencil or pen.
 Ski boots use a sizing system referred to as “mondo,” which translates to “world.” This universal system, based on centimeters, eliminates the need to convert sizes between U.S., E.U., etc.If you don't have anything that measures in centimeters, you can measure in inches and then convert. Multiply the number in inches by 2.54. The result will give you the correct number in centimeters., Start from the back of the heel and measure to the tip of the longest toe. The number you get in centimeters is your mondo size. For example, if it’s 26 centimeters long, you are a size 26.


Take note of any fractions. Some manufacturers make ski boots in half sizes, so don’t round up. If you’re a 26.5, you may be able to find that exact size.
 Many manufacturers offer narrow or wide sizes, so it’s useful to know if your foot falls into one of those categories.Measure the widest part of your foot (usually the ball of your foot just below your toes) and write down that number.


Designations like “wide” and “narrow” are relative to the length of your foot. Look online for a sizing chart that compares your foot length to its width and then classifies it as narrow, medium, or wide.
 Stomp down with your heel two or three times into the ground. This helps adjust your foot to the proper placement inside the boot. Avoid doing this on any flooring you don't want damaged, since the boot could ding or scratch wooden floors., Most models will have these at the front and sides, though some children’s models have them at the back. Buckle them to whatever tightness feels snug but not uncomfortable. Don’t tuck your pants into the tops of the boots since this will change the fit through your calf.
 While standing straight up, your toes should just brush the front of the boot.If you wiggle your toes and can’t feel anything brushing against them, the boots are likely too big. If your toes have to bend up or down to fit your entire foot in the boot, then they’re too small.
 Since liners break down over time, you want to be sure that the hard shell of the boot is a good fit. Take the liner out of the boot and stand with your toes pushed forward until they touch the front of the boot. You should be able to fit 1-2 fingers in between your heel and the back of the shell., Bend your legs at the knees as you would if you were skiing downhill. Feel the placement of your toes and heels. In this position your heels should not lift off the sole and your toes should just barely pull back from brushing the front of the boot., Walk around in them and get a feel for any areas where the boot is too tight or is rubbing your foot uncomfortably. The longer you spend in them now, the better sense you will get for how they’ll feel on your feet for hours on the slopes., If you’re trying on boots in a store, it may be helpful to test out other sizes, just to be sure you like the fit of the boot you’ve chosen. If you ordered online, read the site’s return policy to see if you can get free return shipping, then order two or three different sizes to test them out at home.
 If you are buying ski boots, as opposed to renting, you may want to look into insoles that are specifically designed to fit your feet. Ski shops and sport shops can help you fit thermal-formable insoles, which will help fix a variety of issues like toe jamming, aching arches, and ankle pain.