 Wear them at school. Buy even more boyish clothes, avoid pastel colors, and make sure you don't wear any more than a little bit of pink. Pink can only be allowed in tiny portions when you want to dress like a tomboy! Try to wear blue. It really is a color for tomboys, as are light green, grey and black.;
, For example, you may be good at athletics. Play football, basketball and baseball, sometimes soccer. Don't forget softball, dodge ball and other sports like ping pong or lacrosse! If you plan on doing something athletic that day, make sure you aren't wearing a dress or very delicate clothing. Football can be very tough and a dress isn't very good clothing for playing sports. If athletics really isn't your thing, then don't worry, don't become someone you're not.
 Many boys are into Minecraft. If they ask you to play with them, don't be afraid, and look up tips to keep up and consider yourself one of the boys if they invite you to play.
 Befriend the boys in your class but don't get too friendly. They might think you have a crush on them! Get some tomboy friends. They may introduce you to other tomboys and boys and tough girls who are experienced with being a tomboy!

, If you're allowed, get your hair cut short. If not, wear ponytails or two plaits and other sporty hairdos. Hats and beanies also work well with both short and long hair.
 Yell instead, and practice not talking in a very high-pitched voice.
 Girls always tease you. They're that way. Just ignore them and walk on your own way. One day they'll stop it.
 Washing clothes once in a while is okay, but not everyday! Keeping yourself too clean, or being too untidy. In middle of those two is perfect.
 If your parents make you wear girly clothing, and you have tried everything to make them stop, explain that your parents are doing this and the boys will know you can't stop it. Make it sound like you really don't like how they do that, and maybe they will help you. Don't expect it though.
 In summer wear sportswear, In winter wear sweats and hoodies/Sweaters. Choose baggy clothing, not tight fitting items.
 Build a robot, get into chemistry, explore stamp collecting, try model making or archery or join the boy scouts if you like!

, Climb trees, make dens, dam streams and mess about in the mud and dirt if you feel like it and enjoy it.

