 Use sandpaper or steel wool to scuff the sides of the stainless steel object.


Scuffing the steel will create a more age-worn appearance. It also removes some of the protective coating, allowing more of the vinegar to penetrate and work its way through the metal.
Steel wool pads will usually create deeper scratches, so if you want to create more subtle wear, use sandpaper instead. Choose a medium to heavy grit sandpaper for best results.
 Place the prepared steel item in a plastic bucket or in another similar container made of non-reactive material.


All sides you wish to antique should be exposed. If one side is covered or hidden against the side of the container, the vinegar may not work as effectively there.
 Pour vinegar into the container, covering all sides of the stainless steel piece.


You may want to wear safety goggles and safety gloves when handling vinegar. Even though vinegar is a mild acid, it could sting if it splashes into your eyes. Vinegar can also be a mild irritant if you have sensitive skin or if your skin is submerged for prolonged periods.
Every side touching the vinegar will be affected. Any type of vinegar should work for this project, but white distilled vinegar is recommended since it is fairly cheap and easy to come by.
If the steel piece starts to float, hold it down by placing stones or dry beans on top of it. Make sure that the vinegar still has access to the piece, however.
 Keep the steel piece submerged in the vinegar for at least eight hours.


The piece should look subtly aged and worn as soon as you remove it.
When you remove the piece, rinse the vinegar away with clean water and dry it with clean towels.
 If the antiqued appearance isn't as notable as you would prefer, soak the stainless steel for a longer period of time.


Stainless steel comes in different grades, so this may not be effective on all steel pieces. High-grade stainless steel is more likely to resist corrosion than low-grade stainless steel.
If the vinegar doesn't produce results, you could try using a more corrosive chemical. Toilet bowl cleaner generally works well.Bleach, denture cleaner, and silver dip may also yield results.When using harsher chemicals, always wear safety goggles and rubber gloves.
Never mix chemicals, either, since doing so can produce dangerous fumes. Thoroughly rinse and dry the piece before attempting to use a different chemical.


Once you are satisfied with the appearance, the project is complete. These results should be permanent.

