 In general, puppies should be kept with their mothers for at least the first eight weeks of their lives. If the dog breed is small, such as a Yorkshire terrier, it is better for a puppy to live with her littermates or parents for the first 12 weeks so they can mature enough to live with other people and animals.If you find a breeder who is selling puppies younger than eight weeks old, ask the breeder why, since it is too young.;
, As you are looking for a puppy, you should look at how clean the puppy is. This is a good indicator of the puppy's health. When you meet a new puppy, look for clean:


Ears. Puppy ears that are dirty may cause ear infections or indicate ear mites. Avoid puppies with ear redness or foul odors.
Nose. There should be no discharge from the nose and the puppy should not sneeze profusely or cough. Don’t think discharge is just saliva, however, because the nose may be wet from licking.
Eyes. There should be no discharge around the puppy’s eyes. They should be bright and alert., When you are getting a new puppy, her fur should be fresh and clean. It should also be shiny and full. Avoid dogs with bald patches or skin issues. It may be a bit dusty or slightly dirty if the puppy is playing outside with other animals, but she should clean up easily.


When you play with her, part her fur and look at the skin. It should also be clean and smooth. Make sure there are no fleas and the puppy doesn’t itch., When you pick up the puppy, check the muscle definition of the legs and arms. All puppy bodies should be strong even if the dog is a tiny breed. Make sure he isn’t thin with a protruding belly.


This can be a sign of an untreated worm infestation or a serious health issues, such as a heart problem., If you have a chance, examine what the puppy’s stool looks like. It should be firm. Loose stools or a messy bottom may indicate diarrhea, which is a sign of larger health issues. You should also check where the other puppies in the litter go to the bathroom to make sure none of the other puppies are sick either. Also watch to see if the puppy licks her genital region a lot. This may be a sign of a urinary tract infection.
 In addition to the physical symptoms, you should evaluate the overall energy level of the puppy. Watch his interaction with other puppies and see how he interacts with you.


It may take a little time for the puppy to warm up to you and your family, but he eventually will. Sit with him and make time to play with him when you visit. Puppies who are healthy are curious and want to play if they are awake.
 If at all possible, ask the shelter or breeder to see the past vet records for your puppy. This will ensure that she has been vaccinated and will let you know if the puppy has been fixed or not.


If the breeder or seller won’t or can’t give you past vet records, seriously rethink getting that puppy. This is a warning sign that something could be wrong.
 Your puppy's health includes his mental health, and that means he should be properly socialized. Ask about what contact the puppy has had with other people and where the puppies are kept (home environment rather than an outside run). A puppy that is poorly socialized can lead to major behavioral problems down the road.
 It can be very difficult to adopt a puppy who becomes ill soon after you get her. Sickness, especially at a young age, can cause many lasting health problems for your puppy, such as stunted growth and diseases that can take continual care. This is not only hard on your puppy, it is hard on your family as well.


This can be very expensive for you if you don’t notice these health issues before you adopt the puppy. For example, the first year of a healthy puppy’s life can cost between $700 and $2,000 in veterinary costs. If your puppy is sick, this amount may double or triple., A great place to look for a puppy is a shelter. Check with your local Humane Society or animal rescue society to see what kinds of puppies they have available. These organizations take very good care of the animals they shelter, so the puppies you see from them will likely be in the best of health.


The puppies in these places undergo a full exam and are given their vaccinations by a veterinarian.These organizations will also not knowingly offer you a sick puppy, but it is always good to be on the lookout for sickly behavior.
 If you know you want a particular type of puppy, you may want to look into a breeder instead of a shelter. Before you adopt, plan a visit to the breeder’s facility to meet the breeder, the parents of the puppies, and the puppies.It is important to assess the kind of environment the breeder has. You will also want to play with the puppy and determine his general temperament as well as the temperament of the parents. This will help you determine if the puppy is a good fit for you and your family.
The Humane Society of the United States has a available online that you can use to assess the breeder. This checklist tells you what to look for, such as the number of dog types the breeder breeds and the state of the conditions where the dogs are kept. The breeder should also have a strong relationship to local veterinarians and should instruct you in how to take care of the puppy once you take him home.
When you go to meet the breeder, take the checklist with you so you can make sure you are buying a puppy from a reputable source. Feel free to ask as many questions as you want. Responsible breeders understand since they want to connect with responsible owners as well. You may still consider a shelter for a purebred animal. About 25% of animals in shelters are purebred animals., Puppy mills are businesses that breed large amounts of puppies and house them in kennels. These puppies are often sick and poorly socialized.When the dogs are housed in kennels they miss out on a critical socialization period that allows them to become mentally healthy dogs.Not only that, the puppies and their parents are often housed in unsanitary and crowded conditions, are not given proper veterinary care, and the dogs being bred may have behavioral or health problems.Reputable breeders do not sell to pet shops.Avoid buying a puppy online, as there is absolutely no regulation as to where the puppy has come from, and you will be unable to check the puppy or his parents before you buy.
 You should take your new puppy to the vet within 48 hours of adopting her. Most breeders, shelters, and rescues have a small window when they guarantee the health of the puppy, so it is best to get her checked during this time in case there is something wrong with her. Even if there are no guarantees, you should still get her checked within this time frame so you can catch any possible health problem as soon as possible.


Your vet will explain about the necessary vaccinations, feedings requirements, and any other health problems facing your puppy, such as worms and parasites.
Feel free to ask your vet any questions you have about owning the specific breed you have or about puppies in general., When you adopt your puppy, ask the breeder, shelter, or rescue what they were feeding your puppy while he lived there. This will help make the transition easier on your puppy. He will already be stressed because he is changing his environment and leaving his family, so making sure his food stays constant will help make any stomach issues he experiences better.


Try to at least start him on the food he was accustomed to before. If you want to change his food, do so gradually by weaning him off the other food and feeding him more of the food you want him to have. Just make sure you are feeding him puppy food, not adult dog food.
If he has diarrhea, don't worry. This is a common response to stress., There are some diseases that are common in puppies, such as parvo, distemper, kennel cough, and gastrointestinal issues. The more severe conditions, such as parvo and distemper, have vaccinations that fight against them. This means it is imperative that you get your puppy vaccinated as soon as possible.


Other issues can be combated with a healthy and balanced diet. This helps keep her immune system up, which helps her fight any possible disease that could attack her at a such a young age.
If you notice any change in behavior, any general listlessness, or excessive diarrhea or vomiting, take her to the vet immediately. The earlier you catch her illness, the better her chances are.