 Find out how restrictive they are. Ask if they admit children to age-restricted movies as long as an adult purchases their ticket for them. If they don't, see if they'll admit you if you're accompanied by an adult into the theater., Ask them to see the movie with you or to simply buy the ticket for you when they drop you off.If they immediately say no just because of the movie’s rating, argue that the rating system is very inconsistent. Think of a movie that you are allowed to see (better yet, one that your parent made you see) and point out how it’s just as “bad” as the one you want to see now.For example, look at the Star Wars or Indiana Jones franchises or any other movie that’s marketed toward kids despite featuring torture, dismemberment, and high body counts.


Know your parents’ tastes and policies beforehand. If you already know that the movie contains more sex, violence, or other material that they’ll object to you seeing, don’t bother asking, since this will tip them off that you intend to see it.
 If you have one of those aunts or uncles who love to let you do things that your parents wouldn’t normally allow, go to them instead. Ask them to take you to the movie or to purchase your ticket for you.
 If you or your friends have any brothers or sisters of age, ask them to take you to the theater. Judge how best to ask them based on your relationship.


If the two of you have a strong relationship, play to their sympathies, since they too were probably in your position not so long ago.
If the two of you don’t get along most of the time, barter with them. Offer to do their chores or even provide an alibi or some other form of support the next time they want to sneak something behind your parent’s back.
 If you have any friends of age, or who even just look like they are, go with them.Invite as many as you can, the more, the better. Go as a group and blend in with them.
 Ask them to purchase your ticket. If needed, offer a few extra bucks to pay for their popcorn or whatever as an added thank you.


If the ticket window is located outside, stay out of view of theater staff, but stay in view of everyone else when approaching strangers.
Don’t barter with anything more than a little extra money, if even that. Regardless of how young they may seem, don’t agree to do any other favor for a strange adult, even if it sounds innocent.
Don’t be afraid to ask. Unlike buying alcohol for minors, no one’s going to get arrested or fined for buying you a movie ticket (unless it’s to an NC-17 rated film).The worst that may happen is a simple “No.”

