 If you go into a tackle without thinking you’re going to succeed, you’re making a big mistake. Having the mental edge makes a big difference. You have to be the one who wants it more. It doesn’t matter if you’re outsized, as long as you utilize proper tackling technique you can prevail over larger ball carriers.


Don’t panic! Losing your confidence leads to hesitating, which could cost you your advantage as the initiator of the contact.;
, When you lose verticality you lose the ability to move laterally. This makes staying in line with your target very difficult. This is where the right stance comes into play. Keep you knees bent with your feet shoulder-width apart, your head up, and your back straight. Keep your arms up and ready to engage the runner.


It’s imperative to maintain a low center of gravity relative to your target. Whoever gets lower has more leverage through the hit.
 Committing to the tackle and putting your head down too early can cost an embarrassing misfire.Watch your opponents waist instead of his eyes, shoulder, or legs. Typically, the waist is a reliable indicator of the direction the runner will take.
 You want to begin your tackling process about 2 meters from the ball carrier. This gives you enough space work through your tackling technique and generate power while staying in close enough proximity to ensure you won’t miss.


Imagine there is a circle around the target player that extends about the length of their body in all directions. You should only begin your tackling motion once you’ve stepped inside the circle.
 The runner rarely approaches a defender head-on, as this would decrease his chances of escaping the tackle. Therefore, it’s up to the defender to recognize the angle the runner takes and intercept that path. The side closest to the defender is the safe side, and focusing on landing the tackle on the safe side increases the likelihood of a solid hit.
 When you and the ball carrier are heading towards one another, it’s important to use proper technique to bring him down. Once you’ve identified the safe side and assumed a good stance, establish first contact by pressing your shoulder into the midsection of the ball carrier.


Hitting too high or too low can allow the runner to break out of the tackle easier, so focus on the are between the thigh and torso.
Once you've entered the imaginary tackling circle, wait for the last possible moment to lower your upper body and drive your shoulder into the runner, with your head to his side.
As you connect with the shoulder, wrap your arms tightly around the ball carrier’s thighs. Swinging the arms into the runner adds momentum and force to more effectively hinder his progress at the onset of the tackle.
Don’t slow down! Many players make less effective tackles, or miss them completely, by giving up their forward momentum. Avoid planting your feet as you make contact and be sure to drive through the hit by pushing forwards with your legs.
 Not all tackles are made face to face. Often times, you’ll have to track down a ball carrier by sprinting down field. When this happens, there’s no opportunity to drive them backwards, so understanding how to bring them down from behind can be the difference between giving up a try and saving one.


Jersey tackling, or pulling a player down by his jersey is frowned upon and may result in a penalty. Many refs turn a blind eye to this if there’s no flagrant intent to harm a player. Consider it as a last resort, and be careful not to inflict unnecessary harm.
A tap tackle is made by grabbing at the ball carrier’s leg beneath the knee. At high speeds, even the slightest contact can disrupt a runner when planting his foot and lead to an effective trip up.
Dive at the runner if you can't catch up to make a full tackle and try to put as much force as you can into the contact against their feet or ankles.
 Sometimes you can’t get in front of a player, or the pace of play is somewhat abnormal and you have to adjust your technique. If you can’t position yourself in front with enough time to make the hit, try slowing a ball carrier down with an outstretched arm. While a strong runner will likely brush you off, it may allow a teammate the extra second to get into position and finish the job.Also consider smothering your opponent. When wrapping the waist isn’t an option, you may be able to throw your arms over the ball carrier’s shoulders or around his chest to weigh him down by holding tight and hanging on him.
As always, never give up momentum with any type of tackle. Keep your speed up and be sure that you're the one initiating the contact, not absorbing it.
 You got low in your stance and you kept the momentum going as you made contact. Don’t make the mistake of thinking the tackle is over before the ball carrier hits the ground.


This step is about more than pushing with your legs, it’s about continuing to move your feet.
Think about trying to push the runner backwards and keep your feet churning with small, hard steps.
 This applies mostly to the collision or shoulder tackling technique used most often in rugby. Once you’ve wrapped you arms around the ball carrier’s thighs and positioned your shoulders against his midsection, you’re ready to create opposing forces to knock his body off balance and take him down.


Pull up and in with your arms to disrupt the motion of the ball carrier’s feet.
At the same time, use your upper body (head and shoulders) to drive his midsection backwards.
Driving through the ball carrier this way will uproot him from the ground and knock him off balance, completing a solid tackle., After you’ve made the tackle, the game goes on. Retain your focus on the greater goal of winning the game and making the next play as well as the last.


No matter what you’ll have to release the ball carrier.
The ball may be played out, in which case you should hurry to rejoin your team and get back in position.
Other times play will develop on top of the tackle, most often in the form of a scrum or ruck. In this case, it’s best to cover your head and face for protection and be careful not to obstruct the play, as it could result in a penalty.