 The Master Cleanse can often be intense and shocking for your body, as you will be having only lemon juice, water, maple syrup and cayenne pepper for 10 days. You should ease your body into this cleanse to avoid shocking your system. Start by eliminating any unhealthy foods from your diet, such as fast food, processed foods, and pre-packaged foods. You should get rid of these foods over the period of a few days.You should also avoid consuming beverages high in sugar, such as soda. Stick to water and herbal teas and cut back on caffeine and alcohol.
 You should shift your diet to foods that are fresh and organic, such as fruits and vegetables. Try to eliminate dairy and meat. Opt for raw or cooked fruits and vegetables instead.You may want to keep your fruits and vegetables as raw as possible leading up to the Master Cleanse, as this may make it easier for your body to transition to a liquid only diet. You may try blending your fruits and vegetables into smoothies with no dairy, only water. You may also try juicing the fruits and vegetables so you are consuming them in liquid form.
 In the days leading up to the Master Cleanse, you should switch to having two liters of orange juice a day. You should also have two liters of water so your body is well hydrated. Pure, organic orange juice will help your body prepare for the cleanse and get the nutrients it needs to get through the day.You may also add maple syrup to the orange juice to make sure you get enough calories per day. Focus on a liquid only diet in the days leading up to the cleanse and then gradually switch to just the Master Cleanse. This will help your body ease into the cleanse.
 The Master Cleanse is a type of detox cleanse that is popular among celebrities and alternative medicine practitioners. But many studies have shown that low-calorie diets and fasts lead to fluid loss and weight gain once the diet or fast is over. Be wary of any guarantees of losing weight fast and keeping it off using the Master Cleanse.There are also health risks associated with detox cleanses, such as dehydration, lower electrolyte levels, and impaired bowel function. It can also disrupt the natural balance of microorganisms in your body and lead to the development of metabolic acidosis, or excess acidity in the blood.
You should always talk to your doctor before you try the Master Cleanse. Make sure the cleanse will not make any existing medical issues worse and be willing to stop the cleanse if you start to develop health problems due to the cleanse.

