 If the interview appeared in a magazine or other publication, then it falls under these guidelines. The reference information will now appear throughout the text (as it is used) and also at the end of your work in your reference list.
 This is a page at the very end of your work that lists the accumulated sources from throughout your paper. It should be organized alphabetically, so that readers can find citation information quickly., Follow this with a comma and a single space. Then, include your your author’s first initial, capitalized, and followed immediately by a period and another space. , Follow the name with the four-digit date of publication in parentheses. Place a period immediate after the closed parentheses and add another space.


Your date should look like, “(2000),” not, “(’00).”
If you cannot find a date for the work substitute “n.d.” without quotation marks in its place.
 Follow the date with the full interview title. If the interview is not titled, then include a single line description. This description should be contained within square brackets. It will often include the phrase “Interview with” followed by the interviewee’s full name, followed by a comma, and a few words of bio information.If you use brackets, add a period immediately after the closed bracket. For example, it will look like, “.” Or, it could look like, “The Most Amazing Interview Title.”
If you include a published work in the brief bio description, make sure to italicize the title.
Include the title exactly as it appears within the published text.
 At this point your entry may look different depending on the original publication style. If you are working with a journal entry with a single-author, then you will want to follow that general citation style. That will determine what additional information you include in the citation.


For example, when working with a single-author journal entry your citation will proceed with the full journal title, the volume number, and the page numbers of the interview. It will look similar to, “Word, J. (2000). . Journal of Writing Studies, 20, 400-411.” Note that the journal title is italicized as well.If the volume number is not available, it can be omitted. Note that the consecutive page numbers are separated with a dash. To include a series of non-consecutive page numbers you would list them with commas in between. Always end your citation with a period.
 The DOI, or Digital Object Identifier, is new to the 6th edition of the APA Citation Manual. It allows an interested party to trace the source digitally. You will find the DOI in a database record for a digital magazine or perhaps at the top of a downloaded pdf. Include the DOI directly after the page numbers.For example, a DOI reference citation for a published interview might look like,”Word, J. (2000). . Journal of Writing Studies, 20, 400-411. doi:453432342342.”

, As the full information is included in the reference list, you are free to use an abbreviated in-text citation style. Immediately after a paraphrase, include the last name of the author followed by a comma and the publication year. All placed within parentheses.If you quote the published interview directly, then you must include a page number as part of your internal citation. Add a comma after the publication date and write the page number out preceded by a “p.” An in-text citation in this situation should look like, “(Wood, 2000, p. 402).” "Wood" is the author's last name, "2000" is the publication year, and "p.402" means the quotation was found on page 402 in the text.
In contrast, if you mention the author directly in the text, you can follow a distinct in-text citation style. With this format you include the publication date in parentheses immediately after your mention of the author's last name and add the page numbers at the end of the sentence in parentheses as well. For example, “Wood (2000) stated that “reality is subjective” (p.402).” By looking at this sentence you can tell that the author's last name is Wood, the work was published in the year 2000, and the quote can be found on page 402 in the text. This is a good approach if you are looking to avoid heavy citing.