 You don't want to give guinea pigs the full run of the house because there are too many hazards. In addition, guinea pigs can get lost in the shuffle or be scared by loud noises.Consider picking a single room that doesn't have too many places for the guinea pig to hide.
A hallway or bathroom works well. Places like the kitchen have too many places for the guinea pigs to hide or squeeze into.
Also remember that guinea pigs like to chew. If you love the furniture in a particular room, you may not want to put your guinea pigs in there.
Another option is to use a wire pen or cage that you set up in a room.
 Guinea pigs are happy to chew on electrical cords if you give them the chance. Make sure any cords are up out of reach of the guinea pigs or that you pick a room that doesn't have them near the floor., Move any plants and other hazards out of reach. Plastic bags, for instance, can pose a suffocation hazard. Make sure to also pick up any dead leaves, as many houseplants are poisonous to guinea pigs., If you have larger animals in your home, they should not be in the same room as the guinea pigs when they are out. They could attack or injure the guinea pigs by just following their instincts., That way, they won't rush into the room without checking to see where the guinea pigs are. In addition, if guinea pigs are underfoot without the family's knowledge, they could easily be stepped on.You could use a note or sign on the door to help family members remember.
This step also warns your family not to let other pets in.
 Try to provide at least 3 hours outside of the cage a day if the guinea pigs are in a cage that isn't large enough for them.That means that if your guinea pig has less than 7.5 square feet, you need to provide this time out of the cage every day. Otherwise, your guinea pig could get bored.
 If you let your guinea pigs out of their cage for extended periods, don't forget they still need food and water. If they can't go back to their cage, make sure you have food and water out for them.