 Before attempting to convince your parents, you need to clarify in your own mind what your reasons for studying abroad are. Is being an exchange student sometime you’re willing to dedicate serious time and money to? Ask yourself:


Are you studying abroad because it’s personally important, or because a friend or movie made it seem fun?
Are you willing to learn a foreign language if needed?
How much time are you willing to spend away from your family, friends, and home?;
, You’ll find vastly different experiences—both academic and cultural—in different regions and countries. Think about countries and cultures you’d like to travel to, and narrow your list of potential study locations to about three.Find a location that’s a good fit for you personally by:Asking yourself if you would rather be in a rural or an urban setting. An urban setting would give you more opportunities for travel within your host country.
Asking yourself if you want to be in a location where you can get by speaking English, or if you’d rather speak a foreign language.
Once you’ve narrowed down your options, start looking into schools directly. Research universities (or high schools) in the area(s) you’re interested in, look into their academic standing, and contact the respective study-abroad program.
 Most exchange organizations offer both short (1–3 months) and long-term programs (either for a semester or a year). At this point, you should contact the host program directly, and see what type of timeline options they provide.


If your parents are okay with you going to a neighboring country for a short time, but are less comfortable with the idea of you going jet-setting around the world for a year, perhaps you can meet them halfway and spend a year in a nearby country.
 Your guidance counsellor will be able to help you find a trustworthy organization. Your parents will want to know who is facilitating the exchange program; is it through a university or school itself, or a study-abroad program? Showing your parents the legitimacy of the company will help reassure them.


Talk to your teachers about whether your school has any sister schools overseas. This way, you could inquire about doing an exchange through your school. This will probably be a cheaper option, and cut out the “middle man” of an exchange company.
Ask your exchange company (or the hosting university or high school study abroad program) to confirm that the work you complete in your host country will be credited when you return home. You may need to reach out to representatives of the host school to confirm this.
 Ask their opinions on whether they think it was worth the money, and what they learnt from the experience. If they live in your local area, you could see if some of them could meet for coffee with you and your parents, in order to talk about their trip. This will help you better understand how the exchange program works, and let your parents hear first-hand what others have gained from the experience.


This step will be especially useful if you can find individuals who studied in the same country you’re planning to study in.
 Working while you’re in school will show your parents that you are self-sufficient and understand the value of money.Studying abroad—especially for long periods of time—is expensive, and your parents may be concerned that it’s too expensive. They may also feel that you don’t understand the value of money, especially if you’ve never worked before.


Show your parents that you’re interested in, and capable of, generating income and dedicating that money towards being an exchange student.
 Being an exchange student has many costs associated with it, and you’ll need to plan ahead in order to cover your costs.Even if you’re still in the early stages of study-abroad planning, start saving as much money as possible.


Try to set aside at least one third of every paycheck to cover your exchange-student costs.
To show your financial responsibility and your ability to budget and plan ahead, make a financial plan with your parents.Factor in flight fees, travel fees, room and board, tuition costs, and then calculate where the money will come from.
Ask for a stipend from your school. If your school offers this, it will help you to pay for your time abroad trip.
 Your parents will miss you while you’re an exchange student, and may be concerned that they’ll never hear from you. Reassure them that you’ll be in touch regularly, and plan to send letters and postcards when you have the opportunity.


Plan to set up a weekly or monthly schedule of Skype times.
With your parents, research how international phone calls and texts work in the country you’ll be in.
 These should be concrete, specific examples that you can show to your parents that will justify your studying abroad.A list of benefits will help immensely when you sit down to convince your parents.


If your list only includes benefits like “I want to party with locals in Spain,” or “I’ve always loved British accents,” your parents will likely be justified in not allowing your travel abroad.
Instead, make it clear that you would like to learn a new language, expand your understanding of the world, improve your resume, or gain other valuable experiences., Travel and studying abroad can be very expensive, and parents will balk if you expect them to foot the entire bill. If you’ve already saved a few thousand dollars or can expect financial assistance from your university or high school (or the school you’re traveling to attend), this may diminish your parents’’ financial concerns.For example, your parents may not consent because exchange programs cost too much. Include in the list how you can pay part of the trip.
This way, you can show your parents that you are independent and responsible, indicate that you want to experience studying abroad and will do all you can to make it happen.
Also investigate the health care you’ll be entitled to receive in your destination country.Your parents will feel more comfortable with you studying abroad if they know you’re covered by health care.
 Many parents are worried that their child may fall behind with their schoolwork while on exchange program, or that their child will party and travel, while neglecting academics., It’s natural for parents to feel concern for your safety abroad, especially if you are an inexperienced international traveler. Rather than brushing aside their safety concerns, show that you take the issue seriously.Take precautions to keep yourself safe, like:


Research instabilities or potential safety risks in the country. The political climate abroad is often very different than at home (for better or worse)—check with the U.S. State Department to find out if there are any health scares or areas of violence to avoid.Find out more detailed safety information about the specific city you’re staying, as well.
Keep the address of the place you’re staying. This will be useful if you need a late-night taxi ride home, or if your phone dies and you can’t find your way home. Write the address down both in English and the native language of the country you’re in.Watch out for pickpockets and thieves. This can be a serious problem in some foreign countries. Carry cash and valuables on your person (not in a bag that could be snatched away).Learn how to contact the local police, should something be stolen should locals start becoming aggressive with you.
Know the emergency call number for your country. 911 in the USA is equivalent to 112 in Europe, and 000 in Australia.