 Use finish nails to install the first length of molding. It is a good idea to get a second person to position the molding while you secure it. If you had to make a scarf cut to cover the first length of wall, apply a thin layer of glue to the scarf joint on the first piece of molding. Fit the scarf joint together snugly, and fasten the second piece with finish nails. Wipe away any excess glue.
 Working either clockwise or counterclockwise, affix each piece of molding using the process outlined above. This will be much easier with two people, since one person can hold each piece of molding in place while the other hammers it down, but it can be done alone if necessary. Apply a small amount of glue to each scarf joint before nailing the next piece, and wipe excess glue away with a cloth as you work. Continue until all molding is in place.


If a corner joint doesn't quite fit, use a rasp to quickly and evenly grind down extra wood, testing regularly against the joint until you find a perfect fit.
Boring small holes into the points of each outside corner joint allows you to secure the corners to the wall firmly with an extra finish nail in each hole.
 100-grit sandpaper is suitable for finishing scarf joints on bald wood. For pre-finished white crown molding, use paint-on white caulk to smooth the joints. Caulk is also appropriate for smoothing over nail holes and any other marks in the molding. Consider caulking in the gap between the top of the crown and the ceiling for a smoother appearance, if there is such a gap.
 This step will require paint and a brush. Enamel paints are generally the best for this kind of work, and fall into two basic categories: acrylic enamel, which dries quickly and is less odorous than its counterpart, but which has a flatter finish, or alkyd enamel, which takes longer to dry and has a stronger smell, but whose deep, lustrous finish cannot be matched by acrylic paint. Whichever style you choose, use an angle sash brush (which is preferred for its ability to paint sharp, clean lines easily), and apply your paint evenly and methodically.


The standard color for crown molding is white, but other colors may be appropriate depending on the effect you desire for the room you are working on.






You can also paint the molding before you install it, but be aware that you'll have to repaint anywhere that gets scuffed during installation.







