 The eyes can communicate a lot of things without you having to say a word. Sometimes that’s good a thing! If you want to hide your feelings from a crush, however, eye contact probably isn’t going to help. Try to avoid excessive eye contact with that person, since it might give your feelings away.


You don’t have to avert your eyes from someone’s gaze all of the time. Doing that may end up communicating something negative, like you’re embarrassed or not confident in yourself.
Excessive eye contact is what you want to avoid. For instance, if you catch yourself staring, focus on something else.
 If you find yourself spending too much time scrolling through your crush’s online profiles, consider unfollowing them Twitter, Instagram, and Tumblr – at least temporarily. Use Facebook’s privacy settings to block their updates from showing up in your feed. Otherwise, you may end up “liking” too many of their posts and pictures, or leaving comments that will make your feelings for them obvious.


Doing this will also help you stop obsessing over your crush and prevent you from seeing things you don’t want to see, like pictures of your crush with their significant other., You probably know exactly where your crush tends to hang out. Always being around at those places might make your feelings very obvious to your crush. Whenever possible, limit how much time you spend in those places. You may want to avoid them entirely, at least until the crush passes.


You shouldn’t feel like a place is off-limits to you forever because of crush, but if you truly want to hide your feelings from them, avoid their favorite hang-outs for a while.
 You might find yourself inventing reasons for the two of you to touch. Don’t worry, this is a normal thing to do! However, touch is a very communicative thing. Unnecessary physical contact might make your feelings for your crush very obvious. Try to give them plenty of personal space.


If you are always standing a little too close to them, your crush will start to pick up on that. They might even get uncomfortable.
Putting physical space between the two of you will help you keep your feelings private.

