 The SHOP marketplace is located under the "Small Businesses" tab at healthcare.gov. Click on "For Employers" to access information about the ACA and the marketplace, including tools and calculators.The SHOP marketplace is a listing of quality health and dental insurance plans from private insurers that meet the minimum requirements established under the ACA.
By using the marketplace, you can handle every aspect of your health plans online, through a single account with healthcare.gov.
The marketplace website has a number of detailed guides and fact sheets that you can use to understand the website and what you can do there.;
, Eligibility to use the SHOP marketplace is limited to employers with fewer than 50 FTE employees. To figure out how many FTE employees you have, get information about your employees and the hours they worked for you last year.First, find the number of full-time employees you have. For purposes of the ACA, a full-time employee is someone who works an average of 30 hours or more each week.
Average the number of hours each week that each part-time employee worked for you last year, then add those times together.
Divide that number by 30 and round any decimal result down to the nearest whole number.
Add the result from your equation to the number of full time employees you have to find the number of FTE employees you have.
 In addition to having between 1 and 50 FTE employees, you must satisfy a few additional requirements to maintain your ability to use the SHOP marketplace.The SHOP marketplace generally isn't available if you only have one employee, and that employee is your spouse or child – and you can't count yourself as an employee either.
You must enroll in a plan available in the state where your business has a primary business address, unless you have an employee whose primary workplace is in a different state than the state where your primary business office is located.
You must extend healthcare coverage to all employees who work an average of 30 hours a week or more.
Your state may have additional requirements, which you can find by reading the fact sheets available at the SHOP marketplace.
 If you have fewer than 25 FTE employees, you may qualify for a heath care tax credit than will cover up to 50 percent of the cost of your premiums.In addition to having 25 or fewer FTE employees, the average annual wage of those employees must be $50,000 or less to qualify for the credit.
To calculate average annual wages, add the total amount of wages you paid to all employees, then divide that number by the number of FTE employees you have.
The maximum credit amount available is 50 percent, but that percentage decreases depending on the number of employees you have.
The small business health care tax credit is fully refundable, and can be applied either backward or forward to reduce tax liability.
 You have the ability to view the plans in the marketplace and their prices before you start your application, so you can compare and choose the plan that's right for your business.Checking plans in advance is especially beneficial if you need to consult business partners, managers, or other employees before you make your final selection.
Plans are organized in the marketplace by metal level. You can evaluate bronze, silver, gold, and platinum plans.
While plans in each category offer the same coverage of essential medical services, they differ in terms of the amount of money your employees will have to pay out of pocket.
Plans with higher premiums tend to have lower out-of-pocket costs, including lower deductibles and smaller copays.
 The SHOP marketplace rules allow you either to offer a single plan for your employees, or to choose a category of plans and allow your employees to choose the plan they want from that category.If you have employees in more than one state, you'll have to decide whether you want to offer different plans in each state or the same plan for all employees.
If you choose to offer the same plan for employees in multiple states, make sure the plan you choose is provided by a national or multi-state provider network.
Offering employees in multiple states the choice of plans in a category operates the same as it would if all your employees were in one state.
 Even if you decide to offer a health plan to your employees, you aren't required to offer a dental plan as well, but you can if you feel so inclined. As with health plans, you can browse the plans available in your state before you commit.Dental plans are organized into two categories, high and low. As with health plans, each category corresponds to the amount of money your employees will have to pay out of pocket for dental care throughout the year.
You don't have to offer a health plan to offer a dental plan. However, if you offer dental and an employee wants to get dental coverage for a dependent, that employee must first enroll for dental coverage for themselves.
If you decide to offer both health and dental plans, employees can choose to opt in to either plan or none at all.
 As a small business owner, you have the power through the SHOP marketplace to control the percentage of your employees' premiums that you will pay.How you determine your contribution depends on how you plan to offer coverage. If you're offering a single, identified plan, you may choose what percentage of that premium you'll pay.
Keep in mind that each employee's actual premium cost may differ depending on their age.
If you are eligible for and plan on taking the small business health care tax credit, you must pay for at least 50 percent of your employee's premiums.
If you've decided to offer your employees a choice of plans within a certain category, you can either contribute a fixed percentage, or you can fix your contribution based on a reference plan.
When you use a reference plan, you set a percentage based on the premium of that plan, and that amount is the maximum dollar amount you'll contribute towards the employee's premium, regardless of the price of the plan they choose.
For example, if you choose to set your contribution using a reference plan that has a premium of $200, and you want to contribute 50 percent, your contribution would be $100.
Following that example, if an employee chose a plan in the same category with a premium of $150, you would still contribute $100, even though that would be more than 50 percent of that employee's premium.
The advantage of using a reference plan, however, is that you can be fairly well assured for budgetary purposes of the exact amount healthcare will cost your business.
 To enroll in a healthcare plan through the SHOP marketplace, you must create a healthcare.gov account for your business. Simply go to healthcare.gov, click on the employer tab, and select your state.If you own businesses in more than one state, you'll have to create your account in the state where you have your primary place of business.
You have the option of creating additional marketplace accounts in each state where your employees work, if you want to choose different plans for employees in each state.
Some states have their own websites to which you will be redirected after selecting your state from the list. The page will list the name of the state site you need to use to apply for coverage, and you'll be sent to that site when you click the "apply now" button.
 After you provide a few identification details, create a password, and answer a few security questions, you'll be directed to verify your email address and continue enrollment.Once your account is created, log in and select the employer marketplace from the welcome page. Review the personal information and change anything that's incorrect or add anything that's missing, then begin the identity verification process.
You must enter contact information and personal questions to verify your identity. The contact information and Social Security number you enter should be yours – don't enter the information and EIN for your business here.
After your identity is verified, you're ready to begin your SHOP marketplace application. Enter information about your business, including its legal business name, EIN, and type of business. Then you'll enter personal and contact information for the primary contact on the account.
Verify that you qualify to use the SHOP marketplace, and then enter details for every employee including yourself who will get a coverage offer.
It's important to ensure you have the correct email address for each employee so they can be directly notified by healthcare.gov about your offer of coverage.
You have the option of uploading an Excel file with your employees' information. Your spreadsheet should include each employee's full legal name, date of birth, Social Security number, and email address.
 Once your application and eligibility are verified, you begin the five-step process of selecting your plan and submitting your enrollment. By using the SHOP marketplace, you have control over all the details pertaining to enrollment, including the ability to set an enrollment period, waiting period, and start date for the coverage.The enrollment period is the amount of time your employees will have to look over the coverage offer and either accept or decline it.
Make sure your enrollment period provides enough time for your employees to make a decision, but that it will end soon enough that you have time to complete your enrollment before the start date you've selected for coverage to begin.
You then will provide details about the coverage you're offering and the plan or category of plans you've chosen.
After you've chosen your plans and entered the details about the coverage and your contribution to the premium cost, the SHOP marketplace will send an email to your employees with the coverage offer.
During the enrollment period, you can track employee participation and review which employees have responded and how many have accepted or declined the coverage.
 Each state has a minimum percentage of employees, out of those who are offered coverage, that must accept your offer of coverage if you want to enroll at any time.While these requirements differ among states, they typically are around 70 percent. You can use the SHOP marketplace's Minimum Participation Rate Calculator to determine how many employees you must enroll.
Employees who decline your offer of coverage because they already have insurance from another source count toward your minimum employee participation requirement.
You can track your progress towards meeting this goal by logging on to your healthcare.gov account and selecting "my enrollment."
If you don't manage to meet the minimum employee participation requirements, you can still enroll between November 15 and December 15 of any year. The minimum employee participation requirement is waived during that time.
 You must make the payment for the first month's premiums when you finalize your enrollment, or your employees' coverage may be delayed or your enrollment cancelled.Once your enrollment period has ended, you're ready to finalize and submit your enrollment. Payment of your first month's premium must be made at this time.
If your application is received by the 15th and your premium payment is made by the 20th of any month, your coverage can start as soon as the 1st of the next month.
Keep in mind that while you can use an agent or broker to complete your SHOP marketplace enrollment application, they will not be able to make premium payments for you.
When you enroll in a plan through the SHOP marketplace, you must make your premium payments through your healthcare.gov account, not directly to the insurer.
From your marketplace account, you can download and pay your invoice for insurance premiums each month.

