 Keep in mind that certain colors will look natural on some people while looking obvious on others. Stick to shades close to your skin, lip, and hair colors.


If your eyebrows and eyelashes are black or very dark brown, then black eyeliner and mascara will look natural on you. For red hair, try out auburnor brownmascaras to find one that suits you best. If your hair is blonde, taupe mascara can define your lashes while still looking natural.Use eyeliner sparingly if you have lighter hair, and consider experimenting with brown eyeliners.
Pick an eyeshadow that is either close to your skin tone or a few shades lighter as your base color. For fair to medium skin tones, this means whites, taupes, and light browns. Taupes and browns are also good choices for darker skin. Just stay away from white bases when going for a natural look, as these don't blend well on darker skin.Select a second darker color for your shadow. These can be browns, taupes, and mauves.
Go a little lighter than your base for a highlighter. Pick a color that is the same hue as your skin but a little lighter than your base eyeshadow.;
, While skin can shine, it doesn't naturally glitter. Metallic eyeshadows like bronze and gold look wonderful with brown eyes but can ruin the illusion of a completely natural look.


If you want to incorporate metallic colors while still looking natural, do so sparingly and try to pick ones that blend well with your skin tone. For example, a slight splash of gold on the inner corners of your eyes can brighten them while still looking subtle on tan or olive skin.Matte versions of metallic colors are another more natural-looking option.
 Your undertone may be rosy (also called cool), golden (also called warm), or neutral. For a natural look, you especially want to stick with hues with a matching undertone to keep your makeup from standing out.


If you have rosy undertones, eyeshadows with subtle pink, red, plum, and blue tinges can look natural.
For golden skin, eyeshadows with subtle peach, gold, or yellow tones will work for a natural look.
If your undertone is more neutral, then you likely have both rosy and golden undertones. This can make things tricky, since even though most colors will look good on your skin, it can be more difficult to tell what will seem natural. Try out a few different shades to figure out which look best under natural light., Load an eyeshadow brush with your chosen base color. Tap the side of your brush to remove excess powder. With your eye closed, brush the color onto your entire lid using light strokes. It's ok if you go a little above your crease. Reload your brush as needed.
 Load a small angled brush with your chosen shadow color. Tap your brush to remove excess powder. Starting from the outer corner of your eye, run the angled brush along your crease. Stop just before you reach the inner corner of your eye. Do this with one long stroke. The end result should be a highly pigmented outer corner and a gradient towards a much lighter inner corner., Use a clean blending brush. Make small, circular "buffing" motions with the brush along the line where the two colors meet. Start from your inner corner and work your way across to the opposite side. Do this until the two eyeshadows have blended together seamlessly. Your eyelid should now look airbrushed and very close to how a shadow would natural fall.
 Use a clean eyeshadow brush. Dot a tiny bit of your highlight color at the inner corner of your eye and directly under the point of your eyebrow's arch. Use a clean, preferably small, blending brush to blend your highlighter into the surrounding area.
 Eyeliner will accentuate your beautiful brown eyes. However, eyeliner is the trickiest type of makeup to put on when you're going for a natural look. Which eyeliner styles look natural will depend on a combination of your eyelash color and your eyes' shade.


If your hair is light, consider minimal eyeliner. The easiest way to achieve this to make a very thin line across your upper lashline. For an even more subtle, natural look apply liner between each individual lash instead of drawing on a line.If your hair is dark, you can use either a minimalist technique or a slightly thicker line. A thicker line will bring more attention to your brown eyes, but a thinner one will look more natural.
If both your eyes and hair are very dark, you can try a subtle winged or "cat eye" eyeliner in addition to any of the above methods. At the outer corner of your eye, continue your eyeliner slightly at an upward angle pointing to the end of your eyebrow. Match the thickness of this line to the rest of your eyeliner. Small wings will create the illusion of an extended lashline.
 Finishing your eye makeup will help your brown eyes look even more beautiful. However, like eyeliner, this is another step where it's easy to overdo it. If you're worried about looking too done up, consider skipping this step. Otherwise, go over your upper lashes just once or twice with the mascara color best suited to your look.
