 It is a sure fire way to improve the horsepower and engine life of a truck. A larger throttle body paired with performance fuel injectors, efficiently maximise fuel delivery to an engine and provide the vehicle with improved horsepower, throttle response and torque.


A larger throttle body allows more air volume to enter and performance fuel injector nozzles spray a finer and stronger mist of fuel that improves combustion power and efficiency.
Not all vehicles can be outfitted with a bigger throttle body. It would be best to consult a mechanic or your dealer.
 Use a small high-speed rotary tool and a flexible drill bit extension to reduce air/fuel drag.
 They improve the ride quality of the vehicle and last longer than cheap brands. A good set of shocks perform better in a variety of road conditions. These vital components, control the suspension system of a vehicle. It also provides the tires with improved road contact which is essential for better handling, torque and safe vehicle steering.
 They are proven to be more efficient than the typical factory air filters. Air filters improves the airflow by filtering dirt and other air contaminants from the engine.


They are available in two types: The traditional paper air filter which is disposable and the replacement air filter that is reusable and washable. The second type is more expensive because it is made of a long-lasting material that can handle all types of driving conditions and less wind/air resistance.
 This popular aftermarket assembly is the easiest way to improve a vehicle’s efficiency. It allows your engine to breathe better by converting warm air into dense, cold air. By enabling the natural flow of air in the engine, a vehicle is able to move faster, with less effort.
 It’s time to replace the stock mufflers with larger aftermarket exhausts that will for sure improve the airflow of the vehicle. These performance exhausts have pipes that are typically bigger in diameter and are proven to increase torque and boost the sound of the engine.

