 Most rewards programs use an online account to redeem miles or points. Visit your credit card company’s site to set up an online account. American Express, for example, has a sign in box in the top left corner. Be sure to create a secure password that you will remember.


Online accounts also let you track your spending on the card and may even allow for paying your monthly balance.;
, Most credit card account sites will have a "Points" or "Balance" tab, which will show your current reward miles or points. After checking your balance, look for a tab that says “Redeem” or “Use Points” or something similar.


If you prefer to book reward travel by phone, then look in your credit card rewards information to find the phone number or extension that is dedicated to award travel. Try to prepare your travel date and destination options ahead of time for expediency.
 Your credit card account should offer the option to search for flights that are purchasable with reward miles. Most credit cards will have limitations based on airlines, dates of travel, and destination, so you may have to search a little while and possibly compromise to choose a flight that works for you.


Your card may offer the option to use some of the points rather than all of them. For example, if you are purchasing a $400 ticket, you might use just enough points to pay for half of the price.
During the payment stage, look for an option about redeeming points. There should be a box where you can input how many points you want to use, or perhaps a checkbox that says “Use points for whole price,” or something similar.
 Booking directly through an airline often gives you the best prices because there may be lower overhead or booking fees. If you have a card that is affiliated with that airline, you’ll be able to log in with your member number or input it during the payment stage after you choose your flight.


You can also use frequent flier miles that you’ve earned with that specific airline.
 You can book a ticket through a flight aggregator such as Expedia or Orbitz. You are able to use credit card rewards points provided that you have a credit card that is affiliated with those sites. For example, Expedia uses Citi Thank You Points and Orbitz pairs with Visa.


Some aggregators may allow you to use a non-affiliated card. If that option is available, you will find it once you choose flights and are inputting your payment information. You may not be able to use reward points from a non-affiliated card.
Many aggregators also have their own rewards points programs that allow you to earn books when you repeatedly book through their site. This can be a good way to get the most of using reward points.
 You’ll often want to choose the cheapest option, but amenities and flight dates will also come into play. Choose based on your preferred airline, the dates that work best for you, or seat and cabin preferences.


Once you have selected your ticket(s), the site will automatically move you onto the payment stage and you’ll be asked to input your information.
 Each credit card, airline, or flight aggregator site may offer slightly different payment options. When you get to the payment stage, you may have to log into airline or aggregator accounts if you have not already. Type in frequent flier information if you are asked and rewards member information if available.


You will most likely only be able to use rewards points from the card that you input to pay for the ticket with.
 Once all of your information is inputted, you will be asked to make a final confirmation that all of the information you typed in is corrected. Check everything carefully.

