 As with any athletic hobby, knowing you have the proper gear to prevent injury will give you peace of mind and allow you to relax as you learn your new hobby. Properly-fitting helmets are an absolute necessity - they're widely considered to reduce the chance of serious injury while skateboarding.In many places, like the State of California, wearing a helmet is required by law.If you're worried about injury, wrist guards may also be a good choice, as many of the most common skateboarding injuries are caused by falling onto an outstretched arm.Elbow and knee guards are also smart choices, especially for younger riders.
One final gear consideration - most standard J boards are rated to about 220 lbs and for roughly ages 8 and up. Normal J boards will work well for most teens and adults. However, there are special extra-small J boards for sale online - though their stated purpose is to make it easier for riders to perform tricks, they may also fit especially young riders better. It's not advisable for riders under the age of 8 to attempt to ride J boards.;
, Balancing on a J board when it's not moving is like balancing on a bike when it's not moving - that is, impossible. To get on your board safely, you will need speed - believe it or not, in terms of balance, faster is safer (up to a point). Try to get over any jitters you have about rolling around at moderate speeds on a J board. You may have some minor stumbles, but you'll have less than if you make the same mistake that so many aspiring skateboarders, J boarders, and cyclists make - going as slowly as possible out of fear.
 Once you think you're ready, it's time to take the first, crucial plunge into the world of J boarding. Place your non-dominant foot on the front part of the board. Plant your dominant foot squarely on the ground and push off to propel yourself forward. To accelerate, you can repeat this motion as you roll forward.


Like bicycles and other two-wheeled vehicles, J boards stay balanced as they roll forward because of a principle called angular momentum. When wheels in a bike or J board turn, they generate angular momentum. Sets of wheels with high angular momentum (in other words, vehicles that are turning quickly) aren't easily disrupted from their current direction by outside forces.When a J board (or bike, etc.) is stopped, it has no angular momentum, so it's very easy to topple over.
 When you've pushed off from the ground a few times, try lifting your dominant foot and placing it on the back side of the board. Turn your neck to see the area in front of you. The front of your body should be facing perpendicular to the board - not straight ahead.
 J boards have small wheels, so even with the benefits of angular momentum, they're difficult to keep balanced while moving in a perfectly straight line. Because of this, if you want to travel straight ahead, your go-to move will be a serpentine back-and-forth motion. Make use of the J board's central pivot to make a twisting motion as you roll forward. Tilt the front portion of the board towards the ground by pushing with your front foot while tilting the back portion of the board away from the ground by pushing with your back foot. Then, reverse.


This movement takes practice to learn, but stick with it. As a J boarder, this move is your bread and butter. It's very difficult, if not impossible to J board without this motion - it's as important to J boarding as riding without training wheels is to bike riders.
 Fun as it can be, sooner or later, J boarding in only one direction simply isn't going to cut it any more. It's time to J board into the second dimension! To turn, gently lean to the side you want to turn in and twist the front to the side you are going to turn. As you do this, twist the back part of the board the opposite way.


Lean gently. The precise amount you'll have to lean will differ based on how hard you're turning, but be careful not to lean too drastically before you're comfortable making more delicate turns.
 For basic, slow-speed J boarding, stopping quickly isn't an urgent concern - you can usually just jump off the board. However, as you become comfortable with higher speeds and begin J boarding around other people, it quickly becomes very important to learn how to stop quickly. "Carving" is an important skill for controlling your speed. To carve, turn fairly hard to either side with your front foot while keeping your back foot level. You'll know you're carving correctly when you slow down and your front wheel vibrates noisily. Lean forward, but try to keep your weight somewhat centered, as it's easy to lose your balance when carving. If you don't have enough room to carve, try one of these other techniques to slow down:


Grab nearby objects, like poles, railings, etc. Be careful - if you're going too fast, you can seriously hurt your arm or hand.
Swing your back foot wide as you make your serpentine motion. Try to get your back foot 90 degrees to your direction of travel - when you do, push with your back foot to slow down.
If all else fails, jump off of your board. You may still end up falling being hurt, but you won't run smack into anything dangerous in front of you. However, don't make this decision lightly, as the out-of-control J board can still hit someone.
 J boarding is definitely easiest on flat surfaces, but it's unlikely that you'll be able to J board for long without encountering a single slope. Even if you live in an extremely flat area, you'll still need to contend with ramps in parking lots and the like. Traveling uphill requires a more intense version of the basic serpentine motion, while traveling downhill requires lots of braking.


To power up hill, you'll need to put more heft in to your basic propulsive serpentine motion. Try to push harder than normal as you make each small curve - this motion requires practice to perfect.
Use caution when riding downhill. Rely heavily on your braking techniques and, if you ever feel like a certain slope is so steep you won't be able to control yourself, simply pick up your J board at the top of the hill and walk down.
 Your basic back-and-forth serpentine motion will get you far, but, for J boarding long distances, it can be somewhat tiring and inefficient, as it requires constant use of your muscles. If you need to go a long distance on a flat surface, gain speed, then use the cruising technique below to preserve your energy, which is more efficient, but offers little power for accelerating or travelling up hills:


When travelling at a good cruising speed, tilt both feet forward together so that the board strafes under you, then tilt both feet backward so the board travels back under you again. As you make these movements, try not to turn - keep the front of the board pointed forward and don't lean into your turns. When mastered, this technique allows you to "cruise", travelling forward at a constant speed without much energy input.
 The "ollie" is a small, controlled hop also used in normal skateboarding. It's the basis for many advanced tricks, so if you're interested in doing tricks on your J board, learning to ollie is a must. To ollie, while you're rolling forward, bend your knees and crouch. Jump with your front foot first, then with your back foot. This "pops" the back side of your board off the ground. Pull your knees up to your chest as you jump. In the air, slide your front foot up to the nose of the board in a rolling motion, which should level the board so that it's parallel to the ground. Try to land with the board as level as possible.


Because J boards have two wheels, learning to ollie on them is even harder than it is on normal skateboards. It may take you even longer to learn how to ollie than it took you to learn how ride the J board itself - stick with it and don't give up!

, You've learned all that's necessary to become a confident, competent J boarder, but don't stop yet. Once you've learned how to ride, learn how to ride with style! The number of tricks and stunts you can pull on a J board are limited only by your imagination and your commitment to practice, but use caution - whichever tricks you pursue, be sure to maintain a strong commitment to safety and a healthy degree of common sense. Here are a few ideas to get you started:


Sit down on your board. This simple but eye-catching move requires great balance and a sturdy pair of gloves - the latter for braking.

Do Kickflips, 360's, etc. Most normal skateboarding tricks can be replicated on J boards, but you'll have to contend with the added challenge of balancing on two wheels!
Grab the bar while riding. This requires extreme care so as not to hit your knuckles on the ground. Once you've grabbed the central bar, you can even try jumping, rotating the board as you're in the air, and landing back on it!

