 Make it original to catch the eye but also make sure you are clear about what you are selling.;
, Study other ads in the category selling similar products and make yours as different as possible. Perhaps add features that another person has forgotten or change the style of writing in your advert to those of others.
 Ensure you make your advert a good length to include all important information about the product you are selling. Try to think of questions a prospective buyer would want to know about your product and provide answers in your description.
 Create a happy, friendly or even humorous manner within your advert text. This will help engage the audience and make the prospective buyers chose your ads over all the others.
 Repetitive use of the same words will not increase the chances of people finding your ad. In fact, quite the opposite. Organic search engines will not display content that isn’t of good quality so your advert for a puppy which includes the word ‘German Shepherd’ ten times is unlikely to be displayed.
 As above, Google and other search engines hate duplicate content. They will read your advert as spam and will not present it at the top of their rankings. Spamming also brings down your reputation as a seller. People will be reluctant to engage with spammers or take them seriously. One advert with quality and unique content will bring you better traffic and business than hundreds of adverts with the same or similar content. Do not take short cuts. Take the time to create something original.
 You can place up to 10 photos for each ad on Loot.com and BargainPages.co.uk.
 Misleading information wastes everyone’s time including your own.
, Your advert for photographic services will not be easily found amongst a hundred adverts for second hand cameras for sale.
 This will increase the reach and influence of your advertisement. For business it will increase your brand’s awareness and help engage different audiences.
 Always be willing to honestly answer questions about what you are selling or the services your business offers. This is your chance to really sell your product or service and list all the features and benefits for the interested party.

