 The most traditional of all cuddling positions, spooning is popular for a reason: it’s great! Spooning consists of a “big” and “little” spoon, where both partners lay on their sides tucked into each other. The big spoon is the one in the back, and often drapes their arm over the torso of the little spoon.


Be aware of your heads. Because your heads are nearly even with each other, it is best to stagger them a bit. The big spoon can rest their head on the shoulder of the little spoon, or prop it up on an arm.
Keep heat in mind. Spooning is one of the greatest heat-generating cuddling positions, because there is so much physical contact. The big spoon may have to hold off wrapping their arm around the little spoon or move their legs back a bit to avoid creating a sweat pool., Nearly as classic as a complete spoon, the half-spoon is accomplished with one person laying on their back and the other facing them, laying on their side. The person on their side will likely rest their head on the other’s chest. Intertwine your legs for an even more intimate cuddling session.
 Best for cuddling in tight spaces, layer your cuddling by having the larger person lay face up. The second person can then rest face-down directly over the bottom half. To avoid suffocation of the lower stack, the top person should stagger their body slightly downwards, so that they can turn their head to the side and rest it on the bottom half’s chest.
 One of the most romantic cuddling positions is when you lie towards each other face-to-face. You may lie on your stomachs and turn your heads to the side, or lay on your sides - whatever works best. Increase the romantic feelings swirling around the room by holding hands in the space between your bodies., You know, you and your partner are out camping or watching a meteor shower, and therefore want to cuddle but both need to see the sky. Lay on your backs next to each other and wrap your legs together. If you don’t mind a dead arm, one of you can slip their arm under the neck of the other person in a half-embrace. You can also hold hands over your torsos or in the space between your bodies. Contrary to the name, this can be done under any circumstance, not just when stargazing.
 This cuddling move is great for when you want to talk and makes maintaining eye contact easier. Have one person sit up, while the other lays down perpendicularly to them with their head resting in their lap. This gives the person sitting up a great opportunity to play with their partners hair or sweetly stroke their face.

