 For this project you'll need a 2-litre plastic bottle, aluminum foil, a pen, tape, a lighter, a small plastic pill bottle, and a cigarette.;
, Burn a hole through the 2-litre bottle with your cigarette wherever you want your down stem to go in. This is usually closer to the bottom, anywhere from one third to one half of the way up the bottle.


If you don't have a cigarette, you can also burn a hole by using a large screw and heating it up with a lighter. If you use this method, hold the screw with tweezers or pliers while you heat it up, so that you don't burn your fingers.
 Make sure you have a pen that can be taken apart down to where it's just a hollow tube. Take apart your pen and work it into the hole you just made. Make sure it's going in at an angle so that the end sticking out of the bowl is pointed up.
 Hold your pen in place and wrap tape around it where it connects to the bottle so that it creates an airtight seal. You may need to use several layers of tape.


You can also use putty to seal the connection.
 Cut a sheet of aluminum foil roughly one square foot big. Fold it until it's about 6.5 inches wide. Fold in all the edges slightly so that you won't cut yourself while handling it.
 Wrap the sheet of aluminum around the bottom of the bottle. The aluminum foil should go about halfway up the bottle.
 Get a grip around the aluminum foil that is already on the pill bottle and twist up the other end of the aluminum foil. Twist it into a small tube shape. Make sure it isn't too tight or it will seal it up too much. Slide the pill bottle off and you should have a bowl.
 Make sure the skinny side of the bowl is thin enough to fit into the pen. Then use more tape to secure the aluminum bowl to the pen. Make sure you wrap the tape tightly so it's fairly sturdy.


If you want, you can bend the bowl part of the aluminum up so that it's easier to load and light.
 Make two more holes around the top of the bottle with your cigarette. These will act as the carburetors. Fill your bong up with about four inches of water. Pack your bowl and you're ready to smoke.