 During menstruation, sometimes the endometrial lining sheds from the uterus but does not exit the body. It can go into the fallopian tubes (attached to the uterus) and attach itself to pelvic surfaces instead of leaving the body through the vagina.


In general, every woman undergoes some degree of retrograde menstruation but does not develop endometriosis because their bodies clear the residual endometrial tissue before it forms deposits.
 Growth of the faultily implanted endometrial tissue is dependent on the female hormone estrogen as its natural function is to stimulate cell growth. Thus along with the normal menstrual cycle, the displaced tissue also undergoes growth and shedding each month.
 Bits of the endometrium may get dislodged and become embedded in an area outside of the womb during a gynecological operation accidentally.
 This refers to a condition where cells that have similar properties to endometrial cells are deposited in the female reproductive tract during pregnancy when fetal organs are being formed. The primitive endometrial cells later get dislodged from the uterus and act like stem cells. This theory is supported by fetal autopsy., Other factors that can cause endometriosis include immune system disorders, genetic predisposition and environmental toxins., The main symptom is persistent pelvic pain. Patient also complains of painful menses (dysmenorrhea), painful urination (dysuria), painful sex (dyspareunia) and severe pain in the legs.The pain is because of the reaction of endometrial tissues to the hormonal activity. These lesions also bleed during the normal menstrual cycle due to which the blood collects in the surrounding areas leading to swelling and inflammation finally leading to pain.
Pain can also occur due to adhesions that bind the internal organs together, thereby leading to their dislocation. So we see that many a times the fallopian tubes, ovaries, uterus, bowels and bladder are bounded leading to pain in day to day life too apart from the menstrual cycle.
Patients may also complain of constipation, nausea, vomiting, chronic fatigue, low grade fever, irregular menses. Around 30-50% come with complains of infertility.

