 If you have the kind of job that you can do absolutely anywhere as long as you have a computer, try taking your work to a coffee shop one day a week and see how it feels. If you feel more focused and organized in this type of work environment, and less tempted to do chores or text your friends, then maybe this is a better work environment for you than your actual home.


Working in a coffee shop, library, or another place where people are also working can also be good for your mental state. You will feel less isolated and more part of a working community.
 Though you may spend all day at work online, don't get distracted by checking your email, Facebook, favorite news sources, or any other favorite websites too often. Though you may not think that clicking on your five favorite websites every five minutes is making you lose time, that time not only adds up, but keeps you from fully focusing on your tasks.


Reward yourself by letting yourself browse the Internet every hour or so, when you need a break.
If you really need your email to stay connected at work, then leave it open, but if you don't get any urgent messages, try to check it every half hour or hour or so.

Do not chat with your friends while you're working. This will slow you down exponentially.
 Though you may think that multi-tasking will help you get more things done and finish your work day faster, you'll actually be more focused if you complete one type of work at a time. Go down your to-do list one item at a time, and you'll be shocked by how much faster you'll get things done than if you try to finish four things at once.


If you're multi-tasking, you'll never be fully engrossed in one task and will be more likely to get distracted and to make a mistake.
 Taking a break from time to time will actually help you stay focused. Let's face it -- no one spends eight hours straight working in an office, and neither should you. You should do something to take a sanity break every hour, whether it's to munch on an apple, take a short walk, or just read on your porch and breathe in some fresh air. Taking breaks will actually make you more focused when you do get back to work.Try to go out for lunch or to pick up lunch as often as you can. Though you may spend some money paying for lunch, getting into this routine will help you stay refreshed and will split up your work day.
Make a goal of leaving the house at least once a day. You'll start to get cabin fever if you don't leave your house at all.
Rest your eyes. If you've been staring at a monitor all day, take at least a five-minute break to rest your eyes to avoid straining them and getting a headache.

