 Hypnotherapists believe that your subconscious mind sometimes reacts inappropriately to specific situations, for example, riding an escalator. Hypnotherapist try to change the responses in your subconscious mind to find new ways for you to react to certain situations and to release you from your fears and phobias.Hypnosis for escalaphobia can be done in one initial session with the use of exposure through imagined flooding, in which the therapist guides you through an imaginary experience on an escalator while you are deeply relaxed. There is usually a follow up session to see if your fear is still in remission.
Ask your doctor for a referral to a certified hypnotherapist and look them up online before you make an appointment. You can also ask friends and family if they have been to good hypnotherapist for any of their fears or phobias., This psychotherapy focuses on adjusting inaccurate or negative thinking so you can view fears or phobias with a clear mind and respond to them in an effective way.You will work with a psychotherapist in a limited number of sessions to treat your escalaphobia and come up with solutions to help you overcome your fear.


To try CBT, get a referral for a psychotherapist from your doctor, your health insurance plan, or a friend or family member who has experienced a good CBT session. If you have health insurance, find out what your plan offers for coverage of psychotherapy. Before you agree to a session with a therapist, check the fees and payment options for the sessions.You should also confirm the psychotherapist’s qualifications before you go to the session. Look up her education, certification, and licensing. Most trained psychotherapists have a master’s or a doctoral degree, with training in psychological counseling.
 This type of therapy places you in a situation where you confront your phobia in a controlled manner. Your therapist will also prevent you from avoiding your fear and may use other interoceptive cues, such as internal physical sensations. Most exposure-based treatments are therapist assisted to help you tolerate the fear and anxiety you associate with a certain experience or object.For example, your therapist may expose you to escalators in increments. Once you become comfortable standing over an escalator, for example, your therapist may then have you put one foot on the escalator and then slowly get comfortable to put both feet on the escalator. Placing yourself next to an escalator and then on an escalator, with your therapist present, will help you learn that any feared consequences of escalators you might imagine will not occur.
 This therapy was originally used to treat PTSD, and has been adapted to treat specific phobias. During EMDR, you will be exposed to brief images of the feared object or situation and be directed by a therapist to practice eye movements, listen to tapping, or rhythmic tones. The purpose is to decondition you of your phobia through rapid eye movement and processing of images of the feared situation or object.Some experts argue that EMDR is more useful for the treatment of fears that developed out of a traumatic experience or for more irrational or impractical fears. Many people with phobias will try hypnosis or exposure based therapy before they try EMDR.

