 Include the length of the handle! If you want a sword that's 3" (7.5 cm) wide and 15" (37.5 cm) inches long, cut out a piece of paper with those dimensions. (Don't worry -- you can just tape two regular A4s together if one isn't long enough.)

, Your friends are about to fight you with measly paper swords -- they didn't say anything about what you're allowed (or not allowed) to put inside your sword. This makes your sword much sturdier and more powerful.


You may want to add double the amount of Popsicle sticks to the handle; the base should be wider than the blade. If you're short on Popsicle sticks, use them for your blade; you can always bulk up the handle with more paper.
 Lining your template up with the edge of a piece of paper (of the right length), begin folding your Popsicle-lined strip in between layers of paper. When you hit the end, secure with transparent tape.


You can do this as many times as you'd like. The more paper you use, the sturdier your sword will be. Once you've reached your desired girth, tape all around the edges, making sure it won't unravel upon use.
 Different styles of swords take on different shapes -- is yours a Samurai sword? A ninja sword? More of a machete? Grab the scissors and cut the tip to whatever shape suits your dueling needs.


Once you've got that covered, tape up the tip with more transparent tape. If you don't, you'll just go around giving everyone and everything paper cuts -- a quick way to lose friends.
 There are number of ways to do this and if a light bulb moment presents itself, hold onto it. If not, you can simply fold up a piece of paper on either side of your sword, and tape it to the base. About 3" (7.5 cm) wide and 6" (15 cm) long will look good on a sword that's 18" (45 cm) in length.


Some will choose to cut a hole in a rectangle of paper and insert the sword into it. Cardstock works well for this, but you could also substitute folded paper. If the hole is the right size, it should stay in place. If not, use more tape to keep it secure.

