 If you have determined that you were unfriended by someone, come up with plausible reasons why they might have unfriended you. Be reasonable and honest as you make this assessment––no need for beating yourself up or for pretending you're not doing annoying things! The following are some helpful questions to consider when determining why you might have been unfriended:



Were you being spammy?: One of the most annoying things for Facebook readers is to read spam several times a day. Perhaps you've been over-promoting your business (personal or commercial) or perhaps you're just going on a little too much about a product or service you think rocks.

Are you showing off?: Another thing high up on the list of Facebook irritants is people who make too much of themselves. Do you constantly post "selfies" on your wall? Are you spending a lot of time mentioning where you're vacationing or how much of an entertaining weekend you're experiencing? Do you keep telling people how far you've cycled, how many calories you're not consuming or how low your BMI is?

Are you updating your game successes too often?: People not playing the same games as you easily tire of the "My farm army has expanded 99 times!" messages, along with the "won't you join me too?" requests. Eventually, this wears thin and you can lose Facebook friends over it.

Are you trolling for praise?: Asking people to constantly "like" the things you do or say can send some of your wall readers to despair. If people can't be left alone to decide for themselves, they may resort to unfriending instead.

Do you give a lot of space to PDAs?: Too much by way of public displays of affection for your beloved/spouse/fiancé/BFF/pet/whatever can be exhausting to a reader, especially if he or she lacks a little love.

Do your baby/child exploits dominate your updates?: Occasional cute shots of your kids are one thing; too much information about toilet training and genius potential send some readers to the unfriend button.

Are the two of you having a disagreement?: Did the two of you get in some kind of fight, either on Facebook or in real life? Disagreement can easily shift into a rather passive-aggressive unfriending option on behalf of one party to the disagreement. It may seem petty but if it gets you hot under the collar, the message has been truly delivered. Perhaps it's time to extend the olive branch.

Is this person over-extended?: Does the person have close to the limit of 5,000 friends? In which case, unless you're a close buddy, this may simply be a pragmatic decision to bump you off to make space for someone who lives next door and is a bit more familiar than you.

Are you a complainer?: Is every status a health update of your every ache, pain, surgery, recovery and upcoming doctors appointments? Whether you are trying to get attention, empathy or "I'm praying for you" comments, you can come off as a constant complainer. When was the last time you wanted to be friends with someone like that?

Do you "over share"?: How many memes, pictures with sarcastic, cute, funny, inspirational sayings did you "share" in the last week? Sure, these can be fun, but if you're filling up people's walls with these and you can't come up with original status on your own, maybe you're just not very interesting to "friends".

Are your political and religious views overtly obviously?: Constantly posting about the political parties you like or don't like can be quite irritating to others. Especially annoying are the guilt memes; "Share if you're not ashamed to love God/Jesus".

Stalking.: If you comment on every post a your friend makes, they may think you are a Facebook Stalker. Imagine the real-world equivalent of someone commenting on your every move. There's a fine line between friendship and creepiness.

Game invites.: If you were sending too many game invites to your friend, this can become annoying and likely cause people to unfriend you.

Is this person really a friend?: Do you know this person very well? In the case of the friend-of-a-friend-of-a-friend, things get a bit tenuous and your updates just may be too irrelevant or unfamiliar for the barely-known friend on Facebook.

