 Locate the app on your iOS device and tap on it. The app logo has a picture of a white meerkat on yellow background.  ;
, You need a Twitter account to use Meerkat, as your live videos are broadcasted on it. Tap on the “Log in with Twitter” button on the welcome screen. Tap the OK button on the authorization message to allow Meerkat access to your Twitter account.
 In order for you to do live streaming using Meerkat, it has to have access to your iPhone’s camera. Upon logging in, tap on the OK button on the authorization message that appears.  

, All the live videos from the people you follow and from the Meerkat community will be displayed on your screen. Each of the videos has a preview snapshot and the broadcaster’s name. Swipe up and down to see more videos.  

, From the list of live videos, tap on the one you’d like to watch now. The selected video will be brought to full screen.  

, The name of the broadcaster or video owner is displayed on the top left corner. There will be a Follow button right under his/her name, which you can tap if you would like to follow him/her on Twitter and on Meerkat.  

, The current location of the video is displayed on the top right corner. You can also see the tags for the video right under it.  

, Profile pictures of all the people currently watching the same video are displayed on the header. You can swipe left and right to scroll through them.  

, There’s a chat stream on the lower part of the video. People watching the video can leave messages for everyone to see. You can leave comments, ask questions, or just say ‘Hello.’ Tap on the Chat button on the lower left corner. A text field will appear with your keyboard. Type your message and tap on the Send button to tweet your comment. Your Twitter handle will be tagged in your message as it posts.  

, You can skip all the steps above and just simply watch the video. The video will continue streaming as long as the broadcaster is sharing.  

, Tap on the Home button on the lower right corner to exit the current video and go back to the list of live videos.
 At the top of the list of live videos is a section for you to stream your own live video. Type something on the open field. This is the tweet that would go with your video. You can also put our tags here.  

, Tap on the Stream button right under your tweet. Your video will begin streaming and all the people on Meerkat and your followers on Twitter will be able to see it.  

, Tap on the stop button on the lower right corner to end your stream. A confirmation message will appear, tap on the Yes button. You will see a summary screen for your stream.  

, Meerkat records your video so that you can also share it later. On the summary screen, tap on the “Save this Stream” button to do so. The video will be stored in your device’s media gallery.  

, Tap on the Home button in the middle of the screen to exit and go back to the list of live videos.  

, At the top of the list of live videos is a section for you to stream your own video recording. Type something on the open field. This is the tweet that will go with your video. You can also put your tags here.  

, Tap on the Schedule button right under your tweet. A window will appear where you can set a later time when your video will be shared. Swipe up and down to set the time.  

, Tap on the section right under the time setting to add the photo or video you want to share. You can use any of your photos or videos, like the one you recorded and saved from Part 3. Access your device’s media gallery and tap on the one you’d like to share.  

, Tap on the Schedule button to schedule your tweet and video for later. No further action is needed. When the scheduled time arrives, Meerkat will post your tweet and the photo or video that goes with it. You will then be brought back to the list of live videos.  