 If you know where she sits, superglue a quarter to the floor near her seat. If she doesn't notice it right away, point it out. Ask her, "Is that your quarter?" and point to it. Chances are, she'll try to pick it up.The downside of this prank is that she'll likely know it's you, especially if you're the first one to start laughing.
You're unlikely to get that quarter back.;
, If you have access to her home bathroom, sneak in just before she goes in to take a shower. Unscrew the shower head, and put a few tablespoons of sugary drink mix where the water will go through. The result will be a sugary beverage coming out of her shower, rather than clean water.Tang works well for this. A colored Kool-Aid, such as cherry, raspberry or grape, also works well.
You can also use hard candies in place of drink mix. The candy will dissolve in hot water, covering her with sticky colors.
Be aware that this may get on her towels or clothes.
 Heating ointment, such as Icy Hot, is a clear topical ointment meant to relax aching muscles. If you spread it on the toilet seat before she sits down, she'll feel a surprisingly warm, tingling sensation. She won't have any idea where it's coming from.There is a risk that someone else will use the toilet before she does, and that you'll prank them by accident.
If she's shy, there's a chance that she won't tell anyone what happened to her in the bathroom, and thus spoil the prank for you. After all, part of the fun of a prank is being able to laugh together at what happened.
 If you have her email address, sign her up for all kinds of mailing lists, catalogs or organizations. Sign her name to petitions that she doesn't want anything to do with. If she's an animal lover, make her mad by signing her up for a hunting advocacy organization, for example.Never sign anyone else up for anything illegal, such as a porn site or other illegal activities. Not only could this get her in real trouble, you might also face criminal charges.
If you want her to know who has been signing her up for all this stuff, start asking her questions about subjects she'll have found in her mailbox. For example, asking her about Amish farm equipment when you know she's been signed up for their mailing list will let her know you're the prankster behind the mailings.
 Sending her a card filled with sparkling glitter will result in glitter all over her hands, clothes, in the carpet, and on her table. Even though it's a mess, it's a nice mess.You can hire commercial companies to glitter-bomb your friends, co-workers or anyone else you want to prank.Some commercial companies also do "bacon-bombing". If she's a vegetarian, this will be a prank. If she loves bacon, she may thank you for the treat.