 Any of these items can be replaced...you cannot. If he/she just wants “things,” then you are lucky.
 You need to assess the situation and do whatever makes sense to you at the time. The following will offer you some options and ideas that may prove to be effective, but for more detailed information you are encouraged to call The National Center for Victims of Crime at 800 FYI-CALL.;
, In situations where you and he/she know each other—you either have a relationship with this person, or you’ve met before—pretend to be interested and excited in what the person is doing. In an attempted rape situation your only objective is to get away before you are harmed. This can best be accomplished by letting your attacker believe that you do not want to get away. Therefore, if you initiate or carry through some small degree of affection, he, in his heightened state of arousal, will likely accept your intentions as honest. Then, when he/she is vulnerable or you have an opportunity, injure him/her and/or leave the situation. Remember that if he/she believes that you are a willing participant he/she will behave less aggressively and much differently. This will give you control over your circumstances.
 Sometimes the mistake people make is to resist initially, either verbally, physically, or both. If you do not become defensive, then he/she will not be as aggressive and will move more slowly and carelessly and give you your out.
 Some rapists who know the victim believe that this person wants it, so you don’t need to do a lot of convincing. His guard will be down as long as he/she doesn’t think that you want to escape. And when he/she relaxes his guard, move.
 Some women have been successful by simply telling their attackers not to continue. For this to be effective the woman must speak confidently and assuredly. You should be direct and clear. “No! Stop this now.”

, If you are in a more public place, yell, scream, and try to create any type of disturbance.
 You may be able to turn off the attacker by: repulsing him/her by vomiting, urinating, belching, and so on; claiming to be sick or have AIDS; pretending to be insane or mentally deranged.
 Hit him/her where it hurts. Eyes, groin, throat, and nose are particularly vulnerable. If you feel that you will be injured and hurt by defending yourself, do not feel guilty. Survival is your ultimate objective. A victim who does not fight back should never feel guilty or ashamed—sometimes it’s the smartest thing to do.


Note: If your attacker wants to take you somewhere, do whatever you can to avoid going with him/her. Studies show that once he/she gets you in a car or away from where you are, your chances of being harmed increase significantly. Scream, punch, kick, and do whatever you need to do to not be taken from where you are. The best defense is a smart offense. If you don’t find yourself in these situations, then you will not have to worry about how to get out of them. Be smart, and use caution. You never know who you are dealing with!

