 This description should be located in the subject field of your email, not in the body of the actual email.


If your email is expected by the recipient this description can simply reference the subject matter. If the email is not expected this description can be a little trickier. The goal should be to have the reader know what to expect when they open your email. This means it needs to motivate your reader to actually open it.
 This usually begins with "Dear" and is followed by the formal title of the individual or company you are writing to.


Address the letter to a specific recipient whenever possible. Avoid sending the letter to unnamed recipients. Only use "To Whom it May Concern" as a last resort.
Strictly speaking, the most proper punctuation to use after the salutation is still a colon. That said, nowadays, most people use a comma after the salutation of a formal e-mail letter.
If you are uncertain about whether to address the recipient as "Ms." or "Mr.," write out the individual's full name, instead.
Follow the formal salutation with a blank line.
 As with any letter, the main text should include an introduction, body, and conclusion. Keep the entire thing, including the body portion, as short and to the point as possible.


Left-align the main text.
Do not use any indentations.
Single-space the main text, but leave a blank line in between each paragraph and after the final paragraph.
 Type "Sincerely" or another equally polite closing after the main text of your letter and follow it with a comma.


Remember to left-align the closing and only capitalize the first letter of the first word.
Other potential formal closings include "Thank you," "Yours truly," and "Best wishes."

, Unlike with a letter delivered on paper, you will not be able to sign your email letter by hand.


Left-align your name.
 Skip a line after your name, then type out your physical address, phone number, e-mail address, and website or blog when applicable.


Left-align and single-space all of this information. Give each new piece of information its own separate line.

