 You can register with the region’s local licensed tour company to make your travel easier. The climate and geography is complex, so when considering your trip you need to plan carefully where to go, when to go and what your budget is.;
, In the east, the Himalaya originates from a knot between Myanmar, Tibet (now under China) and India. The chain continues to the border of Bhutan. Beyond that lies Sikkim, home to many peaks including the world’s third highest, Kangchenjunga. The Himalayan range west of Sikkim forms part of Nepal until you reach the border of Kumaun and Garhwal. From here the Indian Himalayan chain continues without a break through Kinnaur, Spiti, Ladakh and lastly East Karakoram range. Knowing the region may help you choose the suitable area for the trekking depending on the type of trekking terrains you want to choose.
 Consider some short hikes nearby home to develop basic fitness, start by walking slow in the beginning and gradually increasing your pace. Consider carrying a backpack, camping for days together, walking on rough trails, the different food. This will help you to select the trek best suited to you. walking alone or with few friends can be wonderful, though it is easier for the young as you need to put more than walking into your day. If you plan to camp out and cook, develop stamina. If you plan to stay in local homes or tea houses, than you must know the language a little, learn the basics like greeting and common phrases used by locals.
 A trek is enjoyed more if you are not particularly tired on reaching the camp after a day's march. Even if you are only moderately conditioned at the outset, it will not take more than 2 to 3 days to become almost fully conditioned after a week you will either be perfectly tuned or completely fed up, depending upon your mental and physical responses. Enjoy your walk keeping in tune with the demands of the land.
 The experience is likely to be a cultural surprise cum shock which you must learn to absorb. You need to adjust, at least temporarily, to the ways and responses of the people and sights encountered wherever you happen to travel. Only those read few books about the Himalayas will not acquaint you with the region from authentic sources. Most Europeans who have never visited India and Nepal before have wrong ideas and notions about the country. The initial experience - the heat, the noise and the street life, the vibrant colors and the multitudes of people - may bewilder and exhaust the first - time visitor, but the country and its people are friendly and hospitable. Once you have spent some time here everything will fall into place, and you will be amply rewarded with your first glimpse of the Himalayan peaks, one of the most spectacular mountain ranges in the world.
 : -


physical conditioning of the cardiovascular system with aerobic exercise.
background reading, maps etc.
wear warm clothes as climate in such higher altitude areas remain very cold throughout the year.
camping and cooking equipment: this depends on the style of trekking, but if you are totally equipping yourself then you could consider the following:
sturdy rain-proof tent.
sleeping bag with liner and foam mattress.
backpack, day pack and probably a duffel bag to keep in storage in hotels while on trek.
a kerosene stove that can be cleaned easily, a leak-proof fuel container, lightweight pots, pans and cutlery. Favorite food items.
 Good food is essential part of the trekking and here good food does not refer to costly delicacies but wholesome and nutritious diet. Choice of food is limited once you leave the town and head for wilderness. In many villages there are no food outlets and the trekkers have to be on their own for food. One should drink boiled water or tea mostly to avoid dehydration. However freshly cooked food has no substitute as tinned food losses its taste after some time. Trekkers should carry dry fruits, chocolates, sweets, soup packets, coffee powder, a biscuit, butter cheese, noodles etc.
 As the Himalayan Rescue Association likes to point out, 'The Himalaya starts where other mountains leave off.' Remember it is the sleeping altitude that is critical. If you ascend to an area of high altitude, you are likely to experience some form of altitude sickness. Usually, the symptoms are mild and will improve if you descend. What counts as high altitude? *high altitude refers to heights that are between 1,500 and 3,500m above sea level.*very high altitude is from 3,500 to 5,500m above sea level.*extreme altitude is from 5,500 to 7,500m above sea level. The way to prevent altitude sickness is to give the body enough time to get used to the rarefied air. A slow and steady ascent is vital. Adequate hydration is also helpful. The body is constantly losing fluid from the lungs and the skin in the high, dry environment. Drink enough to maintain a clear and abundant urine output. Other measures include eating a high carbohydrate diet, climbing high during the day and coming lower down to sleep, and to mild to moderate activity during the rather than just lie around. Almost all altitude problems can be avoided if symptoms are recognized and acted upon. The warning signs are headache, lack of appetite, nausea, feeling of tiredness, and sometimes vomiting. This stage of mild mountain sickness can be treated with aspirin or Diamox for headache and something mild for the nausea and vomiting.
 Always ask your doctor for advice and read the patient information that comes with your medicine.

