 If you choose to have your dog transported by someone else, be sure to do your research and look for a company with good reviews. Ask your veterinarian for a recommendation, or for guidance in selecting the best carrier. Pet transportation can be expensive, but is considered to be the safest, most reliable way to ship your dog.Different transporters offer different levels of service, but most ensure that your dog will be closely monitored throughout the trip, and get out routinely for monitored exercise and rest.
Be sure to alert the transporter of any medical conditions or special needs your dog may have before the trip.
 If you plan to drive your dog across country yourself, bring an extra person along to help with the driving, and to keep an eye on your canine passenger when you need to use the restroom, go into stores, etc.
 Be sure to factor in time for exercise and bathroom breaks for both you and your dog every day. And be sure to book rooms with pet-friendly hotels, which are available in most areas.


Never let your dog out of the car without his collar, ID tag, and leash.
 It is not safe to allow your dog to ride in your lap or the front seat, and in some states, it is even illegal. The safest place for your dog in the car is in a crash-rated travel crate.It is also possible to buy car harnesses for dogs that snap into the car's seatbelt or LATCH system., As with air travel, it is best to acclimate your dog to travelling before attempting a long trip. Begin with short trips around the neighborhood, then slowly increase the time the dog spends in the car.
 Make sure your dog wears a collar and ID tag throughout your trip. Include a label on the collar with emergency contact information for yourself, and for someone at your intended destination. Carry a current picture of your dog, as well, in case it escapes and you need assistance locating it.


For added peace of mind, microchip your dog before your trip so that it can be quickly identified should it escape., Be sure that you have everything your dog will need to stay comfortable in the car as you travel. Bring along enough food and medication for a few extra days, in case you are delayed.
 Keep the windows cracked if it is hot outside, and remember that you should never leave a dog alone in a hot car.


Do not transport your dog in the back of a moving truck!, If you are shipping your dog in a vehicle crowded with boxes, luggage, or other belongings, be sure that everything is well-secured so that a sudden stop or turn will not cause heavy objects to fall on your dog., In case your dog falls ill during the trip, it will be helpful if you have a copy of its medical records with you at all times.

