 Not drinking enough water can make you dehydrated, which in turn can make you tired and not function as well.Consume at least 8 ounces of water per day.;
, Doing this regularly can help with everything from your learning to your sleeping. It can even potentially reduce the possibility of depression. It releases endorphins and serotonin that enhance your mood and aid with happiness and self-esteem. Even a minimal amount of exercise can be beneficial. Some ideas on ways to exercise that are fun:Take walks. If you live close to the store, walk instead of drive. You're doing something necessary and getting some exercise. On your lunch break take a walk around your workplace. Explore the area you live in on foot.

Yoga helps manage stress, improves breathing, helps heal the body, and aids in meditation. There are many different types of yoga so it will be easy to find the routine that will suit you. You can learn yoga online, or find a yoga place near your home.Put on some music and dance. This will release happy brain chemicals from exercise and it's fun.
 Singing, especially group singing, releases endorphins and oxytocin, which create feelings of pleasure and lower stress and anxiety. Group singing, especially, creates a feeling of bonding and community and can alleviate depression and loneliness.Group singing is easy to facilitate. Look in your area for a group or choir. You don't even have to be a great singer to do it. Some groups don't require auditions and it's done just for fun.
Singing alone, too, can create some of the health benefits. Singing regulates breathing much in the same way as yoga, helping you to relax.
 Philanthropy is about using your time, energy, or money to help others. It also provides you with a sense of perspective and a sense of purpose. Research has shown that it can help to reduce stress and anxiety, which in turns, makes you feel better. It also can help you connect to other people.Volunteer at a homeless shelter or soup kitchen. Remember not to judge the people who such assistance. You don't know their life story.
Non-profit making organisations run on the energy of their volunteers. Find something in your area that you are interested in and help out. It could be anything from running a theater camp for young children to reading to the elderly.
 This can be something that indulges a favorite fantasy or special object that takes you back to a happy memory. It can be important to take a break from the stress of the present.


Watch a favorite movie or read a favorite book. This will allow you to step into a world that you love.
Find a poem, or song, or picture that reminds of a time or person that is important to you.
Don't live too much in the past, or in a fantasy world. It is important to connect with the present.
 This is not to say that you can't dream of one day becoming president, but in the meantime set goals that can be achieved and then achieve them. You will feel accomplished when you finish.



Start learning a musical instrument. The sense of accomplishment from picking out a song on the piano or any instrument will make you feel good. Remember, don't be too hard on yourself while you're learning.

Clean your room. The activity will keep you occupied. You can listen to music and sing, which is healthy, and you'll have accomplished something when you're finished.
 This is one of the harder steps to follow and it is a particularly difficult problem for marginalized people. Negative thoughts, however, are extremely harmful both to mind and body. There are a few ways of combating them.Don't avoid bad thoughts, but don't allow them to linger. When you have a bad thought counteract it with a good thought. (Example: If I'm standing in front of the mirror and I think "Wow, I'm ugly," cut off that thought and replace it with, "I am awesome.") It seems silly but, with repetition, it can work.
Be mindful. If you pay attention to your thoughts you will catch a whole slew of negative ones. Work on turning them into positive ones as detailed above.

Let the past go. It's hard to remember this, but you can't change the past, and dwelling on it only makes it worse. Counteract past bad experiences and embarrassments with good ones or simply try to let the thoughts go and focus on the present.
Understand that you won't always feel good. Even thinking as positively as you can and trying to do away with negative thoughts won't always succeed. That's natural and okay. Don't be hard on yourself for feeling bad.
Never, ever, feel that you are weak. Being human and alive is incredibly difficult. You've made it this far as best you could! Well done.
 Meditation relaxes your body and mind, relieving stress. It helps you to focus on the present, and to reduce negativity.Basic meditation method: sit quietly and close your eyes, relax your body (you may not even realize how tense you are!), focus on your breathing. Breathe deeply in and out right down to your diaphragm and count your breaths.
Don't stress when errant thoughts crop up during meditation. Simply thank them for visiting and let them go.
You can practice meditation anywhere: on the bus, on your work lunch break, right before that massive exam.
If you're religious, prayer can operate in a similar manner to meditation. Take a quiet moment and pray with compassion for someone other than yourself; it can be a family member, a stranger, or even the world.
 This means taking nothing for granted and valuing and celebrating the kindnesses that have been done to you. Research has shown that practicing gratitude in your life increases your well-being and your happiness, something that will definitely make you feel good. It also helps alleviate negative emotions.Keep a gratitude journal. Write down instances of kindness and things you are grateful for, like a person who made a positive impact on you.
Talk about your gratitude. With a loved one, a significant other, a family member or a friend, discuss what you are grateful for. This will increase your awareness of the good things that were part of your day and help you to not dwell on the bad.
Pay attention to the small things. Find gratitude in the warmth of your bed, in something nice someone said to you, in your favorite snack.
 Problems and worries have a habit of stacking up, particularly at the most inconvenient times. Facing them as soon as possible, instead of letting them linger, will help your well being.


Facing them can be hard. Issues can be as varied as making rent to confronting a friend over a racist thing they said.
Focus on the solution and not the problem. (Example: If you're having an issue with your boss, instead of worrying about the problem, talk to them in private and give them specific examples of why you're having that issue. Provide a solution.)

