 Old fashioned soap and water is the first natural repellent to use. Spray the soapy mixture on the wasp and their nest. The soap will stick to their wings and weigh them down. Eventually they will suffocate.


Line your doors and windows with soap to keep the wasps away.
If the yellow jackets have built a nest in the ground, pour soapy water into the hole at night and preferably during cooler temperature. The entire colony should die. Be sure to wear protective clothing in case the yellow jackets are feeling especially murderous.
 Non-toxic wasp traps don't use any chemicals to kill wasps caught inside. Instead, they rely on asphyxiation, drowning, starvation, or exhaustion to kill the yellow jackets. Not exactly the most humane, but this is war, isn't it?


Place the trap two to four feet above the ground and as far away from human habitation as possible.This is the ideal scenario.
 Cut off the top 1/3 of a 2-liter soda bottle. Turn the top around (so that it's facing the bottom of the soda bottle instead of the top) and staple it to the remaining soda bottle. You should have a kind of minnow trap with the inverted neck as a funnel.


Fill the soda bottle about halfway full with soapy water. Coat the neck of the soda bottle with sweet jam. The yellow jackets will try to get to the jam and accidentally fall into the bottle, from which it is very difficult to get out.
Empty and refill the soda bottle frequently. Dead yellow jackets can form a barrier that other caught yellow jackets can rest on, possibly escaping. Empty the contents of your homemade trap frequently to cut down on this risk.
 The yellow jackets will crawl through the insecticide in order to get into their nest, carrying the insecticide into the nest and infecting the other members of the colony. Coating both the entrance and exit of their nest will increase the likelihood of extermination.
 During nighttime, when the yellow jackets are drowsy, sneak up to the aerial nest and quickly envelop it in your cloth bag. Make sure to tie off the bag so that none of the wasps may escape. Break the wasp nest off from its mooring and submerge it completely in water to drown the yellow jackets. Use a couple rocks to help keep the nest submerged.
 Once you are sure you have located all of the possible entry and exit points of the nest, approach them during the nighttime when the wasps are drowsy. Place a large bowl over any entrances and exits, working them into the ground so that they create a kind of seal.


Leave the bowls over the entry and exit points for approximately two weeks. The yellow jackets will be disoriented but unable to leave their underground prison. They should die off after the two weeks, if not relocate to another more accessible nest.
 Wasps cannot survive the harsh winter months, during which time they regularly die off. If you discover a yellow jacket nest during the end of summer/fall, consider waiting for the first frost to kill off your pesky yellow jackets for you. You won't risk getting stung and, if you can stand it, you won't have to worry with the headache of playing exterminator for weeks on end.

