 You should hold your harmonica nestled in your left hand, with your thumb supporting the bottom of the instrument and your other fingers along the top. The harmonica should be oriented so that the numbers printed on its holes are facing upwards.


Take your hand and form an open C-shape with your fingers and thumb. Your harmonica should be positioned deeply into the C-shape, tucked into the area where your thumb joins your hand.;
, You should not pucker your lips as you would for a kiss or play the harmonica with only the outer portion of your lips. The case of the harmonica will need to be in contact with the inner part of your mouth to give you proper control while playing. Your lips should touch the casing and the wood/plastic body should be inside your mouth.


For the best control and quality of tone, you should try to keep your jaw as relaxed as possible while playing.
Your jaw should be slightly lowered when playing your harmonica. This will create more space in your mouth and give your playing a richer tone.
While getting used to forming a proper mouth seal with your harmonica, it can be difficult holding the instrument in position while keeping your jaw relaxed. Take your time, and practice until this becomes second nature., Blocking is a harmonica technique that closes off other holes so you can play a single note. This is especially important for bending, as you can only bend a single note at a time on the harmonica. There are two different kinds of blocking:



Lip blocking is best for bending notes in blues and melody. Use your lips to block all other holes of your harmonica by narrowing the opening of your mouth to about the width of a pencil.

Tongue blocking closes off other notes that are open to your mouth by covering them with your tongue, leaving a single free hole to either side of your mouth. You won't need to narrow your mouth as much doing this as you would with lip blocking., When you play a note by exhaling it's called "blowing." Oppositely, playing a note by inhaling is called "drawing." For the best sound quality when playing, you shouldn't puff on your harmonica, but breathe through it with well supported breath.


You won't need to blast your harmonica with strong streams of air. You can get a full, rich sound from your harmonica with moderate amounts of sustained breathing.
As you become more skillful at playing the harmonica, you may find that you can breathe somewhat through the instrument to reduce the amount of full breaths you take. This can help you sustain long melodic phrases without a break in the sound.