 When it comes to standard, routine software maintenance, whether you have a PC or a Mac doesn't matter; nor does your software edition or your hardware specs. What matters is your computer etiquette: shutting down regularly, installing updates when they become available, and closing unused background apps are all behaviors that will significantly increase your processing--and therefore, overall--speed. Before you make any changes to your computer's programs or processes, make sure you're practicing good computer etiquette.;
, Even factory-new computers try to run a ridiculous amount of software in the background when you boot up. Generally speaking, you should disable any program you don't absolutely need from starting upon login; this includes things like browsers, game services, and entertainment suites.


Windows allows you to customize which programs start up automatically by going to Start, then Run, then typing in "msconfig". This action brings up a checklist of the default programs that begin upon login, allowing you to uncheck the ones you don't want.
Similarly, Mac users can access System Preferences in their settings, then click on Users & Groups. Click on your username, then select "Login Items" to see a checklist of default login programs. Uncheck items as you see fit.
 Your computer and your internet browser of choice both store temporary files every time you access a webpage or open a document. Since these files can clutter your random access memory, clear them as often as possible.


Your web browser will have the option to clear temporary files and cookies in its settings tab, regardless of your browser choice. If you clear this data frequently, you will notice a huge difference in your browsing speed.
On PC, your desktop's temporary files can be accessed by locating your default hard drive, accessing it, clicking the "Windows" folder, then navigating to the "Temp" file and accessing it. Select the entire folder's contents and delete them.
Macs compress and store information much more efficiently than most PCs, so OS X users won't have to clear their caches as frequently. That said, you can access your cache by going into your hard drive, clicking "Library", then clicking "Caches". Once there, delete the temporary files the same way you would on a PC. , While Internet Explorer and Safari do come standard, there are much more efficient browsers available. Firefox, Google Chrome, and Opera all boast RAM-saving technology, and as long as you minimize in-browser add-ons, any of these will run much faster than IE or Safari by default.


If you do decide to stick with IE or Safari, don't install extra browsers or internal add-ons; this will help you get the most out of these programs.
 Malware significantly slows down your computer, and you likely subject yourself to it on a daily basis. To combat malware and viruses, run a security check through the antivirus program of your choice on a weekly basis.


Make sure your antivirus program isn't set to run automatically; you don't want it running and requesting a reboot in the middle of your work time.
Find an antivirus program that doesn't utilize a bunch of subprocesses or browser add-ons. AVG freeware is a relatively customizable and fringe-free service, and it will reliably remove most malware.
 Most computers come equipped with a huge array of free trials of random programs, games, and services that you will never use. Uninstall these along with any redundant programs--for example, if you use iTunes as your default music provider, you probably don't need Media Player.
 Over time, PCs allocate bits of files throughout your drive, making them harder to retrieve which, in turn, causes your computer to take longer when loading these files. To run a system defrag, open the Start menu, navigate to Control Panel, click on the link titled "System and Security", and select "Administrative Tools". A menu should pop up; select the defragment option, select a drive to defragment on the menu, and follow the onscreen instructions. Defrag is sometimes set to run automatically. If this is the case, this can also slow down your computer during inconvenient times, so make sure that you either have defrag set to manual or a time at which you will not be inconvenienced by it running.
If you have a solid state drive (SSD), do not run a defragmentation process. Since these drives have no moving parts and rely on a cloud of information rather than specific storage, this can damage the hard drive.
Mac users don't need to worry about defragmenting their drives due to differing technology.
 After you've completed all of these steps, restart your computer to finalize any processing changes. Your computer should be running much faster now.

