 Take two wire hangers and undo them. Straighten the hanger into a straight line. Then, bend the hangers into the shape of your wings.Make sure to leave enough wire at the base of the hangers so you can connect them.


Use pliers to straighten the kinks in the hanger, especially where the hanger was wrapped around the neck to keep it together. You can also use the pliers to help you bend the hanger into the proper shape.
For easy wing shapes for the hanger, try making long, narrow wings like dragonflies. You can also use 4 hangers and make four balloon-shaped circles. Attach two of them together, one on top and another on bottom, so that they look like butterfly wings.
You can also draw the shape of the wing first, and then lay the hanger on top of the paper and bend it so it matches the outline of the wing.An alternative to undoing the hanger is to bend the wide part of the hanger into a wing shape, leaving the hooks in tact., Take the ends of the hangers and twist them together to connect the wings together. Use the pliers to bend the wire so you can secure them.


If you left the hanger in tact, twist the hooks together to connect the wings.
Cover the twist with a piece of fabric or felt so it doesn't poke you in the back.
 Take a piece of paper and spread it over the edges of the hanger. Fold the paper over the edges and secure to the back with tape.


If you are going to use this paper as the base, make sure you have colored it before attaching it to the hanger. If you try to color it while on the hanger, you could tear the paper.
An alternate to regular paper is to use contact paper. Cut contact paper so that it fits the hanger. Make sure there is enough to bend over the edge to secure it. Decorate the sticky side of the contact paper with flower petals, leaves, glitter, fabric, or anything else. Place another piece of contact paper over the decorations, sticky side down. Smooth it down to seal the wings. Cut around the wire hangers and fold the ends over the edges., After you have placed the paper on the wings, decorate them how you desire. Paint them, add glitter, attach flowers, or embellish with ribbon.


To make rows of feathers, cut smaller pieces of paper into half-ovals. You can make a lot of smaller individual ovals, or you can create a long piece of paper with one flat edge and one edge of half-ovals.These ovals should stack on top of each other so that your wings look like they have rows of feathers. You can cut them out of different colored paper, or color and decorate them after you cut them. When you have the feathers ready, tape or glue them to the paper wings.If you want to make paper wings that look like angel wings, try using paper fringe for feathers. Take tissue paper and cut into half. Then, fold those in half and staple along the folded crease. Cut along the paper, about 1 inch apart. You can cut it closer or further apart depending on your preference. You just want it to look like fringe. When you're done, separate the fringed edges and fluff.Use a hot glue gun to glue the fringe to the paper wings., To make a harness so you can place it on your back, connect ribbon or thin strips of material to the wings. You can connect them with either tape or staples directly onto the paper. You can also tie ribbon or strips of paper directly to the hangers.


Before securing the straps, adjust them so they are short enough that the wings will not fall off.

