 “Acid reflux” is what causes the burning pain or discomfort in your chest or throat called “heartburn” (which doesn’t have anything to do with your heart). If you have other symptoms, you may have a more serious condition, like gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), also known as acid reflux disease.Here are some symptoms to look for:Pain that worsens when you lie down or bend overRegurgitation of food into your mouth (be careful of aspirating or inhaling gastric contents)
Acid taste in the mouth
Hoarseness or a sore throat
Laryngitis
Chronic dry cough, especially at night
Asthma
Feeling like there’s a “lump” in your throat
Increase in saliva
Bad breath
Earaches;
, Acid reflux occurs when the valve at the entrance to your stomach, called the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) doesn’t close properly, allowing stomach acid back up into your esophagus. This causes the burning known as “heartburn.” If this happens more than twice a week, you have acid reflux disease, also known as GERD. Below are some common risk factors for acid reflux disease:Eating large meals
Lying down right after a meal
Being overweight or obese
Bending over after eating
Bedtime snacking
Eating trigger foods, like citrus or chocolate
Drinking certain beverages, like alcohol or coffee
Smoking
Pregnancy
Taking NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, etc.)
Hiatal hernia. A hiatal hernia occurs when the stomach bulges up into the chest area through an opening in your diaphragm. It will need to be surgically treated., Most ulcers are caused by a bacterial infection called Helicobacter pylori.The most common sign of an ulcer is a dull or burning pain in your belly. The pain may come and go, but may appear strongest at night or between meals.Other symptoms of ulcers include:Bloating
Burping or feeling like you need to burp
Lack of appetite
Nausea or vomiting
Weight loss

, In addition to the above symptoms, ulcers can cause internal bleeding in the stomach and intestines, which can be extremely dangerous. If you see any of the following symptoms, get medical treatment immediately:Dark red, bloody, or black stool
Difficulty breathing
Dizziness or fainting
Feeling tired for no reason
Paleness
Vomit that looks like coffee grounds or contains blood
Sharp, severe stomach pain

, If you have frequent or persistent heartburn, you should see your doctor. If you have GERD and don’t seek treatment, it can cause serious medical conditions, including esophagitis (an inflammation of the esophagus lining),esophageal bleeding or ulcers,the pre-cancerous Barrett’s esophagus,and increased risk of esophageal cancer.If you have ulcers, these require medical treatment. They can cause other conditions, including internal bleeding, stomach perforation, and gastric outlet obstruction (where the passageway from the stomach to the small intestine is blocked).In some cases, ulcers from Helicobacter pylori can cause stomach cancer.
Some medications, such as Fosamax ( an osteoporosis drug), steroids, and immunosuppressants, can cause excessive acid production. If you are taking these medications, do not stop taking them until you have consulted with your doctor.
 Since the 1980s, doctors have discovered that the type of bacteria called H. pylori causes most stomach ulcers. About ⅔ of the world’s population carries H. pylori, but for most people it doesn’t cause any symptoms.Between 30-67% of people in the United States are estimated to carry H. pylori.In developing countries, that figure can be as high as 90%.You can get H. pylori from food, water, or eating utensils. You may also contract it through contact with saliva, fecal matter, or other body fluids of infected people.Because the sanitation conditions in developing countries are often different than those in the US and other countries, you may contract H. pylori if you travel to another country, especially if you drink the water or eat undercooked food. Poor hygiene and poor sanitation, while preparing and cooking food, are also common ways to get H. pylori.
If you have H. pylori, you should have your whole family or any people you live with tested as well. Reinfection can occur unless the infection is eradicated in everyone with whom you live in close contact.Your doctor can use noninvasive techniques to test for 'H. pylori, such as urea breath test, serology, and stool antigen tests.
 If you can’t get to the doctor immediately and want some relief from acid reflux symptoms, ask your pharmacist. S/he can recommend an effective (but temporary) over-the-counter antacid. A pharmacist can also help advise you to choose an antacid that won’t interact with your other medications. Common choices include:Zantac, 150 mg once per day
Pepcid, 20 mg twice per day
Lansoprazole, 30 mg once per day
Antacid tablets, 1-2 tablets every 4 hours

