 You can purchase 1 yd (0.91 m) of 60-inch (1.5 m) jersey fabric, and no cutting will be needed. If you have more fabric than you need, though, measure out 1 yd (0.91 m) of length and 60 inches (1.5 m) of width, then cut accordingly.


Jersey fabric is typically fray-resistant and drapes well. The two qualities combined make it a perfect choice for this vest. Its draping qualities will allow the material to hang loosely in front of your torso, while its fray-resistant composition prevents you from needing to hem the edges. As such, with jersey fabric, this vest can be made without any sewing.
If you use a different material that is not fray-resistant, however, you'll need to hem all of your raw edges. For the main body of fabric, simply turn 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of material to the underside of the fabric, pin in place, then straight stitch across each side to hold the hem down.
 Spread the material out flat in front of you with the long side running left to right and the shorter side running up and down. Fold the fabric over from left to right, lining all of the edges up evenly.


Note that the side of the fabric you plan on placing toward your body should face toward you after you fold it.
You may want to pin the fabric halves in place to keep them from moving around as you work.
 Use your tape measure to measure out 6 inches (15.24 cm) down along the fold from the top of the material. From that mark, measure 6 inches (15.24 cm) across from the fold, into the body of the material.


Only use fabric pencil, chalk, or another water soluble marking tool.
 Use fabric pencil to draw an 8-inch (20.32-cm) line down from your armhole starting point.


The line must be vertical and parallel to the fold of the material.
 Use sharp scissors to carefully cut a slit through your armhole marking. Make sure that you cut through both the front and back layers of fabric.


Consider placing more pins around the armhole area as you cut the slits out. Jersey material is stretchy and will likely get distorted as you work with the scissors. Using more pins directly around the area you plan on cutting will secure the material in that section of the garment more rigidly.
If you are not using a jersey fabric and instead opt for a fabric that is not fray-resistant, you will need to hem the armholes.

Cut 1/4 inch (6.3 mm) diagonal slits off each armhole. One should come off the bottom and point left while another should come off the bottom and point right. Similarly, another should come off the top and point left while a final one should come off the top and point left.
Fold the resulting flaps of material to the underside of the garment. Pin in place, then sew flat with a straight stitch.
 Unfold the material and drape it flat against your back. Bring your arms through the armholes you just cut out, and bring the rest of the material to the front of your torso. Hold the vest material in place by cinching it in at your waist using a coordinating skinny belt.


Alternatively, you could skip the belt and let the vest hang loosely over your front for a different style option.
The completion of this step marks the completion of this project.

