 Are you hoping to get someone special to notice you? Draw a mysterious stranger into your life? Dispel negativity from a wounded relationship? Spice up a lackluster love life? Make your interactions with the universe at large more loving? The most important part of manifestation, so get a very clear picture in your mind of what you’d like to accomplish.


Think very carefully about the potential drawbacks of your intention. If, for example, you intend to attract your ideal mate, think about whether or not you’re at a place in your life where you can enter into such a relationship. If you’d like to work your magic on someone you don’t know that well, brace yourself for the possibility that (s)he won’t be as interesting or attractive in real life as they seem from afar.
Remember the rule of three. According to the Wiccan Rede, “All good that a person does to another returns threefold in this life; harm is also returned threefold.” Encourage love by sending it out freely.

Stay away from intentions that involve dominating, manipulating or in some way controlling another person. Those kinds of intentions leave you open to receiving the same in turn. For example, instead of manifesting a nurturing, mutually supportive and satisfying relationship, you could draw to yourself someone who is wildly possessive and extremely jealous.
 Exactly what you choose and in what combination should be based on the kind of love you want to attract.


Start by emphasizing colors. Red, for example, is the color most closely associated with passion and lust. Pink is also a heart color but is considered to be more nurturing. White speaks of innocence and would be appropriate for a platonic relationship. Green's association is with nature and might be used to promote virility. Choose candles, cloths, papers, flowers, or other objects in a color(s) whose associations fit your needs.
Integrate herbs into the spell. According to herb lore, balm and catnip can be used to attract love, and marjoram can be used to dispel negativity and promote love and happiness. Lavender is perhaps the best herb for attracting men. If your intention is more sexual in nature, try using vervain, which was used by the Druids to promote love, lust, and sexual fulfillment, or caraway, which promotes lust and fidelity or cinnamon and fennel to promote vigor and libido.
Use symbolic items. Do a little reading about the symbolism attached to common items. You're likely to find multiple interpretations for the same object, so go with your gut and choose what's meaningful for you.

Use a mirror for healthy self-image, a piece of silk for sensuality, flowers for romance, lingerie for libido, or anything else that might have a special significance for you.
If you're directing your spell at a specific individual and you happen to have an item taken from that person (hair, a piece of clothing, a letter, something they've borrowed from you), be sure to include it.
Beware of adding items with negative associations such as needles, knives, ropes or other metaphorically aggressive objects; they might put an undesirable spin on your ritual.
 Take a ritual bath using herbs, flowers or essential oils. Infuse the water with rose, jasmine, or any of the herbs listed above. If possible, bathe by candlelight. When you’re done, dress in clean clothes. If you've chosen a new outfit for your ritual, put that on.
 Cast your spell somewhere you won’t be disturbed. It would be wonderful if you could choose a romantic location such as a forest or beach; however, your number one priority should be privacy and the ability to concentrate, so if that means staying indoors in a clean, cozy room, that's fine.
 Spread sea salt (with or without rosemary added) in a circle around the space where you want to work for protection. If necessary, smudge the area by burning sage to cleanse it of negativity.
 Focus on your intention. Visualize the scenario you'd like to experience in real life; make it as real as possible by imagining it with all your senses. If you feel comfortable doing so, chant your intention aloud; otherwise, repeat it in your head or write it on paper and burn it, allowing it to go out into the universe.


Make a rhyming spell if desired. This can make your ritual more potent. You may even want to include the name of a relevant god or goddess into the spell if that fits with your personal philosophy. Don't stress about being a poet. Rhyming is nice if you can pull it off, but what's most important is the sincerity and good intentions of your words.
Make a symbolic offering. Suitable offerings include flowers, an apple, wine or anything else that has personal significance.
Do not disturb your candles or blow them out prematurely. Allow them to burn down completely, then gather the wax and either place it in a sachet beneath your pillow or bury it in the garden to let it grow - preferably somewhere the dog won’t dig it up.
 The more you concentrate on your intention, the more powerful a signal you will send. Perform this ritual every day/week/full moon/whatever other length of time feels appropriate and be grateful in advance for your success.
 The results of your manifestation might be different – or even better – than what you imagined for yourself. Don’t become so focused on one narrow vision of love that you let a glorious opportunity pass you by.

