 There are a number of body parts that can be affected. Each one requires a different treatment, either orally or topically. The following are symptoms to look for if you suspect an infection in the wilderness.


If you are experiencing painful urination, vaginal discharge and vaginal soreness or itching, it is likely that you have vaginitis. This is caused by microbes that upset the normal balance of the fluids in your vagina.
If you are experiencing painful urination, redness outside of the vagina, around the vulva and an itching and burning sensation around the vulva, then it is likely you have had an allergic reaction. Common causes are poison oak or poison ivy. Other causes include prolonged time in the water or on horseback.
If you are experiencing burning urination, blood or cloudy urine, abdominal cramping or odiferous urine, it is likely that you have a urinary tract infection (UTI). This is the tract that leads from your bladder to your urethra.;
, The water will help to flush excess bacteria from your urinary tract and vaginal opening. Drink enough so that your urine is a very pale yellow.


Make sure you are drinking fresh, tap or bottled water. Do not drink from lakes, rivers or streams, as they can add additional bacteria to your body.
 In each of these situations, intercourse will increase the irritation and it may spread microbes to your partner. Do not resume until after the symptoms have been cleared up and/or you have been treated by a doctor.
 Rinse the area thoroughly and dry completely. Do this 2 to 3 times per day.
 Although you will need to urinate more frequently while consuming more water, you should use clean toilet paper to keep the area dry at all times.
 This kind of fiber helps the area to breathe and it dries fairly quickly.
 The following are common treatments that are used before you are able to seek a doctor's attention:


If you believe you have vaginitis, then you should clean the outside and inside of the vagina often. Dry it well with a towel. Use a non-prescription anti-fungal cream, such as Monistat, to treat the infection, if it is available.
If you feel as though you may have had an allergic reaction in the vulva area, avoid further contact with the allergen. Keep the area very clean and dry. Treat with an anti-itch cortisone cream, if you have this in your first aid kit.
If you believe you have a UTI, then you should drink plenty of juice and take or eat vitamin C. Cranberry juice has often been used as a preventative treatment for UTIs. The acid helps to create an unfriendly environment for bacteria to grow.
 Although the body works to fight infections, many infections, especially UTIs, should be treated with a course of antibiotics.

