 The most common way for inexperienced house-flippers to enter the market is to find an investment partner. This is especially important for those who do not have the money for the down payment or initial repairs.An investment partner will supply some or all of the start-up cash in exchange for a share of the profits.You might consider finding a partner who has a great deal of liquid cash but no interest in doing the legwork for purchasing or refinishing a home. While your partner will supply the cash, you will supply the know-how and labor., In order to find an investment partner, you should develop a number of personal and professional contacts in your community. Spread the word that you are interested in undertaking an investment opportunity with a partner. Some ways that you can locate potential partners include:


Researching active real estate investors. Get in touch with successful, experienced real estate investors who might consider taking a chance on you.
Joining a Real Estate Investment Club. Many local communities have local chapters of real estate investment clubs. Once you join, you will have access to locals who might share your interests and enthusiasms.Joining a meetup group. Meetup groups are social clubs that sometimes have specific themes, including real estate. Use a meetup group to extend your social network.
Spreading the word among family and friends. Discuss your dream of flipping houses with those who are already in your social network, such as family, friends, and coworkers. They might be able to put you in touch with others who share your interests or who are looking to invest in real estate.
Creating your own real estate investment club. If your neighborhood does not yet have a real estate investors' club, you can form your own chapter.Advertise on Craigslist and through meetup websites in order to find like-minded individuals.
 When you enter into an investment partnership, it is important that you do not simply rely on verbal agreements. Make sure all transactions are reflected in a signed contract. Consult a business or real estate attorney to ensure that both parties are satisfied with the arrangement. Make sure you work out in advance:


Who covers which costs
How the profits will be split
Who will cover potential debts and liabilities
Who will undertake particular tasks (such as hiring contractors)
Note security laws that regulate promotion of investments as well as the possibility of investor lawsuits if events don't occur as planned

, Some real estate partnerships work spectacularly; others completely fail. Do not lock yourself into a partnership over the long term before you know how well you work with your partner. Instead, take it one house at a time, and evaluate whether your partnership has the potential to be a strong and lasting one.Take into account whether or not the financial return worked as expected.

