 Help your child get used to knowing when s/he will be fed to avoid having to guess when your child is hungry.


Feed your baby on a regular timetable. Begin in the early morning between 7am and 8am and feed your baby every 2-3 hours for newborns and 3-4 hours once you are past the newborn period.
Try altering your baby's diet if s/he is experiencing colic. Feed your baby different hypoallergenic formulas to find out if a certain type of food is upsetting your baby's stomach. If you are still nursing, you can try changing your diet to avoid common allergens like nuts and wheat.
 This will establish a regular sleeping pattern and help your child learn to sleep throughout the night.


The number of naps and hours per day that babies require will vary, but newborns sleep an average of 16 hours a day, often split into 3 or 4 hour blocks.
For slightly older babies 4 to 7 month old, a typical sleeping pattern consists of two naps per day with about 8 hours of sleep at night.
When your child is between 8 and 12 months old, s/he will begin sleeping slightly less. On average, babies at this stage sleep 13-14 hours per day and are probably still taking two shorter naps per day (20 mins-1 hour).
 The environment that your baby sleeps in is important, including the temperature of the room and the volume of noise around the house.


Again, make sure that the temperature in the room is always between 68 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit and that your baby is not overheated with blankets.
If you use a nightlight, make sure that the light is dim so that your baby knows the difference between waking light and sleeping light. A soft, yellow-toned bulb can be particularly soothing.
Newborns are used to some noise while they sleep because of their experience in the womb. Try using a white noise machine to mimic the womb environment.
Properly ventilate the room to make sure your baby gets fresh air while s/he sleeps. Certain smells can also upset your baby, so try to use unscented hypoallergenic laundry detergents and wipes on your baby's sheets, clothes, and crib.
 Common signs include rubbing eyes, yawning, and fussing, though your baby will figure out his/her own way to tell you when s/he's ready for some sleep.

