 Some foods enhance the flavor of cigarettes, but other foods make cigarettes taste worse. Packing flavors that clash with cigarettes into your diet can make cigarettes seem less appealing.


While everyone's taste buds can vary slightly, the flavors of red meat, coffee, and alcohol tend to enhance the taste of cigarettes, so you may need to cut back on these foods and drinks while you're trying to quit.
On the other hand, most fruits, vegetables, and dairy products make cigarettes taste worse, so now would be a good time to add these foods to your diet.;
, On average, roughly 30 percent of a smoker's cravings are for carbohydrates instead of nicotine. Sucking on over-the-counter glucose tablets or long-lasting fruit candy can help satisfy the carbohydrate craving, making your overall cravings less intense.Moreover, chewing on gum or sucking on a piece of candy can give your mouth something to do other than smoking. By keeping your mouth occupied, your hands and brain can stay away from cigarettes, too.
 When your next craving strikes, cut open a lime and suck the juice out of its wedges. While not quite as effective as nicotine gum, early studies suggest that lime juice can slow and stop many cigarette cravings.Citrus is also one of the many flavors that can worsen the taste of cigarettes, so flooding your mouth with the taste of lime juice can make the thought of lighting up less appetizing.
If sucking directly on wedges of lime juice doesn't seem appealing to you, try lime-flavored candies or sodas. You can also cook more recipes that list lime juice among the ingredients for a subtle boost.
 Instead of reaching for a cigarette, reach for a stick of real licorice root. Sucking on licorice instead can satisfy the oral cravings driving you to smoke.Since many tobacco products are flavored with licorice, taming your craving with licorice can satisfy both the feeling and taste you're missing.
Only use licorice in moderate amounts. Prolonged or excessive use beyond six weeks can cause other health problems.
 Add fresh clover flowers to salads or chew on tobacco-free, clover-based snuff to ward off potential cravings.


In addition to satisfying oral cravings, clover contains genistein, a compound that may help prevent tumors from growing by stopping new blood vessels from forming.
 Fava beans contain I-dopa, which your brain converts to dopamine. Increased dopamine production can help soothe the physical and mental stress associated with nicotine cravings.


Nicotine boosts dopamine, so when you quit smoking, your dopamine and mood both drop. Adding more fava beans to your diet can help regulate your dopamine levels and prevent your mood from sinking too severely.
 Both vigorous exercise and relaxing exercise can help you quit, so try to work a little of both into your routine.


Vigorous exercise can cause changes in your brain activity, making it easier to relieve tension and fight depression without relying on your next nicotine fix. If you have breathing or cardiovascular problems, however, you should talk to your doctor to determine how much vigorous exercise is healthy for you.
Tai chi can also help you quit. This type of martial arts can train you to improve your breathing and move in stronger, more fluid ways. As a result, your mind and body feel more relaxed, and you may experience fewer cravings.
 If you plan on quitting the habit and losing weight through diet and exercise, you should focus on doing one before embarking on the other.


Quitting and dieting both require a great amount of dedication, and if you try to do both at the same time, you can easily overwhelm yourself.
Quit smoking first, then wait one or two months before making any major changes to your diet or exercise routine.
 Identify the situations that increase your urge to smoke and do what you can to avoid them. When avoidance is impossible, find another way to distract yourself during those trigger situations.Your triggers typically include the circumstances during which you smoked most often. For instance, you might smoke more when you're around other smokers in a bar or party, or you might smoke more when you're alone watching television or surfing the Internet.
If you can't avoid a trigger, give your hands and mind something else to do other than smoking. Doodle with a pen and paper. Teach yourself to crochet or knit. Nearly anything that keeps your hands busy could help.
 When the temptation to smoke grows strong and you feel like caving into it, tell yourself that you need to wait another 10 minutes before you light up. Then, immediately distract yourself with another activity.


Longer activities that will take more than 10 minutes to complete tend to work better. By giving your mind something else to fixate on, you can help draw it away from thinking about your craving.
You may need to repeat this practice more than once, but keep at it until the craving goes away completely.
 Visual reminders of the dangers related to smoking can make your urge to quit even stronger. Find images of mouths with cancerous lesions or diseased lungs and post them above the drawer you usually keep your cigarettes in.


If you haven't already talked to your doctor about your smoking habit, take the time to do so now. Having your doctor review the potential consequences can be another way to effectively remind yourself of the dangers you face by continuing to smoke.
 Balance out the negative by reminding yourself of the positive reasons for wanting to quit. Write down your reasons or recite them aloud each day.


Your reasons can be for your own health, for your self-esteem, for the health of your loved ones, or for the sake of your wallet. Regardless of the specifics, you should continually remind yourself of any and all reasons.
On a similar note, speak in positive terms. Giving yourself the occasional pep talk can help you push through. Instead of routinely fixating on negative words like "quit" and "stop," recite affirmative sayings like, "I can do this."

, Pushing through can become easier when you can look back and see how far you've already come. Keep a journal or other record of your progress. Document the therapies you've tried and note which have been successful, and note how long you've gone in between cigarettes.


Nowadays, there are also mobile apps you can use to help record your progress. A few examples include Quitter, Livestrong MyQuit Coach, Smoke Out, and Smoke Break. These apps can track your progress, record your achievements, and integrate everything into your social media accounts.
 Some evidence suggests that the vapor of black pepper essential oil may reduce cigarette cravings. Using body and home fragrances that contain black pepper essential oil may reduce the number of cravings you get.


Try soaking the corner of a cotton handkerchief in black pepper essential oil. As soon as your next craving begins bubbling up, spend a few moments sniffing the patch and settling your mind.
 Make an appointment with someone licensed in hypnotherapy and ask about using the practice to help you quit smoking. If it'll work at all, you should see results within approximately eight sessions.


Note that the success of hypnotherapy depends on many factors, including your own willingness and the skill level of the practitioner. Only choose practitioners with good reputations to increase your odds. Moreover, if you feel notably skeptical about the practicality or legitimacy of hypnosis, it might be a treatment worth skipping since your skepticism could interfere with its effectiveness.
 When applied correctly, acupuncture can increase the production of serotonin. Since quitting the habit decreases serotonin levels in the brain, supplementing these levels with acupuncture can help you maintain a balanced mood.


This treatment works best if you get it within 24 to 72 hours of your last cigarette. Typically, auricular (ear) acupuncture will be used, and you may need a total of six treatments to maximize the potential benefit.
 Try massaging the ear or back of your hand for two minutes each day. Continue the practice for a total of one month, even if your cigarette cravings subside before then.


Self-massage can help relax your mind and body, especially when performed on your ears. It also gives your hands something to hold onto other than a cigarette.
 Mindful meditation can help you focus your mind and control your breathing, thereby decreasing your stress levels and giving you less of a reason to pick up another cigarette.


Attend group sessions or practice on your own by following an instructional CD or audio recording. Try to meditate for 45 minutes daily to maximize the effect, and continue for one to two months, or until the habit is safely behind you.
 If you have friends or relatives who smoke, agree to quit the habit together. If you don't know anyone already, find a support group to talk with during the process.


People who quit together can support each other through the process by sharing stories about the difficulties and successes they undergo.
If traditional support groups aren't your thing, seek support online. Many social networks, including Twitter and Facebook, have a plethora of groups dedicated to quitting the habit. Actively participating in these groups can be just as helpful as actively participating in a real-life support group.
 Loving friends and relatives who don't smoke can still serve as sources of moral support. Even though you won't be able to relate to them about the difficulties of quitting, spending time talking and being with them can boost your mood and distract your mind away from cravings.


Avoid people who criticize you, however, since spending time with them may increase your stress and intensify the urge to smoke.
Similarly, you should also avoid active smokers who aren't trying to quit, even if they're otherwise positive people. Being around someone who smokes while you're trying to quit can make your efforts feel less urgent.

