 Used for centuries in cultures across the world, aromatherapy is the use of scent, often through essential oils, to promote psychological and physical well-being.Knowing about the different scents and health benefits of aromatherapy will help you decide the best type of aromatherapy for you.


Anyone from adults to children can use aromatherapy. However, in very young children, the elderly, and pregnant women, you’ll need to take precautions with using oils and hot water.;
, Essential oils, when inhaled as a scent or applied to the skin, have a variety of health benefits. They can help with physical ailments such as congestion and ease psychological conditions such as anxiety. Learning about the benefits of using aromatherapy can help you choose the best essential oils for your needs.


Aromatherapy can ease the symptoms of certain physical ailments. For example, using eucalyptus essential oil can help with congestion.Aromatherapy can also ease the symptoms of certain psychological ailments. For example, using lavender or chamomile essential oils can help with anxiety and depression.In general, using aromatherapy, especially when in conjunction with a warm bath, will relax and soothe you., Essential oils are distilled from the leaves, stems, flowers, bark, or roots of a specific plant and contain its true essence. They are neither oily nor are they like a fragrant oil.Essential oils are usually a clear liquid that is not oily, but rather like water.Essential oils are neither a perfume nor a fragrance oil.Essential oils are highly concentrated and you won’t need to use much of it to get its benefits., You will use different essential oils in your bath depending on what you wish you achieve with your aromatherapy bath—relaxation and calming or easing ailments. Each oil has different properties and knowing what these are will help you make the best choice for your needs.


Keep a selection of different essential oils at hand so that you can use them whenever you want or need.
Bergamot essential oil can help stress, depression, anxiety and some skin infections such as psoriasis and eczema.Chamomile essential oil is a powerful calming agent. In addition to being an antiseptic, it can also help lift mood and aid depression.Eucalyptus essential oil can help with respiratory issues, fevers, and headaches and is a stimulant. It also has cooling and deodorizing properties.Jasmine essential oil can help reduce tension and stress. It may also help ease childbirth, depression, and respiratory issues.Lavender essential oil is an excellent choice to relieve stress, but can also be used as an anti-depressant, deodorant, and sedative.Lemon essential oil can help improve concentration, digestion, and ease the symptoms of acne.Marjoram essential oil can help ease anxiety and stress, fight fatigue, and may alleviate respiratory and circulatory issues.Rose essential oil can help with depression, anxiety and digestion. It may also aid circulation and respiratory conditions such as asthma.Peppermint essential oil has a cooling, refreshing and energizing effect. It can also increase mental alertness.Tea tree essential oil is an antiseptic that can heal burns and cuts and soothe cold sores and muscle aches.For a comprehensive list of essential oils and their properties, visit the website at http://www.aromaweb.com/essentialoils/default.asp#essentialoilprofiles .
 Because essential oils are so concentrated, you’ll need to dilute it with a carrier oil to best use it. You can use a variety of different plant oils as a carrier oil including: sweet almond oil, apricot kernel oil, avocado oil, olive oil, and sesame oil.These often have the added benefit that they effectively moisturize skin.


Make sure to use a natural, plant based oil. These pair best and most effectively with essential oils. Sweet almond oil, apricot kernel oil, avocado oil, olive oil, and sesame oil are excellent carrier oils.Don’t use water or other liquids to dilute your essential oil, which will make it difficult to use it effectively for your aromatherapy bath or shower.
 Because each essential oil has different properties and may not be ideal for all users, it’s important to read the properties of any essential oil before you use it. It’s also a good idea to do a skin patch test before using an oil as well.


By reading the bottles of essential oils, you can find out about the oil’s now the contra-indications. For example, you wouldn’t want to use eucalyptus oil if you are pregnant, breast feeding, or an epileptic.Not reading the contra-indications of an essential oil can have a serious affect on your health.
Before you use the essential oil in a bath, do a skin patch test. Add 1-2 drops of diluted essential oil to the inside of your elbow. Leave it on and if no irritation occurs after 24 hours, then you can safely use the essential oil in a bath on your skin., There are different methods to deliver essential oils for aromatherapy. From using the essential oils in a bath to heating them with a scent diffuser, you’ll want to choose the most optimal type of method for you.


Essential oils, which are mixed with a carrier oil, in a bath are one of the best ways to use aromatherapy.
Because some people have sensitive skin, using an essential oil in bathwater may be too intense. In these cases, people can use heated scent diffusers to reap the benefits of aromatherapy.
 If you don’t want to put an essential oil on your skin because it is sensitive, for example, you can spritz it on your towels. The scent will help you relax and may help induce sleep.


Making a spritzer for your towels is easy. Simply take 30-40 drops of your favorite essential oil for sleep and add 1.5 ounces of distilled water. Mix these in a clean spray bottle and then lightly spray on your towels.The number of drops of essential oil you use will depend on how strong you want the scent to be.You only need to lightly mist your towels to get the benefits of essential oils. Dousing your towels may irritate your skin.
 Before you can enjoy the luxury of an aromatherapy bath, choose an essential oil or bath gel depending on what you need. You may want to relax, energize yourself, or ease a physical ailment. You’ll then need to mix the essential oil with a carrier oil of your choice.


If you couldn’t find a specific essential oil, feel free to use scented bath gels, salts, or bath bombs. You can also try these options if your skin was irritated by the essential oil, though consider that bath gels, salts and bombs may have the same effect.In order to use the essential oil in your bath, mix it with the carrier oil of your choice. The best mixture is about 7-12 drops of essential oil to each fluid once of carrier oil, depending on how strong you want the aroma., Now it’s time to fill your bathtub with the water and your essential oil so that you can enjoy the full benefits of aromatherapy. Make sure the water isn’t too hot so that you can relax and add your oil as the water fills to get the best distribution of your essential oil.


If don’t have bath, just put your diluted essential oil on a sponge and wash as usual, making sure to take deep breaths.
Make sure that the water isn’t too hot when drawing your bath so that you don’t burn your skin. You can use a thermometer to check for optimal water temperatures for anyone. Some of the best temperatures for different people are: between 37 and 38 degrees Celsius for babies and children; between 37 and 39 degrees Celsius for the elderly; between 37 and 38 degrees Celsius for pregnant women; and between 36 and 40 degrees Celsius for most other people.Add your essential oil to the running water to distribute it through the bathwater.
If you’re not using an essential oil in your bath, consider using some whole milk in the water to soothe and moisturize your skin.
 Most people who are taking aromatherapy baths use it for relaxation, but even if you are looking to energize yourself, you’ll want to make your bathroom as comfortable and relaxing as possible by using such things as music, bath props, and candles.


Aromatherapy candles and scent lamps are a great way to reinforce the properties of your essential oil. In addition, their soft light will help to further relax you.Both are widely available at major retailers and online.
Aromatherapy candles and scent lamps are an excellent alternative to using essential oils if you have sensitive skin.Dim the lights in the bathroom, but don’t turn them off completely unless you’re using candles.
Soft music can help set the mood for you to relax and reinvigorate yourself.
 Use a loofah or skin brush to brush your skin before you get in the best. Not only will this increase your circulation and remove dead skin, but it will also help the oil penetrate and moisturize your skin.Use a natural bristle brush or natural loofah to dry brush your body.Starting at your feet, make long, sweeping brushstrokes toward your heart. Brush over each area multiple times and overlap the brushstrokes as you go to make sure that you get every part.Be careful when you brush sensitive parts of your body.When you’re finished, you can slip into the warm bathwater or your shower., Now is the time to enjoy what you’ve prepared for: your aromatherapy bath! Soaking for just the right amount of time in your luxurious bath will ensure that you get the most benefits from your aromatherapy session.


You’ll want to soak in your aromatherapy bath for about 15-20 minutes to get the most benefits. Staying in longer can dry out or damage your skin.Consider using bath props, such as a pillow or rose petals, to help you relax further.
A warm washcloth over your eyes will also help you enjoy your bath. Just make sure to warm it in water under the faucet so that you don’t get any essential oil in your eyes.
Make sure to not drink any of the bathwater or get it in your eyes.
Once you get out of the bath, wrap yourself in a warm towel to keep yourself warm and help keep in the moisture until you can apply moisturizer to your skin.

