 Was it the history? The impressively colored Victorians? The time of year may have an impact on what you want to see or do, September and October are generally the warmer months in the city, while January and February can be quite rainy.
 It would be impossible to see and do everything in three weeks, let alone three days. Do research on the city and upcoming events at SF Gate. In particular, research the area where you'll be staying, and avoid booking hotels online that are located in the Tenderloin district. Although the Tenderloin is endearing in its own right and the hotels may be cheaper, dealing with the local conditions of the neighborhood may not be worth the trouble.
 A suggested plan is to first visit the Legion of Honor Museum and then take the hike around Land's End. This will bring you up through Seacliff and by Baker's Beach to the Golden Gate Bridge. You could also take a bicycle ride along the waterfront and over the Bridge to Sausalito. Lastly, rent a GoCar/ Bike and take a tour around the Presidio, it's an interesting more park-like part of San Francisco, has some great views, and it's an easy ride to reach the Golden Gate. Note: if you do ride across the bridge you will ride on the East side from Sunrise to 3:30 p.m. Monday to Friday and on the West side from 3:30 p.m. to Sunset and on the Weekends. Also when riding be very alert at the towers as there are blind turns and there can be many riders on the bridge during nice weather.
 Tickets should be booked in advance, but try not to get caught up in the fun at Pier 39; San Francisco has too much to offer for you to spend much time at this well known tourist trap.
 Depending on the season, the San Francisco Giants have games in South of Market quite often. Tickets range in price from $11 to as high as you want to pay to see a ballgame. The 49ers play south of the city and tickets are harder to come by. Similarly, the Oakland A's play a BART ride away in Oakland and the Raiders play at the same stadium.
 The twisting road leads to the top of Twin Peaks - and the 360 degree view from the top is a site you will never forget.
 With an impressive permanent collection (including works by Rene Magritte, Frida Kahlo and Andy Warhol) and frequent exhibits, SFMOMA is one of the most impressive art museums on the US West Coast.
 Have a stroll down Haight Street admiring both all of the eccentric shops and even more eccentric panhandlers. Have a pint of a local microbrew at Magnolia. Continue west to Haight Street until you've reached the edge of Golden Gate Park.
, There are plenty of Mexican restaurants in the Mission district.
,,,, Either pay cash on board or, if there are others in your group, let them buy tickets while you wait in line. If you are offered transfers, take them. They are good for 2-3 hours and can be used to go any direction after you get off.
 Here you can see the Sutro Bathes remains and eat at the famous Cliff House. Take a walk down the beach, watch some surfers, or enjoy the view.





