 A baseball pass is used if you want to throw the basketball far down the court to an open teammate. Take the basketball in on hand and bring it slightly behind your head, above your shoulder. Step with your non-dominant foot and throw with your dominant hand, much like you would with a baseball.









Baseball passes can easily be knocked out of your hand because you do not have full control over the ball.
Only use a baseball pass if you really need your basketball to go the extra distance.
 One of the drawbacks from a traditional overhead or chest pass is that you need to set up for the passes which gives the defender a clue on what you are doing. Dribble passes are ones that are made by transitioning from dribbling right into a pass without setting up for a chest or overhead pass. As your ball comes up when you are dribbling, instead of holding it and setting up, push the ball toward your teammate as it is coming up from the ground.









You do not have much control with this pass, so make sure to practice it before trying it in a game.
Step forward and follow through just as you would with any other pass. The foot you are stepping forward with should be on the same side of your body as the hand you're throwing the pass with.
 A behind-the-back pass is thrown by gripping the ball in one hand and wrapping your arm around your back. This is one of the most difficult passes to throw, and should only be used if you practice it enough. Square your hips as you normally would with one leg forward. Using the arm on the same side, bring the ball behind your back and snap your wrist so the pass gets distance.









Don't look at the teammate you plan on passing it to or else you will give yourself away, and the defender may know your attempting to throw a behind-the-back pass.This is a pass that’s used if there’s a defender that is right in your face.
It is harder to control the accuracy of this pass since it’s being performed behind your back, so you may turn the ball over.

