 Ignoring someone at school can be tricky, especially if you share all of your classes with that person, but you can still find a way to ignore someone in school without being too obvious about it. Here's how to do it:


If you normally sit next to that person in class, switch your seat. If you have assigned seats, talk to your teacher and ask if you can change.
If you see that person in the cafeteria, see if you can sit in a new place.
If you run into that person in the hallways, just look straight ahead, like you're so focused on getting to your next class that you didn't even notice.
If that person asks you a question in class, just look away and pretend that it didn't happen.
 Ignoring someone at work can be difficult, because it's likely that you sit near that person or even work on projects with that person. Still, there are a few things you can do to minimize contact.


Avoid the break room or kitchen when that person is there. Learn when the person goes in the kitchen to get their lunch or for a refill of coffee, and make sure you keep a different eating and caffeine-drinking schedule.
If you sit near that person at work, stay focused on your computer, and keep a stack of papers at your desk so you can always look really engrossed by them instead of looking up at the person.
Don't jeopardize your professional life. If you really have to talk to that person to get some work done, do it. The person will be even more annoyed if you talk to them at work and then ignore him completely after work.
 Ignoring someone socially is easy if you know what to do. You just have to lean on your friends and try to stay as far away from that person as possible even if you're in the same room. Here's what you can do:


Stay busy with your friends. Talk with your friends and laugh it up like you're having the most hilarious conversation in the history of the world.
Dance. If the person comes near you and there's music playing, grab a friend to the dance floor and start rocking out. If the person still approaches you, close your eyes like you're really feeling the music.
If that person is standing in your circle, be extra engaged with everyone else around you. When that person talks, scratch your ear or check your phone - act like nothing is happening.

