 When stocking up on ingredients for holiday drinks or pre made holiday drinks in the grocery store, learn to vigilantly check labels. You want to make sure you select healthy drinks without a lot of extra calories and sugar.Milk is a major ingredient in many holiday drinks, such as eggnog and specialty coffee drinks. When selecting milk, read the labels. By opting for 1% or skim milk, you can save a lot of calories.
Avoid very sugary beverages, as well as beverages that contain artificial sugars. Things like corn syrup, honey, sucrose, dextrose, and fruit juice concentrate can pack a lot of extra calories.
Make sure you read the calories per serving. Sometimes, it will appear that a drink only has a small amount of calories but this is the per serving amount. A closer inspection will reveal that there are multiple servings in a single bottle.;
, Coffee shops often carry specialty drinks for the holidays. Drinking something like, say, a peppermint latte can be a nice treat to get you in the spirit of the season. However, these drinks can have a large amount of calories. When ordering specialty coffee drinks, learn ways to cut back on calories.Ask for 1% or skim milk.
Choose the smallest size the coffee shop carries.
Stay away from extra flavoring, such as syrups.
 It can be tempting to indulge in specialty holiday drinks during meal times. Restaurants may serve specialty cocktails or your friends may serve something like eggnog during dinner parties. Stick to drinking water with meals. Not only will you cut back on calories, water can fill you up and prevent you from overindulging on holiday treats.If this is challenging to do, remember that 8 oz of eggnog contains over 340 calories!, Ask if it's possible to get a child's size when ordering specialty holiday beverages. Child sizes are very small, allowing you to have a small treat without a lot of calories.Some stores may not allow adults to order a child's size. In this case, simply order the smallest size sold, or order a half of a serving. For example, you could order 4 ounces of eggnog instead of 8 ounces and then add skim milk or water to thin it out and bring it up to 8 ounces.
 At parties, there will often be specialty cocktails served. Things like eggnog, cocktails, and mulled wine tend to be heavy on the calories. Stick to only one or two drinks at events. Not only will this help you cut back on calories, drinking in moderation is better for your overall health., You don't have to skip alcohol altogether over the holiday season. Simply focus on going for lower calorie, healthier holiday drinks. Try to order drinks with less calories instead of ordering sugary holiday beverages.Standard cocktails made with diet sodas or tonic waters tend to be low calorie. Order something like a gin and tonic or rum and diet coke.
When possible, order light beers and ciders over regular varieties.
Cocktails such as cosmopolitans, mojitos, apple martinis, and bloody marys have a lower calorie count. However, keep in mind that alcohol has 7 calories per gram, almost as much as fat (9 calories per gram). Carbs and protein only contain 4 calories per gram. That is why even a cocktail that only contains alcohol will still be high in calories.
 If you're full from good food, you will have less room for drinks. Before attending a party, have a healthy meal made up of fruits, vegetables, whole wheats, and lean proteins. This will not only help you stay away from alcohol. It can also make you less likely to overindulge on snacks and sweets.Protein can be particularly helpful to keep you full. Eat things like fish, poultry, eggs, and low-fat cheeses.
If you get hungry at the party, snack on some fruits and vegetables.
 Mulled wine is a holiday staple. However, it can be packed with extra calories due to the added sugar. If you want mulled wine, have a single glass. Then, switch over to regular wine, which has less calories and sugar., Eggnog is a holiday staple, but is filled with heavy cream, eggs, sugar, and other calorie-heavy ingredients. A glass of eggnog can be well over 300 calories. If you like to make your own eggnog, then using 1% or skim milk over cream can greatly reduce the calories in a glass of eggnog while still allowing you to indulge in a holiday tradition.You can also use an egg substitute instead of real eggs when making eggnog at home.
If you're not making eggnog yourself, ask for a glass of 1% or skim milk or water with a small 4 ounce portion of eggnog. Add the milk or water to thin out the eggnog.
Drinking non-alcoholic eggnog can also help you cut back on calories.
 When you order a holiday latte, skip the whipped cream. Whipped cream is not necessary to add flavor to your drink. All it does is add extra calories., It's okay to indulge in a drink or two at a party. This may help relax you and enjoy the season. Simply swapping out regular mixers for diet mixers can help you cut back on calories. Try a whiskey and diet ginger-ale instead of one with regular ginger-ale., If want a beer at a party, go for a light beer. Light beers taste similar to regular beers but have less calories If you're bringing your own beer to a party, get a six pack of light beer instead of regular beer.