 Then apply it to your dry hair and cover your hair with towel. Leave it for 15 minutes and then wash normally.;
, Warm up the olive oil for 15 seconds and apply to your hair. You can wrap your hair with towel and leave it for 20 minutes. After that wash normally.
 Let it cool down and use it to rinse your hair after you wash.
 Get a cup of aloe vera gel from the plant and add two teaspoons of castor oil and two teaspoons of basil powder. Mix it well and apply it to your hair and scalp. Cover your hair with towel and go to sleep. In the morning, wash it with mild shampoo and clean water. If you try this once a week for many times, your will get healthy and beautiful hair.
 Make sure to obtain natural, organic argan oil that has been cold pressed. This is an expensive elixir, but a little bit goes a long way and the oil will not turn rancid for a year or year and a half. Argan oil is non-greasy oil and incorporates easily. You can use it overnight as a leave-in. Put on a bit extra, wrap your head in a towel and awaken to more luxurious hair.
 Take four tablespoons of coconut liquid and mix with lime. Apply this to your hair for once a week. Use the white part of an egg to mix with a lime, apply it from the roots of the hair and wash it after one hour. In this way, you can lessen dandruff.
 When you hair is wet, use mayonnaise to apply the ends of your hair. Then use shower cap to cover your hair and wash it normally.
 Take some papaya depend on your hair volume and mix it with a cup of yogurt and blend it well. Then apply it on your hair and leave it for half an hour before you wash it with shampoo.
 Take banana liquid from the stem of the tree and take it just enough for one day. Then apply it to certain place where your hair is lessen. If you try this for 10 days, you will get back hair in that certain place.
 Apply neem oil to your hair regularly then you will have smooth and black hair. After applying the oil, you can message the scalp well and keep it overnight or wash it after a few minutes.

