 Write down what you eat for each meal and note whether you experienced indigestion afterward.It can take anywhere up to 72 hours for some foods or beverages to cause indigestion, so keeping the diary faithfully each day will help you track down your triggers. Prevent indigestion by avoiding situations or foods that trigger it for you.Spicy, fatty or greasy foods often trigger indigestion.Foods that contain a lot of acid, like citrus and tomatoes, may contribute to indigestion.If you notice a pattern of foods causing you discomfort, discontinue or limit your consumption of these dishes.
You can also download an app to your smartphone to make tracking your diet a little easier.;
, Eating too much food or eating too quickly can trigger indigestion. Never rush while eating. Eating several small meals throughout the day, rather than a few large meals, can help.Here are some other things to try:


Chew food slowly and completely before swallowing.
Try not to chew with your mouth open and talk before swallowing.
Avoid swallowing air. This can happen when you gulp a beverage or talk a lot while eating.
Allow enough time to eat your meal.
Avoid exercising right after eating.
Avoid drinking with your meals. Drink 20 minutes before or after meals. It is probably okay to sip room temperature water during meals.
 Smoking tobacco and drinking caffeinated beverages often contribute to indigestion. Work on eliminating these products as part of a healthy lifestyle.Smoking can also lead to irritation of the lining of the stomach causing abdominal pain.
Carbonated beverages can cause irritation of the lining of the stomach causing abdominal pain Discuss your symptoms with a doctor to see what other modifications may help. , Avoid lying down with indigestion symptoms as this can make them worse. Sleep better by not going to bed until your symptoms are gone.


Whenever possible, wait at least three hours after eating before going to bed.
Do not recline on the couch or in a chair immediately after eating.
Place blocks under the bed legs at the head of the bed to elevate your head and shoulders. You can also use a few pillows or a foam wedge, if you cannot elevate your bed., Avoid stress and anxiety as they can contribute to stomach discomfort. Take steps to reduce pressures at work and at home in order to help calm indigestion.Try to avoid arguments or contention during meals.
Get enough sleep at night.
Try activities such as yoga, meditation, and regular exercise.Engage in relaxing activities that will reduce your overall stress.
 Consume antacids to change the stomach acid that may contribute to indigestion. Liquid antacids act more quickly, while tablets are easier to use or carry with you. Antacids may affect other medications you are taking, so do not take them at the same time. Consult your doctor if you are concerned.Most antacids can be purchased over the counter, but may cause different side effects.
Take an antacid about an hour after eating, or whenever your heartburn usually occurs.
Do not take antacids for a prolonged period of time, as they may cause vitamin B12 deficiency. This is especially true for medications called "proton pump inhibitors," such as Prilosec and Prevacid.If your indigestion continues for more than two weeks, see your doctor.Be aware that there is some evidence that decreasing stomach acid may actually worsen symptoms for some people. It also may be a factor in stomach and small bowel bacterial overgrowth — these studies are ongoing. If you experience a worsening of symptoms after taking an antacid, stop taking them and talk to your doctor.

