 Whether you buy whole or filleted, gefilte fish is made with a combination of various freshwater, white-meat fish. Carp, whitefish, pike, grouper, cod, and halibut are used in various recipes. Two parts whitefish and one part pike is a standard combination in many gefilte fish dishes.If you buy from a fishmonger, ask to keep the head, fins, and tail for use in cooking a more traditional fish stock. It’s okay to buy fillets and buy fish stock separately, as well.
You also have the option to buy pre-made gefilte fish patties to use in your dish. If you choose to buy gefilte fish in a jar, you won’t need to do anything except heat it up.
The amount of fish you need depends on how much gefilte fish you want to make. A relatively small batch requires two to three pounds of fish.;
, If you are using freshly caught fish, or whole fish from a butcher or fishmonger, you’ll need to clean, gut, and fillet the fish. This can be a time consuming and messy process, so buying prepared fish is easier.
 Lay the fish on a cutting board and grab a paring knife. Cut the fish across the width into slices that are ½ inch (1.27 cm) to one inch (2.54 cm) thick. You’ll use a blender or food process next, and it works best when you use small slices of fish rather than an entire fillet., While you continue preparing the gefilte fish patties, pour your fish stock into a saucepan to begin heating. Once it boils, turn it to medium heat to simmer until the patties are ready to be cooked. Use fish stock from the store or make your own from scratch.For added flavor, throw some onion, carrots, and celery into the stock while it boils. This is an option based on your personal preference. A good proportion is two large carrots, two sticks of celery, and half of an onion, all chopped.
Use a one or two quart (.9-1.9 L) saucepan filled half-full with fish stock.
 Depending on the size of your food processor and the amount of fish you are making, it’s best to not chop it all up at once. Put about half of the fish into the food processor or blender, then repeat the following steps with the second half.


Since gefilte fish is generally made up of multiple types of fish, be sure to place some of each fish into the blender so it forms into a somewhat consistent mixture.
 The chopping part of making gefilte fish can be tricky and isn’t an exact science. Using the available settings, chop the fish so it is blended together and forms a ball. Run the appliance in bursts for 10-30 seconds. Once the fish is chopped, dump it into a mixing bowl.Be careful not to blend the fish for so long that it becomes a paste. A mixture with some chunks of fish is better than a mushy mixture of fish.
If your appliance has a blade that is designed for chopping, be sure to use it.
 Gefilte fish is spiced differently by different people, so it’s partly up to your personal taste. Salt and pepper are simple spices used in the dish. Grate some carrots, onions, or parsnip and mix them into the ground fish. Garlic powder is another common spice.Add three to five teaspoons (14.8-24.6 ml) of sugar for sweeter gefilte fish patties.
Add 1/2 cup (120 ml) of matzo meal for thicker patties.
Mix in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of finely grated lemon zest or 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of lemon juice.
 With clean, but still wet, hands, scoop some of the fish mixture out of the bowl. Make balls or oval patties that are about three inches (7.62 cm) long and one inch (2.54 cm) thick. The exact size and shape are up to you.It’s good to keep your hands wet so that the fish mixture doesn’t stick to your hands.
Make flat patties or more plump, sausage-like patties.
 Using your hands or a slotted spoon, gently slide the fish patties into the stock. If you use your hands, be careful not to burn yourself. Using a spoon reduces the risk of this happening.
 Put a tight-fitting lid on the pot and allow the patties to simmer. Stir the patties occasionally to make sure they don’t stick to the bottom. Cooking requires a minimum of about 10 minutes, but gefilte fish can be cooked for 25 or 30 minutes, as well.It’s also important to flip them once or twice to make sure both sides cook thoroughly.
If you have more patties than you can fit into the saucepan, either use a larger pan, cook the patties in two separate pans, or cook them in two batches.
 When you scoop the patties out of the stock, press a fork into them to make sure they feel firm. Set the cooked patties on a plate to cool. Serve them while they are hot or chill them for later.


Beet horseradish or dill-horseradish mayonnaise are common dipping sauces for gefilte fish.
Serve with sliced challah, a traditional bread eaten on Jewish holidays, or with a side of pickles.
Store leftovers in the fridge and eat within three to five days of preparation. Storing in the freezer extends the shelf life to about 3 months.