 Writing things down allows you to remember better than just hearing it or saying it. When you read, it helps you learn information, and then writing it down helps you to retain it. Just as you practiced in school, writing down information helps to reinforce information., These types of interactions with other people tend to stay retained in your mind better than information learned through studying alone or just listening. You never know what wisdom a person may have until you listen to what they have to say.Be open-minded to the ideas of those around you. Everyone will have a different interpretation or opinion on something, and in order for you to think critically, it is important to listen to all of those ideas.
 This means to be skeptical, and perform your own research. You don't have to accept everything you hear as true or fact. You should deeply question and ponder the validity of all that you hear in order to truly widen your logic and knowledge. Whether it's reading, researching, or participating, you must actively engage, be willing to explore, ask questions, and really think about what you're doing. Allow your mind to mull over everything you learn and experience so it can grow. This is how new information becomes actual knowledge.
 Puzzles that are designed to get your mind thinking. Sudoku, logic puzzles, or chess are great exercises for your brain. Working through puzzles can help you develop logical thinking. Every kind of puzzle has its own set of rules, procedures and tricks for figuring it out. Mastering each set of rules and tricks improves your mental agility, which can then be used for other intellectual tasks. In other words, mastering one kind of problem helps you learn to master others.At first they may be challenging, but you will find yourself getting better at them the more you practice.
 Noise and distractions can short circuit people's mental focus when they're reading, analyzing, or doing other knowledge-building tasks. When you are trying to learn something new, do it in a quiet environment and limit possible distractions., If you have trouble understanding a difficult subject, keep learning it and do not give up. As long as you stay determined, diligent, and focused, you will increase your knowledge on the subject. Always remember that learning is a life-long process.

