 Roughly one out of five Americans has an error on their credit report, and until you examine yours, you won’t know if you fall into that group, and if you do, how seriously it could be damaging your credit score.By law, every American gets one free copy of their credit report each year from each of the major credit bureaus. Get your at free report at https://www.annualcreditreport.com.
Should you spot a mistake, you need notify the credit bureau in writing and by certified mail. Along with the notification, forward any copies of documents that support your position. It isn’t mandatory, but wouldn’t hurt to notify the creditor in the same way at the same time. In any event, the credit bureau has thirty days to investigate your claim. If they do not resolve it to your satisfaction, contact the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/ and file a complaint.
 After you’ve examined your credit report, you might notice a few blemishes on your record. Not errors, exactly, just relics from when you were younger and poorer. It’s by no means guaranteed, but you may be able to negotiate those off of your report if you reach out to the creditor.Tell the creditor you’d be willing to pay them and settle the debt if they would remove the items from your credit report. They may counteroffer, suggesting they indicate instead the debt was “paid as agreed.” That’s not as effective, but it looks better than a delinquent account. Whatever you agree on, get the agreement in writing.
 One of the components of your credit score is the proportion of available credit compared to the total credit. If you’re using more than 30% of your available credit, it hurts your score.So if you do need to close out an account, you need to pay down enough of the remaining credit to balance the loss of that line of credit.
 Don't max out your credit limits for the same reason you don't abruptly close lines of credit--you're using too high a proportion of available credit. If you find you’re going to need a larger line of credit than the one you have, either ask your creditor to raise the limit or apply for another card. That way you can spread the same amount of money onto several sources of credit, keeping your overall utilization low.