 Covariance is a calculation that you should perform a few times by hand, so you understand the meaning of the result. However, if you are going to be using covariance values routinely in interpreting data, you will want to find a faster and more automated way to get your results. You should notice by now that for our relatively small data set of only nine pairs of data, the calculations included finding two averages, performing eighteen individual subtractions, nine separate multiplications, one addition, and a final division. That is 31 relatively minor calculations in order to find one solution. Along the way, you risk dropping negative signs or copying your results incorrectly, thereby ruining the result.
 If you are comfortable using Excel (or some other spreadsheet with calculation abilities), you can easily set up a table to find covariance. Label the headings of five columns as for the hand calculations: x, y, (x(i)-x(avg)), (y(i)-y(avg)) and Product.To simplify your labelling, you could call the third column something like “x difference” and the fourth column “y difference,” as long as you remember the meaning of the data.

If you begin your table in the top left corner of the spreadsheet, then cell A1 will be the x label, with the other labels going across to cell E1.
 Enter your data values in the two columns labelled x and y. Remember that the order of the data points matters, so you need to pair each y with its corresponding x value.Your x values will begin in cell A2 and will continue down for as many data points as you need.

Your y values will begin in cell B2 and will continue down for as many data points as you need.
 Excel will calculate the averages for you very quickly. In the first vacant cell below each column of data, enter the formula =AVG(A2:A___). Fill in the blank space with the number of the cell that corresponds to your last data point.For example, if you have 100 data points, they will fill in cells A2 through A101, so you will enter =AVG(A2:A101). 

For the y data, enter the formula =AVG(B2:B101).

Remember that you begin a formula in Excel with an = sign.
 In cell C2, you will need to enter the formula to calculate the first subtraction. This formula will be =A2-____. You will fill in the blank space with the cell address that contains the average of your x data.For the example of 100 data points, the average would be in cell A103, so your formula will be =A2-A103.
 Following the same example, this would go into cell D2. The formula will be =B2-B103., In the fifth column, into cell E2, you will need to enter the formula to calculate the product of the two prior cells. This would simply be =C2*D2., So far, you have only programmed the first pair of data points in row 2. Using your mouse, highlight cells C2, D2 and E2. Then position your cursor over the small box in lower right-hand corner until a plus-sign appears. Click your mouse button, hold it down, and drag the mouse downward to expand the highlighted box to fill your entire data table. This step will automatically copy the three formulas from cells C2, D2 and E2 into the whole table. You should see the table automatically fill with all the calculations., You need to find the sum of the items in the “Product” column. In the vacant cell immediately under the last data point in that column, enter the formula =sum(E2:E___). Fill in the blank space with the cell address of the last data point.For the example of 100 data points, this formula will go into cell E103. You will enter =sum(E2:E102).
 You can have Excel perform the final calculation for you as well. The last calculation, in cell E103 in our example, represents the numerator of the covariance formula. Immediately below that cell, you can enter the formula =E103/___. Fill in the blank space with the number of data points that you have. In our example, this will be 100. The result will be the covariance of your data.