 If you are feeling guilt or remorse for what you’ve done, then you likely are aware that you had some responsibility in hurting someone. It is good to have these feelings because it means that you recognize your own mistakes. Learning to forgive yourself involves a willingness to change and let go. Say out loud, “Yes, I did that,” or, “I take responsibility for what I did.”
Be open with someone you trust about your actions. This could be a private meeting one-on-one with a family member or friend.
For example, let's say that you ignored your best friend who was going through a really hard time with her family because you wanted to spend the weekend with your new boyfriend. You ignored her calls or texts for two days, and now you feel guilty. When you do talk with her, say, "I'm sorry for not being there for you. I realize now that ignoring your calls and not telling you what I was doing was wrong.";
, Think about the reasons why you acted the way to you did. Were you upset with the person or with yourself? Were your needs being met, or not being met, by the person you hurt? Exploring your behavior will help you to move forward.


Consider writing about your motives as a way to open yourself up to your emotions and behavior.For example, let’s say you lied to your significant other. You felt like you wanted to protect them, but instead hurt them worse. Do you have difficulty talking with your partner? Think about your own actions in the situation.
 Do you feel like others have high expectations of you? Do you have high expectations of yourself? Think about how your family, friends, and surroundings have influenced your values and behaviors.Let’s say you wanted to hang out with the new group of friends that excluded a close friend of yours. Your close friend finds out that you chose to hang out with a bunch of other people that actively excluded her. You feel like you’re caught between one set of friends and your best friend.
If you feel pressured by others to make a choice between your friends, think about what really matters to you. Are you willing to give up one good friend for those other friends?

, Acceptance can be hard, but it will help you heal. Remember that no one is perfect. Sometimes we hurt others by accident and other times on purpose. Rather than repressing or ignoring what you feel, see acceptance as a form of catharsis.For example, let's say that you had a really busy day at work, and forgot that you had plans to meet with your sister after work. At the last minute you're caught up in helping your company with something, and completely forgot about your plans with your sister. You forget to check your phone until two hours after the date/time you planned to meet her. When you realize what's happened, you call your sister. Take ownership of your mistake. And make plans to reschedule if she's willing.
When you have negative thoughts about yourself and who you hurt, tell yourself, “I accept my mistakes. I have learned from them.”
If you are feeling guilty about what you did, you are already expressing a very honest emotion — the sense that you aren’t perfect.
Take this emotion to heart, and avoid repeating your mistakes. Don’t continue to hurt someone what you know it’s wrong.
 You are not automatically a bad person for hurting someone. Sometimes we end up hurting others because we felt hurt ourselves. Do you feel like you’ve been hurt?Practice self-love. Take time to reflect on who you are and who you want to be. Take time away from the stress of work, school, and life.
Think of three things that you love about yourself. Focus on aspects of your personality. By looking at your strengths, you can remember what good things you have to offer.
 This may seem simple, but oftentimes it can be difficult if the person is hurt, no talking to you, and avoiding you. Don’t assume that saying, ”I’m sorry,” will fix things. It may take time for someone to believe or trust you.


Apologize in-person if possible. See if there is a way to talk with them one-on-one rather than in public. If in-person isn't possible, then a phone call is the next best thing.
Avoid apologizing via chat, text message, or email. This form of communication may skew things, and make it more difficult to be direct and supportive if they’re still feeling hurt. For example, instead of texting back and forth with a friend you’ve hurt, ask to talk with her one-on-one the next time you see her. The apology will be more genuine and straightforward when done in person.
Consider giving them some time to recover before talking with them about what happened. Don’t try to patch things up if the person is shocked or stressed. They may have difficulty listening to your apology.
Ask the person if there is anything you can do to make it up to them. If you missed a dinner date, for example, offer to take them out at a later date — your treat.
If things continue to be rocky between you and the person you've hurt, consider writing a thoughtful and apologetic letter. Think about what you want to say and why before you just write and send it. Think about the letter as way to let go of being hurt, rather than trying to assign blame. But don’t expect that the letter will set everything right again.Listen to what the person says. After an apology it's easy to want to hear an immediate "You're forgiven," but this is the person's opportunity to get that hurt off their chest. The most loving thing you can do is listen with empathy and not become defensive. Give the other person time to really air it out if that's what they need.
 Everyone makes mistakes at one point or another. It is a fact of life. While some mistakes are in our control, others are not. Take initiative when you’ve hurt someone due to your own actions and mistakes. While you can’t take back the past, that doesn’t mean history is going to repeat itself.


Talk with others that you trust about what you did and how you’re feeling after hurting someone. Get the perspective of someone who doesn’t necessarily have an emotional investment in the situation. An objective look from an outsider’s point of view may help.
For example, instead of asking a mutual friend for advice about another friend you’ve hurt, ask your parents, an older sibling, or someone you trust who doesn’t have a close relationship with your friend who you’ve hurt.
Think about what you can do better next time. Think about the different ways that you could have handled the situation better.
 Letting out your feelings of guilt, remorse, and self-hate may help you to ultimately let go. Simply putting pen to paper may make it easier to see what you want, who you want to be, and how you hope to move forward. You don't need to worry about spelling, grammar, or even making sense when you journal. Just think of it as a way to work out what you're feeling, which may be messy.


Journal about the incident and who you hurt. Think about any other similar incidents that have happened recently and their consequences. Conversely, write also about what you want to do to make it better. Focus on things that you believe you change about yourself.
Create a daily journal as a stress reliever. Take five minutes out of your day to evaluate your actions and what you want to do better.
 Focus on how you can make your friendships, relationships with family, and your interactions with others better. While you can’t change the past, you can control your own actions for the future. If you dwell in the past, then you will not be able to forgive yourself. Prioritize the present and show your love to others.


Communicate that you care about those most important in your life.
Make them feel special by complimenting them, and telling them in words what you think they are doing well.
Spend more time with those you value in your life. Talk with them about what you’re feeling. Get their advice about how to move forward.
 If you continue to feel depressed, upset, or guilt-ridden for weeks or longer, then consider talking with a professional who can help you cope with your feelings and provide pathways for self-forgiveness.Find if your health insurance provider has a list of therapists that are in-network. You may be able to get some affordable options through your health insurance.
Seek out local therapists or counseling centers in your community. Ask about sliding scale or low cost options.
Consider joining a support group. There are many kinds of support groups depending on what you’re facing — depression, grief and loss, divorce, and many others. This can help you feel less alone in your feelings of guilt.
 If you are finding it difficult to forgive yourself, you may someone who is very self-critical in general. If this is the case, it may be beneficial to learn ways to quiet that nagging, critical voice that wants to remind you that you messed up or tell you you're not good enough. Journaling and listing your positive qualities can help you begin to address those negative thoughts.


Realize that your negative thoughts are not necessarily the truth. Just because you are thinking "I'm a terrible friend," that doesn't make it true. Try making a list of all the ways that you have been a good friend in the past.
Soften your criticism. It is good to be self-critical sometimes, but not to the point where you can't move forward and forgive yourself, or if it is ruining your self-esteem. When you think "I'm a terrible friend," stop and restate it in a softer (and more truthful) way. "I hurt my friend's feelings, but it was unintentional and I have apologized. I'm a human and I make mistakes."
When you begin to criticize yourself, ask yourself if you would say those things to a friend. Would you ever tell your friend they were a terrible person because they made a mistake? Treat yourself like you are your own best friend.
 This may sound strange, but reframing the way you look at mistakes or guilt can help you forgive yourself and grow. Remind yourself that every mistake is an opportunity to learn, and to be grateful for that tool as a way of growing. Tell yourself, "I am thankful for the opportunity to make mistakes, to learn, to grown, and to become a better person."

, If you feel like you can’t make amends with the person you’ve hurt, but are still emotionally hurting, then give back to others as a way to make amends. Give you time, money, or resources to communities in need and those who could benefit from your support. Even if you can’t fix the hurt between you and the person, you can possible make a difference in someone else’s life. Consider ways to volunteer and give back to these groups:


Local non-profits
Neighbors or people in need within your neighborhood
Faith-based groups such as your local church or place of worship
Co-workers or classmates who are having a difficult time

