 The requirements to oust a property owner through adverse possession are different from state to state, and typically are more difficult if you are trying to oust a co-owner of the property.Generally, you must maintain actual and exclusive possession of the property. This possession must be "open and notorious," a legal phrase that essentially means everybody knows you and you alone possess the property.
Your possession must be hostile or adverse to the other owner, which typically means you've kept them from coming onto the property or refused to allow them to use it.
You also must pay all property taxes on the property as long as you are in possession of it.
 You cannot claim adverse possession if the other owner still has access to the property, so you must take action against them by changing locks, building a fence, or otherwise keeping them from the property.Denial of title to the property – such as refusing to put the other owner's name on the deed – is another way to accomplish exclusion of the other owner from the property for the purposes of adverse possession.
Denial of title typically makes more sense if the other owner lives far away from the property and seldom visits the area.
 You can bolster your adverse possession claim by sending the co-owner written notice that you intend to take complete ownership of the property by adverse possession.Keep in mind that sending written notice may be inviting a lawsuit. However, the purpose of adverse possession law follows the purpose of statutes of limitations, in that after a significant period of time has passed claims are more difficult to prove.
Just as with a statute of limitations you lose your right to file a claim after a certain period of time has passed, if the co-owner allows you to maintain adverse possession of the property for many years without doing anything to assert their rights, the property becomes yours.
 Adverse possession runs in tandem with statutes of limitation in each state, but typically you must maintain complete possession of the property for several years before you can get rid of the other owner.The length of time you must continuously maintain possession (and exclude the other owner in the process) varies greatly from state to state.
In some states you only have to maintain adverse possession for three to five years, while other states require at least 10 years.
After that period of time has elapsed, the other owner no longer has any legal right to the property.

