 (Do not confuse clinical depression with times when you feel down, sad or fed-up. If your low moods are continuous then you really should seek medical advice.)
, for some of your life. People have to deal with bad times and the bad moods which often follow them., Embrace it! But don't feel you have to cling to it. Acknowledge that today isn't a good day, but it isn't the end of the world. People go through bad times. They all have times when they don't feel happy, involved, loved, satisfied, enough, etc. Sometimes there is an obvious reason for these moods and days, at other times there isn't. They just can't get going. They wallow, they waste time and they think too much. They bring themselves down. It happens. It doesn't make you a bad person or a failure., Do you want to carry out feeling as you have them? Sometimes, when you hit apathetic days, they can make you feel low and magnify every small problem you have. You may not want to continue this way, so change directions. You don't have to go anywhere but you do have to tell this feeling you are leaving it behind for a while., If you haven't been looking after yourself properly, groom yourself. Try cleaning your teeth or brushing your hair. If you are not dressed, put clothes on. Tell yourself that your day will not be completely wasted. This is an affirmation that motivators and coaches loves., It doesn't have to be a massive thing, but it should be something you perhaps should have done today but haven't., You are going to spend a few minutes trying to achieve whatever you are doing., You are worth it. Something has brought you down to this lazy, apathetic or sad state and you don't want to be like this any longer today. Make yourself active, for just a minute or two. Jump on the spot, wave your arms around, touch your toes, or do anything for just a few minutes in order to get the blood pumping. Go on. Not for long - just for a couple of minutes. Now, go and put some music on., Let that small bit of momentum carry you forward. Go and be - and again, it only has to be for a few minutes - the best person you can be. If no one else is around, go and smile in the mirror. Force a grin., Consider whether there was anyone or anything in particular that has caused your bad feelings, your apathy, or your sadness. Think about it. If someone else is to blame, try to forgive the person at least temporarily. Put whatever is getting to you out of your mind by saying you refuse to think about it right now., It doesn't have to be awesome - it just has to be something you are going to do and something that you will better about doing., Just move towards whatever it is you are going to spend time doing, even if it's something as boring and tedious as the washing-up or clearing something away. You can do this, you can find something to distract you for the next hour or so., Apathy, and sometimes laziness, can bring people down. Too much time spent doing nothing, but thinking lots, doesn't really help them. Oh, people need rest. They all need to reflect on things. But who wants to feel useless, miserable, like a failure, pathetic, moody, etc., for too much of their time?, It goes against all their instincts to move out of that gloomy place. But if they don't learn to kick-start ourselves, life will continue to remain dreary., There is this moment, right now, when people can change things. Don't look back, don't look forward, just change right now. The only one who can do that is you.