 Although the thought of no sugar may seem like torture, the consumption of sugar can have harmful effects on your body.Sugar (and high fructose corn syrup) do not contain any vitamins or minerals and have no nutritional value.When you consume high amounts of sugar, it is converted into fructose, which is later converted into fat. When you eliminate sugar from your diet, you automatically decrease the amount of fat stored., Even though nuts are allowed on the Paleo diet, you must keep track of how many ounces of nuts you consume if you want to lose weight. Nuts are small and tasty, which makes it is very easy to misjudge what a portion size really looks like. You may also be eating more nuts than you realize if you eat Paleo desserts and breads.


Keep in mind that despite being healthy, nuts are very high in polyunsaturated fatty acids, which can disrupt normal hormone production, impair thyroid function, impair the immune system, and contribute to weight gain if consumed in excess. Make sure you limit your intake to about a handful per day., Although fruit is high in the fiber as well as vitamins and minerals that your body needs to function, it is easy to consume too many fruits due to their sweet taste. Despite their colorful and tasty allure, fruits contain sugar in the form of carbohydrates. Moreover, if you frequently find yourself drinking your fruits instead of eating them, that could also be hindering your weight loss efforts because fruit juices contain lots of excess sugar.
 Many people do not realize how important getting a good night’s sleep is for losing weight. Individuals who get less than seven hours of sleep per night on a regular basis tend to compensate for their tiredness by reaching for sugar-filled (i.e. quick energy) foods. By the end of the day, the individual has gone through several sugar crashes and is too tired to exercise. The end result is sugar stored as fat and an increased waistline. On the other hand, when you get enough sleep, you awake feeling refreshed and are more likely to make good food choices, which leads to more energy.;
, Even though 90% of weight loss has to do with what you eat, it is still important not to ignore the other 10%.Working up the desire to exercise can be tough for many individuals, while coming up with reasons to avoid working out is not.
 The more you exercise, the more calorie burning muscle you will build. Eventually, the muscle will replace the fat on your body and you will start to see the trim and toned body you have been working so hard for!

, In fact, not eating enough food can stall your weight loss progress because your body’s metabolism slows down to compensate for the calorie deficit.Eating three regular meals and two snacks per day will keep your metabolism burning steadily.Even though you may feel as if you are eating all of the time, you are preparing your body to keep its metabolism running on high!