 Always start with a clean face. Leave no traces of your previous makeup. If you will use a pore-cleaning strip, do it the day before to avoid makeup get caught in your newly cleansed pores. Exfoliate to feel that silky smooth texture of your skin.;
, Help anchor your makeup over your freshly washed face using a lightweight moisturizer. Try a primer if you need something stronger. On the day of your shoot, bring cream or lotion to keep your skin (not only the face) retain its moisture.
  Smoothen out your skin tone by adding a layer of powder or foundation if you prefer it. Translucent powder is light and easy to apply. Use them to blend the color of your face. When using foundation however, make sure to apply it on your neck and ears as well.
 Blending with your fingertips, dab few dots underneath your eyes and on the sides of your nose bridge. If you have gotten a bit too much sun recently, dab some more and gently spread it. Hit any other small blemishes on your face. Be careful not to get too cake-like look. While concealer is good for spots where your skin has a different tone, using it in an attempt to hide scars will actually make them more conspicuous. So just leave scars as they are and let your photographer hide them in the post process of your photos.
 Surely you want to keep natural looking brow. You can get your brows done in a salon for dramatic look but if you want to be more in control, just get your tweezers and remove strays around the main brow shape. Never create an inadvertent asymmetry. Find the shape and proportion that works for your face and style. For a cleaner shape, scissors can help you to trim the brow hairs. Also keep in mind that hair removing should be a ritual done day before the shoot.
 Shading brows can make the most apparent difference, on and off camera. Better images are captures as it adds expression and distinction to your face. Go for eyeshadow that matches your hair or apply a blended couple of shades together. Dramatic brows can be achieved using angled brush.
 Line your top and bottom lid to show the shape of your eyes. Classic style is the wingtips or a cat-eye. It takes practice to be able to apply it symmetrically.
 This should be done before applying mascara. Choose mascara that you are comfortable to wear, something that won’t pull your eyelashes out.
 Having all the makeup without the lipstick makes your face dull. Lip color is required as the color of your lips will read on camera. Apply moisturizer to avoid dry lips. When choosing lipstick, those that last for longer hours are better. Cherry and raspberry shades are good shades. Perfect red or plum is sexy.

