 Choose activities that you like, exercise at convenient times of the day, and have a variety of exercises to chose from to avoid getting bored.;
, You will want to know approximately how many calories are being expended, what muscle groups are being used, and how long you should perform the exercises.
 Remember that regularly exercising is best for weight loss and maintaining a healthy weight. You can burn many calories in doing aerobic exercise 4-7 days per week, and you will continue to increase your metabolism even after training, by doing strength training exercises 2-3 times per week

, Building muscle mass is important - especially since dieting can cause loss of muscle mass. Muscles burn more calories than fat over the long term, so consider strength training to be an investment in long-term weight maintenance.
 Depending on your level of fitness, you may want to work up to that gradually. Lesser amounts of exercise are adequate if your goal is longevity or a healthy body and mind. If your goal is to lose weight, you need to work towards exercising most days.
 Many exercise machines give approximations and you can find lists of estimates online. Those numbers are never going to be exactly correct, but you never really know how many calories you are consuming either, so consider it an estimate.
 It is much easier to eat 200 calories than to burn it off with exercise. A small snack could negate the entire workout.
 You can sluggishly make it through any exercise routine, but if you put a lot of energy into it you will burn a lot more calories.
 If your exercise routine is feeling, well, routine, then it is time to shake it up a bit. Try increasing the intensity, duration, or try some new exercises.
 Walk a little extra; don't take the short cuts; find excuses to move. Fidget in your chair. Park further from the door. Take the stairs. Don't count this towards your total exercise time, but consider it little bonus fat blasts.
 Talk to your doctor if you have any reason to be concerned about exercising.
 When doing yoga and some forms of aerobics, balance is key.
