 Dry conditioner is ideal for a fine to medium fine hair type. If you thick, fine hair, dry conditioner will also work well for you.If your hair is very fine, dry conditioner can end up weighing down your hair. Use dry conditioner sparingly on very fine hair or go for a hair oil instead.;
, If you have curly or coarse hair, dry conditioner can end up making your hair puffy or weigh it down. You may opt for a hair serum or a hair oil instead that can hydrate your curly or coarse hair.If you have curly or coarse hair and still want to try dry conditioner, do so sparingly. Start with a little product in one section of your hair and see how your hair reacts.
 If your hair tends to get dry or frizzy after one day of not washing it, dry conditioner is the product for you. It helps to add moisture and texture to dry, dirty hair. Many dry conditioners also have a pleasant scent, making unwashed hair smell better.Dry conditioner is also a good option if you tend to blow dry your hair on a regular basis and like putting your hair up. You can tame flyaways and frizzy hair with dry conditioner, especially if your blow out is looking a little rough.
 Dry conditioners can range in price from $10-$20. Higher end dry conditioners can range from $25-$35. Determine how much you are willing to spend on the dry conditioner, based on your budget for hair products and your income. Getting a more expensive dry conditioner does not necessarily mean it will be better for your hair.Keep in mind the key ingredients in dry conditioner are aerosol and oils. If the product has these two ingredients, it will likely do the job just fine.
 You can find many different dry conditioners through online retailers and in stores. If you are shopping online, read reviews of different dry conditioners before you buy. Look for reviewers who have a similar hair type as yours and note what they have to say about certain dry conditioners.


You can also shop for dry conditioners at your local beauty supply store. Many beauty supply stores will have dry conditioners stocked in the hair products aisle.
 Shopping for dry conditioner in person can be a good option because you may be able to try the product before you buy it. Ask a salesperson if you can try the dry conditioner on a small section of your hair to see how your hair reacts to the product.


Notice if the product weighs down your hair at all or makes it appear too heavy. If so, you may want to try a different brand or consider using another hair product besides dry conditioner.
 Hold the dry conditioner bottle six inches from the midpoint of your hair. Then, spray it one to two times from the midpoint of your hair all the way down to your ends. Do this for your entire head of hair, spraying from midway down to your ends.Do not spray your roots or your scalp with the dry conditioner, as this can lead to clumps and tangles. Focus only on the midpoint and ends of your hair.
 Once you have applied the dry conditioner, use clean fingers to run the product through your hair. You can also use a brush to distribute the conditioner down to your ends.You do not need to do any major brushing of your hair at this point. A quick light brush should distribute the product well and leave your hair feeling soft and moisturized.
If you have extra time to work on your hair, you can apply heat to your hair after you apply the dry conditioner. You may give your hair a quick blow dry to help the product settle into your hair and to give your hair more texture., If you do not want to have to wash your hair for a few days, you can reapply the dry conditioner in the morning before you go to work or school. Depending on your hair type, you may be able to avoid washing your hair for three to five days with the application of dry conditioner.Try to avoid touching your hair a lot throughout the day, as this will ruin the texture and moisture provided by the dry conditioner.

