 These lures are the most versatile and the most effective because they are so lifelike. They can also be fished weighted or weightless.Floating plastics can be used just like a topwater, and any type of plastic can be fished weedless to allow fishing in extremely heavy vegetation.
 Don’t reel the lure in, but rather retrieve it with purpose by lifting and dropping the rod as you take up the slack of the line. To fish a plastic/rubber lure, use the same technique as you would when using a jig. Cast out and give the line plenty of time to hit the bottom.


After the bait has hit the bottom and you have given it a twitch, slowly lift the rod tip until it points straight up in the 12 o'clock position. Let it sit there for a moment and then drop it down to the 9 - 10 o'clock position and reel in the slack. Repeat these steps until your line is in.
You'll have to have a good feel for your line to tell when a fish is biting so most people hold their finger against the line while lifting the rod tip.
Look for sudden resistance or bumping on the line, a line that goes slack suddenly or veers sideways. To set the hook, drop the rod tip very quickly to the 3 o'clock position, and pull back hard to 12 o'clock.
Use a floating plastic/rubber lure, around 7 inches, with a light wire hook using a split-shot rig or a Carolina rig.
 Fish with plastic/rubber lures in the Winter when bass are not very active. These lures can still be effective in warmer weather if you employ slightly more movement but the only time these lures are ineffective are when bass are very active.
 Plastic/rubber lures work best when water is over 55 degrees. Use large lures that are 7-10 inches when the water is murky but shorter lures that are 4-5 inches when the water is clear and the bass are lethargic.Both rigs and plastic/rubber lures are best used slowly.
 Choose from black, blue or purple when using plastic/rubber worms when fishing in murky water. Red hues may also work well when using plastic worms.