 In order to potty train your chinchilla, you need to pay attention to where your chinchilla urinates. Then you can use this knowledge to gradually transition her from peeing on the floor to peeing in the box.


Very young babies pee everywhere, but chinchillas around six months of age or older will develop a habit of using a particular place in their cage or enclosure as the "toilet" in order to keep all of their waste in one place and not contaminate the rest of the living quarters.
Avoid cleaning her cage for a week in order to observe where she typically pees. A very young chinchilla who pees all over the cage is not likely to be ready to potty train. However, if you find that she typically pees in one spot or a particular corner, you can begin potty training her., Now that you know where she prefers to pee, you should gradually reduce the amount of bedding you put on the floor until you are only putting it in the areas she prefers to pee. Be sure to leave enough space for her to use the bathroom comfortably, but do not put bedding everywhere.The goal for this step is to get her to begin associating the bedding itself with a toilet area. This step might take a week or two to gradually reduce the amount of bedding you put down in the floor of the cage.
 Now that she has begun to associate certain areas of bedding with a toilet area, put the bedding in a litter pan or low-sided box and put the pan in the same area.The goal for this step is to help her understand that not only is the bedding the appropriate place to pee, but the pan itself is the toilet.
Although you might prefer to change the litter every day, try to go a few days between changing it so that you don't confuse her. As she gets more comfortable using her litter box, you can gradually begin to clean her box more frequently.
 It can be a few months before she is totally trained to use the box, and if you move the pan to another area in the cage or change the type of litter or bedding you are using, you might confuse her and set back your progress. Keep the pan itself the same, and keep it in the same position with the same filling for at least the first few months.


When and if you do decide to change it, do so gradually. For example, do not suddenly go from putting the pan on the far right to the far left. Slowly move it a bit each day until it is in the position you prefer.
Likewise, if you want to change the type of bedding, do it gradually by increasing the amount of the new type of bedding you want to use and slowly decreasing the amount of the old type until you’ve replaced it entirely.

