 As an atheist, it’s easy to completely isolate yourself from different religious schools of thought, but this is ultimately not helpful for your growth. Visit as many different religious services as you can and try to form relationships with as many different people as possible.Ask a Christian friend to take you to a Sunday service.
Ask a Jewish friend to invite you to their Shabbat dinner.
Visit a Confucianist temple; Confucianists do not believe in God, so this organized religion may feel more natural for you.
Find a Secular Humanist group near you; Secular Humanism focuses on ethics and reason and not dogma, so it may be more comfortable for you.;
, Prejudice stems from lack of education and if the only religious education you’re receiving is what you read in the news, chances are you will be even less open to understanding people who believe in God.Taking a class is guaranteed to expose you to people of different religious affiliations and beliefs, which can only make you more understanding.
Approach your class with an open mind and do not try to win any class arguments.
 If nothing else, religion and belief in God have shaped much of human history. Reading as many religious texts as possible will help educate you historically and will also help you identify ways in which your own views mirror those of people who believe in God.To better understand Christianity, read the Bible.
To better understand Judaism, read the Torah.
To better understand Islam, read the Qur’an.
To better understand Buddhism, read the Tripitaka.
To better understand Hinduism, read Bhagavad-Gita.
To better understand the Baha’i faith, read Al-Kitab Al-Aqdas.
To better understand Taoism, read the Tao-Te-Ching.
To get an overview of many different religions, read The World's Religions, by Huston Smith., You may have been brought up thinking that discussing religion is rude, but this is actually not the case. The best way to understand people who are different than you is to have open and honest discussions about why and how you disagree.When discussing religion, be aware that listening is just as important as talking.
Be respectful at all times. Just because you respect someone’s point of view does not mean you agree with it.

