 Style blogs, online magazines, Instagram feeds, and Pinterest boards are great sources of trendy clothing. You can find hundreds of different styles and combinations. They can help you learn how certain pieces of clothing work with other pieces. If you find a style that you like, you can pin it to a Pinterest board or save it to your computer.When an outfit or ensemble catches your eye, try to determine what you like about.


Does it have a certain cut or fit that you think is flattering?
Does it have a certain color palette that you enjoy?
Does it make you think of certain qualities that you want to exude, such as glamor, sexiness, or strength? If so, write down these words.
How was the outfit put together? What types of clothing were involved (suits, dresses, layered clothing, etc.)? What made the ensemble work?

, Keep an eye out among the people you know for inspiration. If you know someone who has an interesting style, ask them about their own personal style. You can ask:


"Where do you go shopping?"
"How did you put that outfit together?"
"What is your fashion inspiration?"
"Do you have any tips for me?"

, Go to the mall or your local shopping street. Notice what they put on the mannequins. You may even want to go through their racks. This can give you a sense of how these pieces work together and how they might fit on your body. When in doubt, you can ask an employee to help you find pieces that you might like.You can ask:


"What is trendy this season?"
"Do you think this would fit my body type?"
"Can you help me find good color tones for my complexion?"
"I want to look more _____. What do you have that could help me with that?"

, When you find something you like, be sure to try it on first. See how it fits your body. Think about what you have at home that might be worn with it. If you are uncertain about how this piece would match other pieces, mix and match it with other items available at the store. Make sure that you are in love with it before you buy it.