 Facebook specifically states that the friends at the top of your chat sidebar "are people you’ve interacted with frequently or recently on Facebook."The same applies to those friends listed in the friends section of your main timeline screen.


Note that people who only view your profile without commenting, liking, or otherwise providing physical proof of their presence will not usually appear on either list.
The interaction Facebook uses goes both ways. In other words, the people on your chat sidebar or timeline are people you talk to frequently and those who talk back frequently, as well. The list is not strictly composed based on people who frequently view your profile.
This may help you figure out who visits your profile most frequently depending on how active you are on Facebook. If you rarely initiate interaction on Facebook or interact equally with a large number of people, the people who interact with your profile will carry greater weight in determining who appears on your chat sidebar or timeline.
When using the friends list on your timeline, you may need to refresh the page several times to get an accurate reading. The friends you interact with frequently will appear time and time again, but a few random friends will always be thrown in, as well. These random friends will change as you refresh the page, but the constant ones will rarely change.



Responses are sectioned off into three sections: accepted invitations, rejected invitations, and invitations still waiting for a reply.
Supposedly, the top five people listed in each category are the friends in each category that view your profile most often.
 In your Facebook search bar, begin typing out a search request simply by typing the first letter of a possible request. Do this one letter at a time, deleting the initial letter before starting with a new one.


If you recently visited a friend whose name starts with that letter or frequently visit a friend whose name starts with that letter, that friend will be the first in the list to appear.
On the other hand, if you type a letter that does not belong to such a friend or if a person whose profile you rarely visit shows up at the top of the results, there is a decent chance that the friend who shows up is either the last person to visit your page whose name started with that letter or the person who visits your page the most.
 Your friend suggestions can provide hints about who might be checking out your profile even though they are not on your friend's list.


If you receive a friend suggestion from someone with no shared or mutual friends, there is a decent chance that the person being suggested is someone who visited your profile.
If you receive a friend suggestion that shares a mutual friend, the suggested friend may or may not have viewed your profile.

