 Vitamin D and calcium are essential to healthy teeth, so getting enough of these two vital nutrients may help to reverse tooth decay. Make sure that you are getting plenty of vitamin D and calcium from your diet, supplements, and other sources.To get more calcium and vitamin D in your diet, try to eat two to three servings dairy products each day, such as milk, yogurt, and cheese.
You can also look for a daily multi-vitamin that includes 100% of your recommended daily intake of calcium and vitamin D.
You can also spend 10 to 15 minutes in the sun each day to get your recommended daily intake of vitamin D. Just make sure that you put on sunscreen if you will be out in the sun for longer than 15 minutes.
If your body has plenty of minerals, including calcium, then you will see an increased rate of calculus deposits on the back side of your lower front teeth, this means you will have to go for a professional cleaning at least twice a year.
 Carbonated and sugary beverages can lead to tooth decay, so make sure that you avoid these if you are trying to reverse tooth decay. You should also try to avoid fruit juices, sodas, sports drinks, and any other fizzy or sweetened beverages.Instead of drinking soda, try drinking water flavored with a few berries or sip some unsweetened iced tea with a sprig of mint. Tea (hot or cold) contains polyphenols, which seem prevent bacteria from producing acids that lead to tooth decay.The antibacterial effect is from the increased hydration of your body and this results in a higher flow of saliva.
 Citrus fruits contain a lot of acid, which can increase tooth decay. While you are trying to reverse your tooth decay, stop drinking citrus fruit juices and limit citrus fruits to a couple of servings per week.Citrus fruits include:


Lemons.
Limes.
Oranges.
Tangerines.
Grapefruits.
 Sugar is a major culprit of tooth decay so try to eliminate as many sources of sugar from your diet as possible.Instead of adding sugar to your foods and beverages, try using stevia (a calorie-free herbal sweetener) or honey (an antibacterial sweetener) to sweeten your foods and beverages.
 Foods that are highly processed are more likely to contain extra sugars and lots of starch, which can get stuck in your mouth (making them hard to remove) promote the growth of decay causing bacteria.To reduce these sources of tooth decay, stop eating processed foods as much as possible. Instead, stick to whole foods such as:


Whole grains.
Lean meats.
Vegetables.
Fruits.
Dairy products.

