 Be kind to them. If you can sense that you are annoying the friend, back off a little bit. If this friend is having trouble (i.e. being bullied) then step in and help! This may possibly stop someone from leaving, or lessen the chances.
 This is certainly possible on wikiHow. While you may not think so, chances are, this person will surely check his/her messages more. It does not hurt to check and they surely will look.;
, Begging them to come back, "hey, please come back!!!!" is not good enough. Begging will only annoy them and tire them out. Write a nice letter with good punctuation even if this is not normal for you. In the letter, ask nicely why they left. State all the reasons to stay on the website, and that you will miss them. For example:


Dear Friend,
I have realized that you have quit wikiHow recently. I would like to help you reconsider. While it is perfectly fine not to be addicted, it is quite alright to be on here sometimes :). We met on this site and it is what we have in common. Think of what will happen to your friendships if you leave. You were a great editor here. You suffered some problems, but I will talk to an administrator about fixing this. Please give it one more chance before making the final choice."

, You want to be a very trusted person.
 If others were close to the person, inquire with them; perhaps they have a way of contacting the person. Phone is okay too.
 Therefore, leaving is only more tragic.
 Sometimes, people just cannot be convinced to come back.
 Perhaps life has been busy for them. They might have more important, significant things to do in life. If you had to take care of your kids, attend night college courses, do the house chores, and cook, where would wikiHow rank?

, Be reasonable. It is okay to feel bad for a little while. Then, you have to move on. You will always make new friends. While a lifetime includes several friends, some of them are not lifelong and you have to accept this. If you think about it, in twenty years from now, is it very likely you would be in contact with this person?

