 A burglar is usually looking for an empty home to rob.Most simply want an easy job for easy money, and don’t intend to confront a home’s occupants. Your first priority should be the lives of yourself and anyone else in your home, not your possessions. However, if a burglar threatens your life, or tries to take you somewhere with them, you’ll need to fight back.


If the burglar only wants your possessions, and asks you to do something like opening a safe, comply and cooperate. Your valuables are not worth your life!

, Unless you’re trained in self-defense and/or martial arts, confronting a burglar empty-handed is incredibly dangerous. Not only because you aren’t trained, but because they could be carrying a weapon themselves. Anything that can be used as a club, or thrown, is better than just your hands.


A variety of household items can be used as a weapon, such as sports equipment, keys or glass bottles. A baseball bat or a bottle of whiskey can be swung like a club, whereas keys can be used as a stabbing implement.
Try keeping a weapon near your bed. If you’re worried about burglaries happening at night, you might feel safer keeping a baseball bat or knife near your bed.
Pepper spray, while an efficient deterrent, isn’t legal in all jurisdictions. If it is legal to own, consider acquiring it, and learn how to use it properly.
 Your goal is to incapacitate them enough to facilitate your escape, not to win a prolonged fight.Don’t be afraid to fight dirty: you’re fighting for your life.


Strike at their legs to disable their movement. The knee is a particularly weak joint; a well placed kick or strike can completely destroy it.Strike for the eyes, groin and throat to incapacitate. These spots are incredibly sensitive, and a good strike to one of them is enough to slow an attacker.
 Don’t stay near the burglar any longer than you need to. If you’re able to fight back and create an opportunity to escape, use it! Make as much noise as possible when you do and contact emergency services.

