 No matter how tempting, how cute, how awed your feelings are at seeing a dingo, don't encourage it to hang about by feeding it. This has to be campsite rule number one; be sure all fellow campers are aware of it.;
, Pick up all your food after each meal. Put it away in proper containers and leave these either in the car or in strong, hard-to-undo camping cabinets or storage which are odor-covering. Clear away any food scraps and dispose of them properly in the garbage.


Don't leave food unattended when cooking. Always have someone watching it.






Don't leave food inside the tent or under tarpaulins. The dingo's keen sense of smell will lead it to rip the tent or upend the tarp to get at the goodies. Some campsites have food storage lockers; make use of them if you don't have a car or rig.






Pour used washing up water down a drain or far away from your campsite. And keep tea towels, tablecloths, serviettes, etc., all out of reach of the dingoes too.
 As they pass on their way, pass on yours too. Do not harass them by poking sticks, throwing objects or stones at them, or acting like a yahoo. Leave them be and get on with human activities.
 Dingoes steal shoes and are curious about anything they can pick up in their mouths and run off with.


Don't leave anything around that could flap or wave in the wind, or glint in the light and attract the interest of a dingo.






Put away all personal hygiene products in odor-proof containers. Items such as toothpaste, shampoo, deodorant, etc., can smell like food to the dingo.
 As well, put all rubbish, including soiled nappies, tampons, and food scraps inside secure rubbish bins or inside the car until disposed of properly. This includes all beverage containers such as beer cans, fruit juice boxes, milk cartons, etc.


Do not hang rubbish from trees. Dingoes will jump.
 If dingoes do come close, be calm and stay together, not letting any of your family and friends out of your sight. Sing songs and make calm but firm noises to shoo them away.

