 You will want to add a title to your word search once you have drawn your grid. If you have a theme, you can title your word search accordingly. If you don’t have a theme, simply write ‘Word Search’ across the top of your page.


You can also make your grid on the computer. To make a grid in versions of word prior to Word 2007: Select ‘View’ at the top of the page. Select ‘Toolbars’ and make sure the ‘Drawing’ toolbar is selected. Click on ‘Draw’ (it looks like an ‘A’ with a cube and a cylinder). Click ‘Draw’ and then click ‘Grid’. A grid option box will pop up--make sure you select ‘Snap to Grid’ and then select any other options you would like for your grid. Click ‘OK’ and make your grid.

To make a grid in Word 2007: Click ‘Page Layout’ at the top of the page and click the ‘Align’ list within the ‘Arrange’ grouping. Click ‘Grid settings’ and make sure ‘Snap to Grid’ is selected. Select any other options you want for your grid. Click ‘ok’ and draw your grid.
 It is easiest to make word searches when using graph paper, although you do not have to use graph paper. The standard word search box is 10 squares by 10 squares. Draw a square that is 10 centimeter (3.9 in) by 10 centimeter (3.9 in) and then make a line at each centimeter across the box. Mark each centimeter going down the box as well.


You do not need to use a 10x10 grid. You can make your grid as big or as small as you like, just remember that you need to be able to draw small squares within your grid. You can make your grid into the shape of a letter (perhaps the letter of the person’s name who you are making it for?) or into an interesting shape.
 Use a pencil to draw the lines evenly and straightly. You need to create small, evenly-sized squares within your grid. The squares can be as big or as small as you like.


If you are giving the word search to a child, you might consider making the squares larger. Making larger squares will make the puzzle a bit easier because each individual square and letter will be easier to see. To make your puzzle harder, make smaller, closer together squares.

