 Before you design your lace up shoes, make sure they still fit by trying them on.


Inspect the shoes for damage or repair needs. If the heel is unsteady or they need repair, tend to fixing them before embarking upon the project. You want heels you will enjoy (and be proud of) wearing.
Clean/buff/shine shoes. If they simply need a quick shine, pull out your shoe shine kit and buff them back to new. Make sure you use shoe polish that is compatible with the color and material (for example, you don’t want to use burgundy polish on brown leather shoes).
Consider where you can use the grommet to create the lace holes. Create a pattern using pen marks. You may want to use a ruler to space the holes evenly.;
, Test drive this tool before punching holes in your shoes to ensure you know how to properly use it and it is a well functioning tool.


Measure and plot where you will punch the holes. Before you punch holes, use a pen and mark where you will place each hole. Consider using a small ruler to ensure you have an even amount of space between holes and that the holes match up on each side.
Grasp the tool firmly to ensure you punch through the leather or material. Get a firm grasp on the grommet and punch through the shoe material.
Remove any hanging pieces using small scissors. In the event you end up with a hanging piece use small manicure scissors to remove the material. Don’t pull or tug or else you’ll compromise the hole size.
 Fortify and protect the hole you just punched by adding an eyelet to each hole.


Add the eyelet inside the hole, using an eyelet tool and a pair of pliers. Place the eyelet piece inside the tool and position the eyelet to fit around the hole. Squeeze eyelet piece firmly with pliers for a more finished, professional fit.
Repeat on both sides of the shoe so you have an evenly matched pair of holes with eyelets.
 Grab your laces and create your lace up high heels!


Consider using matching the shoe material to the laces. For a more subdued, classy look select shoe laces not only the same color but made from the same material.
Lace up different ways--from zig - zag to straight across. Learn different ways you can wear your lace up high heels by lacing them in a variety of ways.
Try an outlandish shoelace to make a fun fashion statement. If you are going for something fun and funky, use bold colored or even neon laces to add a pop of color.

