 You can use a mechanical or traditional no. 2 graphite pencil to do this. Start off with something easy, like a bottle that you have sitting on your desk, or a simple shape like a triangle or square. Avoid a lot of detail because watercolor is a skill you need to develop, and the paint has a tendency to bleed, making your details difficult to paint.


If you’re not confident with your drawing skills the only way to get better is to practice. Start by drawing simple, flat shapes.
Draw other static objects you find in your house to further develop your drawing skills.
If you’re not confident, you can draw lighter lines so you can easily erase mistakes.
Don’t try to scratch at your drawing with the pencil. Use confident and long strokes.
 This will feel a lot like a coloring book. For this, you can use a simple back and forth motion until you’re satisfied with how much color is on the painting.


The color from your pencils will look much darker and more vibrant once wet.You can give your painting the illusion of depth or shadow by coloring some areas darker than others. Use multiple pencil strokes on a concentrated area of your painting to make it darker.
Try more than one color so you can see how each one blends and interacts.
 Make sure to fully saturate your brush with water to make the colors on your painting pop. You should keep two cups of water near your workstation at all times. One for cleaning your brush, and the other for wetting your brush once it's clean.


If you don’t fully rinse your brush in water before switching colors, they will blend together and give your painting a muddy appearance., Using a back and forth motion, brush over the colors in your painting. Go slow, and try to use long strokes, until your brush needs more water. At this point you should start to have a feeling for how the pencils work, and how your paper reacts to water.


Use a smaller brush for more intricate areas.
To remove paint that's gone out of the lines, paint over unwanted areas with a wet, paint-free brush.

