 Encourage anyone who wants to attend the World Cup with you to do so as well. You will need a valid passport number in order to apply for tickets.;
, In some cases, you can apply for more than one ticket; however, you will need to enter information about the other ticket holders.
 You can use a credit or debit card, as well as some forms of online secured payments.
 You can apply for four tickets per household at once. You can apply for seven matches, as long as they are on different match days.


This means you should always choose one match per day to apply for. If you don’t receive tickets for a certain match day, you can always apply during a later application period for a different match.
Since millions of people apply for the tickets, it is a good idea to have 15 to 20 matches listed in order of priority.
 You can’t choose the exact seats you would get; however, you apply for categories according to price and proximity to the pitch.


Apply for category one to sit in the prime areas of the stadium. They are along the length of the pitch on either side. Prices are between $175 and $1,000 per match, increasing in price according to the tournament stage.
Apply for category two to find a less expensive ticket in the corners of the stadium. Tickets are approximately $135 to $650, increasing in price according to the tournament stage.
Apply for category three for a lower cost ticket behind the goals. Ticket prices are between $90 and $450 per match. Disabled access tickets are also at this price point.
Apply for a category four only if you are a Brazilian resident. These are sections behind the goal and in the upper section of the stadium. Brazilian residents over the age of 60, students and welfare recipients will be able to apply for half price tickets.
 If you don’t have a FIFA account, you will need to make one.
 Enter your personal information. Then, select your matches.


You can only select one match per day.
Ensure you submit your payment information.
You will receive an email confirmation from FIFA.com when your Random Selection Period application is placed.
 They will confirm or let you know if you did not receive tickets.
, Submit your application for additional matches. You will know immediately whether or not you will receive tickets.
, Remember, you are limited to only one match per day and four tickets per match.
, You will know if your ticket application was accepted immediately.
 For Brazil in 2014, the last minute sales process begins on April 15, 2014. You can also go to a FIFA ticketing center to purchase these tickets.
, During this phase, you will know immediately if you will receive tickets to the match. Your payment will be processed immediately.
 These centers are available in host cities. The tickets can be purchased via debit card or cash.


As of June 1, this is the only way to purchase remaining tickets to the World Cup.
There are no restrictions based on previous game purchases. All tickets are subject to availability.Find information for specific World Cup ticketing centers at this address: http://www.fifa.com/worldcup/organisation/ticketing/ticket-information/ticket-collection/index.html


, Select a Team Specific Ticket (TST) package of three to seven games, instead of applying for individual matches. You will also select a category, and, if your team is knocked out, you will follow the qualifying team in the remaining matches.


Select category one team specific tickets for the best seats. The range of TST is $578 for three games and $2,998 for seven games.
Select category two seats. They range between $446 for three games and $2,079 for seven games.
Select category three seats for a range between $297 and $1,386. Handicap accessible tickets are also at this price.
You may be charged an additional “premium match” fee if your team plays an opening match against Brazil.
Apply for these tickets as soon as possible in the application dates. If your team does not qualify for the World Cup, you will be refunded the money, less a $10 fee.
 If your travel in Brazil is limited, you can choose a host city such as Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador, or Sao Paulo. The number of tickets included differs depending upon the number of days that will be hosted, and they are available in categories one through three.


The price varies according to the stadium and the category.
Tickets in a specific venue do not include quarterfinal, semifinal or final match tickets. They must be purchased separately.