 This is one of the most important things you can do to help decrease the spread of germs. Wash your hands after coughing or sneezing, after being in contact with people who are infected or have been coughing or sneezing, or when you have touched any foreign objects. You should also wash your hands before you prepare or eat food or after going to the bathroom. You should always wash your hands right after touching someone who is sick.Wet your hands, then put soap on your hands.
Rub your hands together to make the soap into a lather. Make sure to rub the backs of your hands, your palms, between your fingers, and under your nails. Make sure to do this for at least 20 seconds.
Rinse your hands and dry them using a clean, unused towel or let them air dry.
 If you are unable to wash your hands immediately after being exposed to germs, use hand sanitizer. Make sure to use sanitizer with a 60% alcohol alcohol content.
 One way to protect yourself from getting the flu is to keep your immune system and your bodily defenses strong. You can do this by eating a healthy, balanced diet. This ensures your body is getting enough vitamins, minerals, and nutrients.Eating five or more servings of fruits and vegetables a day is extremely important. Make sure you are eating more servings of vegetables than fruit, and the fruits and vegetables you are including are all different colors.
 To keep yourself healthy and help with flu symptoms, make sure to stay hydrated. This means drinking lots of water, fruit juice, milk, or decaffeinated tea. Drink at least eight cups of fluids a day.You can also try ice chips and Popsicles, and using a humidifier.Don't drink caffeinated beverages or sugary beverages. Stay away from caffeinated teas, coffee, and sodas. These things may dehydrate you.
 Get daily activity to help boost your body’s resistance to infection. Try to exercise daily. This can be a brisk walk or a session at the gym.You should exercise five days a week for at least thirty minutes. This can be any kind of activity you find enjoyable. Try walking, cycling, hiking, swimming, dancing, strength training, gym classes, sports, or anything else that gets you up and moving.
 When you are fatigued, your body’s defenses are weakened and you are more susceptible to infection. Make sure if there is a threat of a pandemic flu that you keep yourself rested and strong.