 Beginning your email with the proper salutation signals to your representative or senator that you respect their position. This will make them more likely to take your email seriously.The proper salutation for a U.S. senator is “Dear Senator ___.” For example, if you were writing an email to John McCain, you would begin, “Dear Senator McCain.”
The proper salutation for a U.S. representative is “Dear Mr. / Mrs. ___.” For example, if you were writing an email to Nancy Pelosi (Name), you would begin, “Dear Mrs. Pelosi."
For a more formal flourish, address your senator or representative as "The Honorable..." For instance, you might write: "To the Honorable Mrs. Pelosi."
There is no legal requirement to use a particular salutation. You’re free to call your senator or representative whatever you like. However, your email will probably be taken more seriously if you respect the office of the person you’re writing to.
 Your email doesn’t have to be a work of art, but try to keep grammar and spelling mistakes to a minimum. Aim for a friendly yet professional tone, and if you're asking the senator or representative for change, be firm and state your position clearly.You may include personal details, but try to keep them relevant to the topic at hand.
 Representatives and senators get tens of thousands of emails and letters. If your email rambles or talks generally about an issue without getting to the point, it’s unlikely that your representative or senator will hear your voice.Start your email by clearing stating the issue you’re writing about. For example, you might say, “I’m writing to expression my opposition to House Bill 1248, which is currently up for debate in the House.”
Stick to one issue. The more focused your email, the more likely it is to be read and taken into consideration by your representative or senator.
 Say how the topic relates to you. Your senator or representative will be better able to contextualize your concern if you give this information. In some cases, your voice may be amplified by association--if many parents are writing in with concerns about the same change to education policy, for example, this pattern will be noted.


For instance, if if you are a veteran and you are concerned about a proposal to reduce subsidized housing for veterans, say, "As a veteran I am personally acquainted with the social and financial consequences of PTSD."
Be sure to mention that you are a constituent of this senator or representative.
If you will be adversely effected--or if you stand to benefit--from a congressional action, mention this and explain the likely ramifications.
 Don't write more than a few paragraphs if you want your reader to stay with you. Make sure you say what you need to say. Condense any anecdotes as much as possible.Try to keep it under 500 words.
 You may have good reason to be angry, but you are more likely to be heard if you write a respectful, compassionate email. Refrain from insults, cursing, and threats.

