 There are a multitude of UN, governmental, and intergovernmental programs actively working toward universal primary education. You’ll be better prepared to support programs advancing the goal when know which agencies are most active in the field. Some of the major organizations are:The United Nations Girls' Education Initiative (UNGEI) is a UN agency focusing on education among women, because women and girls around the world are far more likely to be unschooled than men and boys. UNGEI partners with agencies in individual countries, offering technical support in the design and funding of schools.Abriendo Oportunidades (Opening Opportunities) is another UN initiative, this time based in Guatemala, which focuses on the education and mentoring of school-age girls.The Global Education Cluster is the premier UN agency addressing the difficulties associated with providing education to those in conflict zones. It aims to make the provision of educational resources a standard practice in the dispensation of humanitarian aid (it isn’t now).;
, If you’ve found some private agencies that share your vision, the most straightforward way to help them is by giving a donation. Your donation can be monetary or in-kind.There are dozens, if not hundreds, of private nonprofit groups active in assisting education in developing areas. You can see a partial listing of highly regarded nonprofits at http://campaignforeducationusa.org/members.
 The UN has no independent authority to tax individuals. Contributions to goals set by the UN are determined by individual countries and disbursed through the UN. When you hear the term “foreign aid,” it’s a blanket term describing all types of aid, including aid to help advance the Millennium Development Goals.While you can’t pick exactly where foreign aid will go, most nonmilitary foreign aid will at least help advance educational goals indirectly. For example, malnutrition, poverty, and disease are big reasons why any particular child isn’t attending elementary school.
 While more children overall are in primary school compared to fifteen years ago, the opposite is true when it comes to children in conflict zones. In conflict zones, the proportion of children out of school has increased to 36% from 30%, a discrepancy high enough to indicate a relationship between the types of wars fought today and the disruption in educational services.Therefore, it should be clear that “military solutions” to global problems are not solutions to problems of school enrollment, whatever their other merits may be.

