 If you are legally a minor (that is, under 18 years old) you will have to get your parents' approval before you can sign on with an agency. There are a lot of benefits to having your parents' approval as well, like emotional support for stress management and the ability to get to your assignments.


Have a discussion with your parents. Explain to them why you want to be a model, and why you need an agent. "I think that I could have a lucrative career as a model for JCPenney. They have a good reputation and there are stores across the nation, so I could live and work with them anywhere in the future. However, in order to work for them, I have to have an agent to get me into the door, and I can't sign any contracts until I'm 18. Please help me get an agent and start my modeling career."
Talk with them about what their support will mean for you on a personal level. "I know that what I want to do is going to be very time consuming and demanding on me. Without your support to take me places and help me manage my homework and professional life, I will have a very difficult time succeeding. This means the world to me."
If you don't get what you want initially, treat the conversation with maturity: don't yell, cry, or otherwise throw a tantrum. You want to show them you're mature enough to handle working, and this is part of that. Instead, ask when you might be able to revisit this conversation with them in the future.
 There are many illegitimate agencies out there looking to take advantage of individuals' hopes and dreams. A real agency won't ask for money from you unless you're making them money, and that includes signing fees or costly modeling classes or workshops. You should look for agents that have long-standing reputations and are large and well-known.The top 10 modeling agencies are Next Model Management, One Management, Women Management, Storm Management, Elite Model Management, Marilyn Agency, DNA Models, IMG Models, Model Management, and Ford Models., Ask the nearest administrative office for JCPenney which agencies they work with. Since you want to work specifically with JCPenney, it will be quicker if you can successfully apply to an agency that works with them.


Do not get discouraged if you are initially rejected from the agency or agencies that JCPenney works with. You can always apply again in the future after you have built up your portfolio more.
Let them know, after you have signed with them, that you want to work with JCPenney as much as possible and that you would appreciate their assistance in achieving that goal.
 If you are turned away by an agency that works with JCPenney, apply to other agencies first in order to get jobs that will help build your reputation and name recognition before trying to switch representation. In addition to the top ten agencies listed before, you can find more modeling agencies and casting calls listed at Backstage.com and Models.com.


Be prepared to take jobs that are not related to JCPenney's work. Building your skills and name recognition is not a bad thing, and doing so will make you a more attractive applicant for your real end goal.
 Every agency has different requirements for desired looks and guidelines which you will be expected to follow perfectly. Some of these guidelines may prohibit things like hats, bows, sunglasses, and food or face paint on your face, but these are just examples and not an exhaustive list.The changing market will have an effect on the demand for models; currently many clients are seeking models with more ambiguous features that reflect the diverse populace as opposed to blonde-haired, blue-eyed models.
 It is important that you be very well-behaved, polite, discreet, and flexible, with the agency during any in-person meetings during the application process as well as once you are contracted. No one likes to work with a diva, so a bad attitude or an inability to make it to an appointment on time (or worse, failure to book any appointments due to distance) can cost an agency (and yourself) opportunities. It can also cause them to lose face with a client and make them reluctant to use you, and done enough, potentially drop you.If you are a minor with parents, or parents seeking representation for a minor, this also includes the parents.
Do not brag too much or exaggerate your abilities: be honest about what you can and can't do.
Modeling is a career that is notorious for last-minute jobs. Be prepared that if you want to pursue this career, even if your eventual dream is to work with JCPenney, you will have to deal with this.
Because of last minute tendencies, agencies often prefer to work with talent that lives close so that if work comes up at the very last minute, their talent can still take the job. Being more than 45 minutes away from the town with most of the work could pose a problem.
Always bring a positive attitude to a set because you never know what connections the client you're working with might have within the industry., Either submit this to the appropriate email as provided on the agency's website online, or submit it to a physical address. Because of how busy agencies are, it's generally recommended that you wait patiently and do not contact them with phone calls or emails to ensure that they've received your submission. Instead, if you haven't heard from them within six months, try again.If you are submitting documents to a physical address, be sure to send copies of all of your documents to them and not the originals. This is in case you need to resubmit or decide to submit to another agency later on.
It can take a long time to hear back from an agency due to the volume of applications they receive. Be patient; if you don't hear anything back within 6 months, resubmit, but do not try to call or email the agency about the status of your application.
 Before you sign anything, make sure that you read the contract carefully. Do not read it alone, but with your parents or legal guardian, and maybe even a lawyer if you all are struggling to understand anything. Be sure to ask questions about anything you don't understand. Once you have signed with the paperwork, the agency will start signing you up for auditions and assignments.


You can ask for a copy of your contract for your own personal records.

