 Every operating system (OS) has a learning curve for those unfamiliar with it, but the curve might not be the same for all OSs. All operating systems tout ease-of-use, though OS X has made that their selling point over the years. Linux is traditionally the least easy-to-use, but modern distributions make working with Linux very similar to both Windows and OS X.;
, Windows will generally have the most software compatibility, as the majority of commercial programs are designed for Windows. Macs have access to a large library of Mac-specific software, while the Linux community provides a vast number of free, open-source alternatives to commercial software.
 If you're going to be sharing documents and files with a lot of other people, it may be easier to stick with the same operating system everyone else uses. This will make connecting to others a lot easier.
 Windows is by far the most susceptible operating system to viruses, though virtually all viruses can be avoided by practicing safe browsing habits. Macs have traditionally had very few viruses to worry about, though that number is rising recently. Linux is the most secure system, as virtually everything needs direct administrator approval.
 If you are an avid game player, your operating system choice will heavily dictate the number of games available to you. Windows is by far the market leader in video games, but more and more games are getting Mac and Linux releases.
 If you do a lot of image, video, or audio editing, a Mac will most likely suit your needs best. Macs come packaged with powerful editing programs, and many prefer to use programs like Photoshop on a Mac.


Windows has lots of powerful options available as well. Linux has very few options with little support. Most editing programs on Linux are open-source alternatives that meet most of the functionality of popular paid programs, but are generally more difficult to use and not as powerful.
 If you're a software developer, you'll want to compare coding options available on different platforms. Linux is one of the best places to program desktop software, while you will need a Mac computer to develop iOS apps. There are compilers and IDEs available for most other languages on all operating systems.


Due to the large amount of open-source code available for Linux, there are a lot more examples to look at when learning a language.
 If you're running a business and are trying to decide what systems will be best for your workers, there are a couple of things to keep in mind. Windows machines will be far cheaper than the same number of OS X machines, but OS X machines are much better for content creation, such as writing, images, video, or audio.When stocking your business with computers, you'll generally want all of them to be running the same operating system for easy compatibility and networking.
Windows is cheaper and may be more familiar for your workers, but it is inherently less secure than OS X.
 Most new computers should come with the 64-bit version of your chosen operating system installed. 64-bit operating systems allow for more processes and more efficient memory handling. Your hardware must support 64-bit in order to use a 64-bit operating system.


32-bit programs should generally have no problem running on a 64-bit operating system.
 When choosing an operating system, hardware has a major role in the decision process. If you want to use Mac OS X, you'll need to purchase an Apple computer. This means paying a premium for an Apple product. Windows and Linux both run on the same hardware, though not all hardware is officially supported in Linux.You can build your own Windows or Linux computer, or purchase a pre-built one.
You can purchase a computer with Windows installed on it and then install Linux instead of or alongside Windows.
 If you're buying a computer with an operating system installed, you don't have to pay too much attention to the cost since it's included. You should know, however, that upgrading your copy of OS X will usually run about $100-150 USD cheaper than upgrading Windows to a new version.


If you're building your own computer, you'll need to balance the cost of Windows versus the usability of Linux. Most home distributions of Linux, such as Ubuntu or Mint, are free.
 The vast majority of Linux software is free. There are plenty of free, open-source programs for Mac and Windows as well, but also a significant number of paid programs. Most popular Windows software, such as Office, require a paid license.
 If you're looking at Windows, you may have noticed that there are standard versions and there are Upgrade versions. In general, you'll want to purchase the full version. While it will be more expensive, it can save you a lot of headache down the road. If you ever want to install that copy of Windows on another computer, you'll need to install an older version of Windows first to be able to use the "Upgrade" version.
 In general, you'll want to get the newest edition of your chosen operating system, even if it's a little unfamiliar. This is because you will often find features on the new operating system that you didn't know about but can't live without after discovering them.



With a few tweaks, Windows 8.1 will act just like traditional Windows, with all the new features that have been added to Windows 8.
If your still hesitant about buying Windows 8, many computers still come with Windows 7, which is much more similar to previous versions. Most retailers still carry Windows 7 as well.
Do not buy a computer with Windows XP, unless you plan on immediately upgrading or switching to Linux. XP support has been discontinued, making it a very unsecure operating system.
 Most Linux distributions provide images to create a LiveCD, which you can boot from without having to install the operating system. This will let you try out Linux before committing to the installation process.


Using the LiveCD version of your chosen Linux distribution will be a little slower than if you had installed it. Any change you make will be reverted when the computer restarts.
 Since there are no "demo" versions of Windows, and you need a Mac computer to run OS X, you'll need to try these operating systems out in a store or at a friend's place. These aren't ideal settings, but use your limited time and access to see how the menus, file organization, and program launching works.
 This is a much more limited OS than the others, but runs very quick and is available on devices in the $200-$250 USD range. ChromeOS is essentially the Chrome web browser acting as an operating system, and thus is designed for a computer that is constantly connected to the internet.There is very little software available for ChromeOS, but if you do most of your work through Google, everything will sync perfectly.

