 Shampoo and condition your hair like you usually would. When you're done, comb but do not brush your hair. Pin the top half of your hair on the top of your head.;
, The number and thickness of braids will depend on how curly you want your hair. The important thing is to braid tightly, because a looser braid will create more of a wave than a curl. Try to braid tightly or the curls will be really frizzy and possible oddly kinked. Start as close to the scalp as possible. After you're done with the bottom layer, let down the top half and repeat the step.
 Braiding hair that is slightly wet also helps when curling your hair.









Use two or three large, thick French braids for thick, luxurious curls. The benefit of using two French braids is that you can wear them the day before, keep them intact overnight, and have curls the next day––getting two distinct hair styles in a row. French braids will also help the curls start up higher towards the roots of the hair.
Braid one-inch (2.5cm) strands for loose curls. Clip each one on your head so that they don't get mixed up.
Use smaller braids for tight "crimped" or "afro" style curls.
 This will take longer if you have thicker hair, as you will have had to do more braids. It's best to sleep on them (or wear them one day and release the braids the next). The braids should keep your hair from getting tangled, but if you're worried that it will get messed up while you sleep, you can use a shower cap or something to protect it.


When you wake up, before you take out the braids, spin around a few times/give yourself a head massage. This helps stimulate the hair follicles - helping your hair stay 'alive' looking. If you have time, whip your hair for a few minutes.
 Don't use a brush to separate your hair.
 Comb your hair with a wide-toothed comb or just rake your fingers through it. Fluff it up a little and either let it sit as is, or add a hair accessory.
 Adding sculpting gel will keep the hair from getting frizzy, while the hairspray will ensure that humidity doesn't cause your curls to wilt.
