 If the property is below a certain value, you may be able to use a more simplified, informal probate proceeding for the ancillary probate. Simplified proceedings can save significant time and money.Each state has its own threshold for simplified probate proceedings. If the property is worth more than that amount, you must go through the full formal probate proceedings.
Some states don't allow estates with real property to use the simplified proceedings, in which case you'd have to go through full probate regardless.
This is where having a local probate attorney can come in handy, because they'll know immediately whether the property falls below the state's threshold.
However, if it turns out the property qualifies for ancillary probate, you typically can complete the process on your own without needing an attorney. You may even be able to mail the forms into the court so you don't have to make a trip out of state.
 To start an ancillary probate case, you file a petition for probate with the probate court located in the same county as the deceased person's real property. This court document typically will be similar to the one you filed to open probate in the deceased person's state of residence.If the out-of-state property qualifies for simplified probate, you typically can find the forms you need online, or by calling the probate clerk's office.
For formal probate, you typically want to get an attorney in that state to complete the petition for you and file it with the appropriate court.
This may take some time if you can't make a trip out of state, because the attorney will need to mail the forms to you for you to sign. You'll need to sign them and mail them back so the attorney can file them along with a copy of the deceased person's will.
Keep in mind that this petition only needs information about the real estate owned in that state.
Any personal property will be distributed through the probate proceeding in the deceased person's state of residence – although the person who inherits it may need to travel out of state to get it.
 Along with the petition, you must file a copy of the person's will that has already been admitted to probate in their state of residence. Most states require this will to be authenticated by the court.The clerk of the probate court where you filed the will can get you an authenticated copy. Typically you'll have to pay a small fee for this service.
You also may need to include a copy of the probate petition or any other court documents related to the original probate proceeding.
Check the law of the ancillary state to find out what documents are required, as they vary among states. You typically can find out this information by calling the probate clerk's office where you plan to file the ancillary probate petition.
 Some states have rules prohibiting out-of-state residents from serving as the executor of an estate except under particular circumstances. If you're opening an ancillary probate case, you may need to get permission from the ancillary state's court to serve as executor.In some states, you may actually have to appear in court to get approval from the judge to act as executor in the ancillary probate proceedings.
However, most states provide a short-cut for executors in ancillary proceedings. As long as you've been approved or appointed by the probate court where the deceased person last resided, you are automatically approved to act as executor in the ancillary proceeding.
The clerk or an attorney in the ancillary state will be able to tell you what you need to do to be appointed executor in the ancillary state.
If the deceased person owned significant amounts of real property in the other state, you may find it easier to have someone local appointed. Talk to members of the deceased person's family to find out who they would recommend.

