 This method calls for just a few easy ingredients, and it makes a semi-solid stick of deodorant similar to stick deodorants you find in stores—minus all the chemicals. This recipe requires:3 tablespoons wet-milled, virgin coconut oil
2 tablespoons Shea butter
2 tablespoons arrowroot (or cornstarch)
3 tablespoons baking soda
1-2 drops of your favorite essential oil (optional);
, If you have a double boiler, you can use this to melt the Shea butter and coconut oil together. If you don’t have one, you can simply place both ingredients in a heavy mason jar and place the jar in a pan of hot water.Use low heat and stir often to ensure an even distribution as the two ingredients melt together.
Remove the mixture from the heat as soon as it’s melted together.
 After you turn off the heat, slowly stir in the arrowroot and baking soda.Mix the ingredients in well but quickly before the mixture begins to harden.
 If you’re choosing to add an essential oil to provide a pleasant scent, then stir in one or two drops (more will be overpowering) of the oil now as well.Certain essential oils may irritate those with sensitive skin. Try rubbing a drop of the oil on your underarms to test for any skin irritation before adding it to your deodorant recipe. Some common options include:


Lavender
Patchouli
Eucalyptus
Lemon
Orange
Bergamot
Tea tree
Cedarwood
Lemon balm
Cinnamon
Sage
Frankincense

, You don’t have to store this deodorant any special way. If you want, you can simply pour the mix into a jar and allow it to cool and solidify. You can then use your fingers to apply it your underarms as needed.As an alternative, you can pour the mixture into popsicle molds and place the molds in your freezer for an hour to shape the deodorant into a familiar stick shape. Wrap each stick in wax paper or parchment paper before storing to stop them from melting together.
 You do not need to store the deodorant in the fridge, but it can melt in warm weather.Store the container out of direct sunlight in a cool spot in your home.

