 Tipping can easily become expensive, and you may have to buy gifts for other people as well. Before you start, decide exactly how much you can afford to tip this year. This will help you decide how many people to tip and how much to give each person.Do not feel bad if you cannot afford a large tip. Tipping is to demonstrate your gratitude, and even a small tip will be appreciated by those who work for you.If you cannot afford to tip everyone who provides you a service, you might consider giving a few of them a card instead. While this may not contain money, it will still express your gratitude in a meaningful way.;
, In general, it is good to tip people who have provided you a regular service in the past year. These could be people who provided a personal service, child care, pet care, or maintenance. Some services that are commonly tipped around the holidays include:


Dog walkers
Dog groomers
Hairstylists
Manicurists
Gardeners
Housekeepers
Cleaners
Doorman or superintendent of your building
Babysitters
Full time nannies

, Not all businesses allow their workers to accept tips or gifts, and it may be considered a conflict of interest for some professions. Always check with the company to make sure that they allow their employees to accept tips or gifts. Do not force someone to accept money if they are prohibited to do so by their employer.It is more appropriate to give teachers a gift from their students rather than cash. Some school districts discourage or prohibit gifts from students, so check with your child’s school first.
Some medical workers such as nurses, hospice care workers, or physical therapists may be prohibited from accepting cash by their institutions.In some places, municipal workers, such as trash collectors, may be restricted from accepting cash on the job.Civil servants, such as postal workers, are not allowed to accept cash. If you want to give your mail carrier a gift, it cannot exceed $20 in value.If company policy does not allow cash tips but does allow gifts, you might consider a gift card instead.
 Cash is not always expected for a tip. You can still express your gratitude through a small gift. It could also be something inexpensive but meaningful, such as a mug, box of candy, or calendar. This gift could also be a gift card to a store or a local restaurant.


If you are tipping someone who cares for your child, you should include a small gift from the child themselves. This can be a handmade gift, such as a painted ornament or framed drawing.
If you want to thank a team of nurses or health professionals who have helped you in the past year, platters of food or cookies are often appreciated.If you are tipping a team that has worked for you, such as a cleaning service, you should give each person a small gift or a gift card in a lower amount.