 Mom and pop stores offer better service. They will get your guitar set up and give regular maintenance. Online stores sometimes offer better prices but will not give you as much service or help.You can also look for second hand guitars by talking to friends who play music or looking online. If you buy a second hand guitar, you will want to do more testing to make sure it is in good condition.
 If you have a friend who knows more about guitars than you, bring them along when you go guitar shopping. They not only know about guitars but they know you as well. They can help you make a good decision.If you have a guitar teacher, consider asking them for advice. They know how you play and the music you like, so they can also be a great source of advice when shopping for a guitar., The guitar salesperson will ask you questions about your price range, style, and playing ability. You should be able to tell them how much you want to spend, your preference for heavy metal and your experience with the genre. This will help them help you make the right decision.Listen carefully to the salesperson and ask lots of questions about models, prices, and key characteristics of the various models.
Avoid making a spur of the moment decision. If you decide on a guitar while talking to the salesperson in a guitar shop, it is probably best to write down your decision on a notepad and think about it for a day. This may help you avoid getting talked into buying the wrong guitar.
Ask the guitar store if they will allow you to test the guitar for a couple days before deciding.
 If you shop for a second hand guitar, you should look for a reliable individual (e.g., friend or relative with a guitar) or source (e.g., a guitar shop that carries secondhand guitars). You should pay special attention to the quality of the construction such as whether there are any loose components or cracks in the guitar.


Ask an experienced player to go second hand guitar shopping with you. An experienced player will know what warning signs to look for in a second hand guitar, such as cracks in the neck or loose components.If such warning signs are present, you should look elsewhere. Otherwise, you should simply look for the guitar that is right for you in terms of appearance, construction, and playability.
 You want to consider not only the look of the guitar but also how well constructed it is. You want to get a guitar that is both good looking and durable.Reflect on the appearance of the guitars in the store. Do you like the way the guitar looks? Do you like the shape of the guitar? Do you like the colour? Of course, aesthetics does not determine how well the guitar sounds but you want a guitar that you like.Look at the construction of the guitar. Check that the metal hardware is tightly screwed in and there is nothing rattling. Strum the open strings and listen for rattling. Run your hands along the neck of the guitar to see if the frets are smooth and correctly filed. If you are not sure how to do it, ask an experienced guitarist to check the frets for you., You want to choose a guitar that will stay in tune and play well. If your guitar is always falling out of tune, you may be less likely to play it. If it doesn’t feel right when you are playing, it might be harder to learn how to play.


Consider the playability of the guitars in the store. Can you press the strings down to the fretboard pretty easily? Are the frets up the neck really hard to press down? They are typically a little harder to play but it shouldn’t require excessive stress.Try playing an expensive guitar. Then switch back to playing an inexpensive model. Which feels more playable?
Check the intonation of the guitars in the store. You should check to see if your guitar plays in tune. Play a 12th fret harmonic on the first string and match that to the fretted note at the 12th fret. The notes are different in tone but the pitch should be the same. If you have a hard time with this test, ask an experienced guitar player to do the test for you.
 Follow your natural shopping instinct. Is the guitar right for your ability and ambition? Talk it over with people who know you and your ability.

