 Many credit cards provide travel insurance as a benefit to cardholders who purchase plane tickets using that card.While many travel-oriented credit products offer travel insurance that provides compensation for expenses directly incurred as a result of a canceled flight, the coverage amounts and restrictions vary significantly. For example, some of these policies provide protection for the cardholder only, not members of your family who may have been traveling with you.
Ideally, you should check the protections offered by your credit cards before you book your trip so you can use the card that provides the greatest level of protection in the event something goes wrong.
While a few credit card companies do provide compensation for canceled flights, these policies most frequently cover accidents and loss or damage to luggage.
 Typically you can take advantage of any travel benefits provided by your credit card company by calling the customer service number on the back of your credit card.


If you had to sign up separately for travel insurance benefits from your credit card company, there may be a separate phone number for you to call.
Keep in mind that some of the cards require an additional sign-up process or fees to activate these benefits. This typically must be done before you purchase your tickets or go on your trip., Tell the customer service representative what happened to you and confirm the situation is covered by your cardholder benefits.


Credit card companies that cover the costs of a delay, cancellation, or trip interruption typically only do so under certain circumstances such as weather or equipment failure. If your flight was canceled for some reason other than those covered by your credit card's policy, don't expect any compensation.You may need to submit a verification letter from the airline stating the reason your flight was canceled.
Find out from the customer service representative what information and documentation is required for your claim to be processed, as well as any deadlines your credit card company may have for filing a claim., Follow your credit card company's guidelines to claim reimbursement or other compensation for your canceled flight.Typically the credit card company will only reimburse expenses you paid using their credit card, and you'll still have to provide significant documentation of the need for those expenses and their relation to the cancellation of your flight.
Most credit card companies have a maximum amount of expenses they will reimburse, and not every expense will qualify even if your total is below that threshold.
For example, your credit card company may be willing to reimburse food expenses for meals you had to eat at the airport as a result of a flight cancellation or delay, but it may balk at covering a dinner you ate at a five-star restaurant downtown after learning your flight was canceled.

