 A highly sensitive person (HSP) is easily excited and emotional. Some of the central characteristics of an HSP are:Sensory detail: You have an appreciation for details that your five senses notice: fabrics that feel delicate, deep colors, rich sounds, and so on.
Nuances in meaning: You understand hidden meanings and don’t rush into decision-making.
Emotional awareness: You are attuned to your emotional health, and have the potential to take better care of yourself because of this awareness.
Creativity: You are likely very creative yet introverted.
Greater empathy: You are very sensitive to other people’s emotions.;
, All empaths are HSPs, but not all HSPs are empaths.The following are signs that you might be an empath:You sense fear, anxiety, and stress from other people. You draw these feelings into your body, resolving them as your own physical pain and symptoms. It doesn't have to be people you don't know or don't like. You're also impacted by friends, family, and colleagues.
You quickly feel exhausted, drained, and unhappy in the presence of crowds.
Noise, smells, and excessive talking can set off your nerves and anxiety.
You need to be alone to recharge your energy.
You're less likely to intellectualize what you're feeling. Your feelings are easily hurt.
You're naturally giving, generous, spiritually inclined, and a good listener.
You tend to ensure that you've got an escape plan, so that you can get away fast, such as bringing your own car to events, etc.
The intimacy of close relationships can feel like suffocation or loss of your own self.
 Not everyone is affected by other people to the same extent, or even in necessarily similar ways. But everyone certainly has moments when their emotions are influenced by others around them. Try to learn in which type of situations this happens most for you.


Keep track of how you feel when you’re around other people. Also, take note of the emotions that come up the most often. Are your emotions influenced when you are around someone you are trying to impress? Are they influenced by someone who intimidates you? Do you feel overwhelmed when you’re in a crowd?

, People who are particularly difficult for emotional empaths include criticizers, victims, narcissists, and controllers. These people are often termed "emotional vampires."Assess the people around you. Are there people who criticize you a lot? Do they try to manipulate you? Do they constantly talk about themselves? Do they ever ask about how you’re doing? When you know how to spot these behaviors, you can protect yourself against them. This includes removing yourself from their presence and telling yourself, "I respect who this person is within even though I don't like what he’s doing."