 For many social situations, there are general guidelines for polite conversation. The ability to listen to what the other person is saying, and responding thoughtfully, without sarcasm, insult, or being overly-casual, are key to smooth interactions. Here are some examples:

, If you're speaking with peers, say hello by name, and if appropriate, extend the greeting to be welcoming. The polite response is in keeping with the greeting. For example:


"Good morning, Jess."

"Good morning, Peter."


In this case, both the greeter and the greeted keep it short, professional, and courteous. Here's another example, extending it a bit:
"Good morning, Jess, good to see you today."

"Thank you, Peter. It's good to see you too."


If you're greeting somebody above your peer group—perhaps your boss, an important person, or somebody else who "outranks" you socially, it's best to keep it formal. For example:
"Good morning, Jess."

"Good morning, Mr. Jones."


If Mr. Jones says "Call me Peter," by all means do. But do not do so until invited.
 Politeness when it comes to phones depends entirely on the situation. If you're in a business environment, how you answer the phone will depend in large part on your position in the company. The way you answer an outside call from a potential customer might be something like this:


"Hello, ABC Corporation, this is Mr. Applemore speaking. How may I help you today?"

, There is a trend, for internal calls, to answer by barking out your department. Even if it's common practice, it's far better to actually speak politely:


"Sales." This might as well be a robot answering the phone. It conveys no sense that there's anybody on the line that cares about anything. A better approach would be:
"Sales, this is Eleonore. How can I help you today?"

, This common situation often leaves people wondering what to say, and who should say it. Here are some guidelines.Formal situations. In formal situations, you don't "introduce" people, you "present" them. There is a hierarchy involved:
The younger or less-accomplished person is always introduced to the older or more accomplished person:

"Mr. Elder, may I present Mr. Green?"


A gentleman is always presented to a lady:

"Ms. Jones, may I present Mr. Davis?"


Presidents, cardinals, and reigning monarchs are all presented to, regardless of age, sex, or station:

"Mr. President, I have the honor to present Ms. Jones of Portland, Oregon."



Informal situations. Informal situations have much the same guidelines as formal situations—younger to older, less accomplished to more accomplished, women to men—but without the worry of societal banishment should you get it wrong! Also, you can "introduce" one to another, or omit the word altogether, thus:

"Mr. Elder, may I introduce Mr. Green, from accounting?" Alternately, a simple exchange of names works as well:
"Mr. Elder, Mr. Green." While there's no formal presentation here, "rank" is established by inflection. The name of the elder is said in the form of a question, and the name of the younger is spoken as a simple statement: "Mr. Elder? Mr. Green."


The polite response when you are introduced is simply, "How do you do?"
Mr. Jones, may I present Ms. Abernathy?" Ms Abernathy says "How do you do." Mr. Jones may respond as desired.

