 To set your computer to reboot into this menu, open the Charms bar by moving your mouse into the bottom-right corner of your screen, or by swiping from the right edge. Click “Settings” and then click “Power”. Hold the Shift key and click on the “Restart” option.


If you cannot access Windows, insert your installation disc and select “Repair your computer”. The Advanced Startup menu will open.
 This will open a menu of tools that you can use to repair your computer. Click “Advanced Options”, and then select “System Restore”. You may be asked to log in, and then System Restore will open., Windows will automatically select the most recent restore point in which something was installed or changed. The change will be displayed underneath the date the point was created. If you want to select a different point, click the bottom option and click Next. You will be provided a list of available points with a short description of what occurred to create the restore point.


For more details about what will be affected by the restore, select a point from the list and click the “Scan for affected programs” button. This will open a window which will display all of the currently-installed programs and drivers that will be deleted currently-uninstalled programs and drivers that will be restored by this restore point.
 When you select your point, you will be given one more chance to ensure that you want to proceed. Review the point you selected and click the “Finish” button and then “Yes” to start the restore.
 Your system will reboot and the restore process will begin. Be patient, as the restore process can take a while to complete. Once the restore is finished, Windows will load and you will be shown a message confirming that the restore was successful.
 Once the restore is complete, you can go back to using Windows as you normally would. Check to see if the problems you were encountering still occur. If you want to use restored programs, you will most likely need to reinstall them.

