 Packing at the last minute can be a source of considerable stress that starts off your journey on the wrong foot. Have your bags ready to go the day before your trip.


You can also make a list of items to be packed before doing the actual packing or pack slowly over a few days rather than all at once. Separate things you’ll need to keep out between the time you pack and the time you leave like a toothbrush.;
, Any items that you’ll need to have on hand during the trip, such as your keys, wallet, phone, phone charger, and travel tickets, should be gathered ahead of time. Keep them in a single place, perhaps by the door, so you won’t have to wonder where things are as you’re leaving., For many forms of travel, you will be seated for long periods of time, typically in a confined space. Wearing restrictive clothing can make matters worse and increase your stress. This physical discomfort could trigger the effects of your anxiety disorder.Prioritize your comfort over looking good. Loose-fitting jeans, sweatpants, shorts, t-shirts and sweatshirts are all good options for a comfortable trip.
Consider the temperature when dressing. It may be hard to know ahead of time what the temperature in the vehicle might be like, so consider dressing for a warm temperature and taking a sweatshirt or blanket you can easily throw over yourself if it turns out to be cold.
If you are concerned with looking nice, you may want to bring a change of clothes in your carry-on luggage for once your trip is over.
 Travel anxiety could distract you from eating well before your flight, but traveling while hungry will amplify your anxiety.On the other hand, a large meal may leave you feeling bloated, tired, or even sick in a confined space. Eat a light meal before you leave so you’re comfortable.


Dehydration can exacerbate anxiety.Drink water beforehand and bring a bottle with you on your trip. If you are flying, you’ll need to buy the water at the airport past the security checkpoint.Sliced fruit, yogurt, baby carrots, celery, and nuts are great options to provide healthy energy for your trip. These foods are also relatively easy to take with you to eat during the trip.Avoid foods that might give you gas or bloating. These include dairy products, bran, legumes like beans or lentils, and cruciferous vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, cabbage, artichokes or onions. You should also avoid anything with a lot of grease, trans fat, or sugar., If you have an early trip, set your alarm as soon as possible so you don’t forget. You can also set an alarm for when you have to leave for the trip itself. Anxiety disorder can cause you to obsess about being on time so you don’t miss your flight. Therefore, knowing you have the alarm set could ease that anxiety.
 Leave for your trip early so you don’t add unnecessary anxiety when you hit traffic or other unexpected hindrances. If you get there early, you can spend a while sitting and relaxing to center yourself before you board your vehicle.

