 One of the first things you may want to do before initiating a full conversation about your relationship is to probe by asking some leading questions. Leading questions will help you uncover information without explicitly asking.Ask where she sees herself in three years. If the answer is someplace completely different, and you're not in the picture as a friend or as a partner, then you should think carefully about the relationship.
Initiate a conversation about "traditional" roles in relationships. Say something like "What do you think each party should contribute to a relationship?" Try to do this in a light-hearted way. This will give you a lot of information and may confirm that she is not using you, but rather subscribes to a traditional value system.
Ask her about her other friends or previous romantic partners. Getting information about friends and other romantic partners will give you a lot of information. Especially important may be why her previous relationships ended.
 Another conversation to initiate before an explicit conversation about your relationship is one about financial and other responsibilities. By engaging in such a conversation, you'll both provide information about your situation and gather information about her situation.Never divulge your income/net worth or ask about her income/net worth. This should be information that is volunteered in a healthy relationship.
Ask questions about what she thinks about financial planning. Make sure to do so in a relaxed setting.
Find out about her work life.
Inquire as to whether she has earned everything she has. If she has a nice car, consider saying something like "Your car is really nice, I don't think I could afford it." She may volunteer how she paid for it.
 The best way to find out if she is using you is to just ask her what she thinks you are to her. If she’s truthful, she should be able to define her conception of the relationship. This direct approach can tell you a lot.Approach her and say something like, “I think we should talk about our relationship.”
Consider saying “I’d like to know how you define our relationship.”
Make sure to be polite, calm, and relaxed.
 After you’ve initiated the conversation, you need to listen to her carefully. As a friend, companion, or significant other, you should take her at face value. Make sure to listen and internalize what she’s saying. In most cases, this should tell you what you need to know about your relationship.Avoid interpreting what she says to make yourself feel better about your relationship.
Don’t try to negotiate with her or come to some sort of “agreement” if you don’t like what she’s saying.
Take her statement as fact and as a blueprint for where your relationship should go. For instance, if you think that you have some sort of romantic relationship, and she clearly states that you don’t, you need to seriously reconsider your feelings.
 After you’ve asked her what she thinks about the nature of your relationship, you should share how you feel about the relationship. Letting her know how you feel might signal to her that you both need to redefine the parameters of your relationship or go your separate ways.


Let her know you’re not happy with the relationship and tell her you feel you are being used.
Let her know that you feel the relationship is one-sided.
Let her know if you want to change the nature of your relationship to make it more equal or mutually beneficial.
You might say, "I feel that things are unequal in our relationship and that I'm giving more than my fair share. I'm unhappy with the way things are and I would like them to change."
If you are interested in her romantically, do not use sex as a bargaining tool. Never demand sex. Sex is something that is shared between two consenting individuals without pressure or coercion.

