 After creating a bit of a network, send out a shout out asking for a variety of things. Some of them are:


Location (e.g. for Geography)
Temperature (e.g. for Science)
An interesting historical fact
Their opinion about something
Anything, really!

This makes learning based on up-to-date information and real people (with a real story behind it!)

;
,


Use TwitterFall first.

Type in a keyword ("communism", "appeasement", "poverty" - whatever)
Then watch the results come pouring in using twitterfall!


Then use Twittermap

www.twittermap.com allows you to GeoTag users and their posts
You therefore get an idea of where certain topics are being discussed most.



Use www.historicaltweets.com

This gives some great ideas about how famous people might summarise their ideas / experiences as "Tweets" in 140 characters max!
Then...students do the same!

Produce a Tweet dialogue between two opposing characters (e.g. King Harold and William the Conqueror) about a key issue...
Summarise a topic / concept / viewpoint as a tweet; each student should be given a different one to focus on.



First...Choose your theme

Genre - Fairy Tale, Sports Story, Adventure etc.
Give it a standard story opener and tweet this to your network
Ask network to continue the story in tweets, collaborating with the previous tweets and following them via www.twitterfall.com or a #tag


Then...students follow via twitterfall, choose the best ones and edit them into a coherent story

Great for editing skills, story structure etc.
Where will your network take the story?



,,


Set up a new Twitter account for your class - you will possibly want to 'protect' your updates. Invite parents to 'follow' you, and they can see what the class are up to from any computer (home, work, internet cafe...) at any time of the day or night. They might even tweet back now and again!

,


Put up a tweet asking people to give you their location.
Class first estimate distance from school, then use an atlas to gauge distance.
Then using Google Earth - can place mark where they are and find out distances.
Retweet results!

Benefits: Gives class an immediate set of places and distances to research. They might be interested to find out where people are and who they are!



,


Give children individually the Twitter 140 characters rule - they have to write story introduction, character description or whole story.
Results can then be posted onto Twitter or via blogs
In groups tell children they are to play pass it on - but must do this in only Twitter 'speak' 140 characters.
They then add to it around the group and can be shared in same way!

, One place that does that is twtpoll.com


How do adult opinions differ from the views of the class?
Use a Twitter poll to collect and graph opinions about a controversial issue.
 Is the student's writing clique or lacking descriptive language?
Use Twitter to send out a word and have your network give the students synonym and other meanings, thereby testing the literacy strength of your PLN. Or have classrooms connect during writing workshops. Then have the students help each other create Wordle clouds of a word and the words that are synonyms, antonyms, and examples to foster stronger and more descriptive writing. The Wordle clouds become help posters during writing for the rest of the year.



Find someone in another class, school, country who is interested in the same topic you are. Following each other on Twitter, share information, resources and ideas.
Help each other find answers or even suggest questions

Example - Rain Forest

Primary class, primary teacher, class from special school, teacher (special), secondary class, secondary teacher and subject expert all linked via Twitter
Sharing resources/learning with others is easy and context specific
Primary/special pupils can tweet questions to secondary pupils who can either answer from prior knowledge or investigate. Subject expert able to make sure all is correct
Twitter quiz set by secondary pupils as plenary activity for special/primary pupils





,,
Challenge your class to find the teachers who have replied.
Try to gather some evidence that you have found them - name on football pitch, distinct shape of building - something to prove they have been found.
Reply with this info.
Use different Google Earth layers of information to help with the search.
Gives a great real purpose to the use of Google Earth



,
In the past, try commenting on questions, like "What does WATER means to them?" and "What does a new term mean to you?"
With a global, if somewhat still limited, perspective we were able to talk about how world climate differences can influence such a commodity.
Ask you network to comment on the issue you are discussing and to ensure they provide where they are.



Post 8 letters and see how many words can be made from it (anagram)
Post a word. Have the students find its antonyms, homonyms, synonyms.
Use www.twtpoll.com to poll students about definitions.
,,


While they work on assignments, stimulate your students to tweet and reply about:
Stuff they learn
Difficulties they face
Tips they want to share
Great resources they find
In this way, Twitter replaces the students logbook

, When learning about probability and the language of chance in mathematics, use your Twitter network to offer a real world response to your questions.


"What are the chances you will see a deer today?"
"What are the chances it will snow where you are?"
With a variety of people in different locations you will hopefully have a variety of different responses.
This has been used successfully for a few years now in my maths lessons, and the different language used in replies provides a great teaching opportunity. From "50/50" to "Buckley's Mate" !
Twitter replies could then be captured, added to a IWB notebook and placed on a probability scale or indeed a map of the origin, sparking further discussion about how this affects the probability of different events.



Try creating a fictional alter-ego in Twitter who would develop as a 'character' who had a backstory.
After this has been developed, they could be 'introduced' to classes, who could follow, and do activities based on past tweets.

