 When you're nervous, it can be tempting to dance around the subject. However, it is important to make your point clear early in the conversation. Otherwise, your parents might grow confused or frustrated.A good opening line could be, "Do you two have time to talk? I have something important to tell you about my sexuality."
You might also choose to wait until you are actually sitting down to talk and say, "I want to let you know that I am gay. I hope that you can support me in being who I am."

, Coming out is an emotional experience for you. Try to understand that your parents might be feeling emotional, too. For example, if your dad cries, don't immediately take that as a sign of rejection. He's allowed to process emotions, too.If your mom says she needs time to think, allow her some space.
There is a difference between showing empathy and letting people hurt you. If there is any kind of abuse in response to what you've shared (such as insults or verbal abuse), walk away. If you have made arrangements with a supportive friend or family member, go to their house so they can help you through this difficult time.
 The best conversations are ones in which everyone contributes and participates. Obviously, you have a lot you want to tell your parents. But remember that they deserve a chance to speak, too.Show that you are willing to listen. Maintain eye contact. You can also avoid defensive postures, such as crossing your arms.
 In most cases, this will be a very emotional conversation. And remember, it is completely fine to show your emotions. However, remember that you might make more progress if you are able to do so calmly.Instead of yelling, "Why won't you listen to me!?" try calmly saying, "It makes me feel frustrated when you keep interrupting me."
Try taking a deep breath before speaking. It's also fine to take a little time to think about what you want to say next before speaking.
 This is your news and you want to feel in control of the situation. Remember, your parents do not have the right to verbally abuse you. If you find yourself being shamed or yelled at, you can end the conversation.


You can say, "I understand this is emotional for you, but I will not listen to these hateful words. Please let me know if you would like to continue this conversation when you calm down."

