 There are several different types of rice. Choose the rice that best fits your recipe. , This will do for average recipes that are not rice-centered. South Asian inspired dishes often call for long-grain rice as well.


American long-grain white or brown rice varieties are the most common in the United States. White rice is fluffy and dry. Brown rice tends to be more chewy and grainy in flavor.
Jasmine rice is soft with a slight floral aroma. It is used in a lot of Southeast Asian cooking.
Basmati rice has a nutty flavor. It is often used in south-central Asian cooking. , This type of rice usually absorbs a lot of water and can be quite sticky.


Japanese-style rice is firm and often sticky. It is used in a variety of Japanese dishes.
Bomba rice is also sticky and absorbs a lot of water. It is commonly used in Spanish dishes like paella. , Short-grain rice can become sticky, and even creamy, with the right amount of water. Try these for a more soupy rice dish.


Arborio rice is quite sticky and creamy. It is used to make Italian dishes like risotto.
Short-grain brown rice can also be quite sticky and chewy in flavor. , Mix a specialty rice with a typical long-grain rice to add color, flavor, and texture to your meal.


Wehani rice is an American whole grain option. It is reddish-brown in color and mixes well with other rices.
Chinese black rice is also a whole grain rice. Unlike other short-grain rices it is firm and non-sticky. It is a deep purple color when cooked.
Wild rice cooks firm and chewy with a grainy flavor. It is long-grain and a dark brown color when cooked. , Someone in the supermarket or even a friend may be able to help you decide on the right type of rice for your meal. If you don’t have a specific dish in mind, you may enjoy trying a new type of rice just for fun!

, American long-grain rice is quite common and can be easily found in supermarkets. For specialty rice, try going to health food stores or stores that cater to specific parts of the world. 