 By watching carefully, you'll get to know what your sister likes and dislikes. Find out what interests her and what bothers or irritates her. Knowing these things will help you to have an idea about what you should and should not do around her.;
, Whether or not she has personal things to do that require privacy, you know you need to keep your distance. Otherwise, she will tag along with you everywhere around the clock.
 So she's a kid and kids get in trouble all the time. Whether at school or at home, make sure to support her. If she is being scolded, you could be the one to whom she can run for a shoulder to cry on. Treat her well and never bully her.
 Just give her a big bear hug, or pat her on the back or the head. High five her. Invent a cool handshake. Be her friend.
 With a girl sibling, you may want to try playing her girly games or doing her hair or applying make up. Try helping her with homework, dropping her at her classes or her friend's place. Be involved. Help her choose clothes and earrings.
 This doesn't mean you have to make fancy food. You could simply make sandwiches and milkshakes or just make an omelet. An occasional batch of cupcakes or brownies would be fun too.
 Don't always insist on your shows; choose her shows too. Sure, they may be a little annoying, but do it for her. One show a day will do. You can even do other things, such as IMing or texting, in this time. But this doesn't mean you should ignore your sister; watch enough to be able to engage in a conversation about the show with her.
 You are the elder one. Sure you'd know a thing or few more than her. Teach her that. Teach her how to swim or ride a bike. You could teach her decimal system for maths if she's old enough. Get her to learn tables if she's around 7-8 years. Read books together. not novels. Picture books or something she wants to read.
 It's hard to be the one in charge and not go overboard. If you need something from her, ask her firmly but in a kind way.
 In this way she can learn to look up to you and trust you. You will feel happier as well.
 It's hard to not fight with your sister every day if you're always wanting what the other has. Through sharing you can learn to put aside your neediness and selfish attitude and realize that there is always enough love, time and things to go around. Showing her the way to sharing is an important part of being the more mature person.

