 Being an expert about public health can an extremely rewarding job. Although it difficult and demanding at times, there are many benefits to this career path.It requires an incredible amount of knowledge. You’ll need to have knowledge of being a clinical nurse as well as of public health and social sciences like sociology and psychology.Helping an individual, family, or community can be incredibly rewarding for you and those you help.
It comes with some emotional demands. You’ll have to positively navigate all kinds of personal dynamics from patients to family members and other healthcare providers and authorities.If you like working with people and helping them, then public health nursing could be a great choice for you. If you don't enjoy working with the public, then this is probably not the right job for you.;
, Before you take the plunge to become a public health nurse, you first need to consider your abilities and education. Thinking about what you have to offer can help you decide the best path to pursue being a public health nurse.One way to help you decide is to think about an experience you’ve had with a public health nurse. You could also contact one and see if you could discuss it as a career or even shadow her for a day to get a better sense of the work.
You will need to obtain a registered nursing degree in a "general program," possibly a graduate degree, as well as at least 1200 hours of supervised practice and successful passing of a national exam.If you like learning and sticking to a goal, public health nursing could be an excellent career decision for you. You may also require additional training in public health, public health policy, or health administration.Some communities allow persons with an associate’s degree to work as a public health nurse.If you plan to pursue a graduate degree in public health nursing, you may require additional coursework and practical training before you can begin., Think about whether being a public health nurse will affect your lifestyle and even that of your family. Knowing whether or not the time, emotional, and physical aspects fit in with your lifestyle is important if you want to become a successful PHN.Are you able to handle the physical demands? Depending on where you work, you may need to stand or sit for long hours. Because you may be working with or in local, regional, state, or federal organizations, it may require significant travel.Does public health nursing fit your personality? Working with patients, families, authorities and organizations is a big part of a PHN’s job. If you like working with and helping people, this may be an excellent career choice for you.
 Public health nurses earn on average about $53,000 per year. This amount can change depending on your experience and location. Proceed with your plans to be a PHN if the average salary meets your financial requirements.Remember that you will have to pay taxes and other fees for your salary, but that you will also get health benefits and vacation and sick time.
Don't forget you may have to repay substantial student loans, as becoming a nurse requires many years of school.
The current outlook on job prospects in public health nursing is excellent and the average salary may afford you a comfortable lifestyle., At a bare minimum, you need an associate’s degree to work as a RN, and in many places require a bachelor’s degree. This can help ensure you not only understand the various aspects of being a nurse, but may also expedite furthering your education and career as a public health nurse.If you have a bachelor’s or associate’s degree in nursing, you will need to pass an exam to become a registered nurse in the state in which you reside. You’ll also require this to become a public health nurse.If you have a bachelor’s degree in nursing or a related field such as biology, you may want to get a graduate degree in nursing to become a PHN. You could consider dual programs that combine a Master of Science in nursing and a Master of Public Health.Some programs even offer Master’s degrees in public health nursing., While you’re getting your education, it’s advisable to work in community settings that can help you in your activities in public health nursing.Some degree programs and even employers may require internships or residencies for graduation or even to take a job.You can do your internship or residency a healthcare facility or a community agency. You may even consider doing an internship at a federal organization to further your education.You may also want to consider working as a nurse for an organization such as the Peace Corps or the Red Cross. Service in such organizations may also help defray the costs of graduate school depending on how long you commit to them.
You can find accredited education programs and residency or internship programs at the American Association of Colleges of Nursing. Their website is http://www.aacn.nche.edu/ccne-accreditation/accredited-programs.
 Before you can work as a PHN, you must pass the national licensing exam, which is called the NCLEX-RN.The exam is governed by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCBSN).Purchase study aids or join a study group to improve your chances of passing. Taking multiple practice tests may be particularly helpful, as it can help you become accustomed to the type of questions that will be asked as well as practice testing your knowledge in a structured setting. You can find a variety of information on the NCLEX-RN at the NCSBN website, which is https://www.ncsbn.org/nclex.htm.
If you fail the exam, you may retest only 45 days after your unsuccessful exam., In order to maintain your certification, you must complete continuing education throughout the time that you are a registered nurse or public health nurse. This can help you stay on top of new research and trends in your field.The criteria for renewing your certification vary from year to year.You can find the most recent requirements for recertification as a registered nurse at http://www.nursecredentialing.org/renewcertification.aspx. The American Association of Colleges of Nursing also has information about maintaining your certification.You can take a wide variety of continuing education courses or participate in workshops that will help you improve on and update your skills and knowledge over time.
 Public health nursing is a wide field and there are many locations in which you can find a job as a PHN. You may also consider starting your own private consulting practice once you have gained a great deal of experience, which can be very expensive but ultimately very financially rewarding. Sending out applications to different kinds of places can help you find your dream job.Public health nurses can work in a variety of settings including local, state, or the federal government; in community centers; or in hospitals or doctors’ offices. Professional organizations such as the Association of Public Health Nurses and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing offer information and portals to locate a job.
You can also work as a private contractor, which may allow you to get much-needed professional experience in different areas. It can also give you the freedom of picking and choosing when and for whom you work.

