 Set aside a rimmed baking sheet for later use.Lining the baking sheet is not strictly necessary, but if you'd prefer to do so, use parchment paper. Avoid aluminum foil, which may alter the taste of the quinoa, and cooking spray, which may disrupt the drying/roasting process.
 Pour the quinoa seeds into a medium glass or plastic mixing bowl. Cover the seeds with cold water., Using clean hands, briefly and gently rub the seeds together while keeping them submerged in the cold water.


Scrubbing the quinoa can help loosen some of the saponin clinging to the outer surface of the seeds.
 Pour the contents of the bowl through a fine mesh strainer or sieve, straining the soak water and retaining the seeds. Without emptying the strainer, rinse the quinoa seeds under cold, running water.


Since quinoa seeds are so small, you need to use a fine mesh strainer to avoid accidentally losing any seeds through the gaps.
Continue rinsing the quinoa under running water until the water draining from beneath the batch runs clear. Turn off the water and gently shake the strainer to rid the seeds of excess water.
 Spread the rinsed quinoa over your prepared baking sheet, keeping it in a thin, even layer.


The layer of quinoa seeds should be no greater than 1/4 inch (6 mm), but an even thinner layer would be ideal.
 Place the quinoa seeds in your preheated oven. Roast the seeds until they are completely dry.


In addition to feeling dry, the quinoa should turn slightly golden and become notably more fragrant.
Heat treating the seeds should remove even more saponin, which further reduces the bitter taste of the flour. Moreover, the heat also dries the seeds, which is important since grinding wet seeds will result in a paste instead of a dry, light flour.
 Remove the baking sheet from the oven. Set it aside at room temperature and wait at least 15 minutes, or until the seeds cool to room temperature.
 Pour a portion of the quinoa seeds into the bowl of an electric seed grinder. If the grinder has a lid, secure the lid into place.


Manual seed grinders and coffee grinders can also work well. In a pinch, you could also use a high-powered food processor, but it might be difficult to grind the quinoa past the "coarse meal" stage and into the "fine flour" stage.
Only fill the bowl of the grinder up to two-thirds full with quinoa, if not less. If you over-fill the grinder, the blades will have difficulty accessing all of the seeds, and you may not be able to grind the seeds down into a fine enough powder.
 Process the quinoa flour in short, on/off pulses. Continue for approximately 15 seconds, or until an evenly fine powder forms.


Periodically shake the appliance in between pulses to help shift any remaining seeds closer to the blades. If the appliance is too large to shift, use a spatula to stir the seeds closer to the blades.
If you were unable to process all of the seeds at once, empty the grinder when finished with the first batch and repeat the process with the remaining roasted quinoa. Continue until the entire portion of roasted quinoa has been turned into flour.
 Pour the quinoa flour into an airtight container or freezer-safe plastic bag. Store the flour in your refrigerator for up to 6 months or in your freezer for up to 1 year.


Quinoa flour can turn rancid at a rapid pace, but keeping it cold will slow the process down. While refrigeration should help, it's best to freeze the flour if you do not plan on using it soon.

