 In terms of shooting equipment, choose from among a Nerf or BuzzBee sniper rifle, a Rangefinder, LongShot CS-6, and a Nitefinder.


Good sniper rifles are Longshot CS-6 , Longstrike CS-6 , Mega Centurion , and the upcoming AccuStrike Raptorstrike. However, be wary that the Centurion's accuracy is below the expectations of a sniper.
Put foam on the piston hitter to silence the shot sound.;
, Bring a scope, too. However, good Nerf snipers don't use scopes, as they do not help you aim from long distances. A good scope to have would be the Day/Night Zoom Scope, which will be released in late 2017, as it actually magnifies your view up to 5 times, and it lets you see in the dark with its Night Mode.


Ensure that you have any other attachments needed for the rifle.
Have sufficient ammunition.
 Stay in shape; you might need to run from an enemy. You need a good sidearm in case you do not have time to reload or need to shoot with a fast fire rate.


Make sure you can use any gun and be good with it. You never know when you might need to be more than a sniper.
 If you own any "Guitar Hero" or "Rock Band" guitar, take off the strap! Put it on your gun by attaching it to the area near the trigger. This works best for the Longstrike CS-6.
 Nite Finders, Mavericks, and Elements are all welcome.
 Put the scope on first. A better alternative is the Retaliator CS-12 with a Longstrike barrel and a bi-pod and the Retaliator stock. Don't forget the scope! Use the smallest mags possible like 6-round mags.
 Never have it in the open. Have cover and concealment all around you. Choose a space that you can move easily in, yet stay hidden in.



Basically, where you can exit and enter the sniper post without blowing your cover or giving away your hiding spot. If you're found, don't shout. Enemies can find you easily, just use a backup that has more than a shot and doesn't jam a lot.
Cover and Concealment are Key

, Most snipers at the beginning of their sniper career think they are going to get the most kills on the battlefield. Wrong.They actually get the least. Being a sniper is not glorious. It's basically you laying on your belly in a bunch of weeds, holding a very long gun.
 Ask a few questions. Is it one person, or is it a group? What is the wind speed? What range are you firing at? Can you been seen? (The answer to that one should be NO!)

, Nerf darts are heavily affected by wind speed and direction. The wind will carry the dart over to the target if done right. The stronger the wind, the more it will be affected.
 A way to step quiet, is to step heel first, and then lower your foot down slowly.
 Once your breath reaches its natural pause, slowly take the shot.
 They will be looking for you. If you want to take out the entire group, move 6-12 feet away from your original firing spot. Then reload and shoot again.
 This technique is best done with the use of a spotter. In situations of limited personnel, the "Turkey Neck" technique may be used. Spotters tell you where your target is, male or female, approximate feet/yards your target is away, and the wind speed and direction.
 Always.
,


Never stand in a corner for more than 3 shots. If you do, and you get found, you will get destroyed!

, The dart slows before reaching its farthest point. Instead, shoot about 70% of your guns max range, unless they would not see it coming.

