 In purchasing adequate photographic equipment, read camera reviews and research photography trade periodicals.;
, Bring some form of an extra lighting source as well. Relying on flash vs. a directional lighting unit spells the difference between amateur and professional.


Depending on length of your vacation or travel plans, be sure to take along extra media memory cards > 1g. should provide ample space for your picture storage needs, depending on file sizes. Should you have plans to shoot video on the same camera then planning for extra digital memory cards are even more essential.
Remember to pack up your camera's battery charger -- the same one that came with the camera at time of purchase. Without a way to charge your cameras battery you would have to settle for buying postcards, giving up your role as travel photographer.
During your journey, it is prudent to carry an extra camera battery that is fully charged, in order to never miss those "once in a lifetime" shots, due to failed battery power.
 In return you will be rewarded with years of pictures par excellence! Don't forget if you are using your camera on a daily basis, wipe your camera down nightly with a soft smooth cloth, using a small bottle of cleaning solution required for the maintenance of your photographic equipment.
 Some modern digital cameras are so feature rich that it will take you time to learn all the benefits and nuances of your particular camera. Become an expert with its uses. Learn more photographic skills here, for free!

, Shoot into a variety of lighting situations. After all, aren't those early morning dewy sunrises and shimmering golden afternoon sunsets capable of stirring our deepest being. These scenes powerfully affect us on many levels of which we are only beginning to understand. They can even remind us of our relationship to the infinite, our relationship to our creator. Learn more about photo lighting.
 It is your center of interest that will make or break selling your travel photos.
 Let's not forget: It is simple landscapes that often sell the best. People will buy these travel photos for several reasons, though for the most part these photos are purchased and subsequently framed and displayed, so they will eventually draw in our vision, while drawing out our fondest memories. The pictures can be divided into the categories of "destination driven," "activity driven," or simply "people & life experience driven."

, Destination travel photos will always be most popular. They remind people of having been there themselves or that this is somewhere they dream of going. Usually a destination is symbolic for a deeper value, such as a mental association with adventure, love & romance, perhaps some sweet friendships, experiences we have not remembered for years.


Some feel that simple candid, non-posed people and portrait photographs remind them of their relationships with each other and the love that was shared. These travel photos should leave one with a sense of longing. Perhaps some sadness. Perhaps joy. As long as the picture moves us emotionally - perhaps we are reminded of our humanity, or our courage, our faith, or maybe they just remind us of loved ones we miss so dearly. Certain pictures have the power to transport us back into our youth, remembering good times.
 Landscapes, seascapes, nature photos, landmarks, people and culture pictures, etc.
 The photos to be marketable have to be sold "professionally packaged" so that the consumer can immediately take them home, display them or hang them up and enjoy them.

