 Before you even start specific fire safety training, it will help a lot if you can introduce your dog to a wide variety of people, places, noises, and experiences. The more your pet encounters new and different things, the more likely they’ll be to be able to deal with stressful new situations, like a fire.This means that you should make a conscious effort to introduce your dog to a new environment, from a park to a parking lot, every week or so. Keep them on a leash, so that you can control their movement. Reward them with treats and praise every time they remain calm and observant when facing a new situation.
Be sure to go at your dog’s pace. If your pooch responds badly to particular setting, lavish them with treats and praise until they feel at ease. Keep returning to that setting until they automatically feel at ease with it.
To ensure they’re prepared to face emergency situations, it’s a good idea to work your way up to environments with a lot of distractions and loud noises, like an outdoor concert, festival, or sporting event, as part of their socialization.;
, The blaring of your alarm is likely to be startling to your dog, so it’s a good idea to familiarize them with it in advance. That way, they’re far less likely to panic in the moment.Put your dog on a leash, and then press your smoke alarm to make it go off.
Give your dog treats while they listen to the sound. If they panic, cower, and/or bark, hold them firmly on the leash and speak to them in a happy, reassuring voice until they calm down enough to give them treats.
Turn the alarm on and off a few times, increasing the duration each time. Keep standing with your dog and giving them treats every time it sounds until they’re at ease with the noise.
For maximum benefit, practice this exercise a couple times a week for a few weeks before moving on to the next step.
 Next, have someone else press the smoke alarm while you stand at an exterior door. Once the alarm goes off, start calling your dog. Keep calling until they come to you.


Use whatever phrase you normally use for recall, such as your dog’s name or “Here, girl!”
This is also good training for you because it will indicate how loudly you need to call to be heard over the alarm.
Be sure to use a happy voice. Keep in mind that you should also strive to use a calm, happy voice to call your dog when in an actual crisis situation.
 As soon as they arrive where you are, give your dog praise and a big treat. It should be a treat they really love, like some lunchmeat or a bone or several smaller treats, to impress on them the value of coming to you when they hear the smoke alarm.
 Keep an extra leash by all exterior exits for easy access in case of an emergency. Dogs can easily panic and run away once they’re outside, so it’s best to have them under control as you leave your house.Once you’re outside and away from the house, reward them with more treats.
 You want your dog to learn to listen for your voice and identify which door you’re waiting at when they hear the smoke alarm go off. Once they get the hang of meeting you at one exit, move on to another exterior door.


The treats you give them when they find you should offer a strong motivation to get the right door.
 Your dog’s fire training will only take a firm hold if you repeat it at regular intervals. Try doing a family fire drill once a month with your dog, so that you can be confident everyone is prepared for any potential blazes.