 Think about where you plan or might like to travel, the dates you would like to go, if you just want to book flights or maybe a package deal.


Make a list of your plans and have them handy while you book.;
, The more flexible you are on everything from departure and arrival airlines and airports to travel dates and package deals, the more likely you are to get a great deal on your flight.Wednesdays are the generally the cheapest day to travel. .You can often find good deals on last minute flights, especially if you buy in conjunction with a hotel and/or rental car (known as a package deal).Flying from alternative airports can often be cheaper and offer better connection times than large airport hubs.For example, if you want to go to Washington, DC, consider flying to Baltimore Washington International Airport (BWI) instead of National Airport (DCA) or Dulles International (IAD). BWI is just slightly outside of Washington and has excellent transportation into the city from the airport.
 How much a flight costs varies greatly depending on many variables including the day you book, how far in advance you book, and even the website on which you book.By comparing prices from different sites, you are likely to get the best flight deal.


Book approximately six weeks in advance if you can. This will generally give you the best flight options and prices.Tuesdays around 3pm Eastern time are the cheapest time to book your flight.Travel sites collate information on the best flight prices and available times. These include Kayak, Expedia, CheapTickets, and Priceline. Travel sites automatically allow you to compare prices and factor in travel variables.
It’s a good idea to compare travel site prices as well, as their respective offers can also vary greatly.
Airline websites are also an excellent place to book tickets. It’s not uncommon to find cheaper and better flights on airline sites.For more options, consider one way travel on different airlines for each leg of your trip., As you compare flight offers, keep a list of all relevant details including departure and arrival airports and times, fees, and cancellation policies. This will help you more easily decide on the right flight to purchase.


Note if the price includes such items as taxes and baggage fees.
Read each flight’s cancellation policies and change fees. Not knowing these in advance can cost you a lot of money and time if you need to cancel or change your flight.
 Once you decide on the right flight for your upcoming travel, it’s time to buy your ticket.


Follow websites prompts. Every site will ask you to fill in information on items such as your name, number of travels, frequent flyer number, seat and meal preferences, and credit card information in order to book.
You can usually pay baggage fees and select seats during your booking sessions. It’s a good idea to do this in advance to minimize your time checking in at the airport.
If you’re traveling internationally, you will need a passport to confirm the reservation.
Decide if you want to pay for extras such as upgrades in seat class or travel insurance.
Many travel and airline sites will offer further special deals for add-ons such as rental car or hotel room.
 Make sure to take these documents to the airport with you on the day of your flight to avoid any questions or problems with your booking.


Follow the “24-hour rule.” Within 24 hours of booking your flight, check the prices one last time. If the fare has decreased, call the airline and rebook the flight at the lower price with no penalty.