 Discuss some of your other options if you're unsure. For example, get the same taste of Disney magic with other nearby Disney-themed areas like Disney's California Adventure, a sister theme park, and Downtown Disney, for dining and shopping. Other amusement parks within the vicinity include Universal Studios of Hollywood, Knott's Berry Farm, and Six Flags Magic Mountain. The Southern California landscape isn't without its wealth of rides.;
, Bring plenty of water and sunscreen, wear a hat and comfortable shoes, and bring a warm layer or raincoat in case of bad weather. Bring snacks or even a sack lunch so that you can save some money throughout the day, if you want. Make sure you have enough money for your ticket, parking, food, and any souvenirs you'll want to buy, and bring a backpack or other bag that you can firmly close to carry everything without losing it to the winds while on a roller coaster., Disneyland and Disney's California Adventure have their drawbacks. One of these drawbacks is that in order to visit, you'll either have to park in the "Mickey and Friends" parking structure or ride the ART (Anaheim Resort Transit) tram to the park. The address to the parking structure is 1313 S Disneyland Dr, Anaheim, CA 92802. The cost to park your car at this park will run you about $17 for cars, and even more for different types of vehicles.


Due to the cost, it's often advised to ride the ART tram/trolley to get to the park.
 If you have to park in the structure rather than ride the ART trolley, take the free, park-operated tram to get to the park entrance. The tram ride is about five minutes long, and trams operate from just before the park opens to just after it closes, allowing you to spend as much time as you want in the park.


The tram also offers access to Downtown Disney and its wealth of shopping and dining options.
 Do this online before you arrive at Disneyland to avoid having to wait in a long line before even entering the park. If you haven't purchased tickets online, you can do so at the booths outside the park once you get off the tram.
 Present your ticket to the people monitoring the entrance, and present any backpacks or large bags to be briefly checked by security. You can also pick up a map or list of shows and other attractions at the entrance.


Make sure to retrieve your entrance ticket and keep it safe. You will need it later to obtain fast passes for various rides.
 This is a popular picture-taking spot, since it is the first place people see that makes people remark that "they were there" when asked by others! Walk onwards.
 This archway has a plaque memorialized with the words "Here you leave today and enter the world of yesterday, tomorrow and fantasy." This live steam railroad circles the entire park and is one of the oldest attractions at Disneyland, having been a part of the park since its conception., This park is formed into 8 lands centered around a hub called Sleeping Beauty Castle. These lands include Critter Country, New Orleans Square, Adventureland, Main Street USA, Frontierland, Fantasyland, Tommorowland, and Mickey's Toontown.The map lists the main attractions in each land. Study the map to learn about your options and decide what you might want to do and see., This is the large street, lined with shops, restaurants, and theaters, that leads from the entrance to the rest of the park. Although a few rides exist in this section, these are not the main attractions. There are several stage plays and theaters that exist here, along with several food establishments that glean in on this area.


Walt Disney's private residential window still exists with a candle inside the building above the Firehouse on Main Street USA., You'll be delighted in the facts that Honest Abe tells you about himself in his stage show.
 If the film is playing when you walk in, you may watch it; otherwise, look for a schedule and come back alter. It is rarely ever crowded here, as not many people come in for very long. The viewing area inside isn't handicap-accessible, so people don't tend to linger around there much.
 The train makes several stops on its tour around the park and returns to the Main Street USA station in about 20-30 minutes (sometimes it may go on for 30-40 minutes and depends on how many people get on and off the train during the trip around the park). (This tour is also called the Grand Circle Tour.) It has stops in New Orleans Square/Critter Country, Mickey's Toontown/Fantasyland, and Tomorrowland, and it'll take you through scenes of the Grand Canyon, Splash Mountain, and various jungle wildlife. It also stops by two dioramas including the Grand Canyon and Primeval World. There are generally three trains running concurrently.
 Folks who made a lasting impact on the park got their own window decal to prominently display their name. While some are true with their last and first, some aren't as easily recognizable and you'll need to try and decipher exactly who they mean. See how many you can find on the windows up and down Main Street. These include the names Ken Anderson, Marvin Davis, Claude Coats and Richard Irvine (amongst the many others).
 While there is a fire engine that sometimes cruises the park from Main Street's Central Plaza), there are other items such as a horse-drawn streetcar, a trolley, horseless carriage and omnibus that run through this area stopping in front of Sleeping Beauty Castle in the park., Although the sign out front says just "Featuring Steamboat Willie", there are others that play here including "Plane Crazy" and many others. However, the entrance is a little dark upon entering, so watch out (raise your sunglasses if you have them on).
 Although the Emporium shop holds many great souvenirs, there are others here as well that handle other great items as well as much-coveted items at the Main Street Photo Supply Co, Disney Clothiers, and Disney Showcase, Newsstand, as well as the Silhouette Studio. If you'd like a hat, check out the Mad Hatter.
 Although the Candy Palace will serve you a specialty confectionary, there are more than enough choices to pass the time that you could eat here and never get bored. There's also a café, and an ice cream parlor (called Gibson Girl Ice Cream Parlor) and a bakery and a market house (which has Starbucks in it). For refreshing drinks, try the Refreshment Corner.
 It is the oldest building in Disneyland., This iconic statue stands in this park. It is a bronze statue of Walt standing next to and holding the hands of Mickey Mouse. There are plaques explaining this statue directly below it.
 This ride offers a fun submarine voyage populated by all your favorite characters from Finding Nemo. The line gets crowded by mid-day, so your best bet is to come early, or on a day when your ticket allows (if these privileges are on your ticket) the "Extra Magic Hour".
 This is a great place to meet Chewbacca and Darth Vader. If you have Star Wars fans with you, this is a must-see!, Much like the driving experiences at some theme parks, this one has fairly outlived its life, and the lines tend to be much longer than the ride merits per the time you spend going around the track or area of travel.
 Although this roller-coaster shoots you into space (or the way Disney looks at it), you'll soon be back at the starting gate all in one piece. This is a fast, thrilling ride through the pitch black of outer space, tons of fun for older kids and adults but potentially scary or uncomfortable for small children or those prone to motion sickness.


The line for Space Mountain is almost always over an hour, so think about using a fast pass to bypass the line on this popular ride.
Currently, Space Mountain has a Star Wars theme to promote Season of the Force. Lines will be longer than usual.
 Shoot at targets within the ride with your green and purple blaster. You can challenge yourself or the person in the seat next to you.


The line for this ride moves quickly and is almost never more than ten minutes, so ride this several times and try to beat your own scores from each previous round.
 The ride between the two areas takes about 8 minutes, but with breezes that run through the monorail windows (since theres no air conditioning in the cars), this may still be a decent place to cool down during the day and keeps you out of the sun. Keep your ticket available if you get off at Downtown Disney, as you'll need your ticket and current handstamp (they'll stamp your hand at the exit) for reboarding at that station's entry.
 Near Innoventions and the Monorail (near Space Mountain), spin the ball and run around in the fountains surrounding it. The ball will moisten and thereby cool down any person's hands in it's path.
 A "dark ride" according to Disney Park officials, just means that the ride takes place completely indoors and Disneyland's Fantasyland has five of them. These are rides where you sit in a car, ship, or other vehicle and proceed through several rooms that recount a story. Great for young kids, these rides include Pinocchio's Daring Journey, Snow White's Scary Adventures, Alice in Wonderland, Mr. Toad's Wild Ride and Peter Pan's Flight., Visit with Pinocchio and his friends as you ride through some of the scenes depicting the storyline from the movie made many, many years ago.
 Some kids may be scared to go in. It's dark in spots, it's dreary and the Witch looks scary and may intimidate some kids. You may end up riding the ride alone one time through and thinking if your kids might appreciate and understand the storyline that's told here.
 However, although most of this ride takes place inside a building, at one point you exit outdoors and then back in a few seconds later.
 Although it's name says "Wild" when you deal with this Disney attraction, the "wild" is Disney-controlled from within the ride vehicles' ride systems operation.
 You'll take a journey with Peter Pan off to Never Never Land in a journey you'll never, never (pun definitely intended...sorry) forget.
 This slow-moving ride makes its way around Fantasyland, and it's a great way to keep small kids enticed and your mind a little bit active (if you decide to ride it with them).
 Let the skipper take charge of the boat and learn about some of the stories Disney has shown to you in the past and you can relive this light.

Hear your guide recount classic stories and witness the scenes where they take place., Turn the steering-wheel shaped center wheel fast to make the ride spin fast, or spin it less for less of a spin. But no matter what you do, be careful not to make yourself too dizzy that you can't stand up and walk straight after the ride is over!

, One of the most popular places in the park, the carousel gets busy, but the line tends to move quickly, and kids tend to love a ride on a horse, unicorn, or even lion, bird, or one of the other animals that the carousel offers.
 Fly sky-high on an elephant, and soar through the air before making a safe landing to complete the ride. Press the switch up to make the dumbo character vehicle fly high or press the switch down to make it fly lower.
 Although the ride has been dazzling riders for more than 50 years (as of 2014), it can dazzle you too. Filled with scenes of 297 dolls and 256 "toys" singing and dancing the famous song (by it's title name) together over five languages and in six continent themes.[[ of the world, the ride represents a hope of peace and unity for all humanity. Beware, though - just one ride can keep that silly song stuck in your head for days on end.
 Take a ride in a bobsled through the Matterhorn mountain, through caves and past yetis that make the ride that much more exhilarating.
 See scenes from the classic tale and relive the story before returning to Fantasyland. There is a walk through exhibit that can only be experienced when passing through the castle's center area.
 Toontown offers clever architecture and access to all your favorite cartoon characters. If you want to wow a kid's eyes, this land is definitely the place to do it.
 A staple attraction for Mickey's Toontown, this ride impresses everyone who rides it. Plus, this one is the only one of it's kind within the Disney Park system, so ride it if you are near it.
 Whether you are willing to try a roller coaster for the first time, or you want a little thrill after woofing down that piece of pizza from a nearby dining location, this may be an intermediate compromise. It is rather tame, but can be great for small children, however it is out in the sun, so make sure to come prepared with sunscreen and plenty of water.
 These cruise boats offer calm, leisurely cruises on the river with plenty of exciting sightseeing.
 Ride a runaway mine car through the caves and bedrock in the early days of the California Gold Rush. A small but exhilarating roller coaster, this is a hit with kids who are up to conquering thrill rides and adults alike.
 Take the pathway to New Orleans Square and Critter Country, or head in the opposite direction towards Adventureland., Sing pirate shanties and sail through scenes from the Pirates movie, looking out for all your favorite characters.
 With over a thousand and one happy haunts, they all hope to keep you awake and to keep you out of their mansion, though few actually are able to keep you out.
, This classic, super-duper, mega log flume ride with its five-story drop is definitely not for the faint-of-heart, but its scenes of animals dancing and singing together make it a great ride for all ages. The potential to be drenched makes it perfect on a hot southern California afternoon, Due to it's strength of lines in the afternoon, head straight for it on a day when your ticket provides "Extra Morning Hours" privileges before the park opens to most other guests as it gets crowded after the first hour that it is open, or come back near the park's closing time for the shortest lines. If you don't or can't come during these times, pick up a FastPass if one is available. If not, be prepared to wait for over an hour for this popular ride.
 This one is a staple attraction for most children.
 Try to take it in during the afternoon, right around most people's supper time, when the sun tends to scorch down on people. This show is an amusement you won't want to miss, and is definitely a retreat from the heat of summer.


Beware of waiting in line for this attraction on rainy days. The waiting area is out in the direct elements of weather. You can get rained on, if you aren't wise enough to sit underneath the talking tree bark near the payment desk for the Hawaiian luau foods booth.
 Ride a motion simulator ride through one of Indiana Jones' adventures, pulling daring moves and narrow escapes to make it out alive.
 Relax in a shaded boat and enjoy the commentary (filled with puns) of your guide as you explore the joys and dangers of the river. If you ride it at night, you'll get the added benefit of a colorful array of other fantastic colors.
 The parade travels from near the Small World ride through Fantasyland, around the hub down Main Street USA, and out through another gate only cast members use, and it happens at least twice per day.


Daytime parades vary. Check your guide map as you enter the park through the turnstiles, to see what parade you're likely to see and when.
 The Paint the Night parade is remixed soundtrack from Owl City's hit song, When Can I See You Again, and spectacle of tons of colors and lights galore, it's just a blast to watch from beginning to end. Although for a month, the lights and spectacular music of the Disneyland Paint the Night Parade took a short siesta of about a month (between September 6 and November 2016), this parade had made a comeback and will probably continue for a long time to come - as it is very popular with it's audience that line the streets where it runs along with up and down Main Street USA here.
 It's the everlasting history of the Main Street Electrical Parade which draws visitors from around the park to arrive to watch the floats float past that makes this another popular nighttime parade.
 These take place overtop of Sleeping Beauty Castle, though they can be seen from almost anywhere in Disneyland itself.


Some of the fireworks can be seen at some of the Good Neighbor Hotels/Resorts nearby, though no music is heard from that far away.

