 Only certain people can marry you. For this reason, you should have someone in mind or start looking soon. Under Utah law, the following may solemnize a marriage:minister, priest, rabbi, or Native American spiritual adviser
the Governor
mayors
court commissioners
judges
county clerks
particular members of the legislature

, You can get married anywhere in Utah, since a marriage license is good throughout the state.The amount of planning will depend on how elaborate you want your wedding to be.


For example, you could ask the county clerk to marry you at the clerk’s office. All you need to do is schedule a time and pay a fee. In Salt Lake County, the clerk can solemnize the marriage for $50.00.
You can get married in your home or in a place of religious worship. You should contact the officiant who you want to marry you and work on setting a date. You might need to start the planning process well before you apply for the marriage license.
You might also want a wedding reception for hundreds of friends and relatives. This will require extensive planning. You will need to set a budget, create invitations, rent space, and hire catering. You may benefit from hiring a wedding planner.
 Your license is valid as soon as you receive it. However, it will expire in 30 days if you don’t get married. You also can’t get a refund if the license expires.Utah requires at least two people witness the marriage. Your witnesses must be over 18 years old., The officiant who solemnizes the marriage must sign the certificate of marriage. They then file the certificate and marriage license with the county clerk who issued the license to you.You can obtain a certified copy of your marriage license after your ceremony. In Utah County, one copy is included free of charge. You can purchase other copies for $5.00.Salt Lake County, by contrast, provides two free certified copies.
 If either spouse wants to change their last name, then they’ll need to get a new drivers license or state ID and change their Social Security card. After the change goes through, they must notify all impacted businesses, such as the post office, their employers, etc.To change your driver’s license or ID, you will need to take your certified marriage certificate to the motor vehicles office. You will have to pay a fee.
To get a new Social Security card, you should complete an application with the Social Security Administration office. You will also need to present acceptable supporting documentation, such as a current U.S. passport, birth certificate, and your marriage license. See the instructions on Form SS-5 for specific documents.

