 Wander around a craft store to see what hobbies are available. You might find something you never thought about, such as building model airplanes or learning how to work with clay., Like craft stores, hardware stores offer a way to explore different hobbies. Maybe you want to get into woodworking or gardening; the hardware store will have just what you need.
 Your library will have how-to books on a variety of topics. Browse through them to find topics that interest you, which can turn into new hobbies., Your time is precious, and you have a limited supply. Be sure to create space in your day for your new hobby by allocating a few minutes everyday for trying it out., Certain websites are dedicated solely to exploring hobbies, and you can use them to figure out what you'd like to do with your time.
 The first one you try might not be the right fit. Don't be afraid to move on and try something else. You have a right to decide when you're not interested in something., That is, don't be afraid to say "yes" to activities you normally bow out of. Maybe going to the art museum doesn't sound very exciting to you, but when your friend invites you to go, give it a try anyway. You might find a hobby you never expected to enjoy, such as painting or art restoration.
 One thing that may be holding you back from trying something new is you thinking, “I’m not that kind of person.” Maybe you think you're not brave enough or social enough for certain activities. Don't be afraid to step outside those boundaries.


For instance, consider all those crazy hobbies that you've dismissed because you thought you couldn't do them. Maybe you've always wanted to learn the guitar or how to ballroom dance but didn't think you had the talent. Sign up for a class anyway. Maybe you have a knack for it and don't even know it.
 Your friends already have similar interests and personalities that are compatible with yours, so you might enjoy their hobbies, as well. Ask them to show off their favorite hobbies and give you a taste for what they love to do.


For example, maybe your best friends are really into swing dancing. You can go with them to a lesson, or you can ask for a basic lesson from them before getting your feet wet.
 Community colleges offer a wide range of courses for very little tuition. Read through one, and you may find a class that sparks an interest.


You can request a catalog from most community colleges, though the majority have catalogs online to peruse.

