 If the victim cannot get out on his own and help has not arrived, you should throw a long object that the victim can hold on to, such as a pole, a rope, a tree limp, or even a long scarf. Connecting yourself with the drowning person with a long object will keep you out of harm's way. Once the object reaches the victim, he should wrap it around himself as much as he can.To increase the chances of a safe ice rescue, you should be prepared with rope and other long items if you plan on going onto the ice.
Get a rope, extension cord, hockey stick, or any other sort of strong line that you can find.
Since the victim's cold hands may not be able to grip the line, tie a loop (not a slip knot—preferably a bowline knot) at the end of the rope and tell them to put their arms through the loop and then bend their arms to touch their shoulders so that the rope is inside the bend of their elbows. Alternatively, they can put the loop over their head and slide it down under their arms.
 A sled, a life preserver tied to a rope, or any object for the victim to grab onto will be more helpful than nothing., If you happen to have a light boat that you can push across the ice ahead of you, you should push it to the edge of the hole, get into it, and then pull the victim over the bow, making sure that it doesn't capsize. Attaching rope to the boat so the boat can more easily be brought to the shore by other rescuers isn't a bad idea if there's some rope nearby., If you don't have any rescue devices but you're with multiple people, then you may need to make a human chain to rescue the individual. To do this, you'll need to have the rescuers lie on the ice as closely as they can, forming a chain by holding on to the ankles of the person in front of him. The person at the front of the chain, who is closest to the victim, should grab the victim by his hands and should pull him flat onto the ice while the person at the end of the chain pulls the chain back.Though the human chain is not ideal, it's far better than having one person trying to help the victim who is in danger of falling in because he has no back-up. If the person in the front of the chain also falls in, he'll have the support of the person holding onto his ankles.
 Stay low, stay off the thin ice, and pull hard. If you have helpers, have them use their strength to assist with pulling and with staying away from the thin ice. Whether you're pulling the person as the lead in a human chain or you're pulling him up with the help of a rope, the victim should be dragged across the ice instead of being lifted and carried.


Remain at a safe distance from the weak ice, and keep a strong grip on the rope or object. If you must approach, always spread your weight as much as possible.
At a minimum, if you don't have any objects to throw, crawl on your belly––never walk. Another easy way to move with your weight spread out is to lay down with your hands above your head and roll on the ice.
If you do pull the victim out with a rope or another long object, make sure that you're pulling the victim toward you, and not the other way around.

