 The minerals in hard water can leave a white scale on your sink, shower, or bathtub. If it's happening there, it's probably happening in your pipes as well. This is one problem with no do-it-yourself fix, and probably requires installing a water softener. If left alone, the hard water will slowly clog your pipes, reducing water pressure and shortening the lifespan of your plumbing.If the scale is minor and your pipes seem to function fine, however, you may want to solve specific problems using the cheap solutions below.
 The soap scum that forms in hard water can cling to fabric, leaving it stiff and rough. In severe cases, it can fail to clean the clothes completely, making white fabric grey and bright colors dull, or even leaving a sour odor on the clothes.Try one or more of the following solutions:Increase the washing machine temperature.
Use more detergent.
Add non-precipitating water conditioner to your machine before the detergent.
 One obvious sign of hard water is white spots on your glasses after washing. There are actually two types of damage that hard water can cause:Hard water spots are surface stains that you can remove by scrubbing with vinegar or an abrasive cleaner such as baking powder.
"Etching" permanently damages the glass, although you may be able to buff it out with a glass polishing kit. Mild etching looks like a rainbow film, while severe etching turns the glass opaque.
To reduce the chance of either type of damage, reduce the temperature of the dishwasher or rinse your dishes more thoroughly before loading the machine.
 Particularly hard water may irritate skin, leave hair stiff and dull, or even leave a filmy soap residue on your skin. If you don't want to install a household water softener system, try these fixes:


Install a showerhead water softener and replenish it occasionally by adding salt. (Showerhead "softeners" that don't need salt are actually filters, and will not soften your water.)
To improve your hair texture, use a chelating shampoo once a week, followed by a moisturizing conditioner. Chelating shampoos are supposed to strip minerals from your hair, and typically contain the ingredient "EDTA" (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid).