 Use spray paint to paint the wooden base or mount for your frame a solid color. Let dry before pressing forward.Make sure that the entire board is covered in an even coating of paint.
You should also make sure that the wood is in good condition before you begin paining it. The cuts should be even, and any rough edges should be sanded off to prevent splinters.
 Fold an 8.5-inch by 11-inch (21.6-cm by 27.9-cm) piece of paper horizontally into accordion folds that are 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) wide.


The folds must be even. Otherwise, the resulting pattern will not be even.
 Use scissors to cut along each fold of the accordion, separating the paper into individual strips.


Do not let go of the paper after cutting the fold lines. You still need to hold the paper strip together for the next step in order to create even pieces you can use for your chevron pattern.
 Use your scissors to cut 1.5-inch (3.8-cm) pieces off the bundled strips.


You can let these pieces drop off. There is no longer a need to hold them together.
 Arrange the small pieces of paper together to create a chevron stripe. The right side of one piece should form a peak with the left side of the next, while the right side of the second piece should form a valley with the left side of the next, and so on.


The pieces need to by connected in a diagonal, zig-zag shape.
Tape the pieces together well enough to prevent them from coming apart as you work with them.
Tape enough pieces together to create a stripe that can extend over the width of the wood base. Afterward, create new stripes with the extra pieces that are all equal in shape and length.
 Arrange the stripes so that they are evenly spaced over the wood base or mount. Tape in place using painters tape.


The stripes should go over the places that will remain as the base color.
The distance in between each stripe should be 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) so that stripes are all consistently equal.
Leave as little overhanging tape as possible. If you overlap the tap onto the board too much, you might end up creating chevron stripes in your secondary color that are too skinny. Consider using double-sided tape to avoid this completely.
 With the board lying flat, spray paint over the entire surface, tape, board, and all. Let dry.


Keeping the board flat will prevent the paint from dripping beneath the boundaries of the taped-off pattern.
If you want to use multiple colors, you may need to apply the colors using a paintbrush.
 After the paint has dried completely, peel away the tape and the corresponding paper stripes to reveal the final chevron pattern.


If you do not let the paint dry first, you may end up smudging the paint.
 Position the frame in the exact center of the board and glue in place using either hot glue or wood glue. Let dry before using.


Note that, ideally, the color of the frame will match the color of your chevron stripes.

