 Regular breast self-examinations are not a reliable way to detect early signs of breast cancer. However, they are still a useful tool for understanding the normal condition of your breasts, and in some cases can help you detect changes that may be linked to breast cancer or other conditions.Ask your doctor to demonstrate the proper way to conduct a breast exam, and what to look and feel for during the exam.
To perform the exam, hold your right arm above your head and gently feel your right breast and nipple area with your left hand. Move around your breast in a circular pattern with your fingers. Feel for any lumps or tissue that seems irregular compared to the rest of your breast tissue. Repeat the process and examine your left breast.
 Look for bulges, lopsidedness, or any dimpling that may occur when you raise your arm above your head.
 If you menstruate, be aware of normal changes in your breasts that are related to your menstrual cycle. Try to perform your regular breast exams at a time when your breasts are not tender or enlarged due to menstruation or pre-menstrual symptoms.
 If you notice any changes or symptoms that you find worrisome, contact your doctor, even if you aren’t due for your regular exam.
 During your regular check-up, your doctor will perform a breast examination, during which they will check for breast tissue irregularities. If you have noticed any lumps or bumps, let your doctor know.
 In general, doctors recommend regular mammograms for women 40 years of age and older. Early detection is possible through mammograms and can assist in the diagnosis of breast cancer sooner in order to start effective treatment.Women at high risk for developing breast cancer may need to start getting mammograms at a younger age.
Depending on your lifestyle and family history, your doctor may recommend a mammogram annually or at some other interval.
Since men rarely develop breast cancer, doctors do not typically recommend mammograms for men. However, if you are a man experiencing possible breast cancer symptoms, such as a lump in your breast, your doctor may wish to perform a mammogram as part of your diagnostic exam.