 Children, especially young children under 3 years old, will probably feel afraid of being away from you.Be present with your child as much as you can. Of course, you still have to maintain your own life routine, and some hospital rules and schedules may not allow you to be present at all times. Many, though, allow a parent to stay with the child at all times, and even sleep in the room if desired.


Enlist other loving family members to visit when you’re not available. When you leave, tell your child who will be there to take care of them.
Stay overnight when you can. Your child may be more likely to worry around bedtime.When you leave, tell your child and their nurses where you are going and when you will be back. Try to stay in contact by phone as much as possible.
It’s okay to ask hospital staff if you can stay past visiting hours, but you must respect hospital regulations. If they say no, it’s for an important reason.
You can also have another family member take your place if you have to leave the hospital for awhile but do not want to leave your child alone.
 Unfortunately, you may not be able to be with your child for every minute of their hospital stay. It will help to tell their care team what usually calms them at home. For instance, say something like, “She really likes to have her blankie with her when she’s scared.” That way even when you’re not around a member of the staff may be able to provide some familiar comfort.It is also helpful to share your child’s routine with their care team, so they can maintain a normal routine as much as possible.For instance, you can tell the nursing staff when your child typically wakes up and falls asleep. Hospitals have their own schedules, but they are often flexible with children.
 Take coloring books, stuffed animals, blankets, and other favored items to your child’s hospital room. Keep them close by their bed to be easily accessible to provide comfort. Consider giving your child something of yours to hold onto when you're not able to be there.If you did not have time to bring toys from home with your child to the hospital, there will be toys there for him or her to play with, just ask.
Clearly label all of your possessions with your child’s first and last name before leaving them at the hospital.
 If your child needs another blanket, more pillows, or to have the headboard raised or lowered, simply ask a nurse or hospital aide. If they say they are too hot or too cold, let staff know – it’s important for children’s body temperatures to stay regular.


Sometimes it might be important for your child to remain in a specific position, or they need to be carefully moved to avoid hurting something further. Be sure to ask hospital staff before moving your child, and they will either tell you not to do it, instruct you on a specific way to do it, help you do it or tell you that they can be moved normally.
 Most hospitals are on a strict schedule of exactly when breakfast, lunch, and dinner are served. Remind your child this is because of visiting hours, not because the doctors are "being mean." If your child gets hungry between meals, call a nurse and request a snack.


Hospital food can be different than at home. Remind them it will not be the same food they usually eat, but that it’s important to eat to stay nice and strong.
You may be required to monitor exactly what your child eats and drinks.
Remember that prior to surgery, fasting is often required, sometimes requested as NPO or nothing by mouth, and your child may not be allowed to eat starting the night before. You can explain this to your child by saying something like, “Tomorrow the doctors are going to give you some medicine to help you sleep while they fix you up, and the medicine works best on an empty tummy."
Some procedures may require your child to eat nothing by mouth for at least a day. If you know for sure what the requirement will be, tell your child, but if you don't, ask the doctor beforehand.
 As much as their condition allows, treat your child like you would at home. Stick to a daily schedule, observe household rules as much as you can, and include your child in any family discussions going on. Children can often pick up on anxiety, so stay calm and be as helpful as possible.If your child is school age, bring their homework to the hospital.
 Many children's wards have a playroom that children may use between certain hours. If you child feels up to moving around and their care team agrees, encourage them to play. This will take their mind off discomfort and anxiety, help them be a little active, and stay connected to their normal routine. This is also a valuable time to observe your child for changes in behavior – if your child is too young to tell you how they feel, whether or not they engage in their regular play activities can indicate if they feel stressed or unwell.If there’s no playroom available, be sure to bring toys, games, and books to your child’s room. Encourage playtime throughout the day to keep your child’s mind active.
Some hospitals even organize playtime; ask your nurse or Child Life Specialist about this.
If your child has had surgery, your child may be able to only walk up and down the hall. Make sure you know what your child's restrictions are by talking to the nurse before playing or taking walks

, Even if it’s as simple as a bandaid color or which arm to use to check their blood pressure, letting your child make choices when possible will help them to feel more in control of the situation. This can help them feel less afraid and more confident., Older children and teens may feel anxious about their bodies and have a strong need for privacy. Respect this as much as possible by knocking on their door before entering, being sensitive to who is around when your child is being examined or having a procedure, and asking your child if it’s okay to share information with outsiders before doing so., Older children may feel isolated and lonely in the hospital. Help them keep in touch with friends over the phone or internet so they feel more connected to their regular life and routine. You can use a smart phone with FaceTime or a similar videophone app, if you have one available.


If your child is well enough to have visitors, encourage them to ask their friends to come visit. This can really lift their spirits and be a good distraction. Remember that some hospitals have limits on the ages and number of visitors in a room at a time.

