 It is important that you have this conversation at a moment when your mom has time to talk to you about it. Avoid bringing it up when she is too busy, because she is more likely to say “no” so that she can get on with what she was doing. If you choose a moment when she has some time, you can have a longer and more productive conversation.Don’t ask in the morning when she is getting ready for work and you have to get to school.
Try talking to her when you are on a car ride or eating dinner.
Suggest that the two of you go for a walk.
Make sure that she is in a good mood. If she already seems stressed, it is not a good time for the conversation.;
, Give her a little nudge to get her started, throw in your angle to move her along, and reduce any friction which may stop her from buying you the toy you want. Nudge her by mentioning the toy a few times before you ask her to buy it.
Your angle should be personal reasons why the toy is important to you.
Reduce friction by keeping the conversation positive. If your mom tells you “no,” stay calm and listen to her reasons. If you argue, she will get defensive.
 Throwing a fit is only going to upset you and your mom. It is important that you stay calm and ask nicely in order to keep the conversation going. If you get angry, it will shut down the conversation.If you get frustrated, take a few deep breaths.
Don't interrupt.
When you are tempted to argue, let her talk instead and listen to what she has to say.
 Don’t just talk about how cool it is or how much you want it. Think about it from your mom’s point of view. What will she get out of it if she spends her money on your toy?It will keep you occupied so you don’t bother her when she is busy.
Is there something you can learn from this toy? Maybe it will teach you something or improve a skill.
 This will help you really get your thoughts in order. It will also show your mom how much time and thought you have put into the conversation, proving to her how much you want the toy.Bring your writing with you when you have the conversation so you remember everything you want to say.
 If you are having a hard time convincing your mom to get you the toy, get another adult to talk to her. Instead of just telling your mom that your friend has the toy, have your friend’s mother call yours to talk to her about why she bought the toy for her kid.Another adult can have more influence on your mom than you can. Talk to adults in your life about how much you want the toy and ask them to talk to your mom for you.
Other people who may be able to convince your mom are your dad and your grandparents.

