 If you are having difficulty repaying your car loan or mortgage, your lender or another lender may be willing to refinance your loan. Generally, refinancing means that you get a new loan with a longer payoff time or lower interest rate so that your monthly loan payments are less expensive and therefore affordable. Your new loan is used to pay off any outstanding loan. So long as you can make your new loan payments, you are not at risk for foreclosure or repossession.


It may be difficult to refinance your car loan, unless the lender is willing to extend out your payments. For example, if your original loan was supposed to be paid off in 3 years but your loan company is willing to extend your payments to 5 years, you can lower your monthly payments.
Over the life of the loan you will be paying more to the creditor. However, in the short term your car won’t be repossessed.
When deciding whether to refinance, it is important to ask your lender what costs or fees will be associated with the refinanced loan and whether your have to pay those fees up front., If you are having difficulty making payments, you can apply for a home loan modification from your lender. Some lenders would rather change the terms of your loan rather than go through the foreclosure process. You must contact your lender and ask what the process is for applying for a home loan modification.


If your loan modification application is submitted at least 15 days before the scheduled foreclosure sale date, a lender must review you application. If you are approved for a modification, the lender cannot foreclose unless you decline or breach the terms of the modification.
Applying for a modification can delay foreclosure since several states and the federal government have enacted laws that prohibit the lender from proceeding with foreclosure until it has made a decision on your application. These states include: California, Nevada, and Minnesota., If you are unable to make your loan payments for a temporary reason, such as you have not yet started a new job, you should contact your lender and apply for a loan forbearance. While some lenders have forbearance programs already in place, other lenders may be willing to negotiate a temporary period during which you do not repay your loan. Once this forbearance period is over, you are expected to restart your loan payments.


Many lenders are willing to offer loan forbearance for a temporary hardship in order to avoid the costly and time consuming process of repossession.
You can check your lender’s website to see whether they have forbearance information online. If not, call your lender and discuss your options for a temporary hardship forbearance., The federal government has several programs to assist homeowners who are having difficulty making their mortgage payments. These programs may lower your payment based on your income, help you develop a plan to repay missed payments, or refinance your loans.


The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) is a government-sponsored program that gives homeowners a way to lower their payments on their first mortgage.You can apply online for HAMP at https://www.makinghomeaffordable.gov/steps/pages/step-2-program-hamp.aspx.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) provides free counseling and assistance for people who are having difficulty making their mortgage payments.You can contact an approved HUD counselor by phone at: 888-995-4673.
The federal Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) helps people, who have equity in their home, to refinance their mortgage.You can check whether you are eligible for HARP at: http://www.harp.gov/eligibility.

