 Be enthusiastic. No matter how much your feet hurt from dancing all night, keep smiling. Deal out hugs like there's no tomorrow (within reason) and never lose faith in the honoured tradition of PLUR(R) (Peace, Love, Unity, Respect, Responsibility).;
, Candy ravers are famed for dressing in bright, punchy, neon colors. When raving, try to be practical and not pile on the clothing because it's going to get hot. Tutu skirts are a good option. They are cute and give your legs lots of freedom to move. Cargo trousers (pants) are another rave essential as the large pockets on them can hold bottles of water, candy and anything else you care to sneak in. A brightly colored tee and a pair of customised jeans are a great look. Details tend to be fluffy, or are related to kids' characters such as Care Bears or Hello Kitty.
 Fluffies are fabulous and easy to make. They are available online as well.
 A feather boa makes a great accessory.
 Preferably choose one that has lots of pony beads in it; pony beads are a staple of kandi. Make as many elasticized bracelets (categorized as singles - single strand bracelets, doubles - a double stranded bracelets, phatties - triple stranded bracelets, cuffs - x base, UFO, cage, epic, and ones that display pictures are all subcategories of the cuff, etc.) and necklaces as you can, and put them on before going out.


A big priority of them is making them able to make noise when you dance. Try adding bells, cute charms, or toys to them.
Pacifiers are also common but be aware that they are considered drug paraphernalia as they are intended to prevent teeth-grinding while on x.
Oftentimes, kandi is made in day-glo colors, along with other colors to make them pop (for example, baby pink and green on navy blue and baby blue, red, cyan, and yellow on black and white, rainbow on white n glo in the dark, etc.).
Get creative and have fun with your beads.
 Try putting on neon colors and contrast them with black eyeliner.
 Glitter and colour sprays are cheap and easy to work with, plus give good results and come in a variety of colours. Look online or in party stores for hairsprays, Halloween, and glow-in-the-dark makeup.
 They're pretty much every Kandi Kid's favorite kind of music. It's fun, fast-paced and upbeat. It helps you get happy and makes you dance!

,, Candy is an essential when raving, and Kandi Kids seem to be constantly hyper. Candy necklaces are great as they fulfill both definitions of raver candy. Lollipops (suckers) are another essential.
 Or, trade bracelets with another kandi kid - this is one of the fundamentals of being a kandi kid. This is called a kandi trade. The easiest and most common way to do it is to interlace fingers with the other person and slide it over your hand and onto their wrist.
 After all, you have candy!

