 Do not put off studying. This will only make the exam more stressful. You will better retain information if you space out your studying over a period of weeks. In the weeks leading up the exam, make sure that you make studying a priority.Study a little bit each day. Stick to brief 20 to 50 minute study sessions in the weeks leading up to the exam.
Review your notes after class. Read over your notes right after class or at least on the same day that you took them. This will help you better remember information you learned during lectures.
 It's important to know what the stakes are. You want to understand how serious the exam is, and how much it will affect your final grade. However, try not to let the serious nature of the exam overwhelm you.If you need to pass the test to pass the course, then it is understandable that you might be feeling worried. However, keep in mind that if you do not pass the exam, then retaking the course is still an option.
Try your best, but understand you may not do as well on the exam as you hoped. A grade that's less than perfect might be upsetting, but remember that it is not the end of the world. You can always learn from the grade and set a goal to do better on your next exam.
 It's a bad idea to keep any stress you're having bottled up. If you're nervous about an exam, let friends and family members know. Venting can help you get stress out of your system.Are you close to other students in your class? If so, talk over your concerns about the test with them. It's likely that other people are dealing with the same levels of stress and may be able to relate.
Vent to your close friends and family members. These people can support you as you prepare for the exam, and may even have solid suggestions for coping.
 If you're struggling with test materials, it's important not to panic. For example, if you are struggling to understand an equation that will be on a math exam, then beating yourself up will only make it worse. Instead of flying into panic mode, be proactive. Seek help to overcome this setback.Talk to your teacher, a tutor, or other students. Find someone who can help you address the issue and receive a good grade on the exam.
Deal with the issue head on. Panic and avoidance are unlikely to help with your stress level.

