 If the victim has stopped breathing or has no pulse, either from drowning or from sudden cardiac arrest, perform CPR on the victim if you know how. Do not attempt it if you don't know how to do it, but keep yelling for help if help has not come yet to maximize your chances of finding someone who knows how to do CPR. Even if the person appears to be dead, do not give up. Icy water can lower body temperature and slow down body functions, and just because the person isn't moving or responding doesn't mean he isn't alive and in need of help., If the victim is breathing and conscious, bring him or her inside or somewhere warm. He may need to be treated for shock as soon as possible. Remove wet clothes and immerse the person in lukewarm water that's no warmer than 90° Fahrenheit, 32° Celsius at first; gradually warm the water up later. Immersing a victim of hypothermia in water that is too warm can cause dangerous heart rhythms. If warm water is not immediately available, wrap the person in blankets.Though you may think that giving the person something warm to eat or drink will help him, you should not give any food or drink to a person who is still in shock and unable to eat or drink.
 Even if the victim feels fine, he or she should still be examined by a medical professional. Though you have rescued the victim from the ice, you're not out of the woods quite yet. The repercussions of falling through ice, even for a few minutes, can be deadly. The person may be suffering from frostbite or a number of other complications., If you want to prevent future falls through the ice, you should always know the thickness of the ice where you'll be fishing, walking, snowboarding, or doing whatever it is you do on the ice. You can check the thickness of the ice by using an ice chisel, ice auger, cordless drill, or tape measure, and by calling the local bait shop or lakeside resort to ask about the ice conditions in the area. Here are the appropriate thicknesses for each activity:2" (5 cm) or less: Stay off the ice. The ice is too thin and won't support your weight.
4" (10 cm): appropriate for ice fishing or other on-foot activities.
5" (12.5 cm): okay for a snowmobile or ATV.
8" - 12" (20.5 - 30.5 cm): okay for a car or a small pickup.
12" - 15": (20.5 - 38 cm) appropriate for a medium-sized truck.

