


Most people can remember details that are important to them. Their own birthday, children's birthdays and amount of income are all things few people forget. This is because they have a personal interest in the date or amount.
When using word games to recall information, make the words relate to, and revolve around, things you never forget.;
, Words are much easier to remember than numerals.


Change numbers to words. Use words such as none, twice as many, dozen, half dozen, my age plus one and baker's dozen.
 You are more likely to remember the words if they are funny to you. The crazier they are, the more memorable they will be.


Consider creating jokes to help remind you of the information.



Assign a letter to each word to create a new word or phrase.
 People remember songs and poems, because rhymes are more easily remembered.


Create rhymes to remember names such as Hannah banana, silly Billy and Ella bella.
 This works especially well with a lot of information that needs to be remembered in order, such as a speech.


Associate each step of your speech with a route or path that you travel often. Make the path and the order of the speech correlate.
Group the information to be remembered into smaller chunks.
Instead of trying to remember long pieces of information, use word games to group smaller pieces. This technique is often used with Social Security numbers by memorizing three numbers together in a group.



Associate shapes, sizes and even names with items. Remember twins in that one has an "oval shaped" face or recall the name Mike by associating him with a microphone.
 Songs are often easier for people to remember than paragraphs of information, even though they may have the same number of words.


Turn the information into a fun song to sing. One great example of remembering information is the song "The funny bone is connected to the ...".
 This works well when remembering how to spell words. Describing how the letters look is often a helpful way to remember. Consider the spelling of Mississippi which uses crooked letters and hump backs.

