 Mares have sebaceous glands that secrete oil on and around their udders. This oil will begin to mix with sweat and dirt over time and start to itch. If your mare seems to be trying to scratch or rub her udders a lot, she may appreciate a good cleaning!One sign that she’s feeling itchy is that she’s doing a lot of tail rubbing -- rubbing her tail on fences or posts frequently.;
, Check to see if there is a brownish black buildup around her udders or vulva. It will look a lot like dirt. A visible buildup means that it’s time to clean your mare’s udders and genitals.
 It’s perfectly normal for all skin surfaces on horses (like humans) to have bacteria that help maintain the health of the skin by warding off harmful microbes. Cleaning your horse too often will remove this good bacteria and cause dry skin that may chap and crack or even become infected. If you suspect that your mare has developed an infection from overly dry skin, call a vet immediately. She may need an antibiotic.
Some vets recommend that you begin by cleaning your mare’s udders and private parts twice a year and then decide from there (through careful observation) whether you need to do this more or less often.
 You’ll need a gentle cleanser (like Ivory or Dawn dishwashing liquid) in a bucket of warm water. You may also want to wear thin, disposable gloves. You’ll need at least two things to wash with (one for the udders and another for the genitals). You can use either a cotton cloth or some very soft paper towels. Get a soft towel or some flannel to dry her with as well. A sponge is also an option for washing with, but you should dispose of it after a few uses, because bacteria will accumulate on it. Label it carefully so that you don’t accidentally use it for any other purpose!
Some people recommend that you also wear a hard hat and boots with sturdy (preferably steel toe-capped) boots., Most vets recommend that you do this on a wash rack so that you have warm water readily available and so that your mare doesn’t get distracted by other horses or people.You can either tie her to the wash rack or have an assistant hold her. If you choose to use a helper, pick someone your horse is already familiar and comfortable with. This is not the right time to introduce her to someone new.
If she’s a bit skittish, you may want to save this procedure for a time when she’s tired.
 It’s very dangerous to dive right in and handle your mare’s udders without warning her. If you startle her, she may kick you, particularly if she is not used to this kind of cleaning.A good way to acclimate her to your presence is to place your hand on the mare’s belly. Make sure she feels comfortable with you in this position. Give her a few minutes to acclimate to your hand on her before diving in with the cloth. It’s also a good idea to have someone hold her for you while you do this.
Stay to the side of her. Don’t stand behind her, or you are more likely to put yourself in the kick zone. Some people like to let their mare smell the sponge or cloth before they wash her with it. This may help your horse acclimate to the cleaning and understand what’s happening next time.
 You will need to lift and separate the folds. Mares tend to get a dry buildup around their udders, which you should gently remove. Be sure the water stays relatively warm, and wash very gently without scratching at the buildup. It’s a good idea to keep your hand on her back or belly to feel for signs that she’s tensing up and getting ready to kick you.
Don’t scratch or pick at anything that doesn’t come off. You could startle or hurt her. Instead, soak the area with water, and come back to it later.
You may find that it’s easier to clean the udders of mares who have not foaled. If your mare has given birth, she will likely have larger udders and nipples, and dirt will accumulate around them more often. She may need a more frequent washing than a mare who has not foaled.This is also a good time to check for any abnormal swelling, wounds, or bleeding on her udders. Call your vet if you feel anything unusual.
 You may want to use a completely separate cloth or sponge for extra careful rinsing. You may also want to repeat the washing procedure again if you see any buildup left behind. Some horses may tolerate a rinse with a garden hose, but try this very carefully, because the hose water may be too cool or too forceful and startle her or cause discomfort.
 Use a fresh, clean sponge so that you don’t transfer bacteria from one part of her body to another. If the water got very dirty, you may also want to get fresh warm water and add more soap. Don’t forget to rinse carefully. Never use any soap internally on your mare. You don’t need to wash inside of her vagina at all. The vagina is “self-cleaning,” and you could give her an infection by introducing chemicals. Stick with external genitalia only - wash carefully around both sides of her labia.
Only use gentle, non irritating soaps like Ivory or Dawn dishwashing liquid. If it’s irritating to your hands, it’s probably irritating to her her body as well!
Even if she will tolerate the hose on her udders, your mare may not allow you to use it on her genitals.
Check for unusual swelling, wounds, or bleeding. Particularly if she has just given birth, check for a “tipped vulva,” Her vulva should sit directly below her anus. If her vulva is jutting out below her anus, she could get an infection because feces will tend to collect on her labia. Call your vet if you notice anything out of the ordinary., Remove any small, waxy “beans” that have built up. (Be very careful during this part, because this is the time when she is most likely to kick.), Dry her gently. Use a soft towel or flannel. Be sure to dry inside any folds that you washed so that moisture doesn’t build up. Praise her or reward her with treats as you dry her.

