 Then we have the Gateway of India which is the symbolic icon of the city. Near the Gateway of India there is the Colaba Causeway which is filled with roadside stalls where the bargaining skills have to put to practice or else you are ripped off. There are cruises from the Gateway of India every half an hour which are really good. There are some cruises to the Elephanta Caves where you can find lots of monkeys and the age old caves.;
, For people who love museums and galleries, there is Prince of Wales museum now known as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Sastu Sangrahalaya, the National Gallery of Modern Art and the Jehangir Art Gallery, all of these are located in the Kala Ghoda area in south Mumbai. Mumbai has beaches like Girgaon Chowpaty, Juhu beach and Aksa Beach in Malad but the water in these beaches are really dirty. Though the food stalls set in these beaches are mouthwatering. But if you feel like going for beaches and are ready to travel 2-4 hours, there are beautiful, clean beaches like Kashid, Kihim and little less clean but beautiful beaches like Murud and Alibag. For people interested in amusement or theme parks there is the Essel World and Water Kingdom near Gorai beach.
 For the city which doesn’t sleep the best time is night. At night, the entire city lights up, its bars, cafes, restaurants pulls people of all ages. Some of the best ones are Café Mondegar, Indigo, Leopold, Olive Bar and Kitchen, Not Just Jazz., Dome, etc. Watching the Marine Drive or popularly called the “Queen’s Necklace” at night is a delight. Watching this beautiful promenade during sunset is breath taking. Marine Drive is one the costliest place to live, not only in India, but in the world. Many celebrities’ houses and 5-star hotels are located along the Marine Drive.
 The variety of food available includes Indian varieties like Punjabi, Mughlai, North Indian, South Indian, Malvani, Goan, Gujarati, Udupi, Jain, Kashmiri etc to international cuisine like Continental, Mexican, Italian, Chinese, Thai, etc. It has all major food chains like Pizza Hut, Dominos, Mc Donalds, etc. The local fast food like vada pav, bhel puri, pani puri, shev puri, etc is all worth giving a try. The spice and flavor of the food will surely activate the senses.
 Mumbai is the place for shopping with both the big state-of-art shopping malls and the roadside shopping streets. Choor Bazaar, Crawford market, Fashion Street, Dharavi market are known for the cheap and good products and only take being the art of bargaining. The shopping malls like In-Orbit, High Street Phoenix, Atria Millenium Mall, Oberoi Mall, Infiniti Mall, R-Mall, etc. provide everything from food, jewelry, clothes, electronics, video games, bowling alley, etc. under one roof. Some shopping malls also have theaters where English, Hindi and regional language movies are played. Watching a Bollywood movie in theatre is a must if you go to Mumbai

, See the areas; from the elite to the middle class.

