 When you're faced with a blank sheet of paper and want to fill it with poetry, it's best to avoid rhymes entirely in the earliest draft. Trying to start with rhyme is a good way to end up with cat-hat-bat rhymes and bad poetry. Instead, write free verse or journal freely and see what comes up. What are you trying to say? Start with a line or an image that strikes you and start producing the raw material from which you might build a more structured formal rhyming poem.
 After you've written for a while, turn your piece of paper over, or open a new word processing document. Take your favorite line from your free write and write it at the top of the page. What struck you about this? What's good about it? Use that as a guide for a possible poem. Explore the premise or image that the line contains.


Often, a free write will end on a particularly good line you might want to use as a starting place. Look to the last few sentences for a guide line.
 If you want to write a formal poem, familiarize yourself with common rhyming forms and the uses of those forms to pick one that will work best for the theme of your poem.



Couplets, or heroic couplets, refer to any poem in which the poem rhymes every two lines. Used by poets from Milton to Frederick Seidel, couplets can create a sense of gravity and the epic.
A poem featuring quatrains, or four-line stanzas, may rhyme in a basic alternating rhyme scheme (ABAB) or other schemes. Ballads and songs are traditionally written in quatrains, making it a good form for telling stories or spinning musical tales.
In a villanelle, whole lines from the first stanza are repeated from one three-line stanza to the next, with the first and last line in the stanza rhyming, giving the poem a sense of inevitability, as if the poem were something you cannot escape from.

Sonnets are poems of 14 lines with a semi-complicated and pre-set rhyme scheme, with about 10 syllables or five beats per line. Most sonnets written in English are generally either Petrarchan (ABBA) or Shakespearean (ABAB, with a rhyming couplet for the last two lines). Sonnets often deal with rhetorical themes or "arguments," featuring a turn in the poem somewhere after the eighth line.
 Your rhymes should serve the poem, your poem should not serve the rhymes. Never rhyme for the sake of rhyming, or start a poem hoping to rhyme. This will result in forced "cat-hat-bat" types of rhymes that will undercut the poem, rather than add to it.


Paul Muldoon, an Irish poet, has a surprising rhyming style. His poem "The Old Country"is a crown of sonnets that features deft and surprising rhymes:

Every runnel was a Rubicon / and every annual a hardy annual / applying itself like linen to a lawn. / Every glove compartment held a manual.
 It can be difficult to write contemporary poems that rhyme well if you're only familiar with Shakespeare, Wordsworth, and Dr. Seuss. There's no reason to keep Twitter, Frosted Flakes, and Lil Wayne out of your poems because your verses are choked with "thous". Find some contemporary poets who employ rhymes in fresh but traditional ways:


Check out Michael Robbins, who in his great poem "Alien vs. Predator," creates a long string of wacky and associative musical rhymes from the cereal isle:


He's a space tree / making a ski and a little foam chiropractor. / I set the controls, I pioneer / the seeding of the ionosphere. / I translate the Bible into velociraptor.Read Ange Mlinko, a contemporary poet skilled enough to pull of rhyming potatoes with tattoos to end her poem "The Grind":spooning up Aphrodite / to Greek porticoes, and our potatoes, / and plain living which might be / shaken by infinitesimal tattoos.


"Casualty"by Seamus Heaney manages to be colloquial, narrative, musical, and incredibly easy to read. He's a great poet makes it seem effortless:

And raise a weathered thumb / Towards the high shelf, / Calling another rum / And blackcurrant, without / Having to raise his voice


David Trinidad--a poet who often writes about the pop culture of the 1960s--shows mastery of the villanelle form with his hilarious and poignant "Chatty Cathy Villanelle":


Our flag is red, white and blue. / Let’s make believe you’re Mommy. / When you grow up, what will you do?