 Your metabolism is affected by a variety of factors. There are several factors that you can control and change, and some factors that you can't.


Age - Metabolic rate decreases 5% each decade, after the age of 40 , partly because of decreased muscle mass.
Gender - Men generally burn calories more quickly than women because they have more muscle tissue.
Heredity - You can inherit your metabolic rate from previous generations.
Thyroid disorder - Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland) and hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid gland) can slow down or speed up metabolism. Talk to your doctor if you think you might have a thyroid disorder. This is especially important for women. Hormones and other factors can greatly increase the effort it takes to lose even a small amount of weight, and often conditions like PCOS go undiagnosed.
Weight - Different tissues of your body contribute different amounts to resting metabolism. Muscle contributes more than fat per unit mass and, because it is denser than fat, muscle contributes much more per unit volume..
Body size - Metabolic rate increases as weight, height, and surface area increase.
Body composition - Fat tissue has lower metabolic activity than muscle tissue. As lean muscle mass increases, metabolic rate increases.
Climate and body temperature - The base metabolic rate of people in tropical climates is generally 5 to 20 percent higher than their counterparts living in more temperate areas because it takes energy to keep the body cool. Exercise performed in hot weather also imposes an additional metabolic load. Body fat content and effectiveness of clothing determine the magnitude of increase in energy metabolism in cold environments; it takes energy to keep the body warm if you work or exercise in very cold weather.
 RMR is often used interchangeably with basal metabolic rate (BMR). Although they are slightly different, estimating either is sufficient for the purpose of losing weight. What these equations will show you is, that if you weigh more, your RMR will be higher! To calculate your RMR, use the Mifflin-St Jeor equation (which is more reliable than the Harris-Benedict equation). There are also calculators online that can do this for you:


RMR = 9.99w + 6.25s - 4.92a + 166g-161

w = weight in kilograms; if you know your weight in pounds, divide by 2.2 to get your weight in kilograms
s = height in centimeters; if you know your height in inches, multiply by 2.54 to get your height in centimeters
a = age in years
g = gender = 1 for males, 0 for females



, Your metabolism will slow down as you lose weight. The more weight your body is carrying, the more calories your body has to burn in order to sustain itself, even at rest. When you begin restricting your calorie intake, you'll lose weight relatively easily because your body's high caloric needs are not being met. But after you begin to shed the weight, the body has less mass to carry and thus needs fewer calories. In order to continue losing weight, you will have to restrict your caloric intake even further in order to maintain a difference between what your body needs and what you are providing. Let's go through a hypothetical example:


You are 200 lbs and your body needs 2500 calories a day to sustain itself. You cut down your caloric intake to 2000 calories.
You lose 25 lbs. Now your body only needs 2250 calories to sustain itself because it's carrying less weight.
If you continue with your 2000 calorie per day diet (the diet that helped you lose the first 25 lbs) you will still be losing, but at half the speed. In order to maintain a steady weight loss you will need to reduce your caloric intake further. However, it is at the utmost importance you do not try to consume fewer calories than your RMR!
No two people are the same, so there is no "one size fits all" caloric total. While the Harris Benedict Equation is universally accepted and as close to accurate as possible, you may need to experiment with your caloric intake to get the exact number that works best for you. Lowering your caloric total is not recommended unless you do not see change for two weeks. You need to give your body time to adapt.

