 Having medically accurate information about sex decreases the likelihood of unplanned pregnancy.Try websites like Scarleteen and Planned Parenthood to teach yourself in detail about contraception, responsibilities, pressure, and the emotional aspects of relationships. You should be able to understand your own anatomy, know exactly how to put on a condom, recognize warning signs of pressure and abuse, and know how to say "no" to a partner.


Consent needs to be clear and continuous. Get consent before engaging in a sexual act, and make sure you have it all the time. If you don't want to or change your mind, say no. If your partner becomes angry, disrespectful, or aggressive if you say no, this is a major red flag.
 No matter how you decide to go about preventing unwanted pregnancies, it's important that you have a solid plan. Think about what methods will be the easiest for you to use and the most effective. Remember that most birth control methods require consistent and correct usage.


Be sure to talk with your sexual partner about your birth control plan. Let him know that you expect him to play an active role in preventing unwanted pregnancies.
It is not acceptable for your partner to refuse to take part in your pregnancy prevention plan. If he refuses to wear a condom or use other methods of birth control, do not have sex with him., Abstaining from sexual intercourse is the only way to guarantee that you will not become pregnant. This is not the right choice for everyone, as it requires a lot of discipline.It is important to consider your situation, and only become sexually active if and when you feel ready for the responsibilities involved.


Keep in mind that penetration is not always needed to become pregnant. Anytime sperm comes in contact with the vagina, pregnancy is a possibility.
Having only oral sex will prevent pregnancy, but it will not prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
It's a good idea to have a backup plan if you are abstinent. Many couples become pregnant because they planned on being abstinent, but then had sex with no protection. Consider taking hormonal contraceptives or keeping a barrier contraceptive handy just in case your abstinence plan fails.
 Hormonal contraceptives work by releasing hormones into your body that prevent you from becoming pregnant. You need a prescription for hormonal contraceptives in the United States. These methods can be expensive, but many types are covered by insurance.The most common kind of hormonal contraceptive is the oral contraceptive or birth control pill. Some pills contain estrogen and progestin, while others contain progestin only. You must take the pill every day in order for it to be effective.
The birth control ring is inserted into the vagina for three weeks, then removed for a week and replaced with a new ring. The birth control ring releases hormones into your body that prevent pregnancy, but you must remember to remove and reinsert the ring on schedule.
The birth control patch is a small, flexible patch that sticks on to your skin and releases hormones into your body. You wear the patch for three weeks, then remove it for a week and replace it with a new patch. As with the ring, you must remember to remove and replace your patch on schedule in order to effectively prevent pregnancy.
 If you are worried about having to remember to take a pill every day or change a patch every month, there are other hormonal birth control options that may work better for you. A quick visit to your doctor can keep you protected against pregnancy for months or even years at a time.The birth control shot is a hormonal injection that is given at your doctor's office. It is effective for one to three months and you must remember to get each shot on time in order to avoid getting pregnant.
The birth control implant is one of the most effective kind of hormonal contraceptive because it works for years without you having to think about it at all. The implant is small rod that is implanted under the skin of your arm by your doctor. It slowly releases hormones that prevent you from getting pregnant for up to three years.Intrauterine devices (IUDs) are also highly effective and long-lasting forms of birth control. These are tiny devices that your doctor implants into your uterus. They release either hormones or copper into your body, which prevents eggs from implanting into your uterus. They prevent pregnancy for five to 10 years, depending on the type., Condoms are a simple to use and very effective at preventing pregnancy when used properly. Using condoms is also the only way to prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) if you are sexually active. You should always use condoms even if you are using another birth control method.Male condoms are typically made of latex and they fit over the man's penis to prevent the exchange of bodily fluids during sexual intercourse.
Female condoms are also available. These work in a similar way as male condoms, but they are placed inside the woman's vagina. They are not quite as effective as male condoms.
Using condoms along with another birth control method will further reduce your risk of becoming pregnant.
 Spermicide is a chemical that helps prevent pregnancy by killing sperm. It is available over the counter at drug stores in a variety of forms, including gels and creams. Spermicide is not a highly effective method of birth control on its own, but it can further reduce your risk of pregnancy when combined with other barrier methods.Some condoms contain spermicide for added protection.
 You can also prevent pregnancy by using a diaphragm or cervical cap, which is placed inside the vagina before sex to block sperm from entering the cervix.You must see a doctor to be fitted for these devices, as every woman's anatomy is slightly different.
Diaphragms and cervical caps typically must be used in conjunction with spermicide to be effective.
 If you are absolutely sure that you do not want to get pregnant now or ever, you can consider seeing a doctor to have a surgical sterilization procedure. This will prevent you from getting pregnant for the rest of your life, so only use this option if you're sure you won't change your mind about wanting to get pregnant in the future.There are two different kinds of female sterilization, both of which can be performed as outpatient procedures. With tubal ligation, the fallopian tubes are tied closed, which prevents eggs from coming in contact with sperm. With transcervical sterilization, the fallopian tubes are irritated with an instrument, which causes them to form scar tissue that prevents eggs from traveling through them. This type of sterilization can take several months to be effective.
If you have only one sexual partner, he can get sterilized by having a vasectomy. This is an outpatient procedure that prevents a man's sperm from reaching his penis. It is highly effective, although not 100%.
 If your regular birth control plan fails, there are still ways to prevent pregnancy. Emergency contraceptives should be taken within five days of unprotected sex, but they are more effective the sooner they are taken.There are several different kinds of emergency contraceptive pills available, some of which can be purchased over the counter. These pills do not cause abortions if you are already pregnant; they prevent you from becoming pregnant.
Emergency contraceptive pills can be purchased at most pharmacies without a prescription, and they are also available at women's health clinics like Planned Parenthood.There is also an emergency copper IUD available. You will need to see a doctor to have this inserted.
If you need more information about emergency contraceptives or where to find them, consult Princeton University's Emergency Contraception Website or call their hotline at 1-888-NOT-2-LATE.Emergency contraceptives should not be your primary method of birth control because emergency contraceptives are not as effective as other methods of birth control. For example, if you miss a birth control pill or your condom breaks, you should consider taking emergency contraceptives.

