 Ask the student what type of person they would feel comfortable working with. Establish what learning styles they are comfortable using. Likewise, determine if there is a type of person that they might find difficult to work with. There may not be one ideal type of tutor for your teen, but you can still establish important preferences and parameters.


Some teens will respond best to someone who is only one level ahead of them in school. A high school student may be an effective and affordable option to work with a middle-school student. A school employment office may have contacts for these tutors, or you can look for postings on local community listings.
 A good tutor will be able to explain what they do and why. Ask questions that will establish if their approach fits your student’s needs and preferences. This can be an open discussion in which you provide context for the tutor and they adjust their plan for the specific needs of the student.


Establish fundamental points such as whether tutoring is one-on-one or done in groups, how the tutor would deal with the specific student’s needs, and how much experience they have., An established tutor will be able to name satisfied customers. If you found the tutor through the recommendation of other students in your area, mention the good word of mouth and ask if they can provide an additional reference. If the tutor has few references, ask whether they have any relevant certifications.
 If you expect that your teen will be uncooperative, look for a more experienced tutor. A teen who is motivated and disciplined will work well with an enthusiastic tutor, even if they are less experienced. A shy teenager may not work well with an outgoing tutor, but a teenager with a high need for attention may thrive with an outgoing tutor who takes a personal interest in their progress.


A student who challenges ideas and authority needs a confident tutor who can respond without feeling threatened. Ask a potential tutor what strategies they use to respond to difficult students., Positive results of tutoring will not always show immediately, so it is important to check that the working relationship between the student and tutor is good. Discuss reasonable goals with the tutor, check progress regularly, and ask how you can contribute to your teen’s learning.A student that is struggling academically may express frustration with tutoring sessions. If your teen complains, determine whether their frustration stems from the difficulty of the material, or from a conflict with their tutor. A good connection between a tutor and student takes time to develop, but do not ignore interpersonal conflicts.

