 Keeping your lips hydrated will allow them to maintain a healthy pink glow. This is especially important in very hot or cold weather, which can be extremely drying on lips.









Apply a moisturizing lip balm before you go to bed each night, and opt for hydrating lipsticks during the day.
Petroleum jelly is a great, cheap product for moisturizing lips, while also giving them a slight glossy shine. Beeswax based products are also extremely hydrating.
If you you prefer more natural moisturization methods, try rubbing a little honey on your lips (just don't lick it off) or a little aloe vera gel.
You can also keep your lips hydrated by drinking lots of water -- ideally six to eight glasses per day.
 Exfoliation is a great way to lighten dark lips as it removes the discolored outer layers of skin and reveals the soft pink underneath.









Make your own lip scrub by mixing a teaspoon of olive oil and a teaspoon of sugar. Apply this mixture to your lips, using your fingers to gently rub it in. Rinse away to reveal beautifully soft lips.
Alternatively, you can exfoliate your lips using the bristles on your toothbrush. Simply dampen your lips, then gently rub the bristles of the brush over the lips using small, circular motions.
You should exfoliate your lips at least once a week using one of the methods described above. Just remember to always moisturize after exfoliating.
 Exposing your lips to sunlight with no SPF protection may cause them to become darkly pigmented (not to mention dry, cracked and sore).









Therefore, it's important to protect your lips from harmful UVA and UVB rays by wearing a lip balm that contains an SPF when you're out and about during the day., Drinking too much black tea and coffee can stain the lips, causing them to look darker.


Try to cut down on your black tea and coffee intake by switching to green or white teas instead.
Alternatively (if you need your caffeine fix) you could try drinking your morning coffee through a straw. This will allow the liquid to bypass your lips (and teeth) and prevent them from becoming stained.
 If you're concerned about the dark color of your lips, one of the first steps you should take is to quit smoking.


Nicotine in the smoke stains your lips, leaving them dark and dull. In addition, smoking lowers the amount of oxygenated blood that reaches your face, which can leave your lips looking pale and thin.
Quitting is not easy, but you can do it if you are willing to persevere. Quitting will not only improve the appearance of your lips, it will also improve the health of your skin, hair and internal organs and help to prevent premature aging. For more information on giving up smoking, see this article.
 Massage is a good way to stimulate blood flow to your lips, which can help them to look fuller and lighter in color.









Take a little natural oil (such as almond or coconut oil) and rub it into your lips, using your index fingers to gently massage them with small circular motions.
Alternatively, your can take an ice cube and massage it gently into the lips. The cold ice will bring blood to the surface, leaving your lips looking red and full.
 There are many home remedies designed to lighten dark lips and make them rosy and full -- experiment with some of the remedies described below until you find one that works for you.



Lemon juice: The citric acid in lemon juice is a natural bleaching agent. Apply lemon juice directly onto lips, mix it to half strength with water or blend with a little honey before applying to lips. Just be sure to moisturize afterwards, as lemon juice can be drying.

Potato juice: Potatoes contain an enzyme called catecholase which can be used to lighten dark skin and lips. Simply cut a slice from a potato and rub the exposed flesh over the lips.Honey and rose petals: Take 4 or 5 pink or red rose petals, wash them, then crush them using a mortar and pestle. Mix in just enough honey to form a paste, then apply the paste to the lips twice a day. The honey will moisturize the lips, while the rose petals will stain them a pretty pink or red.

Glycerin: Glycerin can help to prevent dark lips and eliminate dry spots caused by dryness. Use a cotton bud to dab a couple of drops of glycerin onto your lips every night before bed.

Beetroot: Beetroot juice helps to restore a bright, healthy color to lips thanks to its vibrant purple color. Simply dab the juice directly onto the lips, then apply a light moisturizing lip balm.