 Add 1 tablespoon of butter to your pan and turn the heat on to medium-high heat. Let the butter melt and heat your pan. You can cook your frittata in a 12-inch nonstick saute pan or cast-iron skillet. The pan doesn't have to have shallow sides since you won't be flipping or folding the frittata.Make sure the pan you use is oven-safe since you'll be finishing the frittata in the oven or under the broiler.;
, As the butter melts and your pan heats up, add any pre-cooked vegetables and meat to quickly warm them up (about 2 minutes). You can use leftover vegetables or meat that you have in your refrigerator. Spread them so they form a single layer on the bottom of the pan.You can start with 1/2 cup of veggies and 1/2 cup of meat, although you can add more if you'd like to make a bigger frittata.
If you're cooking raw vegetables, be sure to completely cook the vegetables (the time will vary depending on what veggies you're using).
 Add 1 ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, 6 whole eggs, and 1 teaspoon of ground black pepper into a mixing bowl. Whisk the mixture until it's completely combined.








You can transfer or make the base in a mixing bowl with a pouring spout. This can make it easier to pour the egg mixture into your pan.
 Pour the egg base evenly in your pan so that it touches any vegetables and meats you're using. Stir and cook the frittata over medium-high heat for 4 or 5 minutes. The eggs will just start to firm up. If you want to use any chopped fresh herbs, sprinkle them over the top now.


Use a heat-proof rubber spatula to stir the eggs. This will also prevent the spatula from scraping and ruining the bottom of your nonstick pan.
 If you'd like to ensure a golden color on the top of your frittata, heat your broiler to high and place the frittata under the broiler for 2 to 4 minutes. The frittata should brown and puff up. If you're not comfortable with broiling, you could bake the frittata to finish it. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Bake your frittata for 8 to 10 minutes or until the eggs are set.








Broiling the frittata will also create a crispy top. Just keep a close eye while broiling the frittata since it will finish cooking very quickly.
 A frittata made with a 12-inch pan and 6 eggs can get between 6 and 8 slices. Slice the frittata using a sharp knife or pizza cutter. You can serve the frittata hot, right out of the oven or cooled to room temperature.








Always take care when using sharp knives. You should also remember to use oven mitts to take your frittata out of the oven or from under the broiler.
 While it's true that you can use whatever cheese you happen to have in your refrigerator, choosing a specific cheese or two will give your frittata a distinctive flavor. These cheeses are known for the following characteristics:Feta: use this cheese if you want a sharp, salty flavor.
Ricotta: use just a little of this cheese for a really creamy taste.
Goat cheese: pick this cheese for a tart and rich flavor.
Cheddar: choose this cheese for its great melting quality and traditional taste.
Smoked gouda or mozzarella: a smoked cheese can make your frittata taste richer.
 It's easier and faster to use leftover vegetables that have already been cooked. Roasted vegetables have an extra dimension of caramelized sweetness that works really well in a frittata. Of course, if you want to cook your vegetables in the frittata, ensure that they're totally cooked before you add the egg base to your pan. Good vegetables for frittatas include:








Diced potatoes
Roasted or grilled asparagus
Diced onion
Broccoli
Bell pepper (can be roasted)
Sliced mushrooms
Sliced leeks
Fresh herbs: like parsley, oregano, basil

, Although you can cook raw vegetables in the frittata pan, you should really use already cooked meats when making the frittata. Frittatas don't need much meat, so you can use a combination of whatever meats you have left in your refrigerator. Try using:Shredded chicken, beef or pork
Diced ham or sausage
Crumbled bacon
Tofu

, Many classic Italian frittatas use a variety of cheeses. You can even use a high-quality ricotta for a light and creamy frittata. Italian frittatas also use rich meats. Try one of these cured meats:Salami
Soppressata
Mortadella
Prosciutto

, If you're planning on serving the frittata as a main dish, you can make it even more filling by adding leftover pasta. Use cooked pasta that isn't covered in sauce or the frittata may not set up properly. You'll want to add about one cup of pasta along with your other ingredients.Rice is another good starch option to add some substance to your frittata. Add 1 cup of cooked rice along with your other ingredients.
 Although frittatas are great on their own, you can round out your meal by serving the frittata with toast and gourmet cheeses. For something more exciting, you could serve the frittata with arugula (a peppery leafy green) or sauteed greens.


If your frittata is very creamy, greens can offset some of the richness.
 A frittata made in a 12" pan will make 6 to 8 slices of frittata. But if you want to feed more people, you can make a frittata in a 9x13" pan which will serve 8 to 10 people. To make a larger frittata, saute your veggies, meats, and other add-in ingredients before placing them in a greased 9x13" pan. Beat 12 eggs with about 1/4 cup of milk and pour it in your pan. Sprinkle cheese over the frittata and bake it at 375 degrees F (190 degrees C) for 45 minutes.Let the frittata cool for a few minutes before cutting it into as many squares as you like.
 To make the sandwiches, bake a 9x13" frittata for a crowd. Use biscuit cutters to cut out rounds of frittata. Sandwich a frittata circle between a slice of cheese and sliced English muffin. To make frittata muffins, simply divide the frittata batter in a greased muffin tin. Bake the mini frittata muffins at 350 degrees F (170 degrees C) for 25 to 30 minutes. Serve these immediately.You can also let the sandwiches or muffins cool completely, wrap them individually and freeze them.
