 It can be challenging, and sometimes awkward, to walk up to a person and start a conversation, but taking that first step is a great way to make new friends. In most cases, the person you're talking with will be happy to chat.


If you see someone that you’re interested in chatting with, politely greet the person. Start talking about the activity that the two of you are partaking in at that moment, such as watching your kids at the park or waiting in line for coffee.
If the person seems interested, keep the ball rolling. Talk about anything and everything. General topics such as movies, tv, books, sports, and so on are generally fun to talk about with anyone. Mention your favorites and be sure to ask them about their favorites. Keep the conversation light, open, and fun.
 It may be difficult to relate to someone that you just met, but making the effort to be personable allows your potential new buddy to be comfortable around you. Comfort creates openness. Creating an atmosphere of comfort can decrease the awkwardness of talking to a stranger and can make interaction a pleasant experience.


Practice good, active listening skills. Once your potential new friend begins to open up, actively listen and ask questions. Listening will help you pay attention to important details that will help with putting you on the right track towards developing a friendship.
Don't put too much pressure on the interaction. If the other person doesn't seem to be interested in talking, don't push it.
 Start things on the right foot by being genuinely interested in whomever you’re conversing with. The only connections that will work are the ones you really care about. Being yourself is key when it comes to making friends.
 If all goes well, it's fine to take it to the next level and see if the person wants to hang out again. You can exchange numbers and make a concrete plan for spending some time together.


When you ask the person to hang out, have a low-key activity in mind. For example, if you met waiting in line for coffee, ask if the person wants to have coffee with you in a few days. That way, you'll both be in your comfort zone when it's time to hang out.
If the person shies away from hanging out, try not to take it personally. Not everyone is open to making new friends on the spot.

