 While out of the company's main building, you may find yourself setting up in a variety of places: home office, car, coffee shop, or hotel room. Your location will determine many of the technologies and systems you will need.


Keep frequently used items at hand when deciding how to organize a mobile office so you do not have to search for them. These items could include paper, pens, paperclips, memory sticks, or a three-hole punch.
Rent or pay for services that you only use occasionally, such as copying or color printing. This allows you to keep a low overhead, increasing your profit.;
, Then provide the necessary equipment and support for you and the team to use this technology well. Examples include laptop computers, tablets, portable printers, chargers, and mini power strips.


Find software applications for devices you already use, such as your smartphone or tablet. Since you are familiar with your device, it will be easier to take the next step as you go mobile.
Explore cloud-based products that allow collaboration. Even when team members are in different locations, they can still work together on projects through virtual conferencing or document management systems.
 Mobile devices enable clients and coworkers to reach you anytime, anywhere. However, by setting guidelines, you can provide a healthy work environment and model healthy boundaries to the rest of your team.


Communicate your expected work hours for the week with your team. Better yet, set regular hours so that your colleagues as well as your clients know when they can reach you in your mobile office.
Disconnect from your phone and communication devices when you are "off hours" so you can separate work and your personal life. Almost all emails and voice mails can wait until the following day for you to answer them.
 A mobile office allows for greater flexibility in your schedule, but it also challenges you to be responsible with your time, and not let it impede on your personal life. You may also have to be persistent about fighting distractions especially if you are working from home; work to prevent yourself from taking care of personal or household matters during work hours.


As in any office setting, use a calendar or planner to organize your time. Missing an important appointment, being late, or double-booking yourself causes unnecessary stress in your life and is unprofessional. By using a calendar, you remember meetings with important clients and can decide what projects you will work on each day.
Set aside an hour every day to handle tasks like responding to email and voice mail, following up with colleagues or clients, and charting your progress on larger projects.
Handle information one time. For example, once you read an email, take action by responding, filing, or deleting it. Refuse to let messages pile up in your inbox.

