 When selecting yarn for your project, make sure you read labels carefully. You want to make sure you're getting high quality yarn that works for your specific project needs.Watch the dye and color numbers. The dyes and colors used in yarn are assigned specific number. The dye number will usually be labeled "Lot no." and the color number will usually be labeled "Color no." If you need more yarn for a project than is found in a single ball of yarn, make sure you get the same color and the same dye. Even slight differences can become noticeable.
The yarn will also recommend what size knitting needles should be used with it. The pattern you're using usually recommends you use a specific size of of knitting needles. Make sure the yarn you choose is compatible with those size needles.
Pay attention to any advice regarding how to wash this type of yarn. Many types of yarn are not machine washable. You may also notice you cannot use bleach on certain types of yarn. Consider if and how you plan on washing your knitting project in the future. Make sure you choose a yarn that's easily washable if you're making something like a sweater, which will require frequent washing.
 Refer to your knitting pattern when selecting needles. Choose the size recommended. Some patterns may require you switch between needle sizes throughout the project, so you may have to get several different pairs of needles.If you're not using a specific pattern, keep in mind the larger needles make larger, looser stitches while smaller needles make firmer stitches. If you're knitting something like a scarf, you'll get done faster with a smaller needle. However, the stitches may be looser than you would like.
 Depending your project, you'll need a different needle type. Traditional straight needles are used for most beginner projects. However, some projects require circular or double-pointed needles.Straight needles have one pointed end. They're the needles people typically think of when thinking about knitting needles. Things like scarves, baby blankets, and shawls would require straight needles.
Circular needles are two needles with pointed ends joined in the middle with a cord, typically made of plastic. Circular needles are usually required for projects like sweaters, very large blankets, and horizontal scarves.
Double-pointed needles are needles with sharp points at both ends. They're typically used for projects like socks and baby hats.
 If you're buying new needles for this project, consider the material. Most needles are made of wood, plastic, or metal. There are advantages and disadvantages to each type of needle. Take some time deciding on the right needle type for your project before selecting your needles.Wood needles are the most often used in the knitting world, and the easiest on your hands. They're less susceptible to wear and tear. However, wood needles tend to be more expensive. If you're on a budget, consider a cheaper needle.
Metal needles are usually made from aluminum, brass, or nickel. They're more durable than other cheaper options, like plastic needles, but may hurt your hands after longterm use. If you're working with a thicker, rattier type of yarn, metal needles may be your best option as they make for a smoother knitting experience.
Plastic needles are generally considered the worst option, as they tend to be the least durable. However, if you're new to knitting, plastic needles may be a good choice. They are lightweight, causing less hand strain, and tend to be fairly inexpensive.

