 Heart disease and stroke may be two of the largest causes of death in the world, but green tea can lower cholesterol to dramatically decrease your risk of these diseases.Green tea may be particularly beneficial for your cardiovascular health. It contains polyphenols, which are antioxidants. These antioxidants can help protect cells from the oxidative damage of heart disease.
An observational study in Japan found that people who drank green tea was beneficial to overall cardiac health.
To enjoy this reduced risk, however, you may have to drink a lot of green tea. Fewer than five cups a day might not result in any significant change.
 The antioxidants in green tea give you the power to fight oxidative damage, which can lead to the development of cancer. These antioxidants protect your cells, reducing the risk of some types of cancer significantly.For example, a Chinese study revealed women who drank green tea on a regular basis reduced their risk of developing colorectal cancer by 57 percent.As with other preventative benefits, you must consume significant amounts of green tea to demonstrably reduce your risk of developing cancer.
 Like lavender tea, hibiscus flower tea is made by steeping the dried flowers in boiling water. Some believe this tea might reduce or prevent hypertension and lower your risk of developing other cardiovascular diseases.Hibiscus isn't a product that has been heavily researched. Moreover, hibiscus might provide laxative and diuretic effects. Proceed with caution and talk to your doctor before beginning a hibiscus regimen.Like green tea, hibiscus flower tea also contains significant amounts of antioxidants that can protect your cells from oxidative damage.
Hibiscus flowers often are used in herbal tea blends, such as zinger teas. You typically can find these in regular grocery stores without having to head to a tea specialty shop.
 White tea comes from the Camellia Sinensis plant in China. Harvesting the buds and leaves earlier than other types of tea not only gives white tea a distinct flavor and color compared to other teas, but also significant antioxidant properties.White tea has a number of other health benefits, such as flavonoids, an antioxidant that may be helpful in preventing some types of cancer.
When you prepare white tea, don't boil the water as you would for other teas. This will deplete the tea's nutrients. Rather, you should heat the water to no more than 185 degrees, then pour it over two teaspoons of tea leaves for every 8 ounces of water.

