 To get started, assume a standing position and set one foot in front of the other until your leg forms a 90-degree angle. Your rear leg should extend out behind you and the thigh of your front leg should be parallel to the ground.Keep your back in a neutral position throughout the lunge. Do not flatten the curve of the lower back or arch your back.
Do not let your knee go beyond your toes. In other words, when you bend the leg that you’ve extended out in front of you, the knee should not bend more than 90 degrees. If you cannot achieve a 90-degree bend in the knee, bend as deep as you possibly can.
Hold the position for 10-20 seconds, then switch to your other leg.
 A step-up exercise, as its name implies, involves stepping up and onto a large crate or box. The box should be about as high as your knee. To get started, stand with your feet shoulder-width apart with your toes six inches from the box. Place one foot firmly on the box or crate, then drive your body weight forward and up to get on top of the box. Step down and repeat with your other leg.In a variation, you could try stepping up onto the box laterally (from the side). Keep the box or crate about six inches from the outside of the foot you wish to place on the crate first. With the box at your side, step up with the foot closest to it. Leave room to bring your other foot onto the box, too.
Another variation involves holding dumbbells or free weights while doing the step-up exercise. Hold the weights in your hands while stepping up onto the crate or box.
 To stretch your iliotibial band while standing, cross your right leg behind your left. Bend laterally at the hip toward your left side. Do not bend forward as you do so. Hold the stretch for 20 to 60 seconds and repeat on the opposite side. Holding for any longer than one minute will not increase the benefit.


Another option is to hold the pose for 15 seconds and repeat on the opposite side. Stretch your iliotibial band on each side three times to complete a set.