 You will need it to prove your identity and use it throughout the process of obtaining your passport such as filling out forms. These IDs need to be government-issued and have your photo on them.Acceptable government-issued IDs are:


Driver's license
Digitized Social Security System (SSS) ID
Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) eCard Professional Regulations Commission (PRC) IDIntegrated Bar of the Phils. (IBP) ID
Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) ID
Digitized Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) ID
Senior Citizen’s ID
Old college IDs, Alumni IDs and old employment IDs are also acceptable.;
, Along with your picture ID, these documents together prove your identity and citizenship. If you are confused about what supporting documents you will need, you can contact the DFA for more information. In most cases, when you make your appointment with the DFA, the Customer Care Officer you are speaking with will let you know what supporting documents you need to present. Supporting documents can be your:Voter's ID
NSO Marriage Contract
Land Title
Seaman’s Book
Elementary or High School Form 137 or Transcript of Records with readable dry seal
Government Service Record
NBI Clearance
Police Clearance
Barangay Clearance

, First time applicants are required to submit a birth certificate. If you are renewing your passport, in most cases, a birth certificate is not required. You can request your birth certificate from NSO's website, pay for it online, and track its progress. Or you can make a request by calling their hotline at (02) 737-1111. Your certificate will then be delivered to you.


Alternatively, you can travel to a NSO Serbilis Outlet and request a birth certificate in person. Use the Serbilis Centre locator to find one nearest to you. However, expect to be in line for long hours.
Check the NSO's website for delivery dates. In most cases, you will receive your certificate by courier in 3-9 working days. If you apply in person at a Census Serbilis Center, you can receive your certificate within 2-3 working days.
The NSO is Philippine's major statistical agency that is responsible for keeping census records., Depending on who you are or who you've married, you may need to submit a marriage contract with your birth certificate and any other supporting documents. Go onto the DFA website to see a complete list of additional requirements.



For married women: You must submit a marriage contract issued by the NSO or a Certified True Copy (CTC) issued by your Local Civil Registrar (LCR) and authenticated by the NSO.

For spouses of foreign nationals (or non-citizens of the Philippines): You must submit a marriage contract issued by the NSO, or a CTC issued by your LCR and authenticated by the NSO. The marriage must also be reported to the NSO. You must also present an original and photocopy of Commission of Filipino Overseas (CFO) Guidance and Counseling Certificate of Attendance.

For people who married overseas: You must submit a Report of Marriage authenticated by the NSO.
Marriage Contracts are obtained the same way you would obtain a Birth Certificate from the NSO.
 Your parents or guardians will need to submit additional documents along with the your birth certificate such as their marriage contract or passport copy. You will also need to include supporting ID documents like your School ID. Go onto the DFA website to see a complete list of additional requirements, especially if you or the minor is an orphan or illegitimate child. The general documentation requirements are:


NSO issued birth certificate.
Document with photo such as a School ID or Form 137 with a readable dry seal (for applicants 8-17 years old). If the minor has never attended school, a parent must submit a Notarized Affidavit of Explanation that details the reasons why the child is not in school.
If the minor's parents are married, a marriage certificate issued by the NSO is required.
Photocopy of a valid passport of either parent or any other acceptable identification document.
Original and photocopy of the valid passport of the person travelling with the minor.
If the child is an illegitimate child, then all documents required from a parent will fall under the responsibility of the child's birth mother.
 To obtain a Certificate, make a personal appearance at the Bureau of External Relations (BER) and submit an application. You will also need to submit a passport sized colour photo of yourself to the BER.If you would like to use your Muslim name on your passport, you must obtain an Annotated Birth Certificate from the NSO that shows your Muslim name.
 These documents prove your allegiance and citizenship to the Philippines and are issued and obtained from the Bureau of Immigration Office. Most likely, you will already have received these documents when you applied for dual citizenship.. You will need:


Identification Certificate
Oath of Allegiance
Order of Approval
Report of Birth (if you were born outside of the Philippines).
 You should make at least 2 copies of each document. If you do not bring the original and photocopied documents to your DFA, the DFA will not continue with your appointment.
 You will need it to prove your identity and use it throughout the process of obtaining your passport such as filling out forms. These IDs need to be government-issued and have your photo on them.Acceptable government-issued IDs are:


Driver's license
Digitized Social Security System (SSS) ID
Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) eCard Professional Regulations Commission (PRC) IDIntegrated Bar of the Phils. (IBP) ID
Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) ID
Digitized Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) ID
Senior Citizen’s ID
Old college IDs, Alumni IDs and old employment IDs are also acceptable.
 Along with your picture ID, these documents together prove your identity and citizenship. If you are confused about what supporting documents you will need, you can contact the DFA for more information. In most cases, when you make your appointment with the DFA, the Customer Care Officer you are speaking with will let you know what supporting documents you need to present. Supporting documents can be your:Voter's ID
NSO Marriage Contract
Land Title
Seaman’s Book
Elementary or High School Form 137 or Transcript of Records with readable dry seal
Government Service Record
NBI Clearance
Police Clearance
Barangay Clearance

, Make sure to photocopy the data pages of your passport and bring them along.


If you have a brown passport, photocopy pages 1-3.
If you have a green passport, photocopy page 1.
If you have a Machine Readable Passport (MRP), photocopy the first and last page of your passport.
If you have an electronic passport, photocopy the first and last page of your passport.
 If you are married, a few certificates are required by the DFA to change your surname. They can be easily requested through the NSO website.


If you are a married woman or spouse of a foreign national who would like to use your married surname, you must obtain a Marriage Contract issued by the NSO or a Certified True Copy (CTC) issued by your Local Civil Registrar (LCR) and authenticated by the NSO.
If you are a spouse of a foreign national, you must also present a Commission of Filipino Overseas (CFO) Guidance and Counseling Certificate of Attendance along with your Marriage Contract.
If you were married abroad, you will also need to obtain your Report of Marriage authenticated by NSO.
 To change your surname to your birth surname, obtain a NSO issued Birth Certificate and along with any additional documents depending on your marriage status.


If you are a married woman who would like to revert back to your maiden name, you must provide a Birth Certificate issued by the NSO.
If you are a widow: a Death Certificate issued by NSO of your deceased husband is required.
If you are divorced: a CTC of the Divorce Decree authenticated by the Philippine Embassy or Consulate where the divorce was obtained or by the concerned foreign diplomatic or consular mission in the Philippines is required. An annotated NSO Marriage Contract with the Divorce Decree is also required.
If your marriage was annulled: a CTC of the annotated NSO Marriage Contract and Court Order effecting the annulment is required.
 If you are a convert and would like to use your Muslim name, you must obtain an Annotated Birth Certificate from the NSO that has your Muslim name. You must also have your National Commission on Muslim Filipinos (NCMF) or Office on Muslim Affairs (OMA) Certificate of Conversion.


If you are a Muslim who does not need to change your name, only the general requirements of a valid ID and supporting documents, and recent expired or expiring passport is needed to renew your passport.
 Minors renewing their passport are treated as first time applicants and will need to submit an NSO Birth Certificate. This also includes requiring parents or guardians to make an appearance at their DFA appointment, parents' marriage contracts, a photocopy of the passport of the person whom they will be travelling with, and the minor's most recent passport.
 You should make at least 2 copies of each document. If you do not bring the original and photocopied documents to your DFA, the DFA will not continue with your appointment.
 In most cases, you will choose or be directed to the DFA Aseana branch to make an appointment. Go to the DFA website, click on "Passport Fees", and select the branch you want to make an appointment at.


Whether it's your first time or you're renewing a passport, you must pay P950.00 for regular 20-day processing or P1200.00 for express 10-day processing.
If you make an appointment after 5:00 P.M., the DFA Aseana branch considers your appointment as express processing.
Remote branches only deal with first time or renewal applicants. If you have lost your passport or need citizenship evaluation, you will be directed to the Aseana branch., A Customer Care Officer will assist you in setting an appointment and completing your passport application. They will let you know if you are required to submit any additional documentations.


Choose an appointment time as early as possible to avoid long time ups.
The Customer Care Officer will give you a reference number and Print Code.
Print your completed application at their web address: , Alternatively, you can go to the DFA website and click "Set an Appointment". From there, choose the DFA Aseana branch or another remote branch nearest you. You will then be prompted to fill out and complete an application. After completing the application, you will be asked to select and confirm a date and time for your appointment.


Choose an appointment time as early as possible to avoid long time ups.
After completing your application, the site will notify you of any additional documents you will need to bring to your appointment.
Be sure to print out your application. You will be provided a reference number and link to your application to print out.
 This means dressing appropriately and having physical copies of all your required documents. Without these documents, the DFA will not continue with your appointment.


Make 2 copies of each document and remember to bring the original.
Remember to bring your IDs and supporting documents.
Dress sensibly. Do not wear tank tops, shorts, sandals, slippers, or flip-flops.
If you are a minor, you and your parent or guardian must be present at the appointment.
 The DFA Consular Office is located at ASEANA Business Park, Bradco Avenue corner Macapagal Boulevard, Paranaque City.


Arrive 30 minutes before your appointment. Late or early arrivals will not be rescheduled or helped.
Be sure to have all original and photocopied required documents with you, including your application.
 They will direct you to the Information Counter.
 Then sit at the Processing Area and wait for your number to appear on the monitor indicating what processing window to go to.
 In the DFA Aseana branch, the Passport Enrollment Section is located on the second floor.
 Here, you will have your photo taken, and personal details and biometrics recorded.
 If you choose to have your passport delivered, go to the Delivery counter for additional information about this particular service.

