 An important aspect of managing your emotions with PTSD is learning how to recognize triggers that impact you emotionally. If you have awareness of what kind of people, places or things upset your emotions, you are better equipped to develop skills to avoid and/or prepare for these triggers.


A trigger is basically anything that brings up memories of the traumatic event you experienced. It can be something internal like a thought or something external like going to a certain place. When you face this trigger, you are more likely to experience the symptoms of PTSD, such as flashbacks, a heightened startle reaction, or extreme anxiety.For example, if you develop PTSD after being mugged in a dark alley, a trigger for you may be walking into an alley, walking alone at night, or even going anywhere near where the mugging occurred.;
, You may have difficulty explaining or identifying certain emotions. However, when you can observe other cues happening in your body and in your mind, you can figure out which emotion you are experiencing.Think about what happened right before. Sometimes, the stimulus of your emotional reaction can help you label an emotion. For instance, if someone insulted you in front of a group, your reaction may be anger or humiliation.
Consider your physical state. Emotions also cause physiological sensations. When you are sad, you may feel like there’s a hole in your chest or that your shoulders are really heavy. When you are afraid, your heart might beat really fast. When you are happy, you may feel light on your feet. Humiliation may translate to a redness or hotness in your ears.
Reflect on your actions. Emotions prompt you to act. The action that you want to take can provide clues as to what you’re feeling. For example, if you are humiliated you may want to go hide behind something or disappear. If you are angry, you may want to kick something or hit someone.
Notice your thoughts. What you’re thinking also helps you label an emotion. If you are thinking “I’m all alone,” you may feel sad or rejected. If you are thinking “I wish I could hit him,” you are probably angry.
 Criticizing or judging your emotional state hinders your emotional awareness because it prompts you to suppress or ignore your feelings. In fact, avoidance of thoughts or feelings relating to the trauma is one of the main symptoms of PTSD.Feeling negative or painful emotions can be upsetting and hard. But doing this is an important part of your recovery.


Challenge yourself to sit with your emotions without judging or criticizing. Do this by describing what you are feeling. You might say “I feel humiliated because my boss called me out at work. My face is really hot and I don’t want to go to work tomorrow.”, Instead of judging your emotions—which can cause even more pain—show compassion to yourself through validation. Continuing with the aforementioned example, you could tell yourself: “feeling humiliated is uncomfortable. I don’t like feeling this way."


Problem-solve the issue. If you can, think of a way to take action that empowers you to focus on a solution rather than the problem. For example, you might say “Humiliation sucks, but it’s not the end of the world. How can I make myself feel better? I think I will treat myself to a nice dinner to lift my mood.”

