 Fill an 8-oz (250-ml) plastic bottle halfway with a noise-making material. Tightly secure the cap on the top of the bottle.


There are different options you can use for the filling. Pebbles, beans, rice, birdseed, beads, dry pasta, small washers, and paper clips will produce stronger noises. Sand, salt, and small erasers will produce quieter noises.
You can also mix different filling materials inside one maraca or use a filling idea not mentioned here. The filling just needs to be small enough to shake around inside the maraca.
 Cut straight down the length of one toilet paper tube. The cut should be as straight as possible.


Only cut one slit down the length of the tube. Do not cut the tube completely in half.
If working with a paper towel roll instead of a toilet paper roll, completely cut the paper towel roll in half crosswise before cutting it lengthwise. Only use one of these halves for one maraca handle.
 Roll the cardboard in on itself lengthwise. Fit one open end onto the cap of the bottle.


The opening should be about 3/4 inch (1.9 cm) in diameter, or just big enough to fit onto the cap snugly.
 Start wrapping the electrical tape around the bottom part of bottle, near the cap. Wind it around, overlapping the layers, until it also connects to the cardboard handle.


Wrap slowly and do not leave any gaps in between layers of tape.
To make the maraca more decorative, use tape that comes in a bright color or pattern.
 Continue wrapping the tape around the cardboard tube in the same manner until you reach the very bottom.


Use one piece of tape to cover the open bottom of the tube.
 The second maraca is made in the same way as the first, so you will need to repeat the previous steps with a second 8-oz (250-ml) plastic bottle.


Consider using a different filling for your second maraca. Many real maracas have different pitches, and using different filling materials can mimic these different pitches. For instance, if you place beans in one and rice in another, the rice maraca will have a higher pitch.
 Grab the handle of one maraca in your right hand and the handle of your second maraca with the left. Give them both a shake to hear them play. Experiment with rhythm and sound by shaking them at different intervals.

