 If you don't already have a clique, then you should form one! Carry a piece of paper around with you in school, and make a list of people that could be in the clique. Make sure nobody sees this; they’d know you're recruiting them.


Think about the pros and cons of each person you picked, and narrow the list down to 3-5 people.






Cliques are small, and huge ones are hard to control.;
, Once you have people picked out, become friends with them. Although, if you want to make a clique in the next millisecond, then form a clique with the friends you already have.


Once you're close to them, hang out in public places, so people see you together a lot an think you're a clique.






Never say the actual word "clique" to your group or anyone else. It's just tacky.
 Now before you try to walk around and act cool, ask yourself: are you really clique material? You can't have a clique where everyone else is cooler than you. You'd probably be voted out for keeping everyone behind.
 Now, you're the Alpha of the clique. So you have to look like one! Don't over-do makeup. It'll make you look like a clown. And make sure to wash your face with cleansers every morning and night so you don't break out in pimples. You should make an exercise regimen for each week (You can be chubby and popular in some cases, but that doesn't work out so well everywhere, especially in the summer) Brush your teeth 2-3 times a day and shower once a day. Make sure everyone else in the clique follows these rules too.
 you should make a list for your clique to follow to the letter. (example: no ponytails on Friday, clique colors on Monday, wear the signature bracelet every day, etc) If anyone breaks a rule, make sure there's a punishment, something small though. Keep reminding people of the rules so they get it, but not too much: they'd think you're annoying.
 Make friendship bracelets, that nobody else has, for the clique to wear. Or just have a group signature color scheme.
 Email, Twitter, Facebook, Cell phones, Morse Code, whatever. As long as somebody has a way to talk about the day and it's happenings.
 Everybody follows your orders, and you're looked up to by everybody. (Make sure they're the ones asking you the questions, not the other way around.)






The Beta is your best friend. She's like a clone of you, only not as powerful. (Don't put anyone in your clique that can overthrow you!) The Beta is also super good at getting the latest gossip, so she can tell you about everything.
The Followers (Gammas) are third in importance. They're intimidated by you, but will do anything you ask. Some of them are good at verbal fighting, so you don't have to get in the line of fire (more on this later).
The Wannabes (Omegas). They're the people who somehow snuck into your clique right under your nose. Of course, you could use them to do jobs nobody else will. And once their purpose is fulfilled? Just dump them on another clique. Easy as pie.
 Alphas have the best parties in the school, and everyone will want to be there. Keep most of them exclusive to your clique so people will wonder about what went on there. Have one of your Wannabes or your Beta spread rumors about how awesome the parties were, so people will try to be close to you.


At the parties others are actually invited to, make sure they lived up to the expectations. The rumors you spread around have to be credible, so people aren't up for disappointment when they arrive.






At your party, have lots of snacks like chips, dip, crackers with cheese, and maybe a punch bowl. Or just have a cooler full of canned sodas.
You could also make a survey of what guests want out of all the people you invited. The music has to be on the radio. Cd's can be cool, but not everyone will like your taste in music. So put on a station everyone knows.
 These are strictly exclusive. Only people in your clique are invited. So spread around rumors like you did before, only make them more outrageous. People wouldn't know what you did there, because only your clique was there. (Still, sleepovers have to be as awesome as your parties).


Pick a room everyone is sleeping in. The den, the living room, or even your room. Make sure your parents aren't getting frustrated over noise, or make sure that they fall asleep quickly. Most sleepovers are ruined when a parent says "time for bed" so keep them in their bedroom the whole night.







