 Remove any obstacles or uneven surfaces that might cause injury.;
, Wear something cooling and that allows you to move without being too tight.
, You should be able to fly through this workout within an hour or less, so be sure you plan accordingly.
 One of the most important parts of the workout is to do some stretches before you dive in. Consider doing some runner’s lunges, light squats, hamstring stretches and quad stretches.
 Rather than having to muddle through, trying to figure out technique, perform a few of the moves from your workout ahead of time. Do the moves slowly and deliberately so you get the form down correctly.
 Air squats are a plyometric exercise where you squat down low and then spring up into the air. You will perform 50 of these squats consecutively without breaking in between.
 A burpee is when you jump down from a standing position into a push-up, pull your knees to your chest and then spring up to a standing position. For a more advanced move instead of just standing up, jump up and then go right into your next rep.



Lay flat on your back in the sit up/crunch position.
Bring the soles of your feet together and allow your knees to fall to each side (so you look like a butterfly).
Bring your clasped hands between your knees.
Raise up into a crunch/sit up position while your hands move forward toward your feet and then release the position.
 If you don’t have stairs or access to stairs, run with high knees instead. Otherwise, even if you have only 15 steps in your home, run those until you have reached 50.
 Get into a plank position and bring your knees in toward your stomach and then push your feet out. Keep your knees and feet together while performing this move.
 This is essentially a jump where you tuck your knees underneath your chest (as if you're jumping a high rope).
 A hand release push up is essentially a push up with a little “Superman” move.


After you go down into a push-up position, gently lay your torso on the floor and stretch your arms out in front of you.
Slightly arch your back and reach upward with your arms.
Go back into plank and perform your next push-up rep.
 A Russian twist is essentially a backwards lunge where you twist your torso in the opposite direction as your back leg. You can perform this move with or without weights.
 These challenging lunges require you to drop down into a prisoner surrender with your arms far above your head. Get into a squat position and then drop one knee down, drop the other knee down, then stand up one leg at a time still in the squat position.
 Take small sips of water (do not gulp) during the workout to remain hydrated and aware.
 Don’t jerk your limbs or be overly aggressive with stretching. Instead, be sure you gently stretch out the muscle groups you just worked.
 Sitting around in your own sweat encourages viral growth and can leave you susceptible to getting sick. Also, sitting around in your sweat may encourage acne and skin infections.
 To help heal muscle tissue after this workout, have a very small meal (250 calories or less) that includes protein such as almonds, eggs, cottage cheese, beans or lean meat.

