 Simply search online for the phrase "Download Game _________, filling in the game you want. The first 2-3 hits that show up will be for sites that offer direct purchases, where you buy the game and it automatically downloads. Commonly you will be directed to the manufacturer, Amazon.com, or a site like Steam, which is made for video game downloads.


If you do not find the game in the first few links, it is not up for legal download online.
Finding the publisher directly is always the safest way to download a game.;
, Your equipment may not be up to par for the intended experience, even if the game will still run on your computer. Look up the games specs to make sure you can play the game after it downloads.


You can check your system's specifications, including your DirectX version and video card, by using the DxDiag program. In XP, click Start, then Run, then type "dxdiag" in the box.
Windows makes it easy to check your specifications through the Control Panel.
 If you're on Steam or another game aggregate site then you'll likely go to a payment window. Type in your account information and agree to the Terms and Services to get your game.


Write down any serial numbers or receipt information you are given.
 There are a couple of different ways you may get your game, but all of them are pretty straightforward:


For aggregate sites like Steam, the game will download directly to your Library. All you have to do is double-click the game once it is finished to start playing.
In most Internet browsers, you will receive a window asking you to either run or save an executable file with an extension of ".exe." Choose to save it to your desktop. Then double-click it after it finishes downloading to install the game.
Some games come compressed. To get them, download them, then export the contents of the ZIP or RAR file to your computer. Once finished you can double-click on the .EXE file, or click ReadMe for more instructions.
Finally, some games have serial codes that must be input into the installed game to play. They are usually provided on purchase or in an email.