 You need an area with enough space for your kayak. Measure your kayak and your storage space ahead of time to make sure your kayak will fit. Kayaks take up a lot of room and should not be in contact with other objects when being stored. It is best to store it indoors so that it is protected. You could store it in a garage, basement, shed, or any other indoor storage area. Only store it outside as a last resort.If you'll be storing it for long periods of time and have minimal space at your home, you can have the kayak professionally stored. Many kayak schools, kayak rentals, marinas, paddling clubs, or state beaches have available kayak storage.;
, Make sure your kayak won’t be subjected to extreme heat or cold. Avoid temperatures below freezing or above 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.7 degrees Celsius). This is important so that your kayak doesn’t become brittle or damaged.Storing your kayak in direct sunlight is the worst option. The heat will warp the plastic and fade the surface. If you're storing the kayak in your garage, make sure it's in a dark area.
Make sure you are not storing your kayak near a direct heat source either.
 Use a mild all-purpose cleaner (such as diluted Castile soap) and a sponge to wipe down your kayak. Make sure to clean the inside and outside. There should be no remaining dirt or residue. Rinse thoroughly with water after cleaning with soap so that no soap remains on the kayak., Although kayaks are built for use in water, they are not made to be wet continually. Water will begin to break down the kayak’s surface. If it is covered and there is any moisture inside, mold and mildew will grow. To dry your kayak, wipe it with a towel and empty any water from its hatch or drain plug., Any fabric or soft materials on your kayak, such as the seat, should be removed for storage. This is especially important when storing outside. Soft materials should be stored somewhere dry and not too cold, like in a closet., Whether storing your kayak outside or inside, it is a good idea to use a cover. This will protect your kayak from the elements outside and from dust and critters in a garage. You can buy a special kayak cover, use a cover for the cockpit, or use a simple tarp and drape it over your kayak for added protection.It using a tarp, it is best to create space between the tarp and the kayak so that water or snow will not build up on top of the kayak (if it is outside) and so that any remaining moisture isn’t locked inside the kayak. To use the tarp like a tent, tie a rope a few feet off the ground in between two trees or poles. Drape the tarp over the rope and place the kayak in its mini “tent.”