


Pronounce the phrase as sah-rahn-gh-aee yoh.
In Hangul, “saranghae” is written as, 사랑해 and “saranghaeyo” is written as 사랑해요.”“Saranghae” is a fairly casual way to say “I love you”, “saranghaeyo” is a formal way to express the same sentiment, "saranghamnida" is the most formal way to say it.;
,"Use this phrase to tell someone “I like you” in a romantic sense.


Pronounce the phrase as nae-ga jo-ha.

To write this expression in Hangul, write, 네가 좋아.

The phrase translates fairly literally to “I like you.” This particular expression would only be used in casual settings, however, and only in a romantic context.
 This phrase should also be used to tell someone “I like you” in a romantic sense.


Pronounce the phrase as dahng-shin-ee joh-ah-yoh.
This expression should be written in Hangul as, 당신이 좋아요.

This phrase translates closely to “I like you,” but in particular, it would be used to indicate a higher level of respect or formality. It would also only be used in a romantic context.
 This is a formal way to express how much you need the person listening in your life.


Pronounce the expression as dahng-shin-ups-shee moht-sahl-ah-yoh.
Translated approximately, this phrase means, "I can't live without you."
In Hangul, this expression is written as, 당신없이 못 살아요.

A more informal way of saying this would be "nuh-upsshi motsarah," or 너없이 못살아.
 Use this phrase to tell someone that he or she is one of a kind.


Pronounce the expression as nuh-bahk-eh uhps-uh.
A rough translation of this phrase would be, "There's no one like you."
To write this expression in Hangul, write, 너밖에 없어.
A more formal way to express the same sentiment would be, “"dang-shin-bak-eh upss-uh-yo," or 당신밖에 없어요.
 This simple phrase lets the other person know that you want to be romantically linked to him or her.


Pronounce the phrase as gaht-chee it-goh shi-puh.
Translated in a fairly direct way, this phrase means "I want to be with you."
This expression should be written in Hangul as, 같이 있고 싶어.
To make this expression more formal, say, “"gatchi itgo shipuhyo," or 같이 있고 싶어요.
 This is a standard question to use when you want to ask someone to go steady.


Pronounce the question as nah-rahng sah-gweel-laee.

Approximately translated, it means, "Will you go out with me?"
Write this question in Hangul as, 나랑 사귈래?

If you want to ask this question in a more formal way, ask, "juh-rang sa-gweel-lae-yo?" or 저랑 사귈래요?


, If things get serious and you want to "pop the question," this is the question needing to be popped.


Pronounce the question as nah-rahng ge-yool-hohn-haee joo-laee.
This phrase roughly means "will you marry me?"
Write this question in Hangul as, 나랑 결혼해 줄래?

A more formal way to pop the question would be to ask, "jeo-rang gyul-hon-hae joo-lae-yo?" or 저랑 결혼해 줄래요?


,"Use this phrase to tell someone that you miss him or her.


Pronounce the expression as boh-goh-shee-poh-yeo.

A more direct way to translate this phrase would be, "I want to see you."In Hangul, this expression is written as, 보고 싶어요.”

A more casual way to say the same sentiment would be to drop the "yo" or 요 from the end of the phrase.
 This is a good way to compliment a girl or woman you are fond of.


Pronounce the expression as ah-ree-oom-dah-woh.

This phrase roughly means, “You're beautiful.”
To write this expression in Hangul, write, 아름다워.
 This is a good way to compliment a guy you are fond of.


Pronounce the expression as nee-oon-jahl saeeng-gin-goh-yah.

This phrase roughly means, “You're handsome.”
This expression should be written in Hangul as, 넌 잘 생긴 거야.
 Ahn-ah-jwo!" Use this expression when you want to embrace your loved one.


Pronounce this expression as choo-woh ahn-ah-jwoh.

Translated in a fairly direct way, this phrase means, "I'm cold. Hug me!"

"Choo-wo" means "I'm cold."
"Ahn-ah-jwo!" means "Hug me!"


Write the Hangul for this expression as, 추워. 안아줘!


, This phrase should be used when you want to stop someone from going home or leaving you have a romantic evening.


Translated in a fairly direct way, it means, "Stay with me."
Write the Hangul for this phrase as 나랑 같이 있어.


