 For both pets and people, the household cleaners such as bleach, toilet bowl cleaners, washing powder and softeners contain the greatest hazard potential if ingested or inaccurately handled. Be most careful with any such products. Since these products are always factory packed, keep them well closed in their original packages and keep them well out of reach of your cats. Use the products with great care, clearing up any spills immediately and keeping cats away from you when cleaning, even if this means closing them out for a bit.;
, A small part of the toxic elements stick to the floor's and furniture's surface. Your pet can lick these substances off its paws after walking on the floors or cleaned surfaces. Your cat could also breathe in the product's fumes (and you could too). While these trace amounts may not kill your feline, they can easily cause allergic reactions in sensitive cats, and may result in gastrointestinal ulcers and other dangerous conditions for everyone in the household. Accumulated exposure can also be a source of more serious illnesses over time.
 Instead of cleaning with chemical-based detergents, try some homemade, totally natural alternatives. They're easy to do and should prove even cheaper to prepare your own cleaning product. If you don't know how, try the following recipe:


Gather two liters of warm water, a glass of fresh squeezed lemon juice, ¼ cup of white vinegar, and three soup spoons of baking soda.
 Use it to clean the floor, for example, with no need to rinse it. It's non-toxic and safe not only for pets, but also for you and your family. This natural cleaner could be used for all purposes – windows, floors, furniture's surfaces, etc. It's totally safe and effective for every day use and can also reduce the environmental pollution.
 If you need deeper cleaning – for example, to remove grime, dirt and stains, search for professional cleaning services. Book a team of cleaners. They will have the proper equipment and detergents. Be sure to mention that you need a special cleaning service without toxic products. This could be one step closer to a healthier lifestyle – no matter if it comes to you, or your four-pawed family members.

