 Ballet comes with a variety of positions for your feet, broken down into five different categories. If you're interested in doing a ballet inspired routine, familiarize yourself with the different foot positions. Each position involves rotating the legs at a 90 degree angle from the hip joint. If you're new to ballet, do not expect to be able to do a full rotation right away. Also, third positions is rarely used anymore as it's considered too similar to fifth position.In the first position, you stand with your legs together and your toes pointed away from your body. You should turn your toes as straight as you can, ideally forming a straight line.The second position is a continuation of the first position. You spread your legs apart slightly, keeping your toes pointed outward.Fourth positions involves pointing your toes inward, so your feet are turned to face each other. Then, cross your legs.Fifth position is a continuation of fourth position. Push your feet slightly closer together., Just as there are different positions for your legs in ballet, there are also different positions for your feet. Spend some time practicing the different placements of your arms if you're interested in doing a ballet routine.


In first position, bend your arms slightly at the elbow and hold them out in front of your body.In second position, stretch your arms out on either side of your body.In third position, keep your arms at your side, but raise one arm up over your head.In fourth position, keep one arm over your head. Bend the other arm inward, as you did in first position.In fifth position, raise both your arms over your head. Keep your elbows slightly bent., A plie (plee-ay) is a basic ballet move. It simply means "to bend." Bend your knees, with your feet pointing away from your body. Try to get your knees to bend until they're directly above your toes., Releve (ruh-lee-vey) is a ballet move in which you rise slightly. It can be done using one or both feet. Push your feet together while keeping your knees straight. Lift your heels into the air, transferring your body weight onto the balls of your feet. You should not attempt to stand on the tips your toes without proper training as well as shoes., A saute (soh-tay) is a basic ballet jump in which you use both feet at the same time. Begin with a plie and then use your feet as if you were going to perform a releve. In doing so, jump into the air. Straighten your legs as you jump and then land on both feet.