 If you have a bundle of fresh herbs that look clean and dust-free, you don't need to wash them. However, if you just picked them from your garden, it's likely they contain some dust and dirt. Rinse them in gentle running water, then shake off the excess water.
 Whether you just rinsed your herbs or they were wet when you received them, you should first dry off the obvious moisture. Spread them out on a paper towel or clean dishcloth until there are no more water beads on the surface of the herbs.
 If you'd like to use your herbs right away, use this method to dry a small handful at a time. This method is also suitable for tea leaves that have just been used to brew tea. For either material, spread small leaves or pieces of herbs out between two dry paper towels. Microwave for 30 seconds at a time until they are brittle, paying close attention for signs of burning.Moist, fleshy herbs such as mint and basil won't dry easily in the microwave unless they are already partly dried., Some herbs don't have much moisture to begin with, and can be dried over the course of a few weeks by tying the stems in bunches and hanging them upside down. Do this indoors in a dark place if possible, because sunlight can harm the color and flavor of the herbs.Herbs in this category tend to have stiff or thick leaves. They include rosemary, parsley, sage, and thyme.
If you'd like to dry soft, moist herbs in this way, hang them in small bunches inside a paper bag. Poke holes at the base of the paper bag and place in an area with good air flow so the herbs dry more quickly and mold has less chance to grow., Herbs with soft, juicy leaves need to be dried quickly or they will grow mold. Pluck the leaves off the stem and lay them between paper towels so that no two leaves are touching. You may stack up to five layers of leaves if you need to, alternating between paper towels and herbs. Place these in an oven safe dish and place in an oven at the lowest possible temperature setting.They may take up to 8 hours to dry.


Turn your oven dial just enough that only the pilot light or electric oven light comes on.
Herbs that dry well in this method include basil, sage, bay leaf, and mint.
 Crumble the herbs between your fingertips before storing or before adding to food. Store dried herbs in an airtight container and place it in a cool, dark, dry place to keep the herbs flavorful as long as possible.Dried herbs have a stronger flavor than fresh herbs. When substituting dried herbs in a recipe that calls for fresh herbs, use 1/3 the amount listed, or 1/2 the amount if the herb is basil.Tea leaves can be dried immediately after used to brew a pot of tea. The microwave method above works best, as you usually have a small amount and a longer drying time could lead to mold. Use dried tea leaves as you would herbs, or use them to cover unpleasant smells around the house.