 You can often improve the look of your bathroom by simply cleaning it. Before you start making more significant overhauls, simply scrub, wipe, dust and polish everything in sight, from the grout in the floor tiles to the shower curtain liner. Chances are, your bathroom will look newer, brighter and more inviting when you’re finished.A thorough cleaning can be very restorative for bathroom surfaces, which tend to show grime and discoloration very obviously.
You should aim to clean and sanitize your bathroom at least once every couple of weeks.;
, Most bathrooms are finished in drab, sterile hues. Remedy this by adding a new shade to the walls. With just a couple hours work, a lifeless white washroom can be completely transformed with playful plum or rustic olive tones. Best of all, painting is something you can do as many times as you want, so you can continue to change the motif of your bathroom over the years.Painting the walls of your bathroom can create a day-and-night difference, even if you don’t change anything else.
You could also try repainting wooden floors, or treating them with a lacquer sealant to make them waterproof.
 It can be pretty unattractive to look around your bathroom and see it littered with toilet paper packages, dirty scrubbing brushes and bottles of cleaning supplies. Keep the kinds of things out of sight to highlight the comfort and serenity of the room. Use your available cabinet space or a separate supply closet to stash away items that make your intimate space look like a public restroom.Find unconventional means for storing bathroom necessities, such as a wicker basket for holding toilet paper or a multi-level fruit hanger for organizing shower supplies.Another creative (and easy) way to keep unattractive objects from intruding is to hang a sink skirt. This simple piece of fabric will cover exposed pipes and plumbing, along with anything else you tuck away under a mounted sink., Sometimes you just have to throw everything out and start over. Now is the perfect time to treat yourself to fresh bath towels, shower mats and curtains, soap dispensers or even a new toilet brush. Look for goods in different colors and styles than you’ve grown accustomed to in order to break up the monotony and get you excited about a peaceful escape to the powder room again.Updating little details is an inexpensive and immediate way to breathe new life into a tired bathroom.

