 The first few seconds when the customer answers are critical to landing a sale or a donation. You will need to provide an answer to “What’s in it for me?” for the customer to keep them on the line.Avoid rhetorical questions, such as “If I could tell you how to improve your online presence as a business, you would be interested in this, wouldn’t you?” You should avoid a generic opening, such as “I was just calling people in your area and you’re next on my list”. You want to customer to feel unique and important, not just another name on a list.
Focus on interest opening statements that use non confrontational language. For example: “Hello, Jenna, This is Pierre from TeleMarket Solutions. Depending on how your business is doing with its online presence, I might have a program that could potentially increase your online traffic and online sales. I’d like to ask you a few quick questions to see if this something that would be useful for your business.”

, Once the customer agrees to answer a few questions, thank them for their time and start with simple, open ended questions. You should also specify how long the questions will take, usually no more than five to ten minutes. This will let the customer know how much time you are going to need from them and make it clear that your sales pitch will be concise and to the point.For example, if you are trying to see a program that focuses on strategies for online sales, you could start by asking the customer, “How long have you been in business?” “Do you have an existing online presence, such as a website or a social media account?” “What are you looking for in terms of your online presence? Sales? Advertising? A combination of both?”
Make sure you ask only one question at a time and are an attentive listener. Make note of the customer’s answers and confirm their needs before moving on to the sales pitch. You should thank the customer for answering your three questions and restate their answers back to them to make sure you understand their needs. For example: “Thank you for sharing that information with me. I’m hearing that you are looking for a program that will increase your online sales and raise your online profile. Is that correct?”

, If the customer appears receptive after answering the three open ended questions, they will often encourage you to tell them more or will at least be willing to stay on the line with you. Take this as a sign that they are at least somewhat interested in your product or service. At this point, you can discuss the potential benefits of the service or product in response to the customer’s needs.You may say: “Based on the information you have provided with me, Jenna, I recommend you consider the benefits of our program. Our program will actually address several of your needs and boost your online sales.”
This is also the point where you can tell the customer about the benefits of the service, share customer testimonials and provide a detailed explanation of the features of the service or product. This should help to get the customer more excited and engaged in what you are selling.
 Once you finish your sales pitch, you should then check in with the customer to make sure they are still interested in your product or service and if they reply positively, you can then offer several options to end the call. This could be signing up for the service or product, agreeing to a follow up call, or agreeing to receive more information via email or mail.


Try to end the call by getting to customer to sign on for at least one of these three options. This way, even if you do not make the sale, you can end the call on a positive note and feel you have accomplished at least one goal of your call.
 If you receive any resistance or objection from the customer at any point in the call, resist the desire to get defensive or angry. Instead, it is important that you interpret the customer’s objection and try to counteract them by providing a solution to their objection in the form of your product or service.Avoid using rebuttals that point out the customer is wrong. Focus on listening to the objections of the customer and do not give up without trying to provide an answer or a solution to their issue.
For example, the customer may say they already have a program for online business sales and do not need your services. You can counter this by asking if their existing program has certain features or is cheaper than your service.

