 Natural edging can mean avoiding the use of edging materials altogether. Instead of using a hard material to define the edges, natural edging can be created by digging what is known as ‘trench’ (or ‘Victorian’) edging.


Create this type of natural edging by digging a shallow trench between your lawn and the start of the bed, then filling it with mulch.
It’s best to use the same mulching material as you used on the rest of the bed in order to create a harmonious effect.
 To dig your trench edging, mark out where you want your edge to be using spray paint or string. Cut straight down with a spade on the lawn side to a depth of about 2 or 3 inches (5.1 or 7.6 cm).


A pointed digging tool is usually best for cutting through the earth but a square spade will create a neater effect. Wear heavy-soled shoes or boots and use your foot to apply pressure to the spade to make the job easier.






You may find it pretty tiring making a large edge so you might want to spread this project out over several days.
 You should cut the trench vertically (i.e. straight down) on the lawn edge. The bed side, on the other hand, should slope down at a 45 degree angle to this trench.

You can use a rake to adjust the level on the bed side. Any earth you have removed should be put in the bed to raise it slightly. Once this is done, you can fill the trench with mulch.






This technique will work best on a soil that holds together well, such as clay or loam. Sandy or chalky soils might not be as easy to work with and get such clean lines. If you are working with an established lawn this will hold the soil together better than a new lawn.
 Edging doesn’t get any cheaper or more natural than trenching, however there are still some pros and cons to consider before you make a decision.

Your lawn will also be very easy to mow when you use this kind of edging as there is no physical or hard barrier to interfere with your mower.






The main drawback is the maintenance required by trench edging, especially if you are keen to maintain a neat effect.
 After a few years you might need to redefine the trench edging by re-cutting the trench, as time will soften the edges and may cause them to crumble.


If you are looking for a very defined look, you might like to do this more regularly.
Remember grass will soften the edges so you’ll get a softer, more natural look quite quickly once the grass grows along the perimeter of your bed.
 Keep in mind that standing right along the edge may cause the trench to cave in.


Try to avoid standing right at the edge of your trench, particularly after rain when the ground is soft and liable to slip.
Sandy or chalky soils are likely to crumble when dry.

