 In order to buy collard greens, you need to know what you are looking for. Collard greens are large in size, usually at least 10 to 12 inches long, with oval, flat leaves.In comparison to kale, the leaves are usually wider and the stems are thicker.If you are unsure about which greens in your store are collard greens, look for signage to indicate or markings on the ties that keep bunches of collards together. You can also feel free to ask someone who works there.;
, Many grocery stores will carry collard greens on a regular basis in the produce section, close to other greens, such as kale or Swiss chard. They should be located in a chilled area, which will keep them firm.


Look for the freshest collards to show up in your store in winter through spring. They will also be at their lowest price during these times of year., If you can't find collard greens in your normal grocery store, you may need to go to a specialty store. Stores that cater to African Americans are likely to carry collard greens, as they have an important place in African American food culture.There are other cultures that use collard greens in their cooking. Collards can be found in dishes all across the globe, from Ethiopia to Portugal, so they may be available in a wide variety of specialty stores., The leaves of collard greens should be a very dark green. However, the leaves will have light colored veins and stems.


The leaves of collard greens can have almost a waxy finish, which is a natural way they deter insects., Good collard greens are firm and crisp.Firmness will show you that the collard greens are relatively fresh and that they have been stored properly in the store, as well as while being transported from the field to the store.


Pick up the greens and bend them a little bit. They should be firm and not floppy.
 Discoloration is a sign that the collard greens are past their prime. Even though you may be stewing the greens, buying collard greens that are discolored will result in a sub-par finished product.


In a bunch of collard greens there may be one or two leaves that were slightly damaged and thus are a bit discolored. It's also not uncommon to have a few holes in collard greens due to hungry bugs. If the majority of the leaves look good, however, then the collards are probably just fine to purchase., Once you purchase the collard greens, you will want to store them in a plastic bag in your refrigerator. This keeps them nice and firm, as the plastic bag prevents dehydration.Do not wash the collard greens before you put them in the refrigerator. This will promote decay.
 Collard greens are known for being relatively dirty and gritty when they are harvested. Because of this, you will need to clean them thoroughly before cooking them. To do this, soak then in a sink full of water and rub them vigorously to remove any dirt and debris.Don't just neglect looking at each individual leaf. Make sure each individual leaf is cleaned or you may end up with dirt and girt in your meal.
 There are a variety of ways that you can use collard greens, but most traditionally they are stewed or boiled in water with a piece of bacon, ham hock, or pork and some salt.This process takes quite awhile, some recipes state upwards of two hours, so that the collards become nice and silky and so that they take on the flavor of the pork.


Before you cook the greens you will need to cut them into smaller pieces. Remove the stems from the center of the leaves. Then roll up the remaining leaf pieces and cut them into one inch wide ribbons.There is a wide variety of other ways you can use collard greens.To begin experimenting with them in your cooking remember that any way you would use cabbage or other greens, such as kale, in a recipe, you can use collard greens instead.

