 Many kids with dyspraxia are bullied, especially in gym class, because of their poor athletic ability. Remember that they are trying their hardest and that staying fit is more important than being able to make a hoop or catch a ball.;
, In martial arts programs, they break down every movement in great detail. For example, for a karate punch, you make a fist with your thumb outside and curled so it doesn't stick out, start palm-up by your side, extend your arm and twist at the very end of the movement. If you figure out equally detailed instructions for things like tying your shoes or riding a bike, this makes it a lot easier for the child with dyspraxia to learn how to do those activities.
 Start them off by doing the movement in slow motions, so they have time to think through all the steps, and then have them gradually speed up, while still making sure they're doing the right movement.
 Many children with dyspraxia fall frequently due to poor balance and coordination. Check out the page on how to fall safely and practice this skill with the child until they can do it. This could prevent a serious injury if they do lose their balance, especially on ice.
 Dyspraxia often goes along with learning differences such as autism, nonverbal learning disability, and ADHD. These can cause difficulty with social interaction, mathematics, and paying attention, and these issues need to be dealt with separately.
 Children (or even adults) with dyspraxia will often have trouble writing, spelling and making their words neat so that other people can understand it. In other words, they will usually have bad handwriting. Don't just brush it off, help them by sitting with them and practising their handwriting to make it better. At school, it might be easier to use a laptop and type up their work instead. Check to see if your child's school will provide a laptop or allow you to bring your own one in. They can email the teacher any homework if they need to.
 Many times, dyspraxia can be an effect of Sensory Integration Dysfunction, a condition in which the brain has trouble making sense of sensory information. If the feedback they get from their bodies (tactile, balance and/or proprioception) is poor, then their coordination will also be poor.


Occupational therapy can help with sensory processing issues.
 Executive functions are the ability to plan and regulate behavior, such as inhibiting impulses, keeping organised, and controlling the amount of effort you put into a task. Since many of the same brain regions control both motor coordination and executive functions, it's common for issues with one area to go along with the other area. Executive dysfunction can be especially frustrating because it looks like the child is unmotivated or lazy when they are actually unable to do what is expected of them.

