 Low-impact exercises eventually play a major part in treating SI dysfunction. These exercises include walking or cycling.However, you should avoid high-impact, strenuous activity, like sprinting, contact sports, and weight training. If you’re an athlete, you’ll have to avoid your sport until your inflammation and misalignment have been corrected., While you don’t want to use motions that aggravate your pain, staying in bed will worsen SI dysfunction. The condition involves joint misalignment and imbalanced muscle use. Ligament and muscle atrophy that results from extended bed rest will push your joint further out of alignment., Heat expands ligaments, which can cause your joint’s structure to fall further out of alignment. Instead, ice the affected area to reduce inflammation and relieve intense pain. Apply an ice pack or compress for 15 to 20 minutes, and wait another 15 to 20 minutes before reapplying.You should continue icing in 15 to 20 minute intervals whenever you’re feeling acute pain for up to two weeks.
 A daily walk will help stretch and strengthen your SI ligaments. This in turn will help restore your joint’s proper structure.Choose soft surfaces, like a grassy park, for your walks, and try to avoid hilly or rocky terrain.


Consult your doctor or a spine specialist if you are unable to walk or perform other low-impact strengthening exercises.
 Lay flat on your back on a yoga or exercise mat with your legs bent. Your heels should be about two feet from your buttocks. Slowly lift your hips off the ground as you clench your buttocks and place weight on your feet. Hold the pose for five breaths, then bring your hips back to the ground. Repeat the sequence 10 times.
 Over the counter anti-inflammatories can help treat pain and, more importantly, reduce the muscle swelling involved in SI dysfunction. It’s best to take any medication in consultation your primary doctor or spine specialist.Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) such as aspirin or ibuprofen will reduce both pain and stiffness. Always talk to your doctor before starting a new medication on your own.
Your doctor might recommend an anti-inflammatory, even if you’re not experiencing pain. You should take the medication as long as they recommend, as stopping prematurely could interfere with their treatment plan.

