 Texas, like other states, requires that you meet a certain minimum taxable income in order to qualify for unemployment benefits. They will look at the first 4 of the last 5 quarters as a "base period." Essentially, then, you must have made at least a minimum income for the full year preceding the last quarter, before you applied for benefits. If you do not have enough taxable wages from employment in the base period, you aren't eligible for unemployment benefits.
You must have wages within more than 1 of the 4 base period quarters to be eligible.
If you've ever previously qualified for unemployment benefits in Texas, you must have earned at least 6 times your new weekly benefit amount since that time. What that means is that if you were previously receiving unemployment, then got another job, before losing the new position, you will need to have earned a certain amount in order to requalify. For example, if you made an average of $200 weekly, you must have earned at least 6 times that amount, or $1200, in the interim time before becoming eligible for unemployment benefits again.;
, If you quit your job, or if you were fired for cause, you will not be eligible for unemployment benefits. If you were laid off, or lost your job because of a "reduction in force", you may be eligible for unemployment benefits/If you left your job due to domestic violence or stalking, you may be eligible for unemployment benefits.
If you were forced to quit your job rather than be fired, you may be eligible for unemployment benefits.
If you chose to leave your job to move with your military spouse, you may be eligible for unemployment benefits.
 This means that you must register with the state workforce center, and apply for a certain number of jobs per week. You must keep a detailed record of your job search, which can be requested by the state workforce center at any time. If you are offered a job while receiving unemployment benefits, you must accept the job.If you have a disability, you may not qualify for unemployment benefits unless you can prove that you are willing and able to work with necessary accommodations.
To qualify as "able" to work, you must be legally considered physically and mentally capable of work. Most people are considered able to work unless they qualify for disability support.
 In order to qualify for unemployment benefits in the state of Texas, you must have worked in Texas within the past 12-18 months of your application, in addition to meeting other criteria.Exemptions may be offered to employees of the military or armed services.
If you have worked outside the state within 18 months of your application, you may not apply for benefits online., You should plan to be prepared with the following:


your last employer’s business name
address and phone number
the first and last dates (month, day and year) you worked for your last employer
the number of hours you typically were scheduled to work per week as well as the pay rate you received the last week of your job.
If you are not a U.S. citizen, you should bring your Alien Registration Number. If you are a U.S. citizen, be prepared to share your Social Security Number (SSN).Bring information about the normal wage for the job you are seeking when you apply for benefits.
If you worked for your last employer on more than one occasion, provide the most recent employment dates.
 Here you will be able to apply for unemployment benefits as well as register for a current job search. Information is available in both English and Spanish, online and by phone.The phone number to call for more information, or to start the application process, is 800-939-6631.
Search for new jobs using the online search engine found at the Texas Workforce Commission: http://www.twc.state.tx.us/.
 Completing the online application for unemployment benefits will require you to complete the application, receive a Personal Identification Number (PIN) and review all information before submitting.When you've completed the online application, you'll receive a confirmation of application. Print this for your records, or write down your application confirmation number and keep in a safe location.
Remember that your application isn't complete until you've applied for a job search with the Texas Workforce Commission.
 You must choose the way in which your unemployment benefits are paid. Unless otherwise directed, your payments will be deposited in a TWC Chase Visa debit card account.To sign up for your unemployment check to go directly to a bank account, you must wait one day (24 hours) from the time of your application. Then go to Texas Workforce, and change payment to your personal banking account by providing your banking institution's routing number and your personal account number.
You will not receive unemployment benefits through the mail or in cash.
 In general, requests for unemployment benefits are processed in about 4 weeks. During this time, the application will be reviewed by considering information on your past wages, job separation, and general eligibility.If you are curious to know the status of your application, you can call Tele-Serv at 800-558-8321 and select option 2.
Alternatively, you may check your status online by going to Unemployment Benefits Services.
 If your claim for unemployment benefits is denied by the state of Texas, you may choose to appeal. There are 3 levels of appeal. Start with the first level, which is a written notice to the Appeal Tribunal. If you disagree with the results of the Appeal Tribunal, you may appeal to the Commission.An attorney is not required for the appeal process.
If you disagree with the Commission (the 2nd level of appeal) you may apply for a rehearing only if you meet certain criteria, such as the attainment of important new information about your case.

