 The standard fly move is perhaps one of the best chest builders. Perform it in a high number of repetitions without equipment or in smaller sets with dumbbells or resistance bands. To do them:









Lay on your back with a dumbbell in each hand.
Extend your arms out to your side, as if your were forming a cross. Your palms should be pointing up.
Slowly, with your arms still extended, curl your hands together until the dumbbells meet above the center of your chest.
Slowly return your arms back to your sides.;
, The bench press is arguably the most popular chest workout move. It can be done in a home gym or with a large variety of weight options at a gym. When benching, always have a spotter behind you to hold the weight if it falls.









Lay on your back with the bar of weight above you, roughly in line with your nipples.
Grip the bar firmly with both hands roughly aligned with your shoulders.
Push the bar up off the holsters, then slowly bring it down until it is a few inches above your chest.
With a smooth, fluid motion, push the bar up until your arms are almost fully extended. That is one rep., Once you are familiar with traditional bench presses, handheld dumbbells can be used on an inclined bench to work your chest muscles in a different way. The motion is the same as a bench press, but you can lay on an incline or decline to work different parts of your pectoral for fuller muscle growth. You can also wrap a resistance band around your back and use that instead of dumbbells.
 Pull-ups strengthen the chest as well as the arms, shoulders, back, and abs. Depending on your grip you will get a different muscle focus.









Pull-ups with a wide grip and your palms facing forward will work your back, as well as some chest.
Chin-ups, with a narrow grip and your palms facing back towards you, will work more of your chest and bicep.
Keep your lower body from moving when doing pull-ups. You want your stomach and legs solid while you arms and back do all the work., Dumbbell rows help strengthen the shoulders, arms, and back and can be performed at home or at a gym.









Stand with dumbbells or resistance bands in both hands.
With your palms pointing down, pull the weight up to shoulder height.

Imagine you are a puppet, with strings in the center of the back of your hand. You're being pulled straight up.


Slowly return your arms back down by your sides., Although traditionally considered an exercise for the arms, bicep curls can help work the pectoral muscles and add to definition in the chest. They can be done with or without weights.









Hold a dumbbell in one hand, sitting.
Rest the elbow of your weighted arm on your thigh, with the weight between your legs.
Curl your arm up from the elbow bring the weight to your shoulder. Only your forearm should move.
Slowly return the weight to the center of your legs.

