 Reveal whatever secrets you might have been keeping, but note that she does not have to know every detail about your indiscretions. Be honest about your intentions with your girlfriend now. You might have made a mistake, but you love her and want to make things work. For example: “I know I lied about who she was to me and I know that dishonesty hurt you, but I promise nothing happened and I really want to make things work with you because I love you. You’re the only woman I want. I’m sorry I jeopardized that with my actions. Please forgive me.”Give her space. If she would like time to decide what her next move is, allow her as much as she needs.
 It lets your girlfriend know that you have a reason behind why you did what you did and helps to rebuild the trust that was lost.Talk about what made you do what you decided to do. What were you feeling? Scared? Overwhelmed? Insecure? Relay those feelings to your partner to gain sympathy and understanding. For example: “I felt like it was okay to go out with another girl because honestly, I’ve been feeling disconnected from our relationship lately and I’ve just wanted a break. Maybe it was self-sabotage in a way…”
Talk about why the betrayal won’t happen again in the future. Disclose how her pain has made you feel – how awakening it’s been, etc. For example: “I see how distraught and offended you feel by my actions. I don’t want to be the one that hurts you ever again. I don’t want to do this to us ever again. It’s really opened my eyes about what I have with you and what I don’t want to lose.”

, If your girlfriend is able to move past the betrayal, accept your apology, and forgive you, but you aren’t, only half of the relationship is being sustained. , Embrace whatever leftover awkwardness there may be. Go back to who you were as a loyal, loving boyfriend.Note how much more difficult it is to earn back trust once you are the one who caused to be lost.
Rely on the negative feelings that came about as a result of your betrayal and the potential of the loss of the relationship to keep you from doing it again.

