 Studies have shown that students who receive pre-trip instructions and lessons learn and retain more from the trip than those who had no pre-trip preparation. For example, if you are doing a unit on animal habitats and are going to visit a zoo at the end of the unit, you may want to begin by learning about different ecosystems and habitats in the classroom:Have your students study the habitats of a variety of animals they will see at the zoo.
Then ask them to record the features of the habitats that the zoo provides for the same animals.
Have them compare the natural habitats to the constructed zoo habitats to see if they are getting a similar type of lifestyle.
 Prepare your students for the field trip by explaining to them the activities they will be expected to perform throughout the day. Going over a detailed schedule in advance will allow students time to prepare.


This will also give you the opportunity to provide any instructions, which will save time on the day of the trip.
You could also brainstorm questions that the class may want to ask of the instructors at the site. Alternately, you could teach your students how to ask thoughtful questions., Discuss all behavioural expectations prior to the trip as well as any and all consequences that students will face if they misbehave. For example, if you are attending a museum you may want to remind students to be quiet, respectful, and avoid touching any of the museum artifacts. Failure to do so, may result in a call home to their parents. By outlining your expectations clearly, you will likely run into less problems on the day.Outline expected behaviour during transit as well. For example, students must remain seated while on the bus and should not distract the bus driver.
 Regardless of the type of trip you are taking you should always clearly outline certain safety precautions in advance. For example, if you are taking a group of young students on a field trip, you should go over traffic safety beforehand.Depending on the type of trip you may want to establish a buddy system or seating plan for safety purposes.
You could also divide the class into smaller groups with adult supervisors and chaperones. This will make it easier to monitor student behaviour.
 Aside from the permission and medical forms, you should also give students more detailed information about the schedule and what they should take with them on the trip. For example, you can include:The destination, with a physical description of the site.
Detailed list of the planned activities.
Any special preparations the parents and students need to make for that day, such as special clothing, boots, lunches, money, sunscreen, gloves, backpacks, water bottles, etc.
The drop off and pick up time for the children, if it differs from the regular school day.
A packing checklist if the trip involves overnight travel.

