 Not every night; it will dry out your hair. Washing your hair at night is suggested. If you do it in the morning, you will be forced to use heat on it, which will damage it! Showers are very important because the will make you feel fresh and clean.;
, However, don't wash your face too much; it will dry up and cause acne!

Figure out what products you need for your face. Different products help for different issues. I suggest having facial soap, astringent, a good facial scrub, and a light facial lotion.
 This will also boost your confidence. It can be fun to exercise! You just need to find something you like, and make sure that you change it up every once in a while. Healthy food can be delicious, with the right spices and stuff. For example, doesn't grilled chicken covered in minced onion sound appetizing?

, Brush it out once a day, and make sure you don't use too much heat of product. If you must use heat, put some conditioning protection on your hair first. If you'd like to, wear your hair in a crazy but pretty style every now and then (it's the style that looks "cool" right now). This will sure get you some attention!

, This will make your teeth nice and your breath fresh.
 Never wear the same outfit two days in a row, especially shirts. Try to have a good variety of clothes. If not spice up your look, or wash those clothes everyday .If you wear uniforms, you can wear them two days in a row, if the uniform is clean. Nobody will notice. Just spray on a pretty scent, and you're good to go.
 Set your alarm clock about an hour or two before you need to leave for school. Sometimes by chance you may wake up late so get your stuff ready the night before. This means picking out your outfit the night before, putting your homework in your book bag, and putting whatever you need to bring to school at the door.
 If you're a boy, use cologne. If you're a girl, use good smelling perfume. But too much cologne or perfume can be overbearing.
 Have a tube of lip gloss, and some concealer in your backpack or purse. Put either a pink or tan blush on your cheeks and nose. Put a tiny bit of mascara on your eyelashes, top and bottom (only top makes the eyes appear smaller), but not too much. If you want to, use a little bit of eyeliner,make it heavier for maybe a punk, emo, or Gothic look. Make a fine line if you want to look conservative.
,, If you need new clothes, look through stores such as Forever 21, Abercrombie and Fitch, Justice (for Elementary School girls), Hollister, Urban Outfitters, American Eagle, Delias, H&M, A'Gaci, Wet Seal, Papaya, and PacSun. If you want to look unique from the rest of the crowd at school, try boutiques or second-hand stores such as Plato's Closet or Goodwill. If you're creative enough, go through your local thrift shop to see what you can do with stashes of vintage clothes. Different clothes that are pretty are sure to get you some compliments!

