 Get a brightly colored bag, or a plain canvas one that kids could decorate themselves. A backpack, tote, or a sling bag will work fine.;
, Some kids like crafts more than others, but it is always good to have a backup project. These kids may already have their own crafts at their house, and if they'd prefer to use those instead of yours, you can. Whatever you bring along will interest them, so bring some of these along just in case:


Paper bags to make puppets
Googly eyes, cotton balls or pom-poms of different colors and sizes
Construction paper of different colors, plain paper, coloring books
Stencils, crayons, colored pencils, markers, pencils, etc.
Finger paint.
Glue or glue sticks, tape, stapler, safety scissors
A few adult t-shirts you don't mind getting dirty (glue or paint can spill, and you don't want that to happen on kids' clothing)

, Board games or card games can keep kids entertained for hours. Put in some of your childhood games or bring some of these along:


(for younger kids) Candy Land, Yahtzee, Uno, Apples to Apples, twister, Simon swipe, Hullabaloo by cranium
(for older kids) Clue, Battleship, Bop-It!, Scrabble, BananaGrams
Puzzles
Deck of cards

, Even though the kids may already have their own dolls they love to play with, bring some along to give them a pleasant surprise, or even have a play date with all of the dolls!


Teddy Bears
Dolls like American Girl, Baby Alive, etc.
Transformers, cars, trucks, superheros, etc.
 When in doubt, get the popcorn rolling and pop in a DVD, or read the kids a couple of stories in a big fort you made. There are so many classic children's literature and amazing movies to show to kids, so here are some suggestions you can easily rent from your library. (See Sources and Citations for more information.)


For babies and toddlers:


Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See? by Bill Martin Jr.

One Fish, Two Fish, Red Fish, Blue Fish by Dr. Suess

Elmo's World series


For preschoolers:


Where the Wild Things Are by Maurice Sendak

Curious George by H. A. Rey
The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh


For older kids:


Jumanji by Chris Van Allsburg

Charlotte's Web by E. B. White

The Magic School Bus series



, Kids love a yummy treat, and babies do, too. Buy some gum, cookies, animal crackers, or a dry cereal for kids to munch on. Run them by parents to make sure that kids are not allergic to these and that they are allowed to have them.
 This isn't the "fun" part of the 'fun' bag, but it's one hundred percent needed. It should be in the front zipper of your backpack, an easy to get to place when you need it quick for emergencies. You can find a small, inexpensive first aid kit at any drugstore, or make one yourself. Make sure it contains Band-Aids, first aid cream, gauze and gauze scissors, and a throw away ice pack.
 When the kids go to bed or finish watching a movie, you should have something to entertain yourself with as well. Bring a book or some homework or your phone to play some games on while the children are busy, but make sure you are always watching them.

