 If you are considering getting dental implants, you should first receive a comprehensive dental exam. This may include x-rays of your mouth and models made of your teeth and mouth. After evaluating your teeth, your dentist will help you determine whether dental implants are a good choice and how best to move forward.You should also consult with your doctor and discuss any medical conditions that might complicate oral surgery.
Ask things like “Am I healthy enough for implants?” and “How long will the process take?”
Regular dental checkups are an important part of maintaining proper oral hygiene. Visit your dentist every six months.;
, Talk with your dentist about the number of dental implants you want. This will determine what kind of implants you receive, as well as the length of the surgery and its cost.If you need multiple teeth replaced, you might want to consider having a bridge – a prosthesis with multiple false teeth attached – installed instead of individual dental implants.
Ask your dentists things like “Is my jaw healthy enough for implants?” and “Would bridges or individual implants be best?”

, Because implants tend to be more expensive than traditional bridge work, you will want to consider the cost and talk with your insurance provider. Dental implants are sometimes not covered by insurance because they are considered a cosmetic operation. Make sure that you have the financial resources to get dental implants.When you talk to your insurer, ask them things like “Are dental implants covered under my dental plan?” and “How much of this procedure will I pay out of pocket?”

, Depending on the health of your jawbone, there are different types of dental implants that you will need to consider. These implants can be surgically placed in the jaw and underneath the gums, or on top of the gums.An endosteal implant is the most common and requires the surgical placement of metal screws, cylinders or blades in the jaw. The gums are cut open, an implant is drilled into the jaw, and then the gums are closed around it. The implant can be used to hold one or more prosthetic teeth.
A subperiosteal implant is placed on top of the jaw with metal implants placed through the gums. This implant is less common and used mostly for those who lack the bone strength or height in their jaw for endosteal implants.
 Before you begin surgery, you will work with your health specialists to develop a treatment plan. This plan will detail things like your medical history, the health of your mouth and jawbone, the type of implants you are receiving, and the proposed timeline for the various procedures. You will likely work with multiple specialists over the course of getting your implants, including your personal doctor and dentist, a periodontist, and an oral surgeon., Before you go into surgery, talk with your oral surgeon about what to expect and how you should prepare for the operation. Depending on the number of teeth being replaced and the type of anesthesia used, you may need to rearrange your schedule and make some changes to your routine leading up to the surgery. You may also need to make arrangements for after the surgery.Ask your oral surgeon things like “What kind of anesthesia will be administered?” and “How long will the entire procedure last?”
Because the procedure can require multiple surgeries over many months, it is important to schedule your appointments and plan accordingly.
 You will likely need to take some time off to have your various surgeries. Depending on how many implants you are receiving and the type of anesthesia delivered, this could be from a few hours to multiple days. Talk with your dental specialists about the expected recovery time for your surgeries and how long you should rest after them.If you receive general anesthesia, be prepared to take the rest of the day off.
Depending on your level of discomfort, you may be able to return to work or school following local anesthesia.
Ask the dental health professional something like “How long should I plan to miss work?” or “Can I go back to work right away?”

, If your dental specialists intend to use local anesthesia, they will likely recommend that you do not eat or drink anything the night and morning before surgery. Having food in your stomach can cause complications when you are sedated with general anesthesia. Be sure to follow your specialist’s guidelines before surgery.This is typically not a concern with local anesthesia. However, be sure to consult your dental specialist.
Ask the dental specialist things like “What foods should I avoid after surgery?” and “What foods do you recommend that I eat?”

, If general anesthesia is used during your surgeries, you will want to have someone available to take you home afterwards. You can ask a friend or family member to drive you, or arrange for a taxi to pick you up. Because the general anesthesia will impair your ability to drive, it is important that you have someone to take you home in order to avoid an accident.Ask the dental specialist whether or not you will be able to drive yourself home.
 When tooth loss occurs, the bone beneath the gums can erode and soften, making it difficult to attach an implant. In this instance, the dental surgeon will remove a piece of bone, either from another part of your jaw or body – possibly your hip – and transplant it to your jawbone. Your surgeon may also choose to use artificial bone. After the graft, it may take several months before the transplanted bone has become strong enough to support a dental implant.If you only need minor grafting, it can sometimes be done at the time of the implant surgery.
Depending on the strength of the bone in your jaw and the teeth being replaced, you may also need a sinus lift surgery or a ridge modification, both of which will help promote bone growth in the jaw and mouth., During the initial surgery, the oral surgeon will make a cut in your gums and expose the bone. They will then drill a hole into the bone where a metal post will be placed. This post will serve as the implant's root and anchor it to your jaw.The wound is then closed with stitches and allowed to heal.


You will still have a gap in your mouth at this point, but you can receive a temporary denture to cover it., Over the course of the next two to six months, the bone and implant will bond together in a process known as osseointegration. This will ensure that your dental implant is firmly anchored to your jaw., Depending on the type of dental implant you receive, you may need to undergo a second surgery once osseointegration is complete. During this surgery, the oral surgeon reopens your gums, exposing the implant, and attaches an abutment – the piece where the crown will be attached. The surgeon then closes the gum tissue around the abutment with stitches.You may choose to have the abutment attached to the dental implant post when it is initially implanted. This means that you will not need a second surgery. However, you will also have the abutment jutting past your gum line for multiple months, which might be less visually appealing.
 After each surgery, your surgeon will close up your gums using stitches. Generally, they will use stitches that dissolve on their own. However, the dental specialist may choose to use stitches that are not self-dissolving and require removal. This will be done a few weeks after each surgery., Whether you have a single or multiple stage surgery, you will likely experience some discomfort afterwards. You may have some swelling and bruising of your skin and gums. You will also have pain at the implant site and some bleeding.If the pain or swelling persist for more than a few days or gets worse, you should talk to your oral surgeon. They may need to prescribe you pain medication or antibiotics.
Because of sensitivity from the surgery, you will likely only be able to eat soft foods, like puddings and soups, that require little chewing.
 Once the abutment is placed, your gums will need one to two weeks to heal. After they have healed, your dental specialist will make impressions of your teeth using a material to make a cast of your mouth. They will then create a crown – the artificial tooth – that will fit your mouth and the abutment, and will look attractive.The mold will likely be a mouthpiece filled with a molding material, typically made from a plastic compound. They will have you bite down on the mouthpiece and, after a few minutes, the gooey plastic compound will harden, resulting in a mold of your teeth and gums.
The crown will look like your other teeth and be largely indistinguishable from a natural tooth.
 Once your gums are fully healed and your jawbone is strong enough to support a new tooth, your dentist will attach the crown. Discuss with your dentist whether you want crowns that are removable, which can be easily removed for cleaning or repair, or fixed, which are permanently screwed into place and much stronger.If you need multiple teeth replaced, you can opt to have a combination of removable and fixed crowns. Talk with your dental specialist to determine which option works best.If you are replacing multiple teeth, a bridge is a more affordable option.Fixed crowns tend to be more expensive than removable ones.
 Once you have your new teeth, it is important to clean and care for them like you would your normal teeth. Brush them twice a day and use floss and mouth wash daily. You should also visit your dentist regularly.Your dentist will likely recommend regular checkups to ensure the health of your implants.

