 Roses come in two different varieties — roses that bloom once a year, and those which have a continuous showing throughout the summer months. The variety you have will make a difference to your pruning methods.


Before you go about pruning your rose, it’s helpful to know which kind you have. If you’re not sure, know that roses with flexible canes and blooms from older growth are typically once blooming.
If you still can’t tell, prune the plant as if it were a once blooming rose and keep an eye on it to see if it blooms the following year.;
, Since a great deal more stress is placed on the main canes of a trellis rose, it’s important to follow proper pruning technique from the start.


Cut the plant at an angle right above a junction which is growing in the direction you want the plant to grow.
Always use clean shears. If you have to remove any diseased growth, keep a bottle of sanitizer or alcohol nearby to wipe the blades after you cut each diseased part.
 Here's what you’ll need to prune a trellised rose:


Pruning sheers
Alcohol or disinfecting solution
Rake
Fertilizer
Soft ties

, Water the entire area around the rose the day before you plan to prune the rose back. This will reduce the effect of the pruning and help the plant to heal faster.
 Prepare the rose by removing any dead, dying, diseased, or otherwise lackluster growth from the plant. Remove the ties attaching the rose to the trellis and then disinfect your sheers.
 Begin to re-tie the rose canes to the trellis by selecting the healthiest canes first and fixing them to the trellis as horizontally as possible. The canes should never cross and you you should remove any canes that overcrowd the trellis in order to increase air flow.
 Once your trellis is full, prune the remaining canes close to the ground. On each cane look for lateral branches that produce buds, then prune each lateral branch back to three or four buds.
 Reapply new mulch to the area, making sure to leave the areas directly around the cane clear. Fertilize according to package directions.
 Begin by removing all unhealthy, dying, dead, or diseased growth from the plant. Discard these branches and clean your sheers before continuing.
 Begin with removing the oldest, thinnest, most unhealthy canes. Once-blooming roses need strong old-wood to bloom well each year.


You can train the rose to bloom more vigorously by removing small and flimsy canes that won’t perform well.
Do not remove buds from the flowering wood (if they are present when you prune).
 Once the plant is manageable, remove the ties and regroup and tie the canes to the trellis as horizontally as possible.


It is important that the canes remain well spaced out and that they do not cross.
Prune back any growth that is hard to attach straight or crowds the trellis.

