 Add 1 cup (200 g) of softened butter, 2 tablespoons (25 g) of vanilla sugar, a pinch of salt, and 1 egg yolk to a large bowl. Use a hand mixer to beat the ingredients together until they’re fully combined, which should take 30 seconds to 1 minute.You can use a stand mixer to make the dough if you prefer.
You can also stir the dough together by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
You can purchase vanilla sugar or make your own by combining 2 cups (400 g) of white sugar with 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of pure vanilla extract in a sealable plastic bag. Mix until the vanilla is evenly distributed throughout the sugar, and spread the sugar out on a cookie sheet. Allow it to sit for 30 minutes or until it’s dry.;
, When the butter mixture is fully combined, use a sifter to add 2 ¼ cups (260 g) of pastry flour to the bowl. Blend it into the butter mixture with the hand mixer until it is just combined.Be careful not to overmix the flour into the dough. You may wind up with tough cookies.
You can substitute cake flour for the pastry flour.
If you don’t have pastry or cake flour, you can get the same effect by mixing 2 tablespoons (16 g) of cornstarch in with every 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour.
 After you’ve mixed in the flour, stir in ½ cup (100 g) of ground almonds. Blend the almonds in until they’re fully combined, and briefly knead the dough until it all comes together.Process whole, blanched almonds in a food processor or blender until they’re finely ground.
 Once the dough has come together, leave it in the bowl and let it sit at room temperature for 1 to 2 hours. For the best results, choose a spot that isn’t too warm or bright to keep the dough.Cover the dough with plastic wrap or foil while you’re letting it rest.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Pay attention to the oven so you know when it’s reached the desired temperature. Most models will beep or flash an indicator light to let you know.
 To bake the cookies, you’ll need at least 1 baking sheet. Rub the sheet down with butter or spray it with cooking spray so the cookies don’t stick to it.You can line the baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat if you prefer.
 Use a medium cookie scoop or a tablespoon measuring spoon to pick up some dough. With your hands, gently roll the dough into a ball.The piece of dough that you roll should be approximately the size of a walnut.
 Once you’ve formed the dough into a ball, roll the dough against a floured work surface to create a rope that’s approximately 4-inches (10-cm) long. Bend the rope to form a crescent, and pinch the ends lightly. Repeat the process with all of the dough.Make sure not to roll the dough into a rope that’s any longer than 4-inches (10-cm). If the rope is too long, the cookies will end up being too thin.
 When the dough is all formed into crescents, place the cookies on the greased baking sheet. Make sure to space the cookies so they’re at least 2-inches (5-cm) apart., Place the cookies in the preheated oven, and allow them to bake until they’re a light golden brown. It should take approximately 20 to 25 minutes.Halfway through the baking process, rotate the baking sheet to ensure that the cookies bake evenly.
 When the cookies are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven and place it on a cooling rack. Let the cookies cool for approximately 3 to 5 minutes., Pour approximately ½ cup (62 ½ g) of powdered sugar into a bowl. Use a spatula to gently remove the cookies one by one from the baking sheet, and roll each one carefully in the sugar to dust both sides. Repeat the process until you’ve dusted all of the cookies.If you’re concerned about the powdered sugar clumping on the cookies, you can use a baker’s dusting wand to dust the cookies. It features a container with perforated sides at the end of a handle. You fill the container with the powdered sugar, and shake the wand over the cookies to lightly dust them.
 After you’ve dusted the cookies, set them on a cooling rack. Let them cool for another 20 to 30 minutes or until they’re cooled completely.Store the cookies in an airtight container. They’ll stay fresh for 3 to 5 days.
If you’re not serving them right away, dust the cookies with another light layer of powdered sugar before serving.

