 There are two popular brands of GPUs that are popular in the video card market; Nvidia and AMD. Both GPU types can provide similar features using proprietary functionality as well as their share of exclusive features. There are substantial differences in the technologies in AMD's and Nvidia's graphics chipsets, and if you're really picky, you may have a very good reason for choosing one over the other. The truth, however, is that only serious, detail-obsessed gamers are going to be able to discern a difference in appearance between a game running on an AMD card and one running on a comparable product from Nvidia. Most people are going to pay more attention to how realistic a game looks and whether it stutters during play than the specific types of anti-aliasing, physics processing, and multi-monitor technologies that are employed. If you find a card at a price you can afford, and reviews say it does well, go with it. Most of the other stuff is just gravy—and often lumpy at that.
 A video card's graphics processing unit (GPU) is what determines its video capabilities, and many GPUs have names that are often fairly arcane and unintuitive if you don't follow the business closely. But a good rule of thumb is that the higher the number in the GPU's name, the more recent and more powerful it is.
 Ultimately, video cards aren't much different from CPUs—a lot of the same rules apply, including those about memory and clock speed. Video cards have their own collections of both, although the specific values of either will usually be less immediately important than when you're choosing a system processor.

The name and number of a video card type generally specifies their power and performance. This can be used in addition to determine how powerful a video card is. Both popular chipsets offer different naming conventions to identify their line of cards.A video card model number will determine its power, generation and performance level.
However, it's possible for two video cards of the same type to have different amounts of memory; Nvidia's GPU, for example, maybe available in both 1.5GB and 3GB of memory—and the one with more memory will tend to be faster and cost more. Likewise, some cards might use GDDR5 memory, which is faster and more expensive than the GDDR3 memory other cards use.
Lower-end video cards sometimes have faster clock speeds to compensate for the power they lack in other areas, but that's usually not going to translate to increased real-world performance.
You only need to pay close attention to these specs if you want to fine-tune your purchase; in most cases, the name of the GPU will tell you everything you need to know about the card's capabilities.
 Back when all computers were two-foot-tall towers, no one thought much about video cards hogging a lot of space. But because PCs now come in a range of sizes, you may not be able to use every card in every system you want to build.

The more powerful a card, the longer it's going to be, and the less likely it will fit into a microATX case, or even a smaller ATX case. Some higher-end AMD and Nvidia cards will be very long. If you're building a smaller computer, or you want to upgrade the video in a mini tower you already have, be aware that your card choices may be limited.
 Video cards will support different versions of Microsoft's DirectX collection of advanced programming interfaces (APIs), which offer different graphical and processing features. Again, the specific details are going to be important only to hard-core gamers, but the higher the version number of DirectX a card supports, the more realistic games that use it will look—and the more challenging they will be for your computer to run.


The highest-level version as of spring 2017 is DirectX 12 (DX12), and cards that can run it will also be able to run the full feature sets of games written with DX11 or DX10, but DX9 or DX10 hardware won't be able to see all the effects of DX11 or DX12 games (assuming they work at all).
The software package or the manufacturer's website will tell you what version of DirectX is supported—always check to make sure your hardware matches up. All the latest AMD and Nvidia cards support DX12, so if you buy new you won't have a problem.
 Purchase a video card from a retail store or from online. You may also read reviews to compare and contrast other user’s experiences with the video card.


Keep an eye out for seasonal and periodic sales as this will allow you to purchase a video card at a lower price.
A computer can be built with millions of combinations. Comparing your computer’s overall performance to others will not offer the best advice for the graphics card itself unless the hardware combines with your video card for specialized compatibility.

