 Bikinis come in many different colors, patterns, styles, and cuts that all serve to flatter the body differently. If you're not comfortable with a certain fit, don't be afraid to ask a sales associate to help you find the right size and style for your body type. Try not to concentrate on the tag size, as sizes differ from brand to brand and style to style. Keep in mind, mixing and matching bikini tops and bottoms can help you find the best look., Every woman is made differently, and this means you have to figure out what your body needs from a suit to look its best. Finding a bikini top that is supportive, and will be flattering, is key to looking great in a bikini. Here are some tips to follow:


If you are small on top, try tops that have padding or an underwire to accentuate what you do have. You should also look for adjustable straps around the back and shoulders so that you can tighten the top appropriately. Ruffle tops, tri-tops, or bandeau tops are also recommended for you.If you are bigger on top and need extra support, be sure to look for tops that have underwire and wide should straps. These will fit more comfortably than thinner spaghetti straps. Halter tops may be flattering on you as they highlight cleavage. Stay away from strapless bandeau tops and tri-tops.If you have wider shoulders, try to balance out your look by playing up the bottom and keeping the top subtle. Wear bright colors, fun prints, and embellishments on your bikini bottom, and look for a top that has wider shoulder straps., Fortunately, bikini bottoms come in many different cuts and styles that can flatter your unique body type. Whether you want to lengthen your legs or add dimension, there is a style for you. Here are some tips to follow:


If you have shorter legs or a shorter torso, find a suit that will elongate you. Try a suit that is cut high on the thigh, which is meant to make legs appear longer. This look works on curvy hips and straight hips. Vertical stripes can also help to visually lengthen the body.If you have a longer body with even longer legs, try suits that have embellishments at the hips and bust. Swimsuits that come with jewels, ruffles, ties, and bows help add dimension to fill you out. Find patterns that have horizontal lines instead of vertical, and look for bright colors., If you lack curves on the top or bottom, find a suit that creates some. High-waisted bottoms, bikinis with ruffles and bows, and strapless suits are a great look for you. Try wearing a solid color on the bottom with a fun printed or embellished top to create the illusion of an hourglass figure. Stay away from wearing the same solid-color on the top and bottom and don't wear vertical lines., If you are big on the bottom, try a mini-skirt bikini bottom for great coverage. If you want to wear ruffles or bows, save that for the bikini top. Look for bottoms that are smooth and will not add volume to your bottom half. Also, stay away from loud prints and bright colors.