 If your home treatments are not making your toenail any better after 2-3 days, check in with your doctor. If you have diabetes or another condition that causes nerve damage, see your doctor immediately and consider seeing a podiatrist.If you notice red streaks coming from the toe, you need to see a doctor immediately. This is a sign of a major infection.
You should also see a doctor if there is pus present near the toenail., Your doctor will ask you when the ingrown toenail started, and when it started to swell or get red or painful. He or she will also likely ask you if you are feeling any other symptoms, such as fever. Be sure to talk about your symptoms fully.Your general practitioner is usually able to treat an ingrown toenail. But for more complicated cases or recurrent conditions, you might choose to see a podiatrist (foot specialist)., If your toenail is infected, your doctor may prescribe an oral or topical antibiotic. This will ensure that the infection clears up and new bacteria does not take root under the toenail.
 Your doctor will likely want to try the least invasive procedure, which is to lift the toenail slightly away from the skin. If she can get the toenail edge away from the skin, she may pack gauze or cotton underneath.Your doctor will give you instructions for replacing the gauze every day. Follow these instructions to make sure your toenail heals.
 If the ingrown toenail is very infected or has grown significantly into the surrounding skin, your doctor might opt to remove part of the nail. Your doctor will administer a local anesthetic. Then the doctor will cut along the nail edge to remove the part of the nail growing into the skin.Your toenail will regrow in 2-4 months. Some patients worry about the look of the toenail after this procedure. But if your toenail has been growing into your skin, chances are it will look better after this partial removal.
Toenail removal may sound drastic, but it actually relieves the pressure, irritation, and pain of an ingrown nail.
 When you get repeated ingrown toenails, you might want to look into a more permanent solution. In this procedure, the doctor will remove some of your nail, along with the nail bed underneath this section. This will prevent the nail from growing back in this area.This procedure is administered by laser, chemical, electrical current or other surgery.