 Before you begin jailbreaking, you should backup your iPod so that you don’t lose any important settings or files in case something goes wrong. Backing up the iPod is a relatively quick process, depending on how much information you have., To jailbreak version 6.0.0-6.1.2, download free jailbreak software. Evasi0n is currently the easiest and most pain-free way to jailbreak the newest versions of iOS. Do not pay for any jailbreak programs, as the software is freely available online directly from the developers.

This is an untethered jailbreak. That means that once the jailbreak process is complete, your iPod will be permanently jailbroken, until you revert the process yourself or download an update from Apple that renders the jailbreak unusable.
Be sure to download the correct version for your computer’s operating system. For a PC you will need at least Windows XP. For a Mac, you need OS X.6 or newer.
 Make sure that the iPod is showing your Home Screen and that it is still properly connected to your computer. You may lose data in apps that are running while you jailbreak, so be sure that you see the Home Screen before you start the jailbreak process., iTunes should not be running on your computer. Click the “Jailbreak” button. The jailbreak process will take several minutes. Don’t run any programs on your computer and don’t touch the iPod’s power button.

Too many programs running on your computer can slow down the jailbreak process and corrupt the installation, forcing you to restart the process. Turning the power off during the jailbreaking process could render your phone inoperable.
 This app will appear on the Home Screen of your iPod. Tap it and the jailbreak process will continue., Once the iPod has finished the jailbreak process, an app called Cydia will appear on your home screen. This is the alternative to Apple’s iTunes store, where you can access apps that do not conform to the terms of Apple’s store.

Cydia will need to download some data before the jailbreak can be completed. The words “Reloading Data” will show up and then disappear.
 Your iPod is now jailbroken. Be sure to re-enable any passwords and locks. You can now install any third-party apps to your iPod.