 A lot of items that people throw out can be easily recycled. Some places even offer free recycling services. Most plastic containers, glass jars, tin cans, and paper can be recycled. It’s just as easy as throwing it in your garbage. Simply place it in your recycling bin instead. This will greatly reduce waste in landfills and will allow your items to be reused instead of wasted.
 This goes for clothing, electronics, appliances, and furniture. Your junk is someone else’s treasure. Simply take items to a Goodwill facility, sell them online, or give to a friend or family member. Try not to throw any of this out unless it is completely useless. If you outgrow a shirt, someone else will gladly wear it, especially someone in need. This is a great way to help other people and take care of the environment.Be especially mindful of electronics. Many people have old cells phones lying around or multiple computers and tablets. It is very important not to simply throw these out. There are recycling facilities specifically for your electronics if you aren’t able to donate or sell them.
 It is very hard on our planet to have people upgrading their phones every few months or buying a new jacket every season. A lot of energy, resources, and waste result from each item that is made. Try to pick out a few nice items that will last you a long time as opposed to buying something new every few months. This will help you to avoid throwing things out and will greatly help our planet., Instead of plastic water bottles, buy a reusable stainless steel one. Instead of a paper coffee cup each day, use in a reusable mug. Instead of paper towels, use a cloth towel. Instead of paper or plastic dishes, use ceramic ones. This way you aren’t continually buying and throwing things out, but are instead reusing a single item. This greatly helps to cut back on waste and is a simple way to go green., Instead of throwing out old scraps of food, you can compost them. This way they will break down into good useful soil instead of sitting in a landfill for a long time. To make your own, you need to combine brown matter (leaves, dried grass, wood chips, twigs) and green matter (vegetable peels, coffee grounds, tea leaves, apple cores, egg shells). Place them in a covered bin with many holes in it. Mix them together and let them sit.


It takes several weeks (or even months if it is cold out) for the items to compost and you can continue adding scraps while you wait. This cuts back on waste and will help with your gardening!

, To see how you are doing with eliminating waste, set a goal of only filling up one garbage bag each month. If you are recycling your goods and composting your organic material, you might be surprised how little waste you create! Feel free to adjust this based on the size of your family, but one bag per month is a good goal to aim for.


Even if you just cut back on a bag of trash each month, you will still make a big difference.
 These days, a lot of waste can be eliminated by choosing paper-free options. You can pay bills and receive bank statements online. You can use ebooks rather than buying print books. You can read articles on your computer instead of buying printed versions. There are very few things that absolutely need to be printed out. You can even use airplane tickets from your phone!, Install an efficient shower head and try to take quick showers. Five minutes should be all you need. Try to shower every other day instead of daily or try to only wash your hair a couple of times per week. You can give yourself a quick sponge bath in the morning instead of a full shower. That way you will be clean and will preserve water.Turn off the water while brushing your teeth. It doesn’t need to run the whole time!
Fix any leaky faucets. A few droplets might not seem like much, but this can quickly add up.
 Instead of throwing out an old chair that is no longer in style, you can repurpose it. Try decorating it with a couple of throw pillows or placing an elegant cover over it. You could even have it reupholstered for a brand new look. A lot of older items simply need a nice new finish to be brought up to date. And a lot will eventually come back in style! Get creative or hire someone to help you update your items instead of tossing them.

