 No insinuations, no hints, and no passive phrases of "well maybe, maybe not". Once you set the boundaries that are absolute, talk about the boundaries that are negotiable.


Set a boundary that you will not be emotionally bullied into saying things or making steps you aren’t quite ready to say or make. For example, if your partner is ready to say “I love you” and you aren’t, don’t feel that you have to. Instead, opt to be clear and direct about how you feel and your intentions with that important step.Take your time with the pace and the nature of the relationship. Set a boundary and communicate that the relationship progress at a pace you are comfortable with: making things official, becoming physical, etc.
Be clear and direct if no shoes are allowed on the carpet, ever, period. Be clear if phone calls every ten minutes are unappreciated. Be very, very clear about whether or not you two are mutually exclusive.
Every relationship has problems, however, a compromise allows more effective communication and an overall healthier relationship.
 Don’t sweep mistreating behavior under the rug or tread lightly against broaching the topic. Communicate to your partner that they have overstepped one of your boundaries but never lose the love in your voice.


Use the phrase: “I love you, but I need you to respect this boundary of mine. It is important to because ____”.
For example: “I love you and have every intention of us working through whatever issues we might have. But, I need you to respect the fact that you get verbally abusive toward me when you’re angry. It is okay to communicate with me in a respectful manner, but it is never okay to project anger and hurt onto me. It not only upsets me, but it is also makes me feel belittled and undervalued.”Express the behavior, the boundary it violated, and how it made you feel. Be open to hear how enforcing the boundary makes your partner feel. Talk things through, make sure things are understood, and that both parties involved feel cared for in the end., Communicate with the phrases “I feel…” or “I would appreciate it if…” instead of “You are a jerk” or “You are the problem” to your partner.


“I” statements allow you to retain responsibility over your emotions and allows your partner to be more open to your conversation without defenses.
“You” statements assign blame.
 The sandwich technique of communicating is to use a compliment, a criticism, and a compliment. When a compliment’s said, your partner’s defenses come down and they are primed to hear some criticism. Wrap it up with another complicate to reconnect., If you have tried every reasonable way to set boundaries and your lover simply can't respect them, you need to end the relationship.


Once you have done your best and upheld your responsibilities, but have not been repaid with the same, your loyalty is to above all yourself.
You deserve someone who will treat you with the same level of maturity and commitment as you will them, and you should never deprive yourself of this based on the hope that your lover will change.

