 You may find it easier to stop using social media if you deactivate or get rid of your accounts altogether. Most social media sites allow you to deactivate your account rather than delete it completely in case you want to come back.


Delete an Instagram Account
Delete a Twitter Account
Deactivate a Facebook Account
Delete a YouTube Account
Delete a LinkedIn Account;
, Every time you go onto your phone and see the Facebook app, you risk temptation. Deleting these apps makes it easier to stay off social media and focus on what matters most to you.
 If you're finding it hard to avoid clicking to social media websites, download a browser extension like StayFocusd to block the sites.If this seems like an extreme step, only go halfway. Block these sites only on your primary web browser, so you can still access them elsewhere. If you prefer, you can choose to limit your time spent on certain websites rather than block them completely.
 Some people check their social media accounts as soon as they wake up in the morning, during breaks at work or school and while they are falling asleep. Think about when you tend to look at social media, and then find another activity to fill that time.


While you eat meals, try to focus on the food. Think about the taste and texture. If you’re eating with others, talk to them instead of looking at your phone.
When you feel like having a conversation with someone, do it in person. If nobody is around, try going to a café or other busy location where people may be available to chat.
Keep your phone far away from you at night. Not only will this prevent you from using social media, you may fall asleep easier., If you think about it, there are both positive and negative things about social media. If social media didn’t have its benefits, you wouldn’t spend so much time with it! To live happily without social media, you’ll have to replace the positive things about it with positive alternatives. Start by making a few lists.
 What is it that you like about social media? Use concrete examples, like:“I can keep in touch with my friends who live far away.”
“I can find out about things happening in my area.”
“I’m reminded of my friends’ birthdays.”

, Now that you have a list of social media positives, figure out how to accomplish those tasks (or get those feelings) without being tethered to a computer or cell phone. For example:


“I will send letters to and plan to visit my faraway friends.”
“I will find events in the newspaper or by asking friends what they are doing.”
“I will make a list of birthdays and pin it to my wall.”

, Now you’ll make a list of concrete things that bother you about social media. Consider things you haven’t done or finished because of the time you spend on social media. Examples:


“I use social media instead of .”
“I don’t get enough sleep because of how I use social media.”
“I feel insecure when I look at social media.”

, How will those negative things in your life turn into positives if you leave social media?


“I will have more time to do .”
“I will be able to fall asleep earlier if I’m not looking at social media.”
“I will feel better about myself if I don’t see things that make me feel insecure on social media.”

, In addition to getting really good at something, devoting time to a new hobby will help you fill the idle time you once filled with social media. Having a hobby will also boost your creativity and keep your brain sharp.If you’re having trouble thinking of a new hobby, take a look at some of these ideas:


Art: comics illustration, film-making, jewelry-making, making your own clothes, macramé, decoupage, interior design, makeup.
Music: analog synthesizers, choir, making guitar pedals, becoming a DJ.
Writing: lyric poetry, amateur journalism, short stories, personal memoirs.
Exercise: martial arts, swimming, dancing, aerial yoga.
Helping others: raising money for a good cause, helping a non-native speaker learn your language, training pets, sharing meals with people experiencing poverty.
 If part of what you like about social media is how easy it is to meet people, seek a penpal instead. When looking for a penpal, think about things that would keep you interested in writing to someone new. You’ll likely find that getting interesting things in your mailbox is more exciting than any social media notification.


Finding a penpal in another country is a fun way to learn about other places.
In addition to writing letters, you can also send and receive mix CDs of your favorite music, artwork, stickers, photos, and books.
 Because the majority of people get their news on social media, you may be surprised to learn that there are other ways to stay connected to current events.Most areas still print newspapers, most of which you can also find on the web. News radio, podcasts, and television news networks may even expose you to a wider variety of information than what’s supplied by your social networks.
 Studies show that while social media keeps us connected to others online, it decreases the quality of our off-line relationships.You can strengthen these relationships by gathering phone numbers and addresses from people you care about. Write this information down in an address book or personal organizer and keep it handy.


It’s also a good idea to ask them how they like to be contacted. Some people may be more open to talking on the phone than others.
People who are less likely to talk on the phone or make in-person plans may prefer communicating via email.
 When you’re spending quality time with someone, ask them to save social media and texting for later. It probably doesn’t feel good to have to compete with social media for your friends’ attention. Also, hearing about what’s happening on Facebook may entice you to return before you’re ready.
 Having positive experiences and interactions with friends will help you stay both healthy and happy.When you have fun social events on the horizon, you’ll feel less isolated.


Find out which bands or artists are visiting your town, and then plan to see the event with friends.
Research good cafes or restaurants in your area and ask a friend to meet you for a meal.
Plan a camping trip with a group of people. Try to choose a location where the Internet is inaccessible!
Sign up for an activity that requires you and a friend to do something at a regularly-scheduled time. For example, weekly yoga classes, volunteer opportunities, or writing groups.
Start a project with a group of people, such as a band, sports team, or foreign language study group.
 If you often check social media when you’re bored, you’ll need to fill your time with things that keep your mind focused. You clean, read, study, catch up on homework, or go out. Not only will you stay on top of things like coursework or the cleaning, but it may also reduce your social media temptations.
 Hanging out at the same places often will undoubtedly introduce you to people who share similar interests. When you go to these events, appear relaxed, friendly, and approachable to encourage conversation.


Go to the same open mic event every month, and maybe even participate!
Find an art gallery you like and go to their opening every month.
Visit the same café regularly so people start to recognize you.
 You can use a site like Meetup.com to make new friends who like to hang out in-person. You may find a group that shares a certain identity (e.g., heritage, occupation, orientation) or common interest (e.g., oil painting, beat-making, women’s basketball) and forget all about social media.
 If you find yourself unable to stay off social media, reach out to your friends and family. Let them know why you want to stop using social media, and ask them to help you fill your time.


Internet addiction can interfere with life to the point of becoming a serious addiction.If you’re feeling shame and having trouble steering clear of social media, there are non-judgmental therapists and help groups who can help you defeat your addiction.

