 Weighing your unlabeled food is important for accurately determining its macro content. Place your food on a food scale in order to weigh it. Be sure to place your plate or bowl on the scale before zeroing it out, otherwise, your weight measurement will erroneously include the weight of the plate or bowl.For instance, you might weigh an apple and find that it weighs 25 grams.
Weighing fruits and veggies is less important than weighing meat because the weight of meat will change significantly when it’s cooked. Always weigh meat when it’s raw.
 Once you know the weight of your food, search online for the macro values (the total fat, carbohydrate, and protein contents, in grams) of your unlabeled food based on its mass. There are many nutrition facts databases online. Use your preferred search engine and a word string like “nutrition facts apple” to obtain the nutrition facts of an apple.For instance, if you weighed a slab of beef and found it weighs 300 grams, you might search online and find that 100 grams of beef contain 15 grams of protein. This would yield a total protein count of 45 grams (three times 15). You’d then repeat the search for your other two macro metrics, carbs, and fat.
 Many restaurants – especially larger chains – offer nutrition data sheets for everything on their menu. If you’re dining out, obtain the restaurant’s nutrition fact sheet and make a note of the macro data.If the restaurant you’re dining at doesn’t offer nutritional information, eyeball your portion sizes/weights, then look the macronutrient content up later based on your estimates.
 Identify the food or foods that you commonly eat, and the volume in which you eat them. For instance, if you eat a banana daily or almost every day, you should, in time, be able to abandon using the food scale for bananas because you’ll be so familiar with the macro counts of an average medium-sized banana. At that point, you can estimate macro tallies for bananas that are slightly outside this baseline measurement that you’ve memorized (whether they’re too large or too small).Use your hand as a baseline. For instance, you might remember that an apple that is about the size of your fist has X amount of carbs, fat, and protein, while a scoop of ice cream that could fit in your hand has Y amount of carbs, fat, and protein.

