 Getting plenty of fruits and vegetables in your diet can be a great way to improve your own health as well as the quality of your breast milk. Eating certain vegetables and fruits can be a great way to get iron, protein and calcium.Eat around 2 to 4 servings of fruit everyday.
Get 3 to 5 servings of vegetables per day in your diet.
 Getting enough protein in your diet is important if you are breast feeding your baby. You will need to make sure that you are getting the right amount of protein in your daily diet to keep your baby's diet balanced and healthy.Dairy products such as milk, yogurt, and cheese can provide protein, as well as calcium.
Lean meat, chicken, or fish are good sources of protein.
Legumes, lentils, seeds and nuts are good plant based sources of protein.
 Breast feeding can cause women to feel dehydrated or thirsty. It is important that you are drinking enough fluids every day to stay hydrated. Drink enough water to satisfy feelings of thirst, without feeling like you are forcing extra hydration.


On average women should drink around 9 cups (2.2 liters) of water every day. Women who are breastfeeding may need to increase this amount.
Water, juice, soup and skim-milk are healthy choices that can hydrate.
Try to drink around 8 cups of water per day.
Avoid sugary drinks such as soda or juices with sugar added.
 You will need to eat the appropriate amount of food during the time you are breastfeeding. In addition to eating an amount of food that will allow you to maintain a healthy weight, you will need some extra calories to maintain energy while breastfeeding.For the first 6 months of your baby's life, you will need around 500 to 600 extra calories a day.
 Generally it is recommended that you add dietary supplements to your daily diet. This can help ensure that you are getting proper nutrition during the time you are breastfeeding and provide the healthiest milk for your baby.Vitamin B-12 is important in the development of your baby's brain.
Vitamin D is critical in building strong bones and avoiding rickets in your baby.

