 The weather in Washington, D.C. can be unpredictable at times, but this is not always the case. Spring is the best season to visit as it will be warm and the city's plants and trees will be blossoming; fall is a good time to go as well. The summers are hot, muggy, and crowded, but present the best opportunities for outdoor activities. Wintertime is downright cold but the city looks amazing when blanketed in snow.;
, You don't want to be stuck fighting the crowds or traffic nightmares if an enormous convention or political parade will be going on.
 Make sure you leave early and allow plenty of time for unexpected delays, backups, or closures. Bring along some activities to keep your kids occupied if the drive is long, such as books on tape, travel games or iPods.
 They are all free to enter and most are much larger than the museums you may have been to back home. Some recommended Smithsonian museums for kids include the National Air & Space, American History, and Natural History. Allow between 2-4 hours to explore.


There are many other museums in Washington that kids will enjoy visiting. Some have admission fees, but they cater to a variety of interests from espionage to news broadcasting to crime and punishment. Browse the web or look through a city guidebook for more information.
 Younger kids may also enjoy a morning at the National Zoo.
 Take this time to go over the day so far, examine a map of the city or plan out what everyone wants to do next. If you have any non-perishable leftovers, take them along for a quick snack in case you or your kids get hungry before dinner.
 Walk, drive, or take the subway to one of the city's many historic sites, including the Capitol Building, White House, Washington Monument, National Mall, Library of Congress, etc. Spend at least an hour exploring and taking photos (if you have a camera with you).
 While younger kids may get bored, older ones may enjoy walking around the memorials of Lincoln, Jefferson, Roosevelt, etc. Ask one of the National Park Service rangers on duty to give you some facts or history of the memorial.
 Many museums and other places of interest close early depending on the season, so you may have better luck with this step in the summer than the winter.
 If you can leave before or after rush hour, you will have a better time avoiding Washington's infamous traffic backups and other delays getting out of the city on time. Make sure your kids have used the bathroom before leaving as well!

,