 Go through the music and choose stuff that you have never heard before, but you are still comfortable with listening to.;
, Set the music selection genre to random, or choose one genre and let the music play on its own. If the song that gets played randomly makes you feel nothing then skip it and go to the next. But if the song captured your attention then in another tab explore the artist's discography to find some other works you might like. Don't be bias towards any particular genre and explore everything. Maybe even classical music. YouTube is a great idea if you already know the genres you're looking for.
 Most colleges have a radio station run by the students. Since the student DJs can pick their own music, these stations usually are a good place to hear new non-commercial stations. Internet radio stations are also often a good source of new music.
 Many other sites have this feature.
 Choose an artist you like, and click on the "Related Artist" tab and click a random link. Do this a couple times and you just may find one of your new favorite bands.
 A lot of the bands are pretty decent, but hide the song titles from your friends!

, If, for example, you find a nice symphonic metal group with a female singer, you'll probably find lots more under the "female metal singers" tag.
 You will be able to hear songs similar to what you have chosen.
 Music is meant to enhance the quality of your life. Chasing "acceptable" music may deter you from enjoying varied artists that have a lot to offer than the commercially produced music. It is important that the music you choose to listen to everyday makes you happy because it is the soundtrack to the story of your life. Imagine if your life were a movie being played out then what kind of songs would you put in there? Would you keep songs you don't particularly like just because they are acceptable to other people? Or would you want to keep music that inspires you, makes you feel myriad of emotions and reflects what is going on in your own personal life? Be able to be comfortable with your taste in music.