 While it’s more beneficial to not dine out, the likelihood of you not visiting a restaurant on vacation is very slim. For this reason, try to plan your dining experiences before your trip. If possible, choose which restaurants you will visit and check out the menu beforehand. This way, you can determine nutrition information ahead of time and look for healthier options.


It is likely you will end up dining at restaurants you had not planned on. Check out the menu (it is likely posted outside the restaurant) and use a calorie-tracking app on your smartphone (like MyFitnessPal), which may have general nutrition information on some of the offered dishes.;
, Every town is famous for a specific type of food, so plan one meal or one day when you allow yourself to indulge in the local fare. On all other days, you should plan to be more conscious about what you are eating, planning healthier dining choices and meal options.For example, if you’re in New York choose to splurge on New York style pizza. If you’re in Texas, indulge in BBQ. After your splurge, choose healthier options such as opting for baked fish instead of fried fish while visiting Miami Beach.
 Stock your mini-fridge in your hotel with healthy snacks that you can grab on the go such as veggies, yogurt, cheese sticks, hard-boiled eggs and water bottles. Not only does this keep you from heading to the hotel vending machine, but it also curbs your hunger when you’re out sightseeing.


This option also helps during travel, such as on road trips or in the airport. When you have healthy snacks on hand you’re less likely to buy a convenience store hotdog or overpriced fast-food at the airport.You can also pack “brown bags” for longer day trips. Instead of having an unplanned meal at a restaurant, make a new memory by having a healthy picnic packed in brown bags or a small cooler.
 You can then plan all your meals, shop for your own groceries, and know exactly what you are consuming each day. Not only does it save money, but it gives you much more control over what you’re eating.When stocking your fridge, try purchasing items like fresh greens, whole wheat pastas, canned tuna fish, eggs, and berries.Airbnb is a good source to help find rental properties that are often cheaper than a hotel stay. Plus, you can get amenities that hotels don’t offer such as a blender for fresh smoothies or a grill for cooking light.
 If your hotel offers a mini-bar with snacks such as sodas and candies, be sure to turn it down.If snacks are not under lock and key, you can always ask the staff to remove them from your room. Also, if your lodging has complimentary breakfast, stick to healthier options such as oatmeal, fruit, and healthy cereals.

