 The excess mucous and inflammation that result from a cold will make singing uncomfortable.So, if it isn't important to to sing, it may not be worth it.


Colds can also cause headaches and sinus pressure.You can alleviate these somewhat with medication, but singing is still not likely to be a lot of fun.
Performing when your body is ill denies it the rest it needs to recover. You may be prolonging your illness by deciding to sing., Regardless of whether you feel personally up to singing, another important question to consider is whether your cold will ruin your performance. Sometimes a bad performance is worse than none.


When you have a cold, excess mucous can drip onto your vocal cords. This can distort or muffle your singing, as the vibrations produced by your vocal cords will be affected.A cold can also cause a sore throat, or pharyngitis. The pharynx is essentially the resonating system for your voice, and inflammation can make it difficult to stretch the tissue as necessary to produce the desired sounds.
In rare instances, the inflammation from a cold can move down into the larynx, causing laryngitis. Laryngitis can result in a temporary alteration or loss of one's voice. If this occurs, there is usually no point in trying to sing., Although rare, it is possible for singing with a cold to harm the vocal cords. This is especially true among singers who lack formal training.Prolonged singing when your voice is strained (as it can be with a cold) can produce vocal nodules, or callouses on the vocal cords.If this occurs, you will need a prolonged vocal rest (or, in an extreme case, surgery) to regain your singing ability. This isn't common, but it's a possibility to consider.
If you are experiencing severe vocal cord swelling or hemorrhage, do not sing under any circumstances.Seek immediate medical attention.
 Ultimately, in deciding whether or not to sing, you'll need to make your own decision about whether these discomforts and risks outweigh the importance of the performance.


If it's a very important performance and you think you can carry it off, it might be worth going ahead.Sometimes cancelling a performance is the professional choice. Losing your voice or fainting on stage are probably worse than not performing at all.