 Targeting pain relief as best you can requires a basic understanding of what pain is and how it is felt within your body and mind. In a nutshell, pain signals that there is danger, distress or damage, triggering a need to protect the area harmed. Pain is also a way of letting a damaged area heal. Sending out pain signals during the repair process allows your body to alert you that you need to take extra care of that part of your body.Physical pain is signaled through nociceptors (pain receptors) throughout your body. The signals can be activated by cutting, tearing, inflammation, irritation, heat, or other painful stimuli. These pain receptors send signals via the myelinated (sheathed) nerves to the an area of the spinal cord called the dorsal horn. The dorsal horn “decides” whether to dampen or amplify these signals before sending them to the brain.Nociceptors (pain receptors) are found in most of the body's tissues and there are more of them in sensitive zones.Pain is felt in the brain; this is why "referred pain" is possible, when one part of the body experiences the pain even though another part of the body is injured.The brain’s role also helps explain why we may experience pain even after our injuries have healed. The brain may continue to send “protective pain” signals without a clear cause.Pain signals from the head and face area go directly to the brain stem. Pain signals from these areas may go to the thalamus, a “relay station” that sends a variety of sense signals to different areas of your brain., Pain comes in two forms: acute and chronic. Acute pain is immediate pain from an injury, disease or damage. For example, if you break your ankle, the pain from that injury is acute pain: it has a clear and immediate cause and should dissipate as the injury heals. Chronic pain is ongoing and often embedded in a long-lasting injury or damage.Pain is considered to have become chronic when it has continued more than three to six months after the damage, or persists beyond the standard healing time expected for the injury in question.Chronic pain is often considered by medical professionals as a disease in itself, much like diabetes or asthma.Chronic pain often involves psychological aspects as well as physiological aspects. Emotional responses such as anxiety, anger and fear can exacerbate chronic pain. Treating it can be complex and difficult.Three common types of chronic pain are: low back pain, headache or migraine, and neck pain.Fibromyalgia is a common diagnosis for sufferers of some chronic pain and/or fatigue. Scientists do not yet know what causes fibromyalgia. Possible culprits include physical or emotional trauma, differing brain responses to pain, sleep disturbances or infection. Fibromyalgia most commonly affects women between the ages of 20 and 50., There are several theories about how your body processes pain responses.One widely influential theory of pain is the Gate Control theory. First proposed in the 1960s, this theory suggests that pain is like an open gate that can be “closed” by non-painful input. Essentially, your brain becomes confused because it is getting two messages at once: “pain=danger” and “touch or vibration=not a threat.” This confusion may keep your brain from processing as much of the pain response.For example, if you hit your thumb with a hammer, your first response may be to suck on it or shake it. The gate control theory explains this response because the non-painful response may suppress the pain sensation that is coming from your central nervous system.
The periaqueductal grey (PAG) area of your brain is also involved in regulating pain. This area operates through a process known as Stimulation-produced analgesia or SPA.Stimulation of the PAG inhibits neurons in your spine, causing them to modulate (i.e., reduce) your pain at the spinal cord before it travels back to your brain.
Conflicting messages can stimulate or “turn on” cells in the PAG. When opiates called endorphins are released, these stimulated cells, which have receptors for those endorphins, receive them and reduce your pain. This process may help explain why acupuncture can be effective in pain management.
Some drugs (for example, morphine) bind to the same receptors as endorphins (the body's natural pain-killers)., “Hurt feelings” are more than an expression; they’re scientific fact. Research has shown that emotional pain stimulates the same areas of your brain as physical pain.Do not feel ashamed of feeling emotional or physical pain. Because pain is such a personal, subjective experience, managing or coping with that pain is too. Don’t let anyone dictate how you “ought” to cope with your pain.


For example, one study showed that feeling excluded from a social activity activated the brain’s anterior cingulate cortex in participants. This area is also activated during physical pain.Another study showed that a breakup can actively hurt. When participants were shown a photograph of an ex as they thought about the breakup, the same areas in their brain and body — the secondary somatosensory cortex and dorsal posterior insula — activated that are responsible for physical pain.How you feel and think about pain can have a huge impact on how you continue to feel the pain. Your thoughts about it can increase or decrease the pain-blocking messages from your brain. The more anxious, negative, or depressed you're feeling, the greater the pain is likely to feel. Getting psychological help, such as therapy, can help you manage physical pain as well as emotional pain., In order to manage pain effectively, you have to know what is causing it. While there is a lot of information available to you, that information can also make you worry excessively or misdiagnose your pain.Consulting with your doctor will help you get a proper diagnosis and understand how to treat your pain. There are several categories of pain that can help you narrow down what may be causing your pain:Neuropathic. This kind of pain is caused by damage to the nervous system. This type of pain often causes symptoms such as:

burning or tingling
numbness with the pain
stabbing pain



Radicular. This pain is caused by compression or irritation of nerves in your neck and spine. You may experience shooting pains that radiate down your arm or leg.

Somatic. This pain is what we often associate with “pain.” It happens when pain receptors in your body, either on its surface or in musculoskeletal tissues, are stimulated.

Myofascial. Myofascial pain is a subtype of somatic pain that refers specifically to muscles. This pain can involve a single muscle or a muscle group.

Visceral. This pain is related to your guts (viscera): heart, lungs, bladder, and other internal organs. This type of pain can feel very vague or nonspecific; you may not know where the pain is originating, you just know that you hurt.
Not all causes of pain can be identified. It is important to keep talking to your doctor, specialist and/or psychologist about what to do when you continue to feel pain but no identifiable cause can be found, or appropriate solution given. Be as tenacious as the pain is, to try to unearth what is really behind the pain.
 In most cases, doctors will rely on your description of your pain to help them understand how to treat you. In addition to examinations and tests, your doctor will likely interview you about your pain. This is called taking a “pain history.” The more specific you can be, the better your doctor will be able to help you manage your pain.For example, doctors may ask whether your pain is sharp or dull, constant or intermittent, burning or aching. Other things about your pain to consider include:Whether the pain is concentrated in one area or is spread all over.
When you feel the pain is most severe.
What activities or movements make the pain worse or better.
How the pain affects your activities and daily life.


There are many terms that can help you describe how your pain feels. Thinking about words to describe your pain may help you communicate how you’re feeling to your healthcare provider. Possible descriptive words include:sharp, stabbing, splitting, shooting
gnawing, aching, heavy, exhausting
throbbing, hot, burning
cramping, punishing, tender, sore



