 Letting your friend know how you feel might set you free from emotional pressure and pain. You won't have as many questions about how they feel, whether they reciprocate your feeling, or how to read into moments with them. You won't have to deal with "what-ifs" or what could have been because you'll have your closure.

Closure is especially important if you want to move on from this crush. With so many unanswered questions, you might not feel ready to date other people.If you don't tell your friend you care for them, they might never know the extent of your feelings. Letting them know can help them fully understand your friendship and give you support, if needed.;
, If feelings are left unsaid, you might distance yourself from your friend or act differently around them without noticing. In response, your friend might be unsure what's happened. They might worry that they did something wrong or that you don't care for them anymore. Opening up about your feelings can get rid of miscommunication.

Being vulnerable about tough feelings is important in friendships. If you can't express your emotions, you and your friend may not feel connected or safe around each other., When your friend is dating another person, it's usually best not to tell them about your feelings. Telling them you like them could bring conflicting emotions into the friendship and introduce distance. Instead, wait until they are out of a relationship or until you do not feel obliged to act on the feelings., If you're nervous, you might be tempted to reveal your feelings over text or online messaging. But having serious conversations happen much better in-person. Being able to see and hear the other person will leave less room for miscommunication. You'll see each other's body language and be able to respond immediately.Try a few deep breathing exercises before you have the conversation to get rid of nerves.Write out your feelings before you tell them, if you feel overwhelmed. This will give you an outlet and help you express your emotions in a healthy way., Sometimes when people reveal romantic feelings, the recipient may worry that you're only interested in dating. If they don't reciprocate the feeling, they might wonder if you're still interested in a friendship. Make it clear that you appreciate your relationship with them regardless of their response., If they say they reciprocate your feelings, you might feel anxious and unsure what to do next. If they say they don't, you might feel crushed. Their emotions are as valid as yours, and it is important for you to respect them. Don't argue with them or react angrily if their response isn't what you hoped for. Thank them for being honest, and distance yourself if you need time alone.

Hurt, grief, and pain are all normal reactions to have when grieving. Don't suppress your emotions or feel ashamed about them. Feeling is part of the healing process.If you find yourself unable to move on from an unwanted answer, you may be dealing with depression. Talk to a professional like a psychologist or therapist if your feelings cause significant distress.