 PCAT prep courses are offered by various educational testing companies such as Kaplan and Dr. Collins. These courses are taught by Professors of Pharmacy and offer a structured, in-depth approach to the PCAT. The downside is that these courses are expensive, ranging from $999 to $2500.Look up reviews of the various courses before you choose which one to use. Several programs also offer sample classes that will give you a feel for how the course is run before you have to commit to spending any money.
Most courses are available in three formats: online, in-person, and private tutoring. Online courses offer pre-recorded lectures so you can watch them whenever you have time. In-person courses require you to attend classes at set times. The private tutoring option will provide you with a one-on-one learning experience—unsurprisingly, it is the most expensive option.;
, This the most popular way to study for the PCAT. The same companies that offer prep courses also publish PCAT study guides that contain all of the information you will need to know to do well on the PCAT. In addition to study guides, many companies produce flash-cards and other study aids.Don’t reinvent the wheel. If flash-cards have never helped you before, don’t rush out and buy flash-cards to study for the PCAT. Stick to the study methods that have worked for you in the past.
If you choose to study on your own, make sure you look up and practice questions from previous tests. The Pearson website offers free access to previous test questions., Whether you choose to take a prep course or study on your own, remember that you’ve learned all of the material that will be on the PCAT in your college classes. Look back at your old class notes to jog your memory of PCAT subjects.It likely won’t help you to simply review your various course notes without having a focus. Instead, you should read the descriptions of each of the six sections of the PCAT and look at practices questions from previous tests. After you’ve done so, you can go back to your coursework and study only the areas that are relevant to the PCAT.
The PCAT consists of six sections: Writing, Biology, Chemistry, Critical Reading, and two Quantitative Reasoning sections.
The Writing section asks you to discuss a solution to a given world problem.
The Biology section covers general biology, microbiology, and anatomy & physiology.
The Chemistry section covers general chemistry, organic chemistry, and biochemistry.
The Critical reading section tests your ability to read difficult material and answer questions about it.
The Quantitative Reasoning sections cover basic math, algebra, probability & statistics, precalculus, and calculus.
 You should do this before you start studying. This will give you an idea of where your strengths and weaknesses are so you know what areas to focus on while you’re studying.Every test prep course and study guide will include many practice tests.
 You will learn more if you study one hour a day for seven days instead of seven hours over one day. The PCAT covers a lot of material, so it’s important to absorb it slowly and steadily.Strive for one-to-one-and-a-half hours of study per day. You don’t need to study full-time for the PCAT, and doing so will likely be counterproductive.
If you’re using a PCAT course as your study method, your instructors will tell you exactly what you need to accomplish everyday.
If you’re studying on your own using a study guide, the guide will give you suggestions for what you should study everyday. In general, you will spend part of your time reviewing the material and part of your time doing practice questions and analyzing your answers to the questions.
Set aside one month leading up to your test date to study for the PCAT.
 The PCAT covers six subjects: writing, biology, chemistry, critical reading, and quantitative reasoning. If you ace the biology section during your first practice test and you feel like you’re a master of the subject, don’t waste your time studying biology. Instead, focus on the areas where you can improve your score.You should still study the subjects you do well in—but focus your greatest energies on the subjects you need to work on.
 Practice tests provide the best opportunity to test your knowledge and whether your study habits are working. For each section of the test that you study, take a practice test in that section. For example, if you spend Monday afternoon studying chemistry, take a practice test only in the chemistry section. In addition to these mini-practice tests, take at least one full practice test a week.Use your performance on practice tests to adjust your study habits. If your score on the critical reading section bumps up to 99% after a week and stays there, you should reallocate your study time to subjects where you are doing less well.
 If you’ve followed a daily study schedule for a month, you should be well-prepared for the PCAT come test day. Studying on the day before the test is not going to improve your score and it is likely to increase your stress levels. Force yourself to take the day off and do something relaxing., Sleep is the time that our brains recover and consolidate information that we’ve learned while awake. Try to get seven to eight hours of sleep the night before the PCAT., Taking the PCAT on an empty stomach is a recipe for disaster. Eat a healthy breakfast consisting of complex carbs and protein.Good foods include wheat toast, sausage, non-sugary cereals, and orange juice.
Avoid sugary foods on the morning of the exam. They will give you a quick burst of energy, but it will wear of quickly and leave you feeling worse off.
 You have four-and-a-half hours to complete the test. The scores for each multiple-choice section are added together to calculate your composite score. As such, you should make sure to answer every question. If you get stuck on one question, move onto the next one and return to the difficult question later.If you’ve done lots of practice tests, you should have an idea of how much time you need to spend on each question.
Don’t leave any answers blank. If you plan to come back to a question later, make a note of it so you don’t forget to at least guess on the question when you’re almost out of time.
 If you don’t know the answer to a PCAT question, you can still get to the right answer by eliminating the wrong ones. .Start by trying to eliminate the two most obviously wrong answers. This will leave you with two potentially correct answers.
Next, re-read the question and see if one of the two possible answers jumps out at you. If not, take a guess. If you successfully eliminated two wrong answers, you’ve at least increased your chances of getting the right answer from one-in-four to one-in-two.
 Most students will finish the test in less than four-and-a-half-hours. If you need to use the bathroom, do so—and if you simply need to get up to stretch your legs, take a bathroom break. Forcing yourself to stay in your seat for the full test-time will only make you feel stressed and uncomfortable.