 They function by replacing your body's natural production of hormones, including estrogen and progesterone (which are normally produced by the ovaries); instead, you receive these hormones in smaller quantities from the pill. Because you are no longer naturally producing hormones each month, your uterine lining does not grow to the same degree, and you produce less menstrual tissue each month.


In secondary dysmenorrhea caused by endometriosis (uterine tissue that grows outside of the uterus), there will be less of this each month, and thus less pain.
Taking hormonal birth control pills can also help to reduce worsening of adenomyosis — the condition where menstrual tissue grows into the muscle of the uterus.;
, Depo-Provera injections (which are also progesterone based, and are given every three months as a form of contraception and/or as a treatment for dysmenorrhea) are another option, as is a hormonal vaginal ring (which is inserted once a week for three weeks followed by one week "off" for a withdrawal bleed). You can also use a birth control patch, which must be changed each week for three weeks, with one week off.


Another option in the treatment of secondary dysmenorrhea caused by endometriosis is to take Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists; however, these are only used in the short-term as they may cause side effects, and they are not recommended in teenagers.
If any of these options interest you, speak to your family doctor who can prescribe them.
 PID is another potential cause of secondary dysmenorrhea. It typically occurs as a result of other sexually transmitted infections (such as chlamydia or gonorrhoea) that remain untreated, and ascend into your pelvis and lower abdomen. This can lead to many complications, including problems with fertility, the formation of scar tissue, and ongoing pelvic pain.


Antibiotics commonly used in the treatment of PID include ofloxacin, metronidazole, ceftriaxone, and doxycycline., Although pain medications are not a "cure" for secondary dysmenorrhea, they can help to ease symptoms until your doctor is able to offer you a definitive cure (such as surgery). Pain medications can be purchased over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore.Try taking an NSAID such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) or naproxen (Aleve). Follow the dosing instructions on the bottle — typically 400 – 600mg every four to six hours as needed.
 Heat may be just as effective as over-the-counter medications when it comes to easing painful periods. You can opt for a hot bath, or for hot packs placed over your abdomen. Do this as needed to alleviate the pain, while being careful not to burn yourself.If you are on-the-go or can't sit or lie down with a heating pad, try a heating patch that you can stick to your underwear or shirt.
 Aerobic exercise (such as biking, swimming, jogging, or brisk walking — anything that elevates your heart rate for 30 minutes or longer) has been shown to decrease period pain; however, be careful not to opt for strenuous exercise as working out too hard can actually worsen period pain., It depends on personal preference whether you enjoy having sex while on your period; however, for those women who do, the great news is that having an orgasm reduces period pain. It does not matter what type of sex you have. As long as it leads to an orgasm, the pain-relieving chemicals will be released in your brain and you will reap the benefits for your painful period., Caffeine, alcohol, and tobacco are all known "triggers" for worse period pain. You may have others as well — for some women, eating too many carbohydrates correlates to worse pain. Know what your triggers are, and take measures to avoid (or reduce consumption of) these things during your period., The only way to definitively diagnose endometriosis is via exploratory laparoscopic surgery. Symptoms alone are not sufficient to make the diagnosis. While you are undergoing laparoscopic surgery, if endometriosis is indeed detected, the tissues can be removed during surgery.Removing the undesired menstrual tissues (that are residing outside of the uterus) can often provide significant short-term relief from the pain of endometriosis.
However, the tissues are prone to growing back, so the pain may return in the long-term.
Frequently a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists will be given to help remove any microscopic disease that couldn't be removed with surgery. You will then be placed on some type of hormonal birth control, which significantly decreases the rate at which symptoms return.
Adhesions (scar tissue) can also be removed during laparoscopic surgery, which may also help with pain relief.
 Fibroids are benign (non-cancerous) growths in the uterus. They may contribute to worsened menstrual pain each month.What happens in UAE (uterine artery embolization) is that the uterine arteries (which supply blood to the uterus) are blocked off.
This cuts off much of the blood supply to the uterus, and thus interrupts the growth of fibroids.
This can be completed as an outpatient procedure, without requiring overnight hospital stay.
 In some of the more severe cases of fibroids (where the growths are larger, and/or the pain is more severe), surgical removal may be recommended. Fibroids can often be removed through the vagina; this is also an outpatient procedure that most often does not require overnight hospital stay., If your secondary dysmenorrhea is unable to be resolved by any of the methods described in this article, the last resort for treatment is to have a complete hysterectomy. This is where your whole uterus is removed, in addition to your ovaries and fallopian tubes if desired (you may wish to remove all of them at once, if you are having the surgery anyway, as it eliminates your risk of developing ovarian cancer at a future time)., The major ones are:


Endometriosis is a painful condition in which menstrual tissue accumulates outside the uterus. Every month, the tissue becomes inflamed, and it feels like a period on the wrong side of the uterus.
Uterine fibroids are non-cancerous growths in the uterus that can cause pain and cramping.
Adenomyosis is menstrual tissue that invades the muscular layer of the uterus. This gets inflamed every month at the time of menstruation, leading to pain.
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is a form of sexually transmitted infection. If left untreated, it can lead to problems with fertility and/or chronic pelvic pain.
Adhesions are scar tissue that forms as a result of endometriosis or PID. The scar tissue can lead to chronic pelvic pain that is worse around your period.
 As your doctor works to determine the underlying cause of your secondary dysmenorrhea, they will ask you about your medical history.Specifically, you will be asked questions such as:


When did you begin menstruation?
For how long have your periods been painful?
Has the pain been getting better or worse with time?
Can you describe the pain? Is it worse on certain days of your period?
What is your sexual history and have you been receiving regular STI testing?

, They will use a medical device called a speculum to check your vagina and cervix for any problems. They will also insert two fingers into your vagina and press on different areas of your pelvis and abdomen while doing so, to examine for any unusual lumps or bumps, or other findings.


The cause of secondary dysmenorrhea is rarely able to be diagnosed via a pelvic exam, and most often requires imaging (such as an ultrasound), or exploratory laparoscopic surgery.
 An ultrasound can therefore be helpful in diagnosing the underlying cause; however, most often a laparoscopy is also needed.
"Exploratory laparoscopy is when a surgeon makes small incisions in your abdominal/pelvic area to look with a small camera. This can help to diagnose and treat many causes of secondary dysmenorrhea, including endometriosis, adhesions, and pelvic inflammatory disease. It can usually be done as a outpatient procedure at the hospital. It is the primary way to diagnose the underlying cause of secondary dysmenorrhea.

