 This is a more difficult and indirect method that should be employed (primarily) for subscription-based sites (e.g. Netflix, Hulu, HBOgo, etc..) with videos that are protected from any direct downloads. If you're unsure we recommend trying an alternate (simpler) method first in order to check.


This method has you recording your screen and computer audio using free recording software and will require you to play the entire video at normal playback speed in order to create a full recording.
Note: This still requires a subscription to whichever service you want to record the video from in order to access the content.;
, This is a free, open-source recording and broadcasting program. It is designed for broadcasting video to others, but can easily be used to capture your screen and computer audio. OBS is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux. You can download it from obsproject.com.
 Run the installer after downloading it. The installation process is very straightforward, and you shouldn't need to change any of the settings.
 You'll be greeted with the main OBS interface. You'll see a large blank frame in the center, and various options along the bottom of the window.
 You'll want to make a few adjustments before you start recording with OBS. You'll only need to do this the first time you use it.
 You'll be able to adjust your recording settings here.
 By default, OBS will save your videos to the Videos folder. You can change this to any folder you'd like by clicking the "Browse" button.
 This will create MP4 files, which are compatible with the most devices.
 This will let you adjust some resolution settings.
 Match it to "Base (Canvas) Resolution". This will ensure that your HD video recordings stay at the highest possible resolution.
 You can set a key to quickly start and stop the recording so that you don't have to switch between the OBS window and the video.
 You can press any combination of keys. Make sure to choose a combination that isn't normally used, like Ctrl+F12.
 You'll now be able to start and stop recording by pressing the same hotkey combination.
 The Settings window will close.
 Use your web browser to log into the video service and find the video you want to record.
 This will open a list of possible recording sources.
 You'll see a preview of the capture, which should be a miniature version of your current display.
, Click the Full Screen button, usually located in the bottom-right corner of the playback controls.
 You won't receive any notification that recording has begun.
 Since you're recording your screen directly, you'll need to wait until you've played everything that you want to record. Again, there won't be a notification that recording has stopped.
 You'll find the video in the location that you specified in the Settings menu. By default, it will have the date it was recorded as the file name.

