 The best leash for indoor leash house-training is a six-foot leash. This will give your new dog space to roam about, but won’t allow your dog to get so far away that it can get into mischief. A six-foot leash is also ideal because a longer leash indoors could easily get tangled on furniture, family members, or other housemates., If your dog thrashes about while tied to the leash indoors, wait patiently for your dog to relax. Offer reassuring words like “It’s okay” and “Easy now.” Pet your dog as you speak calmly to it. When your dog has relaxed, say “Good dog” in an enthusiastic manner. You might also choose to give your new dog a chew toy or a dog bone to distract it.If your dog is especially fussy, enroll your new dog in a doggy training school to help it learn some discipline.
 With your dog on a short leash, you’ll know when your new dog needs to relieve itself because it will start to fuss and whine. It might also pull away from you towards the door that leads to the yard or area where it relieves itself. When this happens, take your dog outside so it can do its business.Other signs that your dog wants to go out include walking away from interesting games or activities, pacing with nervous energy, spinning or walking around in tight circles, and barking., Some new dogs don’t display many indications that they need to void. These less active dogs will, in most cases, wait patiently until you choose to take them out. These dogs benefit from being on a short leash indoors because the proximity to their human makes them reluctant to void themselves.Your new dog should go out when it wakes, within the hour after it eats and drinks, and again just before bedtime. These times should be regularized so that the dog voids at regular times as well.
Even if your dog is on a regular schedule, pay attention to its behavior for signs that it needs to void.
 Once you move outside with your new dog, indoor leash training becomes outdoor leash training. Don’t stay outside for too long, or your dog will end up leading you over every inch of the yard exploring the sights and smells. If your dog needs to void, it will do so almost immediately – within a minute or two – after being taken outside.Once your new dog voids, take it back inside to resume indoor leash training.
 Once your dog is consistently demonstrating that it needs to go out or voiding in accordance with a regular schedule, you can begin to ease it off the leash. After about two weeks without accidents in the house, allow your new dog some unleashed time. The best time to allow it to wander about unleashed is when its least likely to have an accident, which is right after it has voided.Allow new dogs younger than six months of age about 5 minutes of time off the leash when they’re ready.
Allow new dogs older than six months of age about 10 minutes of time off the leash when they’re ready.
 For instance, you could increase the amount of time your new dog spends off the leash by five minutes each day until it can spend the entire day off the leash. If at any point your dog begins voiding in the house again, put it back on the leash, allowing only minimal off-leash time. Allow your new dog to earn back it’s leash-free time.