 Place your linens in direct sunlight, which is a natural way to bleach fabrics. It’s been a standard practice for centuries and still works wonders today. You can leave the linen in the sun for a few hours or up to a week depending on how well the piece is bleaching. Check it every so often to make sure it is not becoming damaged by prolonged exposure.Make sure the linen is damp when you lay it out in the sun. This will help it bleach better. You can either hang it on a clothes line, or if the piece is small enough, you can set it on a table or hang in off of your porch. You may want to consider putting a separate cloth over any wood or other surfaces the linen will touch to keep it clean.
Spread the linen out flat and flip it periodically for the best bleach.
The length of time you should leave the linen out can vary. Some people find that leaving it out for multiple days or a whole week gives the best results. Others feel that too much sun exposure can damage the fabric. Your best bet is to keep a watchful eye on your piece and make sure it doesn’t seem to become damaged. You could also avoid this by continuing to dampen it each day if you are leaving it out for a while.
If you have particularly dark stains, try spraying a mixture of lemon juice and water on the spots before you put it in the sun. This will give those spots a boost to help reduce the stains.
 Since bleach irritates a lot of people’s skin, it can be helpful to try out more natural alternatives which you can add right into your regular laundry loads. Lemon juice, vinegar, baking soda and hydrogen peroxide are all good stain removing and bleaching remedies. These are obviously less harsh methods, so they may also be less powerful than chemical bleach.Try adding ¼ cup to ½ cup of lemon juice, ½ cup of baking soda or hydrogen peroxide (3%), or ½ cup to 1 cup of distilled white vinegar to your regular detergent.
 This can be an especially good option for small linen items like napkins or handkerchiefs. Place the linens in a large pot of water and add ¼ cup salt and ½ cup baking soda, mixing both in well with the water. Place on the stove. Bring to a boil, and then turn off the burner. Leave these on the stove for 2 to 3 days.You might want to change the water a couple times, but it is not absolutely necessary. You can also reheat the water a couple of times to boost the effect.

