 Once you and your friend have calmed down and both feel ready to talk about what happened, set aside some time to talk. Find a place and time when you can discuss your issues privately.You could say, “Hey, do you have a few minutes after school to talk alone?”

, Conversations about a fight are never fun, and can make both people feel upset, uncomfortable, or angry. Do your best to remain calm.


Speak in a calm, quiet voice. This will help you both stay calm, making you both better able to listen to each other without getting defensive.
If you find yourself getting angry again, take a few deep breaths. If you feel unable to control your anger, you could say, “I’m sorry, I thought I was ready to talk about this. I guess I need a few more days.”

, Shoulder your share of the blame and apologize for your role in the fight. Most likely, you are not blameless, and have something you can apologize for. Apologies can be difficult, but don't ignore the fact that you did something that hurt someone you care about, even if it seems small.You could say, “I’m really sorry we got into that fight the other day. I realize that I said things that really hurt your feelings. I was angry, but that doesn’t give me the right to be hurtful. I’m so sorry I upset you.”
When you apologize, make sure you take responsibility for how your behavior hurt your friend. For example, “I’m sorry that I hurt your feelings,” acknowledges responsibility, but “I’m sorry if I hurt your feelings,” makes it sound like you don’t acknowledge that your behavior was wrong.Tell your friend how you will change your behavior, so your friend doesn’t need to be concerned you will do it again. For example, “I didn’t realize how making fun of you like that would really hurt your feelings, but now I understand why it did. I promise I won’t joke about that again.”, Don’t be defensive. When your friend confronts you, listen with an open mind to try to understand where they are coming from.If your friend says, “When you told me you wanted to spend more time with Brian, I was really hurt,” you could say, “I get how that could make you upset, and I wish I hadn’t said it.” Do not respond defensively with something like, “Well, when you started dating Mark you ignored me for two months!”
You could say, “I’m glad you told me your side, so I could understand better. I want to respond to one thing you said, though….” and respond respectfully to your friend’s point of view.
 Try to see your actions from their perspective and acknowledge their point of view. Show empathy to their perspective. It will help your friend feel listened to and understood.You could say something like, “I understand why my behavior made you feel that way. I shouldn’t have ignored you and made you feel unimportant.”

, If you are having a hard time talking to your friend (whether you are too nervous, or your friend doesn’t want to talk to you), you could write a note apologizing and explaining your feelings. Remember that talking face-to-face is best to avoid further misunderstanding.Remember to remain polite and respectful in your letter, just as you would be talking to your friend in person.
You could write, “I wanted to write you a letter to let you know how sorry I am about what happened. I want to explain my side, but I also understand why you are angry with me.”

