 Aside from changing your name because of marriage or divorce, you can change your name for personal reasons, provided you have court approval to do so. These include: if you dislike your current name, if you want to change for religious reasons, or if you want to take a partner's name without marrying. These are all common reasons for electing to change your name, but the court will decide to approve or deny the request.


The reason you state for wanting to change your name will be the primary factor in determining whether or not a judge grants the request, so you want to write this clearly.The process for changing a name has many steps, and requires a number of official documents. While you can complete the process on your own, if you do not fully understand or know how to complete each of the steps, you should contact an attorney for advice and representation.
 The state law of Arkansas dictates that a name change may be granted to anyone who petitions to do so in writing, and provides a reason for the name change.This means that you will need to create a document called a “petition for change of name” and submit it to a court for approval.


You can find templates for a petition to change your name via the Arkansas Legal Services Partnership’s website.You must be 18 years or older to request a name change.The petition should contain specific information, including the county you live in, the court you are filing with, your current full name, and the name you want to change to.Make sure you have this information ready before you begin writing your petition for change of name.
 Enter the exact name you would like to change to. Your petition should clearly state the new name you would like. You must be absolutely sure to spell this new name correctly. If you do not, it will be recorded incorrectly and you will have to go through the process again to change it., Judges prefer petitions to be typed so that they are easier to read. A suggested format is to type and print your petition on standard 8 ½ x 11 paper, with 1-inch margins. Use a conservative font such as Times New Roman.If you are unable to type and print your petition, then use clean, plain paper and write very neatly.
 You will need to sign your petition in front of a notary public. He or she will then officially notarize the document.There will probably be a small fee (approximately $10) for the notarization.
You can search for a notary public near you by going to the Arkansas Secretary of State’s website., This is a standard form that will be used for filing your petition for a name change with the Arkansas court system. This simply contains your name and contact information, and tells the court clearly what your application is in regards to. You can download and print a Cover Sheet for Civil Court from the Arkansas Judiciary’s website., You must supply this document to the court along with your petition to change your name. The document states that you have petitioned for the name change, what your new name is, and that the request has been entered and granted (if applicable) by the court.


You can find a template for the “Order of Name Change” via the Arkansas Legal Services Partnership’s website. Print this template out, fill it in with your specific information (including your current name and the new name you would like), and include it with your petition when you file it at court., Make three copies of your completed, signed, and notarized petition (including cover sheet) and deliver them along with a printed “Order of Name Change” to the court clerk in the county you live in. You will file your petition with this court.


It is a good idea to keep an additional copy of your petition for your records, and in case anything happens to the original.
You can find your local court by going to the Arkansas Judiciary’s website., In order to petition to change your name, you must pay a filing fee to the court that covers the costs of the process. The basic fee is $140 dollars. If there are special services needed, the fee may be more.Typically, you can pay by cash, credit card (Visa, Mastercard, Discover, or American Express), check (in-state), or money order.
 Ask for a new card by showing proof of your legal name change (your court documents), proof of your identity, and proof of U.S. citizenship (government issued documents like a passport, birth certificate, and driver's license can establish this)., Take your current driver's license, proof of age and identification (such as a passport), and your proof of marriage or divorce (if applicable) to the Office of Driver’s Services. If you have the correct documentation, they will issue you a new driver's license with your new name.There is a $10 fee for a replacement license with a new name., You can call Vital Records (800-637-9314), or visit their website for more information. Normally you will need an attorney to make a request for a name change on a birth certificate. These requests can be denied.If you were born in a different state, you will need to contact the Bureau of Vital Records in that state in order to change your name on your birth certificate, as there may be different requirements.
 Some accounts you will need to change include (but are not limited to): bank and credit card accounts, mortgages, car titles, voter registration, passport, and doctor's offices. Contact the relevant offices or agencies for instructions on changing your name in their records.

